@@476626

THE Republicans won the election in 1952 but the true victory belongs to Rotary International . Quietly but persistently the Welfare State is being dismantled and the government is being rebuilt in the image of General Motors and the Chase National Bank , with philosophic overtones inspired by Herbert Hoover and Elbert Hubbard . It represents a sharp rightward trend in economic and political outlook that conforms , almost by chapter and verse , to the conservative themes the Men of Rotary have been preaching for two decades . It is almost , in fact , the Managerial Revolution come to pass . This should cause neither surprise nor dismay . A business man 's government is what the Republicans promised the country . It was the platform on which President Eisenhower was elected by the greatest vote ever cast . Moreover , the transition is taking place in plain sight and is accompanied , on occasion , by an innocently bare-bottomed , unzippered sort of candor . Yet it is only when the whole Washington newsreel of the past eight months is run off that we get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The jolt conies when we discover how far the change has gone and how tangential its direction is . The physic:al measure of the change can not better he suggested than by the now-wearied clich ? that the Eisenhower Cabinet is composed of " nine millionaires and a plumber . " Whether this is literally true is beside the point . It is figuratively true of the attitudes and the aspirations which these administration leaders bring to their jobs . This philosophic infusion , moreover , has penetrated deeply into the policy-making layer of government through the importation of between eight hundred and a thousand new top-level officials and administrators . Men of Big Business , Big Finance , and Big Law ? men whose careers have been almost totally devoted to the creation and supervision of personal and corporate wealth ? now dominate the planning and execution of national policy . To forestall an inevitable semantic difficulty in this discussion , it should be made clear that no invidious connotations are to be read into frequent allusions to business men or a business man 's government ? not , that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , lawyers , and politicians . Men belonging to one or another of these categories are almost bound to dominate a national administration under our representative form of government . We level them all to " bureaucrats " anyway , after they have been in office for a while , and damn them with carefree impartiality . The present happens to be a time when the professors and politicians have been benched and the business men are at bat . Neither , of course , are business men strangers to government . They are essential to it and probably always will he . Even under Roosevelt and Truman there was a wellbeaten path between Wall Street and Constitution Avenue , worn by such incorruptibly capitalist feet ? some of them registered Republican ? as those of Robert P. Patterson , Averell Harriman , Joseph P. Kennedy , James Forrestal , Robert A. Lovett , and a host of others . They were no less dedicated to the institutions of free competitive enterprise than are the Humphreys , the Weekses , the Bensons , and the Wilsons of the present Cabinet generation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the kind of intellectual equipment they brought to - Washington with them . The former crowd had , on the whole , or had acquired as their careers developed , a more cosmopolitan background , a wider range of interests , and a little more plain savvy about what makes the twentieth century world go round than their successors . The present group , by and large , are men who have confined nearly all of their mental energies up to now to a restricted channel ; whose habit it has been to assess the state of the nation and the world in terms of their particular corporate interests . Defense Secretary Charles E. Wilson undoubtedly spoke from the heart when he told a Senate committee that he had always thought " what was good for General Motors would be good for the country . " Another distinction is this . The business men who came to Washington in the thirties and forties had to rely a good deal less on instinct or trial and error to get on top of their jobs . They were surrounded on all sides by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a more versatile concept of it than their own , upon whom they relied for guidance and execution . Today 's chiefs are not only uniformly intent upon changing most of what they have found in Washington but they have restaffed the departments and bureaus with other business men whose inexperience matches their own . Not only has this led to some embarrassing fumbles , but so much like-mindedness has tended to stultify creative thinking about government . II ow THAT the business men , after twenty years of waiting , have their chance to govern , how are they going about it ? How are they recasting government into patterns more pleasing to them ? They have worked out no hard and fast formulas but their performance to date suggests that they are heading for three well-defined goals . ( 1 ) To reduce the size and cost of govern .. ment . Big government is , per se , anathema to the business man . Big government means costlier government , and therefore high taxes . Big government imposes expensive and troublesome obligations ? the bookkeeping for social security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And big government means meddlesome government , with regulatory laws and bureaus that interfere with normal business practices . The new Administration is pursuing this goal with more determination than success so far . It has lopped about ten billion dollars from the last annual budget submitted by Mr. Truman and has reduced civilian employment in the bureaus by about 75,000 . Several reorganization plans have been approved by Congress which will result ultimately in slimming down and streamlining the operations of several departments , with resultant economies . But the national budget still stands at around $63 billions , the national debt is pushing the statutory ceiling of $275 billions , tax reduction remain only a promise for 1954 , and federal employment is still well above the 2,000,000 level . Budget Director Joseph M. Dodge , as the government 's housekeeper-atlarge , is mainly responsible for whittling the bureauracy down to size . He is an able and resolute man , but he is discovering some harsh disparities between what the business men hope for and what it takes to run a government . ( 2 ) To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sheer size and cost of government , the business men would like to curb its excursion into fields they think are alien to it . In this , they take their stand along with the states ' righters who insist that the federal government has usurped whole categories of activities that belong to state and local governing bodies . It is by such expansion , they would argue , that governments grow big and national blocs of political dependencies are created among labor , farmers , veterans , social security beneficiaries , and others who , in turn , become special pleaders for still more benefits . They have abolished all direct controls over the economy and tried to do away with federal low-cost housing . Mr. Ezra Taft Benson , the Secretary of Agriculture , launched his Cabinet career by trying , without success , to persuade American farmers that price support programs should be regarded only as " disaster insurance " and that they were no substitute for rugged individualism . While the President is on record as favoring an extension of some social security benefits , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rather restricted view of the matter . Chairman Dan Reed ( of excess profits tax memory ) of the House Ways and Means Committee pigeonholed one Presidential proposal for " prolonged and detailed study . " And over at the new Department of Health , Education , and Welfare , Secretary Oveta Culp Hobby has loaded her advisory committee on social security with representatives of the U. S. Chamber of Commerce whose recommendations are regarded by most professionals in the field as a step back toward the doctrines of the soup kitchen and the " means test . " In substance , the Chamber 's idea is to get the federal government out of the " relief " business entirely and to put old age and survivors insurance on a " pay-as-you-go " basis . This not only destroys the whole insurance feature of the program , the experts reason ; it would convert old age pensions into a perennial political football . Big government has greatly extended its influence over the past twenty years by various systems of grants-in-aid for highway construction , school and hospital building programs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to certain forms of social welfare . Inevitably , the federal government has sought to set the standards for these programs and see to it that the states which receive the bounty fulfill their obligations . This has led to the familiar lament about taxpayers ' lives being " run by a bunch of bureaucrats in Washington . " W HAT may turn out to be the most dras- tic reform of the business administra- tion is a device for getting the federal government out from under these co-operative responsibilities . The device is a new Hoover Commission , with former President Herbert Hoover , himself , again at the helm , to study not only the operations of government , but MAGAZINE the functions of government as well . In the language of the act , passed . during July , the new commission is empowered to decide whether there is justification for federal aid in these fields , ... whether federal control of these activities should be limited , . . whether federal aid should be limited to need , ... and the ability of the federal government and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The obvious intent of this study , which is to be made with all the authority and prestige of the earlier Hoover Commission , is to evolve a rationale and a means for eliminating a number of welfare and public service undertakings altogether , or at the least for withdrawing federal assistance from them . An important part of the study is to be directed at defining areas of taxation , now pre-empted by federal authority , which can be restored to the states , thus affording new state revenues by which such programs can be financed . Experience has shown , however , that such things as public assistance , old age benefits , school and hospital construction , public health activities , etc. , get pretty uneven treatment when left to the easy virtue of statehouse politics . ( 3 ) To end government competition with private enterprise . President Eisenhower recently referred to TVA as the kind of " creeping socialism " he hoped to avoid in his Administration . Big Business loudly applauded him for this sentiment .. For TVA has long been a symbolic bloody shirt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Big Business , the private utility industry . Business admits it could never undertake so gigantic a project as TVA , nor would it be sound business judgment for even the biggest corporation to undertake the economic rehabilitation of a whole interstate region by such means as soil conservation , flood control , reforestation , recreational developments , and ? above all ? selling electricity cheap enough to put it in the homes of sharecroppers . TVA has done this , and in the process trebled the taxable wealth of the region and made possible the development of atomic . energy , but business ( outside the TVA country , that is ) has never been reconciled and it wants no more TVAs ? nor anything like them . The new Administration has come out foursquare for this business concept of the development of natural resources . The key decision was announced in May by Secretary of the Interior McKay when , in effect , lie turned over to the Idaho Power Company , a private utility owned in Boston , the privilege of developing the great . Hell 's Canyon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Oregon . Plans were shelved for a halt-billiondollar development by the federal government that would have provided an installed generating capacity of over 1,000,000 kilowatts plus maximum flood control and an extensive irrigation system . In its place the Idaho Power Company plans three small dams producing about 750,000 kilowatts and making correspondingly more modest provisions for flood control and irrigation . Once the smaller dams are installed all prospects for more extensive development at the site are precluded . Similarly , the Republican Congress agreed to the Administration 's request to cut expansion funds for both the Southwest and the Southeastern Power Administrations ? a move which may threaten the existence of several rural electrification co-operatives . It voted to turn all hydroelectric generating rights in the Niagara River over to private interests , overriding the earnest , personal protests of New York 's Governor Tom Dewey , who wanted it reserved for his state 's developmental authority . In spite of all the high-flown oratory about sacred states rights , the controversy over the off-shore oil lands actually boiled down to a contest between the concept of public versus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on this issue , as everyone knows . The marginal oil lands will he leased to the large oil companies for exploitation . But hardly had the smoke of this battle cleared away before powerful industrial interests in the West got to work to " liberate " the forest , grazing lands , and mineral wealth now lying within the public domain . For the first time in almost forty years ? forty - years of a stubborn policy of preserving the national domain for the benefit of all the people ? the climate of Washington has changed to favor the exploitation of these resources ' for private benefit . The federal barge lines , which provided cheap transportation for both large and small shippers on the Mississippi , are to be sold to the highest bidder . So , too , . are the , synthetic rubber plants which the government built at a cost of over half a billion dollars during the war . And Secretary McKay has shut down two nearly completed experiments for the synthetic production of liquid fuel from coal , a project which has been viewed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Nothing could more eloquently explain the attitude of the business men toward the question of government getting in the way of free enterprise than a remark made by Commerce Secretary Sinclair Weeks early last summer . Tile had just fired Dr. Allen V. Astin , director of the National Bureau of Standards , whose tests had formed the basis of a postal fraud order against the manufacturer of a powder supposed to pep up old storage batteries . " As a practical man , " Mr. Weeks said , " I can not see why a product should be denied the opportunity of the market place . " Good or bad , fraud or no fraud , let the buyer beware and keep the government out of it , says the Secretary of Commerce . III I T WOULD certainly be presumptuous to say that business men ca n't run a government . But it is true , even if it is trite , to say they ca n't run a government as they run a corporation . It can not be run with the same sort of pushbutton efficiency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not business ; many of its concepts are diametrical opposites of those of the board room and the market place . And that is w here the business men are having their greatest difficulty in this transition , and where they will continue to have it until the hard lessons of necessity have been learned . The profit motive , for example , is a basic element of the business man 's philosophy ; though many of his decisions are made without direct regard for profit-and-loss , the figures on the company 's books provide the ultimate test of his performance . But the profit motive is not ( except in a very restricted sense ) applicable to government . If a government progrant or project earns a " profit , " it is in terms of good performance and of benefits bestowed ; there is no pecuniary return to the performing agency ? government : - Government " loses " money every day on the conduct of foreign affairs , on the regulation of interstate commerce , on the preservation of national security , yet it constantly enhances the wealth of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a profit-making agency . On the other hand , no motor manufacturer in his right senses is going to continue to turn out lowpriced cars after they have ceased to return a profit , no matter how great the need of the populace may be for cheap transportation . Business men , of course , are not ignorant of this distinction , but to accommodate themselves to it requires a subtle and fundamental readjustment in their scale of values which not all of them are able to make .. Another readjustment many of the business men are having difficulty with is that of outlook ; of widening their vision to encompass a nation and a world . Most successful business men have spent a lifetime , if not with a single company , at least in a single industrial field . By habit , they weigh most of the phenomena of the outside world in the scales of this single , dominant interest . When Paul G. Hoffman came to take over the Economic Co-operation Administration when it was set up several years ago . he was troubled by the doubts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ useful collateral the United States could accept from nations teetering on the brink of ruin . " What good , " he asked them , " would collateral be , or any sort of repayment guarantee , if these countries should be overrun by communism ? %Ve have to go on the theory ? that our effort will produce recovery , and that when peace is secured the loans will be repaid . " That is the sort of thinking , highly unorthodox to the business man , that the government executive must be able to produce . 0 NE of the strongest notions in the business world is that a man is paid what he is worth . If the chairman of the board is paid $100,000 a year , he must be worth it because he is able to get it . When the business men came to Washington , some of them had a pretty definite conviction that the $10,000 and $12,000 career people they found in their departments could n't be much good because otherwise they would have got out long ago to make more money elsewhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crowd " with men of their own faith and kidney , the business men have worked to their own disadvantage . They have lost some unusually experienced people whose counterparts it will be virtually impossible to recruit from the business world . And they are replacing them , in large measure , with lawyers arid business executives " on loan " who have no intention of making government a career . Secretary Weeks , at the Department of Commerce , is rotating scores of young business executives through the upper tiers of his organization on a six months ' enlistment basis . Such people take government jobs for a variety of reasons ? to help out in the " crusade , " to widen their own experience , or just as an innocent sort of lark ? but not because of the money , and rarely because of any deep dedication to public service . This not only imperils efficient operation , but it plays hub with morale in the regular career service where , regardless of what sort of politics prevails on top , the spade work of government is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that public relations in business and in government do not mean the same thing . To many a corporate executive good public relations is something he buys ? he pays so much for a public relations director and invests so much in institutional advertising , and there he has it . The really alert executive is aware that there is an extra dimension to his performance , which is public accountability , and that he can not have his good public relations unless he earns it ; but even he finds , when he goes into government , that his accountability to the public is suddenly magnified , and that the earning of good public relations is an uncomfortable and often exasperating process . He can not choose his own times for making well-considered pronouncements ; he may be forced into the open at embarrassing moments and under hostile circumstances . The press , the Congress , and the public are demanding and sometimes unreasonable , yet they must all be appeased . The business men , by and large , were slow to recognize this . For many weeks after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the inaccessibility of its leading figures . To counteract the " bad press " some officials resorted to private dinners and " off-the-record " meetings for carefully selected columnists and editors . They soon found that even the columnists would not stand for this highly selective dole of legitimate news . Secretary of State Dulles professed to be horrified at finding his " background " disquisition on Far Eastern problems last April printed on the front page of the New York Times the next morning . There has been a salutary relaxation of these barriers lately , but much remains to he done . Congress , with its jealousies and its deeply cherished prerogatives , offers a very special problem in this area of public accountability which some of the business men wholly misjudged . In their early appearances before congressional committees they tried the tactics which they had found successful at sales meetings and with minority stockholders ? they talked down to the members , patronized them , or tried to lecture them . They lost large patches of hide in the process . When they deigned to seek advice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had served them in Boston and New York and Detroit but which were less acceptable in ' Washington , to wit : the Big Names are important . But politics hath no fury like a subcommittee chairman scorned . President Eisenhower touched base with all the important Republican leaders whose names appear in the newspapers , but no one told him until too late about the Honorable Carl T. Curtis of Nebraska , head of the House Ways and Means Committee subcommittee on social security . The first inkling Mr. Curtis had that the President proposed postponing the statutory increase in payroll taxes was when he read about it in his morning newspaper . When the bill came later that day to his desk Mr. Curtis deposited it in a dark pigeonhole where it is still gathering dust . Nothing has perplexed the business men more than that their actions , their thoughts , even their moods , have become legitimate objects of public scrutiny . It is not that they are shy or have anything to hide . It is simply that nothing in their training has prepared them for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goldfish bowl and to weigh every thought , word , and deed in terms of how it will look in the next day 's newspapers . This has been the hardest lesson of all to learn . THE BUSINESS world likes to think of itself as an essentially rational place where two and two invariably come out plus-or-minus four , and a man can learn all he needs to know from the auditor 's report . In fact , of course , things are n't quite as simple as this in business . ' Yet it is a tidy , well-ordered world compared with that of politics . What the business man finds in Washington seems to him , by contrast , irrational , unpredictable , and endlessly exasperating . The frustrations of the business men come from their inability to reconcile these contradictory worlds . No doubt their dillicuhies are enhanced by trying to do too much too soon . After all , the Welfare State was twenty years in the building , and taking it down in a year is bound to cause some rumblings in the foundations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They are no less firm in their goals , but they are proceeding with more forethought for the essential nature of government and with more caution in their efforts to change it . Mr. Humphrey did a fast double-take when his upping of the Treasury 's interest rate reverberated through the whole credit structure of the nation . His appeal to the Federal Reserve for relief was a retreat but not a defeat . Hard money is still his goal , but he will take it in pieces instead of a lump . The business men know pretty well what they want to do about government . They want to cut it down to size , they want to stamp out the " creeping socialism , " and they want actually to hear those fetters which have been shackling free enterprise clattering on the capital 's marble floors . But the job is not so simple as they had supposed . Their thinking about it has been confused by imbibing too freely of their own propaganda . What they have yet to learn is that politics is not the science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .                     