@@477501

One of the unique features of postwar American drama is its cheerful isolation from a central literary tradition . A successful playwright today-may think of himself as a craftsman , an entertainer , even a creative artist , but only in very rare cases would lie call himself a literary man . He does not share at all in those common interests ? few enough in our society ? which unite the novelist , poet , and essayist . In his subject matter , his writing style , his associations , his attitudes , and his ideas , the dramatist is far removed , if not completely cut off , from the mainstream of intellectual and literary discourse . This lack of communication with the other disciplines gives the drama a peculiar insularity . The typical American playwright is encouraged to write , not by the pull of literary ideals , but by the stimulus of successful Broadway plays , and it is unusual when he develops beyond a hackneyed imitation of what is current and fashionable . Making his friends mainly within the theatrical profession , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Unlike the novelist , he is almost never represented in the literary periodicals , and when he does communicate with the outside world it is generally through a short piece in the New York Tittles advertising his coming play with a reminiscence about how it came to be written . Even our most important dramatists , past and One of the liveliest and most knowledgeable of the young theater critics . present , have tended to remain firmly fixed within the confines of their own experience and craft . Besides plays , all the great European playwrights of the past hundred years wrote poetry , epics , novels , short stories , essays , or criticism ; and in modern times dramatists like Brecht , Duerrenmatt , Beckett , Giraudoux , Synge , and O'Casey have moved freely among the other literary disciplines . With the exceptions of Thornton Wilder , Tennessee Williams ( both former highbrows ) , and Arthur Miller , few American playwrights have made more than token gestures in the direction of non-dramatic literatures , while even fewer are aware of what is being attempted or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has affected the arts , has hit the drama hardest of all , cutting it off not only from other literary traditions but from the very life which should be its subject matter . THE AMERICAN SPLIT This isolation can be partly attributed to the fact that American drama is a comparatively new expression , forced to create its tradition as it goes along . English playwrights like Wilde , Shaw , Eliot , and Osborne could draw on an already established dramatic heritage , one which includes the most distinguished names in literary history ; in consequence , even minor dramatists like Barrie , Fry , Bridie , and Galsworthy , nourished by this strain , have created dramatic works which are eminently readable . The American drama , on the other hand ? which seems to have sprung full-grown from the imagination of Eugene O'Neill ? can still remember its own origins . In fact , O'Neill 's persistent experimentation would seem to indicate that he was hurriedly trying to create a dramatic tradition for America which , like their gardens , took the English hundreds of years to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Elizabethans , the Japanese , and nineteenth-century Europeans , O'Neill sought not native but cosmopolitan influences , and thus initiated a split from American literature which widens every year . The split , of course , cuts both ways : American literary culture generally scorns the stage . In France , it is a rare thing when a novelist , poet , or philosopher does not express his themes in dramatic form , and it has long been the tradition for a French man of letters to include a volume or two of dramatic essays among his collected writings . In America , on the other hand , theater criticism , abdicated by most intellectuals , has fallen into the hands of newspaper reviewers , while the drama itself is practically monopolized by commercial playwrights . Although the plays of writers like Camus , Sartre , Gide , Claude , Mauriac , and Cocteau constitute an important part of their creative work , gifted American authors have , up till now , usually either ignored the drama totally or written badly in it . The quality of Fitzgerald 's " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " and Wolfe 's " Mannerhouse " ? so far inferior to these authors ' non-dramatic works ? would seem to indicate that , unlike their French counterparts , American writers have not regarded the drama as a serious alternative form for the expression of their deepest convictions and insights . FINANCE AND TASTE I f the American literary man has generally been indifferent , patronizing , or hostile toward the drama , some of the reasons for this indicate why our plays are so often outside the boundaries of literature . For there is a widespread conviction among men of mind that the dramatist , writing for an audience with debased values , does not have very high standards himself ? and anxious to please a wide number , he creates a contaminated work which gives literature a bad name . Since the very structure of the drama is dependent on climactic emotional effects , it has often been accused of a fondness for bombast and sensationalism and of lacking intelligence and restraint ? " an unmannerly daughter , showing a had education , " wrote Sir Philip Sidney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Poesy 's honesty to be called in question . " More frequently content to follow public taste than to lead it , the drama has developed an unsavory reputation through its alliance with the market place . These traditional objections have become snore vigorous in our own time as the drama has sought wider and less discriminating audiences . In the eighteenth century , when a play attracted a public for 62 performances , it was called the most prodigious success in history , while today a play must run for at least a year simply to make up costs . The non-creative unions ? the press agents , managers , stagehands , and musicians ? are squeezing the theater to death with excessive financial demands , and Broadway further exacerbates the situation with increasingly spectacular and expensive scenic effects guaranteed to excite spectator interest if all else fails . If union featherbedding were restrained , a play could again be successful after no more than 62 performances . And there is no telling how many honest works of imagination might see the stage without alteration . But the producer ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a tried-and-true formula based on the successes of the it With the drama arbitrated by " show business , " questions of finance overrule questions of taste , and it becomes harder to find financial support for anything which might " disturb " the audience . The dramatist , as a result , discovers A 11 umber of non-literary partners looking over his shoulder as he writes , and this makes his work more than ever vulnerable to charges of artistic compromise . Compromise is not an essential of the collaborative enterprise ? imagine the conductor of a symphony orchestra dictating elaborate changes in a musical composition for the sake of greater audience appeal . But it has now become second nature to Broadway , and few plays ever open there without having undergone strenuous revisions . While the novelist creates in the solitude of his own imagination , the dramatist re-creates with five or six worried production men at his elbow . Once paramount in importance , the playwright , in consequence , now finds his position overshadowed by the director whose power mushrooms every day ; and even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alter their work . radically to retain the interest of a director who might insure its commercial success . Since these alterations almost invariably result in a work of diminished honesty and complexity , writers whose artistic conscience demands greater satisfactions than commercial reward and the praise of newspaper reviewers view the theater with alarm and suspicion . Archibald MacLeish is one of the few authors , not a professional playwright , who has regarded his occasional stage experience as a happy one , but then he seems to have adjusted nicely to the values of the medium in which he worked : " I thought I was going to weep when I heard the Atkinson review of 1 . B.1 , " he writes in a published letter to Kazan , and adds that the critical reception of the play was " general evidence that the problems were solved . " When a work is primarily evaluated ? as it is in our theater ? by the enthusiastic applause of the majority , this is evidence indeed , and the distortions and convulsions to which a playwright 's original ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the box office . TAINTED IMAGINATION very different response to theater experience comes from William Gibson , a liter- ary man who looks on the success of his play , " Two for the Seesaw , " as a hollow achievement reached by suppressing his true capabilities . Gibson , primarily a poet and novelist , has recorded his agonizing experience in The Seesaw Log , an illuminating account of the play 's progress from idea to opening night . Like most serious writers , " it had been several years since he had taken a believing interest in the theater , " but once having written a play his ultimate disenchantment was to come when he discovered as his collaborators not only the director , the producer , and the star , but the elevator man and probably the lavatory attendant as well . A writer to whom artistic integrity is a code of honor , he found that the perpetual revisions ordered in his play served only to cheapen it ; and his original work eventually turned into a harmless diversion giving neither difficulty nor offense to anyone in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consisted of unpublished poems and a magazine asked me to change a word in one , I would not change a word ; the poem went unpublished ; it was a far cry to the present spate of rewriting to please . . . I felt this of all of 115 , that in outgrowing our guardian angel-ship. and becoming reasonable citizens , we had lost some religious component in ourselves and this component was the difference between art and entertainment .... The theater , in this country . in this decade , is primarily a place not in which to be serious , but in which to be likable . Mr. Gibson has accurately defined not only what distinguishes art from entertainment but literature from current drama . The silhouette of show business imposes itself on almost every work for our stage , and Broadway maintains its compulsive need to send the audience home in an affable frame of mind no matter what violence is done to the line of the play . With the writer constantly badgered to turn his play into the theatrical equivalent of a best seller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sentiment and dishonesty . The director , of course , has a duty to request clarification of an author when his work is muddy , but more frequently revisions are a surrender to commodity demands . The famous changes in the last act of " Cat on a Hot Tin Roof , " for example , had no bearing on the essential flaw of the play ( which was the elusive ambiguity of the homosexual theme ) but they did introduce into a bleak work a hopeful note of uplift compatible with Broadway 's desire to remain well-liked . Since the trespassing of the director on the playwright 's domain creates an atmosphere in which dramatic literature is very rarely produced , it remains the knottiest artistic dilemma of the American stage . It is not to be solved , as Tennessee Williams suggests , by having a " good psychiatrist in attendance at rehearsals , " but rather by the playwright 's strong resistance to commercial pressures when he is certain his work is being cheapened . CULT OF INARTICULACY 0 f course , this resistance alone will not guarantee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plagued by internal problems as well as external ones , and the dramatist will have to revise a number of his own attitudes if he wishes to create works of lasting power . One of these is his indifference to language . American drama , no matter how serious in intent the printed page . Only Tennessee Williams has consistently created a dramatic language which a good novelist might not be ashamed to have written , and even his style deteriorated in his last play . Most of our other playwrights , including our greatest , Eugene O'Neill , are charter members of a cult of in-articulacy , communicating high moments of thought and feeling not through speech but through dashes and exclamation points . Playwrights are generally aware of this problem but do not consider it very important . Ever since the Elizabethan age , dramatists have been embarrassed when their plays appeared in print , but in the past they apologized for literary failings ? today they caution the reader to ignore them and concentrate on dramatic values . Elmer Rice , who holds that " literary excellence is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " goes even further in declaring that " words arenot even necessary for the creation and communication of drama . " Arthur Miller writes : " It is necessary to separate the drama from what we think of today as literature . A drama ought not to be looked at first and foremost from literary perspectives merely because it uses words , verbal rhythms , and poetic image . " And Tennessee Williams defiantly defends " the incontinent blaze of a live theater , a theater meant for seeing and feeling . " It is not surprising that Eugene O'Neill once blamed the failure of an early play on the fact that the actors had not emphasized the silences in the last act where the meaning of the play was to be found . Nevertheless , to emphasize the drama 's distinctness from literature is a defensible position if not carried too far . It is certainly true that plays arc written primarily to he performed , and that writers who put inordinate emphasis on language to the exclusion of other important dramatic values have invariably produced works which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thinking not only of closer dramatists like Robert Browning , Thomas Hardy , and Henry James but also of working playwrights like Sean O'Casey , whose later plays bog down in succulent and bloated rhetoric . ) But both the finely jeweled style of closet drama and the shoddy language of our current plays are extremes . The dramatic form has always seemed to me the greatest literary form because it combines action and language . All of the great working dramatists of the past and present have been able to articulate their works , and there is still no better stage device than language for the unfolding of character and the revelation of dramatic insights . By permitting some scenes to be built out of actors ' improvisations , certain playwrights abdicate their function entirely ; and it is partly because of the playwright 's indifference to language that our most conspicuous stage hero is brutal , inarticulate , and incapable of reflecting on his condition . The failure of dramatic language leads to a situation where a great many of our plays , including two of Mr. Miller 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? when it has traditionally been the dramatist 's job to answer this question . In other words , the murky language of our plays is a serious failing only insofar as it reflects our drama 's basic failing , its murky thought . American plays arc difficult to read because they so often yield little sense when they are read ; in the quiet of the study one stumbles on inconsistencies , disharmonies , and contradictions which are sometimes ignored in the rapid excitement of performance . Those dramatists who are aware of this make an oblique admission of it by employing extra-dramatic techniques in the published plays in order to obscure the Haws . In some of the early plays of Eugene O'Neill , for example , extravagant stage directions are provided to sharpen points which have not been suitably dramatized , and Tennessee Williams also is sometimes given to lengthy parenthetical discussions of purpose , especially when he realizes he has ducked the very questions that his play has posed . As George Orwell has proved so emphatically , there is an intimate connection between language and ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confusion or evasion . In his compulsion to " move " the spectator no matter what happens to credibility or coherence , the American dramatist is further cut off from a literary tradition which is in our time experiencing an authentic renascence distinguished by its love and feeling for ideas . As a consequence , American drama often seems to be the most mindless form of legitimate culture since eighteenth-century sentimental comedy . a form to which it hears more than a little resemblance. * I know of few professional American playwrights ? Arthur Miller is a prominent exception ? who would not consider it very odd to be called a thinker . On the contrary , most playwrights are devoted to dramatizing sensations which grow more hysterical and rarefied with every passing year . " FITFUL LIGHTNING " I n this , no doubt , they are trying to distingo ish their work from what they consider the passionlessness of the English theater , and their vitality and energy have often had great value . But this reaction can *I quote from Oliver Goldsmith who , in attacking the sentimental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plays like " The Dark at the Top of the Stairs " or " Raisin in the Sun " : " These comedies have had of late a great success , perhaps from their novelty , and also from their flattering every man in his favorite foible . In these plays almost all the characters are good , and exceedingly generous . . . . If they happen to have faults or foibles , the spectator is taught , not only to pardon , but to applaud them , in consideration of the goodness of their hfor reading and reflection , for he has developed an entirely different concept of a play : The color . the grace and levitation , the structural pattern in motion , and quick interplay of live beings . suspended like fitful lightning in a cloud , these thing. , are the play , not words on paper , nor thoughts and ideas of an author , those shabby things snatched off basement counters at Gimbel 's . Beginning with a distaste for the logical , the abstruse , and the tendentious . Williams concludes by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a half-truth , for there is a fruitful area between the ideological play and the play of pure sensation . In this area , two of Mr. Williams ' major influences , Strindberg and D. H. Lawrence , produced some of their finest work . In fact , Mr. Williams ' own place in the drama is secure not only because of his powerful " feeling " but because certain of his plays embodied provocative themes , while much of his later work is inferior because in relying too much on " ftlul lightning " his thought is turgid and confused . It should be clear that to introduce serious thought into the theater is not to rob it of passion ; it is rather , by making that passion more meaningful , to impose greater burdens on the audience than a mere fingering of their emotions . use the qualifying word " serious " because thought of one kind or another exists whether you like it or not ? no work which uses words and action can be totally free from ideas . Even the most unintellectual forms ? such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their base , if only a maxim by Rochefoucauld . Broadway is depressing not because ideas are not enunciated there but because these ideas invariably are " snatched off basement counters at Gimbel 's . " Pretentious , evasive , and rarely free from formula , the falsification of Broadway thought inevitably results in the falsification of its passion . Our farces are no longer amoral and destructively funny but now embody homilies and semiment while our melodramas revolve around drug addiction or the pernicious psychic influence of Mom . Our serious drama is informed by a debased Freudianism , our comedies are set in motion by man-chasing women , and our musicals ? with one or two exceptions like " West Side Story " and " My Fair Lady " ? are produced by people who write about Love while thinking about Money . There are hardly two plays each year which are nor obsessively biological in their themes , yet for all this preoccupation none have any real sexual interest . Homosexuality , promiscuity , infidelity , incest ? all these considerations are toyed with but always sentimentalized or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which will not admit the simple truths that everyone discusses in the living-room . Almost all of our drama , in fact , is equivocal or needlessly ambiguous , for our dramatists find it difficult to square the passionate aspects of their plays with their ideas about American life . One frequently finds , consequently , contradictions between the psychological and the social or the emotional and mental aspects of a play . O'Neill squeezes an attack on American capitalism into a romantic play about Marco Polo ; Arthur Miller tries to document the effect of McCarthyism on the American public through an obfuscating treatment of the Salem witch trials ; Tennessee Williams drags a Southern segregationist into the middle of a sexual nightmare ; and Archibald MacLeish superimposes his feelings about the hydrogen bomb on a religious drama adapted from the Book of Job . Though each of these dramatists is concerned with some specific fact of American life , none is able to speak concretely about it for fear that his work will somehow lose its " universality " ; but as any good literary man can tell them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the particular . ( Saul Bellow 's Chicago Jew , Angie March , is more American in his special and concrete experience than any of the universalized figures of our postwar drama . ) A direct confrontation of American life ? banished from our stage ? has had to find refuge in " illegitimate " theatrical entertainments like the monologues of Mort Sahl , the night-club skits of May and Nichols , and an occasional review at the Downstairs Room . There is , in other words , very little that is contemporary about our contemporary drama . Most of our plays , for all the light they throw on American life , might have been written by a Visigoth in the Year 1 , while the others merely parrot the liberal prejudices of the audience or hide their meaning ( if it is disturbing or controversial ) under a mountain of allegory . In this self-imposed censorship , our dramatists demonstrate the most severe consequences of their alienation from intellectual discourse ; for in our theater , as it is now constituted , there is little to stimulate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its fondness for formal experimentation ( generally designed to obscure sentiment , banality , or sheer confusion ) merely gives it an illusion of movement . America today has no theatrical avant-garde , only two dramatists worthy of note , and no one among the younger writers to ruffle afew feathers with radical and exciting new ideas . The intellectual ferment provided in the past by O'Neill , Odets , and Lillian Heilman is practically nonexistent today , and our drama is daily growing more narrow and circumscribed , strangling itself in its own living-roam . COMING REFRESHMENT possible that these defects might have avoided or overcome if there had been opportunity for debate , conversation , and course with his equals in the other disciplines . I harp on these inter-disciplinary influences not just to make an academic point but because there is evidence that American drama may soon be refreshed from non-dramatic sources . The younger novelists of the ' fifties , whose work has such distinction and intelligence , are beginning to show some inclination to knock down the prevailing borders between literature and the drama . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are certain , in different ways , to be exciting and unusual ; and Lillian Hellman and Lester Osterman are currently encouraging writers like Saul Bellow , Herbert Gold , and James Purdy to write plays as well . If these writers can transfer to the stage some of the incisive knowledge of American life they display in their novels , if they can submit themselves to the fearfully difficult discipline of the dramatic form , * and if producers can be found who will support their works without trying to commercialize them , we may soon have a substantial group of exciting and controversial playwrights . Even more , we may soon have a drama which will set new standards of honesty , intelligence , and excellence for our practicing playwrights , and which will turn the theater once again into a place ? not just to be likable ? but serious and profound . *Saul Bellow 's excellent one-act play , " The . Wrecker , " certainly indicates that he already has a native feeling for and understanding of the drama .       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     