@@491615

How Doctors are Made . By Greer Williams As we Americans have learned the scientific possibilities of keeping body and soul together , we 've become more or less used to a procession of doctors through our lives . The obstetrician delivers us , the pediatrician secs us through childhood , the orthopedic surgeon sets our broken bones , and the gastroenterologist manages our nervous inwards . All told , there are thirty-one specialties . At times we feel the need of a psychiatrist to tell us what it 's all about . Of course . any of these services may be undertaken by a family doctor . Chances arc , though . he may want you to call him a generalist , meaning that he specializes in all parts of us put together . Seldom do we slow down , in running this healthful gantlet , to contemplate where all these doctors come from . Sometime , somewhere , they went to medical school . There arc eighty-eight medical schools in the United States , nine having been added in the last few years . These will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the next four years . They will also up the **25;995;TOOLONG bill from Siso , one , 000 to $200,000.000 a year or thereabouts . Each school has another kind of specialist ? a dean . Hr has something to do with all this , but what ? We might suppose he was like a top business executive  --  a strong man who shoulders tremendous managerial responsibility at a commensurate salary . Here our understanding grows vague . What do deans do ? Some of the wisecrack answers I received in my investigation of this question may shock you . A psychiatry professor told me that a dean 's job is to stay out of trouble with his faculty . " A doctor who does n't know enough to be a professor , but knows too damned much to be a college president , " is another familiar run-down of a dean . A senior professor of surgery assured me that a dean is " a servant of his faculty , just like the janitor " These disrespectful appraisals suggest that many medical-faculty members refuse to take the dean 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way in which deans are often appointed . The faculties , themselvesmade up of highly talented doctors , frequently regard the position as a part-time thing , to be passed around among themselves . The good fellow nominated for this thankless task can neither hire nor fire faculty members on his own authority , and he may devote only a few hours a day to dean's-office chores . Historically , there 've been some famous deans , but close scrutiny shows that most of those men distinguished themselves as physicians and not as medical-school administrators . A few years ago , a foundation official stood up at a national meeting of medical deans and begged them to show some signs of leadership . More recently , as doctor shortages and dollar shortages have weighed more heavily on them , a few have perked up . Almost every time one did , however , he got promoted to university president or executive director of something . Dr. George Packer Berry is representative of this different breed of deans , a type now found in some of the better schools . As head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . %mild 's greatest . Berry seems to have defied the mossy rules for a dean 's behavior and still stayed out of serious trouble with his I-acidly. at in his me di- di-g ' scholar at Princeton ( 1921 ) Asa a res boy Irons Englminiewooster ; d , a Phi New Beta Jersey ; Kappa of cal deans to gel up before the entering Class of 1960 and say , as did Berry last fail , " The only , difference between you and us teachers is that some of us have had a little longer to make mis-takes . " This did n't bother anybody at Har-vard , where doctors freely admit they arc hu-man and treat human error like the enemy ? something always to be kept in one 's sights . This is done in a variety of ways . One Harvard surgeon kept a list of his operating errors on the inside of his locker door , where he had to face it each morning as he put on his surgical own . Presbyterian 1 and a brilliant young bacteriologist at the r " amed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ivy Leaguer 's ' ligh-mindedness , good manners and gift of ! aerate gab . These attributes have proved to be an adequate substitute for his own technical lack of authority to make final decisions involving his faculty  --  decisions that he does , in fact , make through his powers of persuasion . He exercises , these powers , for example , in approving or dis approving faculty-committee recommendations on appointments , promotions and retirements  --  matters in which the University Corporation takes the final action . Because of tenure there is practically no power to fire a professor any place in the chain of command . About the only cause for firing is " grave misconduct . " Berry is a master of committee action , the primary method of getting administrative work done in academic circles . A successful committee chairman articulates his ideas effortlessly and at every opportunity , meantime enduring the ( Continued on Page 53 ) other fellow 's efforts without yawning or losing patience . Thus he finds his way hours or days later to a safe common ground . substantially of his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good , it this . For example , one of his greatest successes as Harvard 's medical dean occurred last year when he obtained the formal incorporation of the Medical School and its seven private teaching hospitals as the Harvard Medical Center . People accustomed to thinking of the medical centers in their own states may not regard this as much of an accomplishment unless they realize that Harvard Medical Center includes I450 top-grade physicians and 2400 hospital beds in some of the world 's best-known hospitals . The include Massachusetts General , Peter Bent Brigham and Children 's , each with a history , mind and destiny of its own . ( The teaching and research programs also extend into two outstanding public hospitals . Boston Psychopathic and Boston City . ) Simply to get seven private hospitals to pull together to raise 558.000,000 in the nest ten years for support of the faculty , library and teaching program took about 100 committee meetings and thousands of hours of high-minded , literate talk . President of Harvard Medical Center ? George Berry . He is a bland . baggy sort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , gold-rimmed glasses , ample nose and heavy lips . His intimates say he rarely loses his temper . Only occasionally does he pull at a lock of hair over his car  --  a sure sign he 's inwardly troubled . When he finds the committee going especially sticky he may leave the room on other business , to sweep back in at a later time with a broad smile and a vigorous stride . The man is sure-footed in getting to the bottom of any situation and equally resourceful in coming out on lop . This is a singular feat , considering the Olympian medical heights his Back Bay Boston institution has achieved . The Medical School 's 1100 faculty members and 525 medical students come from everywhere and go everywhere , long ago having proved that good minds are not the exclusive resource of Boston culture . On the other hand , it does n't seem to hurt them any to wind up at Harvard . When a vacancy opens up on the faculty , its corn-minces may take as much as two or three years to figure out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ summons to Harvard is issued , it 's a rare doctor who would turn it down . Once there , he stays on at considerable risk of financial hardship . for Boston practice yields the lowest ? scrap medical income of any large city in the United States . Berry was associate dean of the University of Rochester School of Medicine when he was summoned to Boston in I949 by James Bryant Conant , then Harvard 's president . Conant assured Berry that , " Harvard furnishes an excellent vantage point from which to make a contribution to American medical education . " Berry took Conant at his word , but he has had to survive an effort or two to put the dean in his janitorial place . To take a mild example . when Berry first arrived . he dashed off an article about fund raising and submitted ti to the Harvard Medical Alumni Bulletin for publication in the next issue . The editor , a younger surgeon , rejected the piece . Berry remonstrated , and the surgeon asked him , " Who is editor . you or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . After that , they got along fine , and Berry got a few things into the Bulletin too . Berry also has had to turn down proffered university presidencies and more lucratisc deanships than his own . received one hid of 575.000 a year , about three times his Harvard salary . As to the kind of doctors we want , Berry knows the answer . He knows we want a doctor who 's a good physician and also a good human being , interested in us as people as well as something on which he can practice his techniques . Harvard is far from being the only medical school producing physicians with good hearts as well as good heads , but experts on medical affairs say it does better than most . Somewhere this 175-year-old medical school found January aa , insist ( ComIlturd Irons Page 83 ) the spark and the force to supply the country with more professors ( doctors who leach other doctors ) and more certified specialists ( qualified in their specialty by training . experience and examination ( than does any other medical school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all full-time teachers in the nation 's medical schools found Harvard leading the list . It is the alma mater of fifteen per cent of these teachers . Johns Hopkins is second with nine per cent . These two , with five other schools , produce 54 per cent of the full-time medical-school teachers , Dollar-wise , Harvard and its teaching hospitals have the country 's largest medical-research program . But these are effects rather than causes . What , then , really makes this school great ? There is certainly something here beyond mere snob tradition . Persons much given to standing on their dignity , it has been discovered , often have little else to support them . The Harvard reputation is built on solider foundations . I asked my family physician in Washington , D.C. , what was so wonderful about his medical school , Harvard . A 1935 graduate , he replied , " The thing I remember at Harvard is that we were encouraged to ask questions of the professors . There was an unwritten rule that you did n't have to believe them if they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when I put the gun-non to a senior student , Class of ' 57 , he made the same point in almost the same words . This seems to be a place where the man who rests on his laurels is in danger of being run over . Granted , such heady stimulation of the learning process imposes severe strains on the professors . The medical-school Class of 1956 took over the Harvard College undergraduate custom of standing and applauding when a professor 's lecture performance appealed , and of hissing or stalking out silently when he was , as they viewed it , wasting their precious time . " Not always well received , the hisses were not always well given , " commented one observing ' 56 graduate . Yet one of the most frequent comments you hear from medical-faculty members is , " It 's a privilege to teach these students . " This may he better understood by further examining the composition of the student body . Harvard is one of those fortunate medical schools that have twelve applicants for each student admitted . Actually , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; ten of the eleven remaining are accepted at other medical schools . Each year , from October to January , the faculty 's admissions committee  --  Berry is a member  --  picks the class of 115 for the following September . The candidate must be of high intelligence , as indicated by college grades and a medical-aptitude test . " Brains , " remarks Berry . " are a dime a dozen here . " One Harvard medical class had forty-six college valedictorians in it . Wth the possible exception of football stars , whose method of seeking higher education leaves some doubt in the committee 's collective mind , it is prejudiced against no one . For instance , it keeps an enthusiastic eye out for qualified Negro students , male or female . On the other hand , the committee is discriminating about moral character . Either a committee member or an alumnus representative interviews all qualified applicants , the dean himself seeing very few of them . The committee pores over personal references and launches inquir-ies among persons who must know the candidate , but who do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letters from the hanker or clergyman friend back home may not be objective ; some even do harm . Teachers arc more critical . The committee looks for signs of courage in adverse circumstances and the man 's willingness to stand up for what he believes . Least of all does the committee concern itself with the man 's or his family 's ability to pay for this most expensive of all professional educations  --  it costs the student a 52500-a-year minimum and costs the school more than three times that . Whether the candidate can pay the 51000-a-year tuition is a question that does n't even come up until he 's accepted . From that time on , it 's medical-school policy here to sec that the student does n't drop out for lack of money . More than half of each class receive scholarships or loans . Thus , it was possible for Anthony P. Monaco , the son of an Italian barber in Philadelphia , to graduate No . I in the 1956 class that took so much pleasure in deflating professorial ego . Naturally , the dean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men in their early twenties . Some exuberant students , with their heads full of he names of exotic diseases such as beriberi , cry , " Bury Berry ! " Their main complaint seems to be that they do n't see enough of their great dean ; perhaps another way of saying he does n't throw enough beer parties to suit them  --  only one , at Christmastime . Day-to-day problems are handled by one of three assistant deans or by the registrar , who until this past summer was Miss Dorothy Murphy . She had served three deans and was fondly known as " dean of men . " Hcr new position is in the Medical Alumni office . Most students also have a favorite professor whose cou n-set they seek . Those summoned to the dean 's own office are usually in trouble . Perhaps they 've fallen in love or , if already married , have become a father  --  a good way to fall behind in their work . When they 're in danger of becoming one of the 3.8 per cent who fail to graduate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ casion , he had to wash out two students caught cheating . If you ca n't trust a man as a student , how could you he sure of him as u doctor ? Berry and his faculty advisers continually ponder what to do about the phenomenon that has put so many specialists in our lives . The most perplexing thing about medical education is its complexity . Medical science advances so rapidly that it 's impossible to get all the knowledge and skills his patients will need into any one doctor 's head . The ancient meaning of curriculum was " race track , " Berry points out . And that 's what Harvard 's four-year medical course is . For many scars it has been recognized that the course contains enough information for several four-year educations in medicine . Thus the medical faculty implements its policy of forcing the student to think for himself , leaving him to pick and choose what seems interesting and important to him . On registration day , Berry assures the student there 's almost no chance of flunking out ; therefore , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next man . No grades or frequent class rankings are posted . in contrast to the custom at many schools . The idea at Harvard is to measure up to your ideal self , which may be harder than competing with the other fellow , The pressure is tremendous and mounts each succeeding sear . At graduation , the once-chipper , now-anxious student only hopes he has done nothing to offend the dean , who controls whether the graduate will get a good hospital internship appointment for his fifth and possibly sixth year of training . The Harvard medical race track is divided , as most are , into pre-clinical and clinical halves  --  the pre-cynical and cynical years , as some wag has called them . In the first two years the student studies the normal human being and the diseases that attack him . In the last two years he moves from the classroom and laboratory to the hospital clinics and wards , where 85 he follows one professor after another around , seeing patients . Presently he is allowed to examine and treat patients himself , under supervision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Among all the brilliant professors , in their long white coats , each student tends to seek his own ideal doctor and to imitate him . And as each man swaps ideas and observations with his classmates , he finds all are encountering many of ihe same experiences  --  the first dumb mistake , the first diagnosis missed by the professor arid made by the student , the chagrin of having the patient treat you as a student , and the eventual triumph of having him all you " my doctor . " Several medical schools , including Harvard , are experimenting with their curriculums nowadays , in an effort to streamline the learning process and make the amount of information a little less burdensome . Take anatomy . Authorities interested in teaching doctors something about psychosomatic illness  --  the psychological side of disease  --  deplore the fact that medical education for 1000 years has started with the gruesome study of a cadaver 's anatomy . Is this , they ask , the way to teach respect for living human beings and their feelings ? There 's some point to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the marvelous complexity of the human organism but that Death is their great adversary from now on . As early as 1922 , however , Harvard offset the dead house approach by introducing the parallel study of normal human behavior in the first year . By 1944 the student was getting something about the mind and its ills in every one of his four years . - Berry corrects corrects one common misconception . The medical-school aim is not to produce a competent practitioner in four years , but simply to give the graduate a good basic medical education ; he is expected to add to it all his life . For practical training , the Haraard graduate who chooses general practice , as an increasing number now do , goes on to a two-year hospital internship instead of the usual one year . If he wishes to specialize , he 's in for three to six more years of hospital training in his specialty , Internal medicine and general surgery are the most popular specialties , In surveying the total situation , the impression Berry leaves is that all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are n't half so important as whether the doctor , whichcser he is , is trained to do what 's best for sou . Also , all the talk about whether there is or is n't a doctor shortage is perhaps misleading , The truth is , there are too many inferior doctors and not enough good ones . Then there 's this dull stuff called money . There 's no question that medical schools need new sources of funds for teaching , as contrasted to research . Tuition paid by students coscrs only 18 per cent of the costs of educating them , taking the national average . In short , even doctor 's education today is largely subsidized by somebody else . One mildly disenchanted kibitzer told me that , as far as he could see , all medical deans do is make speeches and raise money . If this were true  --  and it is n't  --  it would still be a man-sized job . Harvard Medical School now spends 56.000.000 a year  --  the total is $40,000.000 if you count the budgets of its affiliated hospitals . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  anonymous endowments ; gifts from wealthy persons who 'd like to see their family name on a building , scholarship or professorship ; philanthropic foundations ; loyal alumni ; community doses , fund-raising agencies named for diseases ; or hiVal , slate or Federal gos ern-Meta . In 1040 . Harvard Medical School received no money from Washington ; now , one of every three dollars in its budget comes from there , moally for research . You begin In realiae how impossible it dean 's job is only when you realize that high educational and scientific standards force his institution to operate at a loss . What 's wore . when he finds the money , his faculty often enough feels no gratitude . While it 's evident that Berry has the support of the younger professors , some of the older ones watch him with a suspicious eye . They fear Berry 's worldly contacts may turn his head and make him forget to inspect every dollar for attached strings . It is this finance function that has made Berry , as one shrewd insider secs him , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Harvard , but not a Mr. Chips . " Recently , Conant  --  succeeded in 1953 by Nathan M. Pussy  --  found occasion to comment on " the best job 1 did on the administrative side while president of Harvard . " It was , he said , his appointment of Berry . In 1935 , Conant had appointed Dr. C. Sidney Burwell , a well-liked professor of medicine , as a part-time dean , By 1949 Burwell was eager to get back to full-time research  --  he since has demonstrated that many women with heart disease can bear children without abnormal risk . Looking around , Conant decided that Berry " stood head and shoulders above anyone else " as a prospect , For one thing , his educat ion was impeccable , and he had gone on to distinguish himself at the Rockefeller Institute in basic research on viruses . Working with rabbits , he was among the first to show a virus causing one disease could mutate into a virus causing another disease . Like many other microbe hunters , Berry became accidentally infected with parrot fever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pneumonia that kit him tottering under par for two years . In 1932 he became professor of bacteriology at the University of Rochester , where he was highly regarded as a teacher . In 1942 his dean and that medical school 's founder , Dr. George H. Whipple , made him his trouble shooter on wartime problems . Berry ' timid himself drawn into the Manhattan District 's secret development of the atomic bomb , mainly in organizing medical-safely measures . He was at Bikini for the 1946 A-bomb tests . Again , on his return , he fell victim to a virus disease  --  this time . hepatitis . This slowed him down for another year or two . About the time of his appointment to Harvard , Berry , as an officer of the Association of American Medical Colleges , insisted that American medical schools , despite Class A ratings , were starving to death  --  and beginning to show it . True , medical research was becoming popular , and health crusades were turning up more and more money for finding the cause and cure of this or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " hard " money for continuous support of the educational process that was essential to training the research scientists in the first place . Berry was scarcely heard at the time , but his tireless efforts to improve the financing of the schools paid off later . He was on hand when the Ford Foundation rocked the giving world a year or so ago by putting up 5500,000,000 for education  --  S90,000,000 for forty-five private medical schools to use for teaching . The foundation appointed a committee to decide who should get how much : Berry was a member of the committee . When the distribution was announced . Harvard was one of six schools to receive a grunt of S3,600,000 . Other grants ranged down to SWO.IXX ) . Berry was also on hand when the Commonwealth Fund was giving 512,600 ? 000 of its capital funds to nineteen medical schools . He is a member of Its board . Harvard got 51,000,000 . Observers feel that Berry had such events in mind when lie once remarked that , fortunately , the medical school received a windfall from time Ili @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shaking the tree . " When the Republican and Democratic parties wrote ' heir 1956 platforms , each called on Republican Berry for his opinions . He said he favored Federal aid to medical education , provided that it did n't involve Federal control . The Republicans came out for **26;1022;TOOLONG grants . This was all right with Berry . though he insists it 's not bricks and mortar , but teachers and students that matter most , The Democrats saw eye to eye with him , specify ing Federal aid without Federal control . The American Medical Association has successfully opposed this latter approach , but with a friendly administration and a health-minded Congress it would seem a man as influential as Berry eventually will bring home the bacon somehow . Berry 's global reach includes trusteeships in two universities  --  Princeton and American of Beirut . He is an adviser to fourteen government and voluntary agencies . One of his most recent appoint . ments was ID the President 's Committee on Education Beyond the High School . He holds nine honorary degrees . An approximate count shows he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most distinguished club is the Century Association . of Ncw York . Al the Century clubhouse , 7 West 43rd Street , you might run into not only George Berry but Barry Bingham , Paul Hoffman . Herbert Hoover , Jr. , Vannevar Bush , Walter Lippmann , Harold Stassen , John D. Rockefeller , Jr. , Dwight Eisenhower , Adlai Stevenson or other eminent lovers of arts and letters , all members . For all his onerous , nonacademic , managerial responsibilities , Berry gives the impression that he enjoys being dean of Harvard Medical School , His office is in a fifty-year-old , Greek-type " marble palace " ? the administration building at the end of the long , grassy , walled expanse known as the Longwood Quadrangle , Hundreds of insiders and outsiders take their turn in his little red appointment book . Berry , customarily a picture of energy alternately at ease and in motion , is quick to make a guest comfortable , often producing a cooling glass of ginger ale or warming cup of tea . Meantime , the dean will be telling you about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fogs the poorly oriented listener in with abstractions ; other times , he punches his point across in plain , unPrincclonlike prose . He starts work at approximately six am. and does n't stop going until eleven o'clock at night . He may be the first to arrive and the last to leave his office , a busy beehive in which he keeps four secretaries happily hopping for Harvard . Most nights , Berry will depart for a dinner engagement at the Harvard Club or somewhere . This will be followed by a speaking program or a committee huddle of some kind . This powerful , controlled pace , extending through weekends , has been accelerated by tragic circumstance , Berry says he " lives mechanically , " a short walk from the medical school in a Longwood Tower apartment . Berry has a married daughter . lawyer son-in-law and two grandchildren in New York . Mrs. Berry died in 1926 , two years after their marriage . from a streptococcal infection superimposed on measles , a complication that in 1957 would hardly require hospitalization . To sell an outsider like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to fifty or more of its senior professors , some of them more than once . He also had to sell Berry . later whimsically revealing his surprise that Berry investigated him as carefully as he investigated Berry . When Berry decided to " come on to Harvard , " his Rochester boss , Doctor Whipple. told him . " It will take a bulldozer to change some of the things that need changing at Harvard . " But It did n't take a bulldozer  --  unless Berry himself can be so described . Berry has welded the school and its teaching hospitals into one big . fairly happy family . The medical school 's endowment fund has grown from S20,000. - 000 to 532,000,000 since 1949 . Medical-alumni giving has increased meanwhile from 510,000 to 5146,000 a year . The budget has been balanced and the sinful dipping into principal has been stopped . In his adventures on Medicine 's Mount Olympus , Berry has run into one thing he does n't quite know how to handle , he confesses . This is the attitude that Harvard " already has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ncw York or Washington committee room where gifts or grants are at stake , someone is sure to make this crack , " Here comes George Berry . Let 's give half the money to Harvard and divide what 's left among the rest . " A little painfully , Berry is forced to reply , " Harvard needs more than the rest . It is the biggest single concentration of medical talent in the world . " In essence , it may seem to the sympathetic critic that Harvard does have everything  --  with the possible exception of a winning football team . At any rate , it has a medical faculty that can say , quite literally and with little fear , " Let George do it . "                     