@@476369

THE corrupt abuse of the federal government for personal profit has lately exceeded anything known in those two outstanding past epochs of political sin , the Grant and Harding Administrations . Not that any thieves of the first magnitude , like Grant 's Secretary of War Belknap and Harding 's Secretary of the Interior Fall , enliven the current scene . What sets modern Washington apart from Washington after the Civil War and Washington after World War I is the present-day democratization of corruption . Washington is the source of extra-legal favors for far more Americans than those fortunates who had ready access to the government in previous epochs , and , while the great majority of public servants remain lionorable and responsible , the favor-seekers have found more officials ready to fulfill their wants than seem to have been available in evil times that lie behind us . The revelation in 1951 by congressional committees and alert newspapers of the spread of human weakness through the Reconstruction Finance Corporation , the Internal Revenue Bureau , and other federal agencies has generated a move for the moral reform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a subcommittee of the Senate Labor and Public Welfare Committee , headedby Senator Paul Douglas of Illinois , recommended the establishment of a Commission on Ethics in Government . But although the existence of such a commission might frighten or convert some crooks to honesty , it is improbable that officials who ignore the old Commandments would honor whatever new ones the commission produced . Actually , preoccupation with the improvement of morals could have the effect of keeping alive the opportunities for corruption . Such preoccupation diverts us from the real issue which corruption symbolizes . For the key fact is that Washington festers from a political problem which underlies and generates the moral problem . The first must be solved before the immorality can be rooted out . The political problem of the federal goy , ernment lies in the fact that it has taken over the role of J. P. Morgan &; Co. and does not yet know how to play it . In the old days American business turned to the bankers of the country , among whom the Morgans were by all odds the most powerful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In effect these bankers decided who should have money for the relief , reorganization , or expansion of their firms and who should not . If a great banker favored his friends , as Morgan the Elder certainly did , this might occasion criticism but involved no taint of corruption ; for the funds which he dispensed were private , not public . Now , however , the situation has changed . Washington has become the financial center of the United States since the revolutionary tax law of 1944 began to channel into the federal Treasury a large portion of the money which private citizens used to invest through Wall Street or their own brokers in business expansion . In 1929 , the last year before the Great Depression , the federal Internal Revenue Bureau collected 2.8 per cent of the value of all the goods the country produced . In 1949 the taxes amounted to 15.6 per cent of the national product . The government also diverts money from private to government use by the enormous loans it floats . In 1929 the value of federal securities outstanding was one-fifth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the value was about equal to the gross national product . The shift of the money center to Washington has made private enterprise dependent in large measure on public financing for its survival and expansion . Yet the government ? though it has clear-cut plans for using Treasury funds in foreign-aid programs ? has no coherent , well-worked-out policy for the disposal of such funds in the United States . And the vagueness of policy invites favoritism in the use of the funds , which is quite another matter with public funds than with private ones . 0 NE reason why the Truman Administration plays J. P. Morgan clumsily is that it is heir to another institution which generally is considered an antibiotic for Wall Street . That institution is the New Deal , which the Administration keeps alive as a theory , at least , under the name of Fair Deal . The confusion arising from the government 's attempts to mingle the two roles has obscured the purpose of government from many officials in responsible positions . The Morgans , father and son and partners , had a good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failed . The New Dealers had a good sense of social values ; this filled them with their pioneering zeal and gave them a goal for government in the prewar Administrations of Franklin Roosevelt . The modern administrators in ' Washington , however , often show only a vague notion of eithersocial or financial value . Operating with public funds , they lack above all a definition of the " public interest. - The collision between the government as dispenser of capital ( Morgan ) and as social and economic equalizer ( New Deal ) creates the opportunity to get rich corruptly in Washington . One can see this strange result in the fate of the idea of the welfare state . The idea ? born of the conviction that it is the duty of government to improve the lot of Americans lagging in the race for comfort , security , and opportunity ? gave an intellectual focus to the aims and activities of Roosevelt 's Presidency . Although the money may often have been unwisely distributed , at least there was a definite and defensible public purpose behind its distribution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blow the trumpets loudly for the welfare state , this institution has been undergoing a subtle change into the rich man 's welfare state , a monument to privilege instead of to equality . With no plain purpose to guide them , many officials put the money and authority of Washington at the disposal of those who do n't need help or who do n't deserve it at public expense . The philosophy of government produced by the Roosevelt New Dealers has not turned out to be strong and flexible enough to be adapted to good times . The Roosevelrians flourished in years of national poverty . The prosperity which the United States has enjoyed since World War II smothered their spirit . Moreover , Congress has not passed laws which realistically accommodate New Deal attitudes to the current facts of political life . President Truman has got rid of most of the New Dealers and put the agencies symbolic of the welfare state under the control of practical men . These men seldom act on the New Deal notion that the federal government is responsible for the welfare of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they profess this notion . Yet while the old idea has been losing its Vigor , the agencies established to give form to the idea survive . The gigantic apparatus of government built up to promote welfarism under Roosevelt , and expanded during World War II and afterward , is still the dispensary of money and of favors more valuable than money . The centralization of national power in this federal apparatus simplifies the task of CORRUPTION IN the modern seekers of privilege . Instead of having to milk the nation , they have only to milk the nation 's government . The billions gathered in taxes and borrowings make Washington a magnet for favor-seekers . The New Deal apparatus provides the means for satisfying them . ? For example , the Civil Aeronautics Board , established under Roosevelt to regulate commercial aviation in the public interest , has degenerated into the defender of the private interest of established airlines in keeping the skies closed to new competitors . The Federal Power Commission , expanded under Roosevelt to promote conservation and to safeguard the consumer , now takes its cue from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Maritime Commission , created under Roosevelt in a revolt against the high subsidies paid to shipbuilders and ship-operators , now pays subsidies higher than before . The transformation of the Commission into the Maritime Administration has not improved it . The Reconstruction Finance Corporation for four years has been lending money without distinguishing between private and public interest . Whether or not the Defense Production Administration , a recent creation of the Truman Administration , has channeled funds toward big business engaged in military production , to the harm of smaller industry , as has been frequently charged , the fact that it would be in a position to do so illustrates how arbitrary are the powers enjoyed by such agencies . BY COINCIDENCE , the history of modern privilege in the federal government begins in the year Congress lifted the United States to its present high tax plateau . That was 1944 . Measured against present standards , internal revenue collections before that year were a trifle . At their height in Roosevelt 's prewar Presidency they reached $6,700,000,000 in 1941 . Two years later they were $21,040,000,000 . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they have remained with slight variation . Since 1944 the government has poured back into the nation about $46,000,000,000 in various manifestations of its Wall Street guise . The pattern of irresponsibility and carelessness in official use of the taxpayers ' money was set in 1944 by fraudulent overpayments which some military officers made to industrialists in the settlement of World War II contracts . This tendency to be generous to individuals at the expense of the public showed itself later in the bargain prices at which the government sold its surplus merchant ships and other surpl u.s property , and in advances to RFC borrowers who went bankrupt almost immediately upon obtaining their loans . Lately this confusion about the nature of " public interest " has been underlined by the interest in armaments which the fear of Russia excites . The determination to remain militarily strong has given rise to what we can call " military socialism . " Under military socialism the government pays the owners of factories and shiplines , by subsidies and other indirect or tax devices , to produce goods or perform services that have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are useful to the government in developing its military strength . The new superliner , America 's answer to the Queen Mary , which is to be launched in the spring , is a good example of the abuse of the taxpayer that sometimes marks military socialism . The maritime law authorizes the goVernment to pay one-third of the cost of building a ship as a subsidy ; the United States Lines , the owner of the superliner , was reluctant to build it unless the government subsidized 60 per cent of the cost ; the Navy Department provided the Maritime Commission with a reason , based on military security , why the higher subsidy should he paid , and the arrangement was completed to the satisfaction of the United States Lines . The ship in reality does have economic as well as military value ; but it was in the name of security that the Commission widened the Lines ' profit margin . Interest in obtaining these favors from Washington has risen as the flow of money into the Treasury has become more rapid . Conversely interest has risen also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been " distributed " by the government in gifts of money through the device of not collecting money . Merchant ship and airplane lines subsidized by Washington receive a tax favor which improves their competitive position vis-a-vis the nonsubsidized lines . The revenue act of 1950 , passed to finance the beginnings of the rearmament program inspired by the outbreak of the Korean war , authorized the Administration to postpone the collection of taxes for five years on the sums spent by industry to build new plants for defense production ? another phase of military socialism . In ten months the Defense Production Administration postponed most of the tax payments on nine billion dollars ' worth of plant . The lack of a guiding purpose and the drive for speed in rearmament led to some successful conniving by firms to get the tax favor for the erection of factories which they had planned long before there was a war in Korea . Another kind of tax favor has been provided by the Internal Revenue Bureau and the Department of Justice . Reversing their position from the days when they prosecuted Al @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Greasy Thumb " Guzik , a former Capone pal , and other racketeers to deduct from their taxable income large sums under the general heading of " miscellaneous . " The Internal Revenue has shown consideration for racketeers also by settling government tax claims against them for a small percentage of the total amount due . In contrast to its kindness to Greasy Thumb , the Bureau forced Joe Louis , the retired heavyweight boxing champion , back into the ring with its demand for full payment to the last cent of his delinquent taxes . The essence of corruption infects the various devices for redistributing government funds ? We donation of money , military socialism , the subsidy , the tax favor ? because they are invoked for some and closed to others on a capricious basis . The evil lies in discrimination . The history of corruption shows that a good many officials simply adopt friendship as their standard for determining who is to get it and who is not . Given the failure of the Capitol or the White House to define exactly the purpose and role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easy for the custodians of government authority to jettison old abstractions like " public interest " and " equal justice and opportunity for all " in favor of a personalized approach to their duties . Undoubtedly the great majority of officials steadfastly try to honor their responsibilities and to make decisions on the basis of merit and justice . But those who have fallen into the modern way command the sluice gates of the Treasury . III T HE flamboyant record of the Recon- struction Finance Corporation shows the effect of the friendship principle on the government 's management of its responsibilities as the successor to J. P. Morgan . The RFC has been generous in a haphazardly democratic way . Anybody who selfishly wanted a loan that would not benefit the nation one whit could get it from the RFC if he found the right lawyer or had the support of the right politicians in the days when William Boyle led the Democratic National Committee . The corporation has pandered to greed without being snobbish about it . It helped the deserving and undeserving . It thrust money on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for sale in dime stores , dental clinics , paperboard makers , mattress makers . television manufacturers , canneries , movie houses , caf ? s , drug stores , truckers , a trailer manufacturer , a maker of fluorescent lamps , a rainbow trout factory , and some very dubious fellows who wanted to be concessionaires for the roulette room in a Nevada hotel . In a kind of perverted way , it was dedicated , before the revelations of the Fulbright Committee forced a clean-up in the spring of 1951 , to an ideal cause , to the cause of small business . Borrowers in great numbers began to hammer at the doors of the RFC in 1948 , when Congress authorized the agency to make direct loans " to aid in financing agriculture , commerce , and industry ; to encourage small business ; to help in maintaining the economic stability of the country ; and to assist in promoting maximum employment and production . " The corporation had antedated the New Deal by two years , and it had been an important adjunct of the New Deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , most of the Corporation 's loans had been limited to private lending agencies and large enterprises like railroads . The new law shouted , " Come one , come all . " The law accentuated the J. P. Morgan aspect of the federal government . In 1948 the United States was hovering half-way between the system of free enterprise and a system of state-controlled money . Superficially the times gave the illusion that free enterprise had been firmly re-established as the irrevocable American way . But free enterprise wants a steady flow of private money in the form of investments , and this flow was missing . One permanent result of the New Deal is the distribution of a far greater share of the national income to labor and farmers titan they received a quarter of a century ago during the swan-song period of all-out free enterprise . Instead of buying stocks in speculative enterprises , farmers and labor tend to put their money into savings banks and insurance companies , which in turn ordinarily make sure-thing investments instead of risking their capital on new ventures or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ underwriting opportunities of the Morgans and other old-line investment houses . The tax laws further restricted these opportunities . Before the Depression the United States invested 18 per cent of its national income in business enterprise . In 1949 private investment had fallen below 10 per cent , and 18 per cent was flowing to Washington in taxes and a larger amount in borrowings . T HE revised RFC was in a position to take up some of this investment slack . The amount of the loans the agency made between 1948 and 1950 increased rapidly over the amount disbursed before 1948 . Congress had directed the RFC to lend money " in the national interest , " but the agency defined this requirement strangely . Applicants for loans who had no friendships in the RFC and employed no lawyer or political intercessor whom the RFC recognized as a friend were likely to get nothing , no matter how neatly their proposals fitted the public interest . Other applicants who had friends or used friendly intercessors often got what they were after , whether it was in the public interest or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a famous example of this kind of discrimination . The RFC turned down Litho-fold three times . When Lithofold retained Vice-Chairman Boyle as its attorney and Boyle phoned to Chairman Harley Hise of RFC , Lithofold got the loan it wanted . Theabsence of clear-cut techniques for sorting over the loan applications was frankly underlined in the testimony of Joseph Casey , a lawyer with a large RFC practice , before the Fulbright Committee in the spring of 1951 : You have a situation in the RFC where there are no standard practices . There is no group before whom you appear at one time . There is no rule by which this loan is granted or that one is not , that you can judge yourself by . It is a matter of rule of thumb in each individual case . " Is it a matter of filling out the forms , presenting a balance sheet , and presenting the facts , and that is all there is to it ? " Senator Homer Capehart of Indiana asked Casey . " Senator , " said Casey , " you would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friendship principle stimulated corruption in the RFC in a number of ways . The sale of friendship was one of them . Many of the fortunes made in California in 1849 and the lush years following belonged not to the gold miners but to the foresighted men who sold the miners the necessaries of life , who owned the ships that moved the gold around Cape Horn , and who traded in real estate in the towns around the mines . So it was with getting rich from the RFC . Those who assisted the borrowers for a price often made more money than the borrowers themselves . These intercessors had some sort of entree to the RFC , such as a friendship with a director , or a friendship with a friend of a director . The intercessor might be an attorney in private practice , or an official of the government , like James Finnegan , the former Collector of Internal Revenue in St. Louis . The fruit of this friendship was on the tvarket . The intercessors did a brisk commerce . A NOTHER source of corruption in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to take mean advantage of their trusting friends within the RFC . The story of the Ribbonwriter Corporation of America is interesting in this connection . Ribbonwriter in January 1949 submitted to the Reconstruction Finance Corporation a request for a loan of $400,000 . The company had a new gadget.to market ? an attachment for the typewriter that would enable a typist to make five copies of her work without using carbon paper . Ribbonwriter was a Florida corporation ; and the Florida advisory committee of the RFC and the director of the Jacksonville agency of the RFC recommended that Washington turn down the application . In Washington Charles B. Lewis , loan examiner for the RFC , disagreed with Floridian opinion . He recommended approval , and the RFC hoard took his advice . The agency refused to buy Ribbonwriter 's gadget , but it advanced $300,000 to Ribbon-writer on May 16 , 1949 ; the company went bankrupt on July 29 , 1949 , and two weeks later the receiver found that Ribbonwriter had less than $100 cash in hand . Florida lawyers of the RFC passed on to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making personal use of the loan . Why did Charles B. Lewis , who had been the president of two banks in Georgia . propose that the RFC make this sour loan ? The reason came out during the investigation of the RFC which a special subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Banking and Currency made in 1950 and 1951 : for forty years he had been a friend of Wiley L. Moore , a director of Ribbonwriter . " I relied all along on Mr. Moore 's guarantee . " Lewis told Senator J. William Fulbright , the chairman of the subcommittee . NIONG friends in Washington a man 's word is as good as his bond , or per-haps better . Friendship means trust . Lewis understood that along with the trans-portation system of Jacksonville . Florida , Moore " owned " the Georgia Life Insurance Company in Atlanta . The first vice-president of the Life Insurance Company of Georgia wrote to Fulbright , " We wish to advise that Mr. Moore is not and never has been in any way connected with our company . Insofar as we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest in our company , but has no con-nection with any company of a similar name that could have possibly confused Mr. Lewis . " Fulbright , Mr. Lewis , do you know whether Mr. Wiley Moore is a stockholder in the Ribbonwriter Company ? Lewis . He told me he was.MAGAZINE Fulbright . How much stock does he own ? Lewis . He did not tell me . Fulbright . Mr. Moore did not OW12 any stock . .. . You do not know really whether Mr. Moore , your friend , put any money at all in this , do you ? Lewis . Only his word . I have not checked the record of it . In his reliance on friendship as a guide , Lewis had the example of his superior , William Edward Willett , Director of the RFC , to follow . Willett was a friend of C. Edward Rowe , a- judge from Athol , Massachusetts . They had worked together as national hank examiners in 1933 . In 1949 Rowe was a director and owner of one-third of the stock of the Harrington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shells in Worcester , Massachusetts . Business was poor , and the firm sought a loan from the RFC to tide it over to the next year 's hunting season . The agency 's examiner in Boston refused to recommend the loan . Rowe thereupon went to Washington to see Willett . Willett greased the way for Rowe 's loan application in spite of the opposition in Boston . He hand-picked an examiner from the Washington office and assigned him to Rowe 's case . He did Rowe the unusual favor of letting him confer with the examiner . The loan went through . Willett 's examiner recommended a credit of $300,000 for Harrington and Richardson . " I did it as a personal favor to Judge Rowe , " Willett told Senator Fulbright to explain the special assignment of the examiner . " Is n't it a fact , " Fulbright asked him , " that because he was an old friend , you did depart from the usual ruling and did extend this favor to him ? " " That is a fact , yes , sir . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elevation of friendship into a principle of government has been stimulated by President Truman himself . Like Grant and Harding , he is an honest man , but he has been attracted by many political confidence men . . For the sake of his friends , he stomached a long succession of moral horrors when he was chained to the Pendergast machine in Kansas City , and to demonstrate his loyalty to the old machine Truman , upon becoming President in 1945 , pardoned fifteen of the sixty-three persons who had been found guilty of fraud in the Jackson County ( Kansas City ) elections in 1936 . He has underlined his devotion to the principle by his loyalty to members of his own staff who have put a blemish on the concept of democratic government as the equalizer of opportunity . Furthermore , in 1950 , when the Fulbright Committee was plugging along with its investigation of the RFC , Truman reappointed as directors of the Corporation the two men whom the committee had found most willing to recommend loans on the friendship basis ; the other three directors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Willett and Walter Dunham , were friends of Truman 's administrative assistant for patronage matters , Donald Dawson , and usually eager to please the Democratic National Committee . Despite the President 's special sense of loyalty , Congress and public indignation lately have forced the Administration to make some reforms . The RFC now is managed by one man instead of by five . The President let Chairman Boyle of the Democratic National Committee resign after the Hoey Committee of the Senate , with the indispensable help of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch , exposed Boyle 's use of his political influence at the RFC for a legal fee . At this writing Truman has dismissed Internal Revenue Collectors Delaney of Boston , Johnson of New York , Finnegan of St. Louis , and Smythe of San Francisco and he expressed approval of the suggestion by Boyle 's successor , Frank McKinney , that collectors hereafter be appointed on the basis of merit . Those actions may signify an interest in better behavior by government officials , but they do not get rid of the basic temptation which lures officials to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behalf of the public . As long as the money flows in a torrent to Washington , as long as Washington therefore remains the magnet of business men seeking finance capital in the various forms the federal government has it available , and as long as neither President nor Congress formulates a realistic set of standards to guide officials in the dispensation of that capital , so long will the moral tone of Washington remain low . The federal government has an enormous power in its authority to lend or not to lend money , to grant or to withhold tax favors , and to determine whose business it will finance in the name of military socialism . This is the power of economic life and death . It can choose the companies that are to survive . Those which can not obtain private financing and need its help and to which it lends money or pays subsidies or whose taxes it reduces are the companies that will live on . Those whose requests it turns down limp along weakly or fade away . The designation of these " chosen instruments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tail on the donkey at a birthday party . True , this Administration has attracted to its ranks a dismaying number of officials whose behavior under such circumstances is sleazy and disreputable . The fact remains that a sound study of what it means for the government to take over the mastery of American capitalism will do more for morality than a new Moses with a new Decalogue trying to overwhelm evil without getting rid of the occasion of evil .                     