@@236728

Every summer . U.S. school buildings stand idle while their value declines and interest on construction bonds piles higher . Teachers , in desperately short supply during the school year , take long vacations they can not afford , or pad out undersized incomes with temporary jobs . Last week , as dozens of other cost-burdened school boards have done before , Tennessee 's Davidson County board of education hacked through a knot of problems to what seemed at first a simple , one-stroke solution : run the school system twelve months a year on a four-quarter plan , with one-fourth of the children on vacation each quarter . <P> The advantages at first looked bright . Without building any more schools or hiring any more teachers , the overloaded system could handle a third again as many students ; and , with teachers working twelve months ( with two weeks vacation ) instead of the usual ten . salaries could be raised a respectable 20% . A committee turned up other points in favor of the plan : students with failing grades , or out of school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one quarter instead of at least a half year ; fewer textbooks would be needed ; with three-fourths of the competition in school , older students would have an easier time getting vacation jobs ; children could start school within three months of their sixth birthdays , instead of waiting up to a year . <P> Then , with gathering dismay , the committee began to see why communities that had tried the plan ( among them : Nashville , Omaha , Newark , Amarillo , Tex. , Aliquippa , Pa. ) had abandoned it within a few years . With new classes starting each quarter , at least three different sections would have to be taught in each subject , too many except for sizable schools ( elementary schools of more than 540 pupils , secondary schools of more than 1,600 ) . Tennessee heat would make expensive air conditioning a necessity for the summer quarter . Building repairs , normally done during vacations , would have to be carried out on weekends or while school was in session . Teachers would have better incomes , but no time to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take professional courses . Four separate graduations and commencements would be required , and some graduations would be inconveniently timed for college entrance . Transfers to or from four-quarter schools would be endlessly complicated . <P> Biggest problem : vacation quarters would have to be assigned arbitrarily . Families would revolt when they found four children taking vacations at different times ; coaches would swallow their whistles in rage when hot-shot halfbacks were told to take the fall months off . In communities where the four-quarter system has been tried , students have rebelled at taking out-of-season vacations , breezed through school without stop , graduated too young to work and too immature for college . Prospect at week 's end : no four-quarter cure-all for Davidson County schools .                     