@@477126

A sympathetic observer of the new conservatism examines the four main groups of the American Right ? and suggests the future course of conservative philosophy . THE tide of conservatism runs on unchecked up the mainstream and into every backwater of American life . Wherever one lends an ear ? in the assembly , the classroom , the church , the fraternal luncheon ? men proclaim themselves to be conservatives . Wherever one casts an eye ? in the daily press , the journals of opinion , the bookman 's window , the mass weeklies ? men write of the new conservatism . A self-proclaimed conservative ( of the ' dynamic " variety , to be sure ) has been reseated emphatically in the White House . The gray flannel suit , without padding , is selling well in Butte and Albuquerque . The purveyors of the Continental Mark II have appealed to C. Wright Mills 's power elite to experience " the thrill of being conservative . " And it is certainly doubtful whether John Dewey could be elected to a single school hoard in the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old-fashioned liberals " into several million " new conservatives " has produced thus far only semantic bickering and political confusion . If Dwight D. Eisenhower , Harry Byrd , John Bricker , Robert Moses , Adlai Stevenson , Bracken Lee , and Clifford Case are all conservatives , as each has been heard to insist , the tent of conservatism will have to be as accommodating as the tent of liberalism , whose elasticity has beenone of the wonders of American democracy . Our failure to agree on the meaning of conservatism , and thus on the identity of our conservatives , has cramped discussion of some of the pressing issues of our time . Small wonder that several leading political thinkers have proposed that conservatism , along with its partner-in-confusion liberalism , be sold for scrap . Words , however , are not easily scrapped ; even if these wise men could coin an acceptable substitute ? an unlikely prospect ? the rest of us would doubtless go right on using a word that is , after all , a useful tool when properly handled . Having done my own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparently , to the confusion that surrounds it ? I now make a modest attempt to salvage conservatism for further service . This can he done most effectively , in my opinion , by seeking an answer to the leading question : Who are the American conservatives ? If we must , on occasion , engage in the dangerous practice of classifying men , which men in this country fit most naturally into the slot of conservatism ? LET me begin with an exercise in semantics , by noting briefly four or even five distinct sense ; in which we use conservatism and conservative in current discussion . When a man describes himself as a conservative , he probably means to express one of these thoughts : ( 1 ) That his temper is conservative , that he has an ingrained aversion to changes in his mode of living : The essential traits in the conservative temperament would seem to be habit , inertia , fear , and emulation , all of which move men to seek security and peace with every irrational fiber in their beings . in most people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a conservative of temperament , look anywhere about you . ( 2 ) That his tastes are conservative , that his judgments and decisions in the areas of work , play , culture , religion , and social relations are cautious , moderate , and predictable : Such a man usually has something substantial to defend against change , whether it be his status , reputation , power , or , most commonly , property . Indeed , for some men the ownership of property becomes so powerful a force in their daily lives that their conservatism of taste is transformed into a conservatism of possession . In any case , the even tenor of existence for such men depends largely on what they have and hold ; threats to their property or status are threats to their interests , routine , and comfort . If you seek a conservative of taste , you should sail to the mythical England of Dickens , Trollope , Galsworthy , and Angela Thirkell . Mrs. Gummidge , Lord Siverbridge , Soames Forsyte , and old Bunce the ferryman are about as ill-assorted a lot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are all solid conservatives . ( 3 ) That his politics are conservative , that he can he counted on to take a stand on current issues in opposition to those men who would experiment with the established order : This man has looked beyond his own comings and goings and has recognized , however fuzzily , that he is a member of a community worth defending against reform arid revolution . He recognizes further that such defense calls for something more than holding his own place and property , and he is ready to support men and movements dedicated to preserving his country 's " way of life " ? as he understands it . If you seek a conservative of politics , meet the late Joseph B. Chapin of Ten North Frederick or Nathaniel Gardiner , who shouted The Last Hurrah . ( 4 ) That his mind is conservative , that he subscribes consciously to principles designed to guard the established order against careless tinkering or determined reform : This man understands the history , structure , ideals , and traditions of his society ; the real tendencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of conservatism in maintaining a stable social order . He is aware that he is a conservative , and that he must therefore think conservative thoughts as well as practice conservative politics . If you seek this kind of conservative , you may he gone some time . He is a rare bird in any country , an even rarer one in this . I will try to trap a few specimens in the second half of this expedition . The conservatisms of temper and taste and possession have always flourished in America , as they have in all societies worth living in on civilized terms ( and in many not worth living in on any terms ) . Few will object to a man 's calling himself a conservative in these three senses , unless , of course , he delights in unorthodoxy . Our bewilderment about conservatism , especially about the identity of the conservatives in this country , arises in the areas of politics and philosophy . It is in these areas that we must labor earnestly if we are to rescue the word from the abuses of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essentially the pride and property of " the men on the Right , " the vast concourse of Americans who have a sizable stake , social and spiritual as well as economic , in the established order , and who therefore rise in opposition ( some more indignantly than others ) to the bright plans of reformers like Governor Harriman or Walter Readier . Although it may seem an act of effrontery for me to describe any Americans as occupants of " the Right , " I can not see how those who make constant use of the words " Left " and " Leftist " can object to being catalogued , quite without malice , in this convenient way . And although it nay also seem an act of absurdity , I am convinced that there exists a useful rule of thumb with which to identify those who belong on the Right . Like any rule of thumb , its accuracy is something less than one hundred per cent . The contemporary Right , in my opinion , includes those who now admit to distaste for the dominant political theory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? for New Deal and Fair Deal , Roosevelt and Truman , service state and welfare state , reform at home and adventure abroad . The conservatism of the modern American Right is , like almost all conservatisms , essentially a posture of anti-radicalism and anti-liberalism ? in this instance a many-sided yet integral reaction to the New Deal , its leader , and his political heirs . The decisive force in the shaping of modern American conservatism was Franklin D. Roosevelt . The continuing hostility to Roosevelt and his works ranges from gnawing , unforgiving hatred to the tolerant opinion that , while much of what he did was probably necessary to do , he did all things rather sloppily and some things he had no business doing at all . Samuel Lubell has told us about the Roosevelt coalition . " I would suggest that there is today , in Congress and among the people , an " anti-Roosevelt coalition , " and that it may he labeled for what it is : the American Right . We are now ready to name ( not call ) names , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At the risk of being too taxonomic ? after all , I am classifying men , not gall wasps ? let me identify four general positions within the contemporary Right , four fairly distinct groups whose articulate leaders now prOclai ? themselves to be conservatives . The classification is rough and empirical ; it proceeds from the right extremity toward and beyond the center of the American political spectrum ; it is determined by the relative willingness of each of these groups to accept the burdens of the New Economy ( the domesticated New Deal described in the Republican platforin of 1956 ) and the New Internationalism ( the bi-partisan commitment to active membership in UN and NATO and to economic aid to underdeveloped countries ) . The pseudo-conservatives , as they have been labeled by Richard Hofstadter , are a small , motley , and deafening band of men and women who roam the outer reaches of American decency and hurl their lances , usually dipped in the poison of racism , against the twin specters of " left-wing radicalism " and " spendthrift internationalism . " " Although they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of conservatism , " Holstadter writes , they " show signs of a serious and restless dissatisfaction with American life , traditions , and institutions . ' ' The choleric Right has always been with us in America , but seldom have men like Gerald L. K. Smith found so receptive an audience for their hymns of hate . Some of the audience , happy to say , has been drifting away in the past two years . The ultra-conservatives are a far More numerous and respectable body of Americans . Unlike the pseudo-conservatives , their urges and purposes are unquestionably conservative . These Americans are represented in the Senate by John Bricker and William Jenner ( and for certain purposes by Joseph McCarthy ) , in the House by Ralph Gwinn and Noah Mason , in the daily press by the Chicago Tribune and the Hearst papers , among periodicals by the National Review and the American- Mercury , on the radio by Fulton Lewis , jr. , among book publishers by Devin-Adair , in the pulpit by the Reverend James W. Fifield and Rabbi Benjamin Schultz , and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government . T. Coleman Andrews , Douglas MacArthur , and Bracken Lee were their favorite candidates in the elections of 1956 , although most of them seem to have ended up by voting grudgingly for President Eisenhower and , in the North , a straight Republican ticket . John T. Flynn , William F. Buckley , . jr. , John Chamberlain , Clarence Manion , and George Sokaisky are perhaps the most eloquent and influential publicists of ultra-conservatism . Whatever their differences in doctrine and program , 211 these men share a common antipathy , strong to the point of loathing , for the New Economy and the New Internationalism . The middling conservatives are much the largest and least troubled of these rough s cate-n uorie Former President Hoover and Senator ? Lausche are located somewhere near one boundary of this category , former Governor Dewey and Senator Lyndon Johnson of Texas somewhere near the other . In the center stood ? and for our purposes still stands ? the model of the American conservative , the late Senator Taft . Close beside him , much closer than many realize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numbers , conviction , and wealth of the conservative Americans , there are few newspapers , magazines , commentators , or books that do their cause justice . Although their sentiments may be sampled in the editorials of Life , brochures of the United States Chamber of Commerce , writings of men like Clarence B. Randall of Inland Steel anti Henry M. Wriston , until recently president of Brown , and some of the more mellow of Raymond Moley 's pieces in Newsweek , they have very little to say in their own behalf . They seem equally willing to nod assent to the uncompromising strictures of those to their right and to the temperate judgments of those to their immediate left . They have even let the ultra-conservatives steal Senator Taft from their keeping . The purpose of these men seems to be to brake rather than to reverse our movement toward welfare and regulation at home and toward aid and alliance abroad . It is hard to say exactly what sets off liberal conservatives from middling conservatives , but certainly their actions and ideas seem more flexible , thoughtful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Right . They are less inclined to weep tears over the last two decades , more inclined to recognize professors and union leaders as useful fellow citizens . They have taken up the burdens of the New Economy and the New Internationalism with no apparent reluctance , and often with considerable enthusiasm . The natural habitat of these men is the Atlantic seaboard and the outposts of the Republican party , though they may also be found scattered through the country and in Democratic ranks . Earl Warren , Clifford Case , Meyer Kestnbaum , Paul Hoffman , and Charles P. Taft are all considered excellent examples of liberal conservatism . ALTHOUGH any man in any one of the three major groups may stray off the reservation on an issue like the recognition of Red China or the tariff or civil rights , it is possible , 1 ant convinced , to predict specific attitudes on current issues in four cases out of five . In the area of foreign policy , most ultra-conservatives are ultra-nationalists , most middling conservatives are nationalists torn between conflicting desires , Most liberal conservatives are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outspokenly hostile to the UN , would like to put an abrupt end to " squandering our treasure abroad , " consider the Bricker Amendment " a matter of life and death for the Republic , " and consider the two McCarran Acts an excellent beginning to . ward purifying American politics and society . Middling conservatives are uneasy about the UN but are hardly ready to give up on it , would like to reduce foreign spending sharply , support the Bricker Amendment but are willing to sec it diluted , and consider the two McCarran Acts generally worthy protections of our way of life . Liberal conservatives support the UN with scarcely abated enthusiasm , are prepared to maintain a high level of foreign spending , consider the Bricker Amendment a " dangerous innovation , " and would like to see the McCarron Acts softened if not repealed in the interests of international good will and American dignity . In the area of domestic policy , ultra-conservatives oppose any further social legislation and call for the scrapping of many agencies and programs , especially those that do then no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others propose ; and though they are likely to react as angrily as ever at any mention of the New Deal , they seem willing to leave the New Deal agencies in operation on reduced budgets . Liberal conservatives make counterproposals to the promises of the Left and accept the new dimensions in government with little rancor or regret . Sonic of them have been known at times to say a kind word for the " pm-MAGAZINE . poses " if not the " methods " of Mr. Roosevelt . Thus : Ultra-conservatives are ready , by their own testimony , to dissolve TVA , reduce the scope and generosity of Social Security , ignore the problem of civil rights , and fight any proposal to improve the nation 's health through federal action . An astounding number of them are eager to repeal or delimit the Sixteenth Amendment and to return , no matter what the cost , to the Gold Standard . Middling conservatives are willing to tolerate TVA while cutting its appropriations , leave Social Security untouched except for " more businesslike methods of operation , " consider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toothless bill for improving civil rights , and let the dead dog of " socialized medicine " lie dead in the street . They , too , would like lower taxes and harder money but do not favor schemes to return our tax structure and monetary policy to the permissive patterns of happier days . Liberal conservatives are prepared to defend TVA , expand the coverage of Social Security , enact civil-rights legislation with at least a few teeth , and sponsor bills that encourage voluntary health-insurance programs or sustain the medical schools . They regard all proposals to repeal or amend the Sixteenth Amendment and to return to the Gold Standard as irresponsible pipe dreams . Many of this third group feel closer to moderates of the Left than to ultra-conservatives of the Right . They have reason to deny that they arc on the Right at all . The ultra-conservatives , who brand them scornfully as " me-tooers , " are happy to hear them deny it . The issue of segregation in the public schools of the South is driving these two groups even farther apart . Ultra-conservatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the defense of Senator Eastland 's way of life , surprisingly savage in their attacks on Chief Justice Warren 's Court , WHERE IKE CAMPS W HICH of these groups has the most plausible claim to the mantle of political conservatism ? The answer to this question can be found in the answer to a more searching question : To what extent does each fulfill the historic conservative mission ? Which , for example , is most successful in defending our established order ? Which contributes most effectively to the spirit of unity among Americans ? Which does most to steady the social process ? A process of elimination points inexorably to the middling group , to the **29;1126;TOOLONG conservatives . The pseudo-conservatives are ruled out on a hundred counts . The most damaging of these must surely be their wholesale contempt for every factor , new or old , in the American equation of liberty under law . The demagoguery of the Right is not conservatism any more than the demagoguery of the Left is liberalism . The ultra-conservatives , too , despite their urges and purposes , must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have fallen unwitting prey to two failings against which conservatives must be constantly on guard : first , an inability to accept gracefully social and economic changes that have been firmly established in a successful way of life , especially changes in which millions of their fellow citizens have a sizable stake ; second , a weakness for arguments and methods that unravel the bonds of social unity . On the first count , the ultra-conservatives must be adjudged reactionaries , for they are seeking purposefully to roll back the social process to 1929 or 1914 or even , if we can believe what some of them say , to 1896 . On the second count , they must be adjudged radicals . However pure their motives and sound their purposes , they are dabbling dangerously in a form of radicalism in their mania for amending the Constitution , their reckless assaults on the Presidency , their wistful plans for a new party , their disregard for the American traditions of fair play and freedom of dissent , their enthusiastic support of the new demagoguery , and their cult of extreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immoderation can not be classed as genuine conservatives . Whatever else it is , McCarthyism is not conservatism , and ultra , - conservatives , by their own proud admission , were the most loyal soldiers in McCarthy 's ranks . A better case can be made for the liberal conservatives , many of whom can quote Burke as confidently as any Tory . But to be a conservative in the practical sense a man must behave like a conservative and not just think and speak like one . There is a limit , that is to say , beyond which a man can push for social and economic reforms only by surrendering his claim to be considered a conservative . A liberal Republican like Clifford Case should be saluted respectfully by all friends of conservatism for his important role in reminding an innocent America of the frailty of human nature and tragedy of history , but he is much too willing to take bold steps into the future to be called a conservative in practical politics . So , too , is a moderate Democrat like Adlai Stevenson . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when I say that most of the men in this category are conservative liberals rather than liberal conservatives . In the end , it seems clear , the middling conservatives come closest of all to a position of practical conservatism that bears some relation to the compelling conditions of American life . The policies of President Eisenhower and those grouped loyally around him are conservative in purpose , for they are aimed squarely at preserving a successful way of life ; conservative in method , for they steer a prudent course between too much progress , which throws us into turmoil , and too little , which is art impossible state for Americans to endure ; and conservative in influence , for they honor the highest mission of conservatism ? to foster the spirit of unity among men of all classes and callings . By accepting the burdens of the New Economy and the New Internationalism ? without at the same time reveling in them and shouting for more ? the men around Eisenhower have proved themselves to be neither reactionaries nor liberals . They , of all men , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arena reserved for conservatives . Ultra-conservatives and radicals would seem to agree that they are camped much too comfortably . it is hard to think of a single judgment about America today in which William F. Buckley , jr. , and C. Wright Mills would join unreservedly ? except that this sector ( often described as " the middle of the road " ) is paved with complacency . WHEN we move from conservative practice to conservative thought , we discover even more confusion attending the great revival . Conservatism is no longer in disrepute in those centers of learning and communication which help to mold American opinion , and the practical conservative who shops around for a modest set of principles to prop up his position soon finds himself overwhelmed by the variety of wares that are pressed upon him . He is implored by one group ? a dwindling group , to be sure , but one of impeccable lineage ? to stand fast on the Liberal tradition of perfectibility , progress , and rational democracy , and to entertain no doubts of the full viability of any one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group ? by men as varied in spirit and yet united in purpose as Herbert Hoover , Henry Hazlitt , Clarence Manion , Raymond Moley , and John T. Flynn ? to choose for his faith an old-fashioned blend of laissez-faire economics and limited constitutionalism . He is instructed by still a third ? especially by the eloquent Russell Kirk and his agrarian and Catholic friends ? to accept the full Conservative tradition as it flows from Burke , Coleridge , and Disraeli . Increasing numbers of would-be conservatives are learning that no one of these philosophies is relevant or adequate to the problems of America in l9:17 . The man who still admits few doubts of the happy promises of Liberalism repeats the sad mistake of generations of American conservatives and thus finds it impossible to oppose radical reform either shrewdly or bravely . The conservative prides himself on his realism , but no realist can cling to the millennial confidence of Carnegie , even to the quiet optimism of Jefferson , in the face of the twentieth century . The evidence is overwhelming ? certainly if interpreted at all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not inevitable , and that democracy , however cherished , is not exactly a government of " reason and truth . " " Innocent Liberalism " does not even look well on the liberals these days , as men like Reinhold Niebuhr and Arthur Schlesinger , Jr. , never tire of reminding their friends , and conservatives certainly no longer have any excuse for posing patriotically in the old colors . The " decayed Liberalism " of Hoover and Flynn , which denies that we have learned anything new or true since William Graham Sumner and Stephen J. Field , is hardly more adequate to the intellectual and spiritual needs of present-day conservatism . A socio-economic philosophy that assumes government to be inherently corrupt and corrupting paralyzes men who must act in the real world of Social Security , unemployment benefits , fair employment practices , and credit controls ? or else it drives them to schizophrenia . A constitutional philosophy that exalts Congress , mistrusts the Presidency , and seeks to load the Constitution with even more limitations is no less disabling , for it ignores the monstrous fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be even more dangerous than one with too much . Limited government is one of the key principles of conservatism , but there comes a point beyond which constitutional limits cripple the power of government to do imperative good as well as needless harm . The proponents of laissez-faire individualism seem to have moved , or rather remained , well on the wrong side of that point . The American conservative who accepts the full gospel of Burke as preached by Kirk is not much better prepared to fulfill his conservative mission . The Conservative tradition speaks much too bluntly and almost joyfully of the wickedness of man , the futility of social effort , the fallibility of reason , the excellence of aristocracy , the primacy of the community , and the caprice of democracy . To accept this tradition unreservedly is to reject the Liberal tradition flatly , and thus to move outside the mainstream of American life . The conditions that made Burke necessary never did exist in this country ; the conditions that made Churchill possible do not exist today . America is different , both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tradition simply will not flourish on this soil . We shall continue to harbor Conservatives , and they will continue to serve us well . We shall continue to study Burke and learn from him about the follies and cruelties of Jacobin democracy . It would , however , he the greatest of follies and cruelest of delusions to shape the philosophy of American conservatism in the full image of English or European Conservatism , which even today has made no stable peace with industrial capitalism or liberal democracy , We are not ready in this new country for old-country Conservatism . If we are lucky , we may never be . It would be an America far different from any that we have ever known in which the great Conservative tradition could have full meaning for more than a Gideon 's army of disenchanted aristocrats . THE CONSERVATINE CREDO W HERE then can the conservative turn for a philosophy of American conservatism , a philosophy of tradition , order , and preservation that is relevant to the problems ? personal as well as social ? of an industrial , democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Is such a philosophy possible ? The answer is that such a philosophy is already in the making . Mitch time will pass , many fine minds will do much hard thinking , many searching books and articles will be written before this philosophy is ready for the great body of American conservatives and they are ready for it ; but that it is being created , and that our conservatives are being educated , can no longer be doubted . In the writings of men like Peter Drucker ( The New Society ) , August Heckscher ( A Pattern of Politics ) , Peter Viereck ( Conservatism Revisited ) , Daniel Boorstin ( The Genius of American Politics ) , John K. Jessup ( editorials in Life ) , John Hallowell ( The Moral Foundation of Democracy ) , the late Russell Davenport ( The Dignity of Man ) , Arthur Larson ( A Republican Looks at his Party ) , and above all Walter Lippmann ( The Public Philosophy ) , a genuine American conservatism is already taking form . What these men seem to be working toward is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that doubts but does not deny the American tradition of liberty and progress . They are likely to come up finally with a grand synthesis that blends the stern half-truths of John Adams with the hopeful hall-truths of Thomas Jefferson ? or , to be more exact , gives two cheers for Adams and one for Jefferson . It would be presumptuous of me to draw a blueprint of the new conservatism , especially since good conservatives have a horror of blueprints . But I am willing to predict that this rising faith will assume these general outlines : It will be more candid about the nature of man than American conservatism has been for more than a century , for it will base all calcula : tions and prescriptions on the assumption that every man is a fabulous mixture of good and evil ? of sociability and selfishness , of energy and sloth , of reason and unreason , of integrity and corruptibility , of generosity and spite , of hope and despair . It will be less sure of either the joys or certainty of social progress , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and respectful of tradition . It will be more conscious of the dictates of universal justice , less doctrinaire about the supposed gulf ? at least in our hearts ? between the things which are Caesar 's and the things which are God 's . It will be grounded , that is to say , in the venerable doctrine of a higher law transcending and governing all human striving . It will recognize man 's need for community , and thus will place emphasis on the kind of individualism that leads free men to co-operate rather than to compete . It will call fresh attention to the web of groups ? families , neighborhoods , churches , corporations , unions , cooperatives , fraternal orders ? that we have spun between ourselves and the vast power of the state . It will free itself from cant about the nature and role of government . It will rise above the easy judgment that government is inherently arbitrary and inefficient , confess that government has led the way to a more equitable distribution of the wealth that private enterprise has produced , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a vacuum of power as in an overdose of it . Still , it will continue to condemn the credulous confidence of modern liberalism in the ability of the state to set all things right . It will say things about liberty that American conservatives have been much too reluctant to say : that undisciplined liberty can become an obsession destructive of personal integrity and social order ; that the rights of man are earned rather than given ; that every right carries with it a correlative duty ; and that private property lies near the center of the structure of human liberty . It will say things about equality that they have been even more reluctant to say : that men are equal only in the sense that they must be treated as ends and not means ; that infinite variety exists among men in talent , taste , intelligence , and virtue ; that the social order should be organized in such a way as to take advantage of this variety ; that equity rather than equality is the mark of such an order ; that the uncommon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dream . Most important of all , it will rethink and restate the meaning , conditions , and limits of democracy . The philosophers of the new conservatism will remain devoted friends of democracy ? or perish morally and politically ? but they will be the kind of friends who insist on giving honest opinions and pointed advice . They will proceed bravely from the conservative assumption that democracy is a much more demanding form of government than the American tradition has led us to believe . The new conservatism will therefore reaffirm boldly the three great conditions that men like John Adams set upon the success of free government : ( 1 ) Democracy can not exist apart from the spirit and forms of constitutionalism . If men insist on their eternal right to govern themselves , they must govern through safe , sober , predictable methods . If the majority is to rule justly , it must prove itself persistent and undoubted on all occasions , prove itself extraordinary on special occasions , and deny itself access to those areas where the heart dwells and the conscience pricks. ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge , virtue , and property ? are widely diffused among the people ; for knowledge is essential to wise decision , virtue to unforced obedience , and property to personal independence and social progress . ( 3 ) Democracy is not and can not be made a substitute for religion , and those who worship it invite their own destruction . To the contrary , American democracy can not exist for long apart from the spirit and forms of the Christian vision . These three commandments have always been the marrow of American conservatism . If the rising generation of conservative thinkers has its way , they will become the marrow of the American tradition . MANY men who think of themselves as conservatives will object to an exercise in definition that ends up by reading them out of the ranks ; and , this being a free country , they can and will go right on calling themselves whatever they wish . But it is hard to avoid this final judgment : The course of our giant democracy has carried us to a point where the cautious progressivism of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sides , the practical and the theoretical , of genuine , American-style conservatism . Eisenhower and Lippmann are by no means perfect models of American conservatism , but they are surely the most useful benchmarks against which to measure all other claimants to the title . We are by choice and destiny a progressive society , and only those men on the Right who can live with this truth happily are American conservatives in politics . Those who would " destroy the New Deal , root and branch , " like those who would pile the Fair Deal on top of the New , are something other than practical conservatives in 1957 . There is logic if not splendor , security if not adventure , in " the middle of the road . " Conservatism does not always occupy themiddle ground , but for the present at least it can occupy no other , and those who can not bear to join Mr. Eisenhower must go right to indignant reaction or left to forceful progressivism . We cherish a tradition that is hopefully Liberal , and only those men on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conservatives in philosophy . Those who ask us to forswear Jefferson and adopt Burke , like those who think Herbert Spencer had the last word on man and the state , are philosophers of a conservatism that leads conservatives astray . It is the task of conservative philosophers to purge their own minds of excessive Liberalism without shattering the final unity of political ideal that is our peculiar treasure . The task will take some doing , but it will be done . The next question is for history to answer : Will the conservatism of Eisenhower and the conservatism of Lippmann ever be joined in the kind of working partnership that once existed between the liberalism of Franklin Roosevelt and the liberalism of John Dewey ? Will the two American conservatisms ever be woven into a seamless web of practice and thought ? We may devoutly hope that the answer will be yes . American conservatism will serve the nation well only if it can enlist men of action who respect thought and men of thought who admire action ? even , as in the days of the fathers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act . American conservatism will be a whole thing or it had better be nothing at all .                     