@@231351

MY BROTHER 'S KEEPER , by Marcia Davenport ( 457 pp. ; Scribner ; $3.95 ) proves mostly that a writer with nothing much to say need never despair : the tabloids are full of stories . This one is about two old bachelor brothers who were found dead in a house full of junk ( just like the famous Collyer brothers , who in 1947 were found dead in a junk-filled house in uptown Manhattan ) . Why , asks Author Davenport , did devoted brothers of good family and good education die in squalor and madness when they had scads of money in the bank ? The answer : Momism . Old Grandma Holt dominated her married son , his gentle wife and their two young sons . Just as daddy is about to break from the Milquetoast mold , he is kicked in the head by a horse and killed . By the time the boys are freed by Grandma 's own death , one is too crushed to stand up to life , the other is beginning to show that he has inherited some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same lusty Italian opera singer , and when she bears a child , neither brother knows which is the father , and the girl ca n't tell . Bit by bit , they withdraw to a life of bitterness , become the butts of neighborhood hoodlums , booby-trap the house and retire to an existence of unwashed queerness . When the police finally break into the house , the stench is pretty bad . Novels like this one , which draw on the pap of fact and melodrama , are reasonably sure of an audience . My Brother 's Keeper has been tapped by the Book-of-the-Month Club , clear proof that the Collyer brothers did not die their strange deaths in vain . <P> LEOPARDS AND LILIES , by Alfred Duggan ( 278 pp. ; Coward-McCann ; $3.50 ) , finds a veteran historical novelist taking the field for the English against France in the time of bad King John . Lady Margaret fitzGerold , a highborn widow , is forced into an unwelcome marriage with Sir Falkes de Brealte , a Norman bastard and the best crossbowman in all England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Falkes 's castle , appreciates his long absences from home , and is only mildly annoyed when he scolds her for lowering the drawbridge too slowly . Lady Margaret survives the harrowing siege of Bedford and the fall of the House of Brealte , repudiates her husband , eventually suffers the ignominious fate of ostracism . In Leopards and Lilies , talented Author Duggan ( The Little Emperors ) is caught with his drawbridge down : the story is not as fleet as Angevin England 's fast-moving Leopard banners . But , as usual , Duggan has a thorough grasp of the political and social hanky-panky of his period . The publisher offers unsatisfied buyers of the book any substitute title they may pick off the current bestseller list , but current bestsellers being what they are , readers might as well stick with Duggan.                     