@@264271

The villagers who wandered the birch-laden slopes near Lake Tuusula in southern Finland were accustomed to seeing the massive old man in his Homburg and precisely tailored business suit walking slowly along the shaded lanes , easing his weight on a heavy stick . Invariably , they saluted him , for they knew that they were in the presence of greatness . His admirers indeed claimed Jean Sibelius as one of the century 's greatest composers , and since he outlived all major contenders for the title except Stravinsky , during recent years he reigned in almost solitary splendor . Yet , compared to such contemporaries as Richard Strauss and Debussy , to say nothing of Alban Berg and Prokofiev , Sibelius often sounded cumbrous and provincial . No major composer stood more stubbornly aside from the 20th century 's musical revolutions or responded less to the shifting winds of musical development . <P> Adagio to Scherzo . Jean Sibelius molded his ideas in the post-romantic Germany of the 1890 While he was studying in Berlin he was exposed to such famed symphonists as Bruckner and Brahms ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dressed " ) , and he went home to Finland imbued with Germanic musical vision , but with a style of his own . His early music-En Saga , Finlandia and other tone poems-is filled with striding themes , echoes of folk tunes , broadly brooding melodies that reminded listeners of the good Finnish earth and established Sibelius as the composer of unfettered nature . With his occasional Nordic rages , he sounded like Brahms gone berserk , but he was also capable of a strongly appealing lyricism . His symphonies , with their acrid dissonances , their brassy shouts and cool , lonely instrumentation , seemed even closer to the stark northern land . Although Sibelius testily denied the implication that he wrote music merely descriptive of nature , he would say : " The seasons are like movements in a symphony . Spring is adagio , the fall is scherzo . " <P> If his mosaic construction , his occasional savagery , his new instrumental groupings seemed shocking in the early 1890 , they were already conventional in the 1920s to ears becoming domesticated to the wild rhythms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ About Stravinsky and his experiments , Sibelius remained steadfastly unenthusiastic ; the works of Arnold Schoenberg he found " unsympathetic . " Speaking of his serious , sometimes forbidding style , Sibelius said : " Other composers may manufacture cocktails of every color ; I offer the public pure water . " But as he went on his own lonely way , he took huge , enthusiastic audiences with him : no serious composer was more popular with U.S. and British audiences in the 1930s ; no contemporary composer has a more secure place in the current symphonic repertory .                     