@@494705

Whose Interests Interest the FCC ? by WILLIAM COSTELLO WE OF THE anomalies of Washington is that the last Congress could for months investigate an agency like the FCC without ever being able to comprehend why that agency is not doing the job Congress intended it should . That intention , when the Federal Communications Act was framed in 1927 and revised in 1934 , was to preserve the airwaves for the people , and to license the use of broadcast frequencies for the public 's benefit . On both counts the FCC is failing . The Harris Subcommittee on Legislative Oversight did manage to smell out a few major and minor instances of unethical or possibly illegal conduct , but it scarcely more than alluded to the subject nearest the heart of the average listener ? the subject of better public service in radio and television programs . Yet it is an easily demonstrable fact that , since television elbowed its way into broadcasting , public service programs have been steadily downgraded . More and more stations carry fewer and fewer programs dealing with education , religion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , even when the national networks incur heavy expenses to provide material of this kind . As a whole the broadcast industry is phenomenally profitable , but , as Edward R. Murrow more than implied in his comments in The New Republic ( Nov. 10 ) , the richer it gets in advertising , the poorer its showing in public service . Moreover , no enlightened effort has been made in Washington to defend the program spectrum which is supposed to reflect civic interest and wellbeing . The FCC , which is primarily responsible , is afraid to assert its lawful authority ; and Congress , which was the first to proclaim that the broadcast bands belong to the people , has shown a singular unwillingness to-call the FCC to account or tighten up the basic statute . Last summer there was a stir of interest in the industry when word went out that the FCC had finally decided to assert its legal responsibility to encourage better programing , but in the end the report proved nothing more than wishful thinking . What happened was this : When 10 stations in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the FCC postponed action on all 10 applications and asked for more information on their program content . The implication ? at least as outsiders interpreted the action ? was that the Commission would give closer scrutiny than usual to the kind of " community service " that the Atlanta stations were offering , possibly as a warning to other stations that glowing promises made in previou. , , applications would have to be followed by better performance . It soon developed that the Atlanta case was nothing more than another bureaucratic tribal dance . The request for information actually came , not from the Commission itself , but from staff attorneys , and consisted of a Form 309-b Letter of the kind usually referred to as an " informal inquiry . " Four ( those with experienced attorneys ) immediately complied with the request for supplementary information , and received assurances that theii replies were satisfactory . The littler stations , operating with inadequate staffs and inexperienced lawyers , waded through varying degrees of paper work and documentation , then sent attorneys or other emissaries to conciliatt , the FCC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the effort was wasted , because no matter how lax their program standards it was almost a 100 percent certainty that in the end they would receive their renewals . I T could hardly be otherwise , since careful examination shows the FCC has no affirmative policy on programing . Almost from the beginning there have been two schools of thought within the agency . School I holds that the function of the FCC is purely technical ? that it should license frequencies and supervise the accuracy of their transmissions ; should prevent the use of the broadcast spectrum by persons threatening national security , or by persons who might be commercially irresponsible . Otherwise , the FCC should not meddle in any way with what may be broadcast . School 71 goes one step further . It contends that the FCC must interpret " public interest , convenience and necessity " in more than just a technical sense . This group favors , for example , close scrutiny of a station 's performance record in any renewal proceedings ; it would require new applicants to commit themselves to programing patterns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold the industry to a high standard of social responsibility . By and large School I has been triumphant , although for a time , under the impact of changing political for tunes , the philosophy of the FCC veered coquettishly first in one direction , then another . In 1946 , under the chairmanship of Paul Porter , the Commission was prepared ? or for a time appeared to be prepared ? to defend policies that would have required every broadcast licensee to offer substantial proof of community service before being granted a renewal . In a show of righteousness , the Commission even picked its own " horrible example " of bad programing ? the Hearst station , WBAL , in Baltimore ? and pilloried it publicly . When the chips went down , however , and when Drew Pearson filed a competing application for WBAL 's license , the Commission 's instinctive conservatism asserted itself . Dealing in a commodity which by law was not property but which by custom had begun to be vested with property rights , the Commission feared to revoke WBAL 's license . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evident to many that almost anyone could have offered the public better programing than the WBAL management of that period . From the quasi-liberalism of the Porter era , the FCC has steadily grown more conservative , more property-conscious , more timid . The tendency , starting under Truman , was accentuated when the Eisenhower Administration took office . Since 1953 , almost all pretense of regulation has been abandoned , and the ancient and discredited doctrine of laissez-faire embraced . As Administration policies began to crystallize in the early months after the Eisenhower takeover , the FCC tended to agree with those who regarded radio as an obsolete adjunct of the burgeoning television industry , a nuisance which ought to be left to die quietly by the side of the road with a minimum of attention from the federal government . As late as 1956 this attitude was reflected in a demand that the application form for radio license renewals ought to be simplified , at least in Section 4-a which calls for a percentage breakdown of station programing . The proposition was advanced that radio and television were radically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gravitated to television ; it was assumed that radio as an advertising medium had nothing to sell but spot announcements and that its programing would have to be governed by that consideration . It was logical , from that point of view , to argue that the number of program categories in the anolication form might as well be reduced from 10 to perhaps three or four . It was even suggested that these limited few might be " Music , News , Sports , Entertainment . " This would have eliminated such categories as " Religion , Agriculture , Education , Talks , Discussion "  - -  in short , it would have eliminated every specific allusion to what might be called balanced public service programing . Such a proposal was actually submitted to the second Hoover Commission and relayed to the FCC . Two years ago , the proposal was passed along to the Budget Bureau 's advisory council on federal reports , which turned the suggestion over to an industry subcommittee . At that point the idea was quietly done to death ; staff experts at the bureau merely say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remember exactly why . The official explanation is that radio and television function under the same legal umbrella and ought to file the same reports . After being kicked back and forth for two years , the much-debated revision of Part 4-a of the renewal form is now awaiting final approval by the FCC Commissioners . This episode boils down to the fact that public service programing , or even reports on public service shows , are largely distasteful to station owners and the FCC alike . In this field as elsewhere the philosophy of regulation fights a running battle for its life . The FCC might have seen more than procedural significance in the failure to kill off public service categories in the renewal form ; it might have reasserted the corollary that listeners are entitled to a conscientious , ever-wakeful watchdog in program policy-making . There has been no such awareness . The accent has been on the routine of licensing , sales , transfers , wave lengths , antenna design , power output , and so on . And in a further abdication of moral responsibility , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of three years , a practice that would relax the regulatory tether even further . For years the FCC has teetered back and forth on the horns of a regulatory dilemma . On the one hand , it is inhibited by stern Congressional command against any attempt at censorship over what is broadcast . Believers in laissez-faire have used this section in the law to argue that even a critical scrutiny of programing can be interpreted as a kind of subtle , indirect pressure or censorship . Using the plea of editorial freedom as both a blank check and a smokescreen , the industry has insisted on dealing with the FCC on a strictly statistical basis . It reports quantitatively on its program content but not qualitatively , and the result is a hodge-podge that defies any interpretation . At the same time , the FCC is constrained by order of Congress to protect the " public interest " in the broadcast industry . Patently this calls for a definition of " interest . " The definition depends on which segment of the public is paramount , licensees or listeners . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to assert itself , the courts have effectively supported its contention that it could consider programing and listener-interest in passing on renewals and granting licenses . More recently the Commission has shown no inclination to fight the listeners ' battles . Yet , can anyone be so myopic as to suppose that the public is interested primarily in such matters as wave lengths , business probity and advertising ethics ? Obviously , while people do have an interest in basic technological problems , their first interest is in what they see and hear , on the content of the programs entering the home . Over the years , though , not a handful of broadcast station licenses or renewals have been denied on the sole ground that a station 's programs did not serve " public interest , convenience and necessity . " If this seems a singular history , it is no more so than the official gobbledygook offered to explain it . You will be told that , if there are no complaints against a station , and if there are no competing applications for a license , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requirements and has earned a renewal . If , in addition , the FCC goes through the motions of asking for supplementary information on programing content , it can argue that all the requirements have been met . What the agency does n't acknowledge is that this method of handling renewals represents a grudging minimum rather than a whole-hearted effort to comply with the law . If the FCC were to go all-out for compliance , it would also acknowledge this fact : that the Federal Communications Act says renewals shall be handled in the same manner as original applications ; and further that , on its own initiative , the Commission can order public hearings on any application . The record shows that few public hearings are held on renewals , and fewer still on the ground of inadequate programing . It goes without saying that licensees are content with this practice . So far as rival entrepreneurs are concerned , there is no inclination to file costly competing applications , hire attorneys , and go to the time and expense of demanding hearings . The WBAL precedent has stood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Commission that the policy might be reconsidered or reversed . Yet it would be simple enough , in many instances , for the Commission to justify a call for hearings . The woods are full of " horrible examples " which are deplored by public-spirited broadcaiters . For a typical case history , take this one : a radio outlet which happens to be the only station serving a one-county market . It is 90 percent commercial . The music it plays comes from records it gets free . Once a week it has a sustaining hour of popular operatic music ; these records come from a listener : Public service is strictly transcribed spots , and once a week a transcribed quarter-hour that is distributed gratis by a foreign country . There is nothing controversial on the station ; no talks , no discussions , no forums , and nothing local except the commercials and any news that shows up on the ticker . Tr Is argued , and I suppose not implausibly , that there I is nothing sinister in the Commission 's failure to hold hearings ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since the creation of the FCC , voted enough money to hire examiners , engineers and attorneys for all the de novo hearings on renewals that would be required to give careful scrutiny to program standards . Under the law al 1 stations must apply every three years for an ex-tension of their permits . Since there are now more than 4,000 radio and television stations , this means there are approximately 1,300 renewal applications a year or more than a hundred a month . In cases of this kind , full hearings would take days or weeks , depending on the size of a station and the complexity of its operation ; and the FCC would need a small army of additional examiners to be able to comply with the spirit of the statute . In the circumstances it is easier for the Commission to shy away from innovations . A staff already overburdened shrinks from the thought of the extra paper work and the possible resulting litigation . Still , those with an intimate knowledge of the regulatory problem in broadcasting insist that the question of hearings goes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no possibility of reform in station programing until station managers know they may be compelled to defend their programing the next time they apply for renewal of their licenses . Moreover , the absence of hearings inevitably tends to discourage competition . If licensees get renewals by default , without ever having to prove they are fulfilling their promises to serve the public interest , there exists an almost impossible burden of proof on a rival who might feel more entitled to the license . Station XOOX in Podunk may have absolutely no concept of public service ; it may pour out commercials one-to-the-minute and spin rock-and-roll platters all day every day . There may be others in the community who would like to run a station and would be prepared to do a better job . But so long as Station XOOX owns the license ( or thinks it owns it ) , and so long as the FCC renews that license without any kind of qualitative judgment , no competitor is likely to get a foot in the door . Parenthetically , it is only fair to note that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vaguest regulation , and although they have other and no less conspicuous programing sins to atone for , have nevertheless shown themselves over the years to be the chief custodian of the industry 's conscience in public service programing . They make a varied and commendable effort to serve the public interest , only to be frustrated ? as Mr. Murrow pointed out ? by the XOOX 's who refuse to clear time for what is educational or enlightening . T HE really sinister product of official negligence is that , in the course of time , broadcast licenses which were originally intended to issue only temporarily on evidence of good faith and meritorious public service , are now assuming more and more the stature of private property . Little by little , their possessors regard them as they would a parcel of land ? as a freehold in fee simple , a vested right . The Congressional doctrine that the airwaves belong to the people is being slowly smothered . And Congress has been willing to acquiesce in this . Far from trying to correct the shortcomings of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present licensing system , those in Congress and the FCCwho have a vested interest in their mistakes are beginning to lend a sympathetic ear to an elaborate new rationale . This new gimmick is a casuistry known as " specialized programing . " Now that there are so many broadcast outlets , the argument goes , why should the FCC insist that every station follow the same program pattern ? The community does n't need six or 16 stations unless those stations can provide program diversity and can appeal to different segments of the listening audience . Let 's admit , they say , there is room for some stations with " balanced " program patterns ; for some concentrating on popular music and news ; for others rocking and rolling ; for the good music station , and for those appealing to racial or national minorities , farmers , teenagers and so on . The advocates of this line of reasoning can sound very persuasive , but their argument comes down to the fact that there are only two kinds of stations : those that comply with the law and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merely to create new advertising media but to insure a responsible public service . The FCC 's chairman , testifying some months ago before the Senate Judiciary Committee , virtually admitted that he regards the Federal Communications Act as un ? enforceable . In a classic example of weasel-wording , he told the committee ( emphasis supplied ) : The policies of this commission have been , where feasible , to further the broadest possible variety and balance in the programing of radio and television stations , and to further the public interest , convenience and necessity whenever possible where it relates to broadcasting . The absence of direct authority and statutory jurisdiction over specific programs has not been construed as disabling this commission from adopting policies to encourage over-all improvements in programing as distinguished from encouraging or discouraging any particular program . . . . According to that view , the FCC feels lion-hearted enough to strive for balanced programing " where fea- sible " ? but do n't get the notion that that 's a firm commitment ! The agency likewise feels entitled to promote public interest , convenience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no legal constraint to obey the Congressional mandate putting public interest first . A more cynical construction of a statute would be hard to find . And finally , on the advice of some hair-splitting legal bureaucrat , the head of the agency backs in with a cautious double negative and allows as how ? maybe , perhaps ? the Commission does have jurisdiction over program content ( as an abstract concept ) if it wants to assert itself . The House Subcommittee on Legislative Oversight made a considerable spectacle of itself cavorting in the headlines with random cases of official misconduct , but it never so much as laid . a glove on the real venality of the FCC . That remains to be done by the 86th Congress .                     