@@476060

LATE last summer a young Ruhr miner walked into a Military Government of- I fice in Essen . He had been appointed captain of the workers ' football team and he wanted to get the club 's new emblem approved . Carefully he unwrapped the design and spread it on the desk . It was the old coat of arms of his former mining firm ? the German eagle , wings powerfully extended , a sword in one claw , and a swastika covering its heart . The British official was baffled for a moment ; but the miner explained matter-of-factly , " Of course , we will remove the swastika . " No one could have told the story of the occupation of Germany more strikingly and more succinctly . The miner 's denazification of the German eagle was as sincere , as naive , and as effective as most of the over-all efforts of the occupying powers . He was acting with the best of intentions ; he knew no better way , and he had no precedent to guide him . Neither had Military Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of history 's most deadly revolutions by destroying only its outer emblems and symbols . The young miner was surprised to find that his proposal was unsatisfactory . For very similar reasons , I suppose , many who helped to shape the policy of Military Government are surprised to find that the occupation has failed . Many wild and unfounded accusations have been leveled at the occupiers . The critics have scrambled the minority of willful and selfish acts with the majority of human and inevitable error . Now that the military occupation is history , the willful and the selfish acts are best forgotten ; but a review of the unintentional follies that were perpetrated between 1945 and 1949 may help the post-occupation system of the High Commission to modify the failure and salvage some of the still useful pieces . T HE occupation failed because it could not succeed . From the beginning its aims and expectations were fixed in a vacuum of unreality . America considered it plausible and essential that Germany be made the democratic outpost of the West ; so it was accepted as fact in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been ? established by the occupation . It was unpopular for a reporter or a newspaper to point out that in reality nothing of the sort was happening ? and unpopular voices are very rarely audible . But when the Paper Curtain finally went up , there was no avoiding the fact that the stage revealed the survival of a good deal of Nazism and still more chauvinism and Irredentism . The expectation of a successful occupation was born in equal parts of American idealism , ignorance , and arrogance . The idealism grew out of American democratic knowledge of what should and could be ; the ignorance was the result of not knowing Germany in particular , and of never before having had a hand in dealing with anything as sinister as a nation poisoned by Nazism and devastated by war ; and the arrogance was the natural consequence of total military victory and the mistaken belief that what followed would be easy in comparison with the shooting . Another basic difficulty ? largely beyond American control ? paved the way for failure : the East-West split . If constructive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign , it became practically impossible once the victorious Allies turned on each other . And when they used Germany as the battlefield and the Germans as far from silent partners in the so-called cold war , hope faded rapidly . Mistakes were made on both sides ; but the record shows that the Soviets , in pursuit of totalitarian ends , have sabotaged whatever minute chance for a successful occupation may have existed . From a blindly destructive policy of dismantling and revenge they moved into an equally destructive policy of accepting any German who was willing to change his autocratic garb from brown to red . The black boots remained the same , and the unquestioning precision of the People 's Police today is as efficient as the storm-troopers ever were ; A , trampling freedom underfoot . National Socialism has been replaced by National Communism , and , true to German tradition , both have come out of the wash as the same truculent German nationalism . The real face of the Soviet occupation showed itself to me last year in the experience of a Berlin educator . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Social Democratic party . When the Nazis took over , he refused to teach Nazism , rejected two specific offers of reinstatement at the price of conforming , and finally managed to lose his identity and sweat out the Third Reich in underground concealment . Last year , when he refused to sign up with the Communists after he had returned to his teaching position in the Russian zone , Soviet soldiers " found " two Nazi books in his classroom . Ludicrous as the accusation of Nazism was , he had to flee to save his neck . Tragically , the Russian attitude has stampeded many Americans into the camp of those who were always ready to accept German Nazis and nationalists as potential allies against Russia and , presumably , against the Soviet-dominated Germans . In this process Germany has moved on-stage again ? not as an underpaid extra but as the stage director who , since the casting of the world power play has not yet been completed , is still pitting the Allied actors against one another in the hope of reaching a profitable contract with each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany has divided the Allies into four zones . All this paved the road to failure . But the steps which were taken down that road and the false compass readings which kept American Military Government moving in the wrong direction still remain to be explained . During three successive European tours ? in 1947 , 1948 , and 1949 ? I spent many months following the progress and the backsliding of the occupation . II ANY of our officials brought with them good intentions and abysmal ignorance of the German background ? the kind of ignorance that caused a regional Military Governor to compare the Nazi revolution with a change from a Republican to a Democratic administration in America . On a less conspicuous level , there was the widespread feeling that Nazism had been an evil , but brief , interlude ; that it had merely interrupted a tradition of German democratic processes ; and that " this thing " had simply to be removed , like a spot from a basically unharmed piece of fabric . Officially this theory received its ludicrous confirmation when the original re-educators thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over " objectionable " passages in the textbooks and leaving the rest intact . What the educators ? and many other policy planners ? overlooked was that popular government in Germany died with Bismarck , not with Hitler ; that ever since Bismarck the recurring battle for democracy has been a minority fight ; and that the true story of that battle , as indeed the true story of almost all world events , has never been available to the German masses in their books or in their schools . servative " is still several steps removed from the extreme right of the Bonn government , whose election was advertised as a democratic victory . Military Government apparently fell for a subtle propaganda line which was thrown out to me last fall by one of the leading " new " Ruhr industrialists . Since the Nazis had , in fact , been an extreme left-wing movement , he told me , there is no reason to be afraid of the rightists . He must have been used to seeing this political hook swallowed ; when I protested and gave examples exposing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on his political opinions . ( 1 am honoring that request by withholding his name . ) The line , of course , is not a new one . The same right-wing " conservatives " wore the mantle of democracy just as gracefully within the Weimar Republic , while they contributed the money and power that made possible the defeat of democracy and the victory of Nazism . The fact that they can use the line again today goes back once more to our inability to recog. nize Nazism as the climax of a totalitarian revolution which had been simmering in Germany for generations . As a result of this dangerous blind spot , Military Government mistook its real job . It regarded the difficult and essential tasks of winning the war , removing the swastika , and rebuilding German economy , as final ends in themselves . Actually all of these things are only the necessary preparations for the real task of reconstructing the German mind . T HE core of our failure in Germany was Military Government 's attitude toward education in its most sweeping sense . Denazification was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hopeless function . Yet in the crucial first years of the occupation , the constructive and positive task of re-education appeared so secondary to the policy-makers that they relegated it to a subordinate " branch " while finance and economics were handled by a top-level " division . " In October 1948 , at a conference of all United States education personnel , General Lucius D. Clay spoke of the first phase of the occupation as ended and promised that top priority would henceforth be given to education . In this announcement there was the tacit admission that we had separated physical and mental reconstruction , and placed the physical first . By so doing , we made it impossible to accomplish mental reconstruction later . The return to economic " normalcy " and strength brought with it an uncompromising resistance to any educational reforms which threatened to upset the status quo of the traditional ruling caste . By 1948 , a vicious circle had been set in motion : the technicians ? regardless of their politics ? had to be used to rebuild industry ; the technicians and their political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic and political force ; and when the " education phase " was finally opened , it was faced by an opposition against which it could not fight successfully . The social order had hardened in the old mold . As a German educational leader had warned in 1947 , the occupation successfully prevented a revolution of freedom instead of supporting it . But even if the odds had been less heavily weighted against re-education at so late a date , the time allotted to the " second phase " was ironically short . Within a few months of General Clay 's October speech , the Occupation Statutes became the new governing law , and even the mention of educational powers or functions were omitted from that document . Last year , a German elementary school instructor , proud of the newly introduced course in " citizenship , " began his lesson : " The father is the central authority of the family . " Had he extolled Hitler 's " leadership " principle , he would have been held guilty of Nazi teachings . As it was , he simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to dictatorship in the past and which can lead nowhere else in the future . As long as this concept survives in family , school , and university , all democratic procedures , including elections , are little more than window-dressing . Out of the concept of the family and school grows the pattern of government , industry , and all society . It is merely an inevitable footnote that any German citizen today can be sent to jail for " insulting a public official " ? even if the official is in the wrong . Whether or not that official has been made to remove the swastika from his lapel must seem of little importance to the citizen . The victims of our re-educational fiasco are the German youngsters who would have benefited from a resolute policy of liberation through educational revolution . Such a policy could have made all the difference between over-all success and failure , for the few attempts that have been made to rebel against the oppressive old system have almost invariably started in the ranks of teen-agers . In Munich , a high-school class confounded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chauvinism he had extolled . The pupils were down-graded and scolded for believing foreign propaganda . That teacher 's power to " down-grade " is the beginning of a long process . Other pressures will follow : the universities with their strait jacket of tradition and nationalism ; the political restrictions guarded by the clique of unbending officialdom ; the economic sanctions of those who control jobs and careers . Blocked by this solid wall , the revolt of the young against the old has little chance for success in Germany . D ESPITE these facts , the majority of Military Government officials argued from the outset that democracy must grow by itself without " imposition . " Only a small minority held that basic reforms would have to be enforced , the caste-ordered nationalistic society dissolved , and conditions created in which German democrats could start their battle on a more equal basis . This minority opinion went unheard . As late as the fall of 1948 , I listened to Military Government conferences which debated in fruitless , academic argument whether it would be democratically justifiable to " impose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rallied his forces . The enemy followed an efficient timetable . About two years ago , an anti-Nazi German educator warned me of the danger of resurgent nationalism in the universities . " The horror and misery of war , " he said , " will soon be forgotten , and only the romance , the glory , and the comradeship of battle will live on in these misguided minds . Then the small nucleus of politically conscious ex-officers .. . supported by the non-Nazi , but ardently nationalistic , ' old gentlemen ' of the faculty will rally the shapeless mass ... in two years from now . " Last summer ? less than two years later ? I had to report the rebirth and dominant MAGAZINE activity of the " secret " student organizations and their faculty allies from the University of Marburg . Students even addressed each other by military rank . In 1947 General Clay told me in Frankfurt with all sincerity that Nazis would not be tolerated in school and press . By 1948 growing numbers of teachers originally expelled for Nazism had drifted back : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members had returned to positions which had been barred to politically clean , qualified applicants ; and as this is written the American-licensed , carefully screened editors of the postwar anti-Nazi press are fighting an unequal battle against the returning flood of former Nazi publishers . Military Government failed to follow through to the end , because it respected the property rights of the old Nazi and nationalistic owners . The political power of material wealth was over-looked , I N THE end , the problem of industry is not very different from the problem of education . De-cartelization ? even if it had been carried out according to the letter of the law ? could not have been made successful as long as the autocratic order of society was permitted to continue . After a long private talk with one of the emerging industrial leaders of the postwar Ruhr , late last year , I was convinced that he ? and men of his type ? would retain final and supreme power regardless of whether the industries were run under a system of free enterprise , state control , socialization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordered by the strong centralism of the father-image , these men ? like Krupp , Thyssen , and Stinnes before them ? will be the unquestioned rulers of their sphere , and with the economic power at their disposal , that sphere is unlimited . The industrialists ' line of defense , which we failed to pierce , is again the status quo . At a Frankfurt stockholders ' meeting of I. G. Farben , protesting a last-hour attempt at decartelization by Military Government , the chairman offered to help the Allies effect a return to the organization of 1925 . This would mean the re-creation of the original five or six industrial blocks which could , of course , be re-cartelized by a new stroke of a few directors ' pens . After he had made his " offer , " the speaker added that should Military Government fail to co-operate , he would know how to hold up progress by keeping the matter in court . He had handled similar matters after World War I , he said , and he knew how to deal with occupation authorities . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ status quo have no meaning except as very human and non-political attempts to hold on to one 's possessions . They forget , or do not know , that the industrialists ' frantic return to Weimar was not a return to democracy ; for ? as the Thyssen trial at Konigstein revealed ? the magnates of the Weimar Republic deliberately helped to create the social disorder that pushed Hitler into the saddle , Without a re-educated society , freed of the rigidity of the old order , minor changes in the system can do little to promise lasting change . This the defenders of Weimar know , and they act accordingly . IDE by side with our ignorance about Germany has gone our indecision as to how Military Government and the Army should behave . In the confusion the myth arose that Military Government itself was a democratic organization which ought to act as though Germany had already become a democratic country with the occupation authorities as its democratic government . This disastrous fallacy was strengthened because the American Army and Military Government actually , and by virtue of American tradition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organizations had ever been . That an agency charged with the undoing of a revolution ? with denazification , de-militarization , and any number of unfamiliar , but for the moment urgently needed , police functions ? could not and should not have been regarded as an illustration of democracy is obvious . The legend was nevertheless permitted to grow . If we overlooked this fact , the Germans did not . Whenever Military Government stepped in to carry out its mandate of occupation , German officials complained that such action was " undemocratic . " In time Military Government became so confused by the clever abuse of the term " democracy " that it grew hesitant in the use of its veto power and , eventually , of its veto duty . When Charles M. LaFollette , as Military Governor of Wiirttemberg-Baden , removed an out-and-out Nazi from high public office , there was an outcry against this " violation of democracy " because the Nazi had been duly elected . Whether or not Mr. LaFollette 's resignation in the course of the same year was speeded by such pressure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government . Their triumph increased when the succeeding Military Governor declared that the mythical " punitive phase " of the occupation was over , and strongly implied that he would be less discriminating than his predecessor in his acceptance of German friendship . By 1948 the objective of the occupation had been so lost in the indiscriminate scramble for all-German friendship that Military Government quietly withdrew a documentary film called " Hunger , " expertly produced by its own film section . According to members of the section , it was considered tactless to tell the Germans that Hitler 's war , along with other causes , had contributed to the world food shortage , and that other countries were hungry , too . As a logical consequence of this policy , my German driver last year complained violently when , on one occasion , he was asked to share the meager lunch of Polish displaced persons . He saw nothing wrong with that diet for Poles , but he indignantly asked permission to go to a German restaurant himself . I could hardly object to his attitude since , after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The myth of the " punitive phase " itself contributed to our failure in Germany . The " phase " is usually referred to as the Morgenthau Plan . Despite the fact that the Morgenthau Plan never got beyond the discussion stage and that no part of it was ever put into effect , " pro-German " Americans have continued to link it with seemingly " anti-German " control measures . The effect of this unfounded legend has been far-reaching . Today almost every right-wing speaker thunders against the repressive nature of the Morgenthau Plan , ignoring the fact that the American policy of industrial reconstruction , subsidized German exports , liberal aid through Army financing , and full German membership in the Marshall Plan make such charges absurd . It seems likely that the Morgenthau Plan , as the chief reason for Germany 's postwar ills , will find a place in the German textbook of the future , just as the " Dictate of Versailles " dominated the history lesson of the past . In HESE various blocks to a successful occupation were enlarged by frequent , open disagreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were inevitable , they should not have been fought out with the help of the Germans . It was to be expected that the Germans would capitalize on inter-Allied disunity ; it was unpardonable for American Military Government to use official , German-language channels to air opinions unfavorable to the French and the British . In 1948 , editorials of the American-operated Neue Zeitung , then the largest selling newspaper in the American Zone , attacked the French for alleged exhibitions of nationalism . Again last year , when the British financial crisis broke into the headlines , the same paper presented an article from its German correspondent in London who not only equated Sir Stafford Cripps and Dr. Hjalmar Schacht , Hitler 's economic master mind , as two brilliant financiers , but also implied that British socialism was to blame for Britain 's troubles . Whether or not these charges are true or represent American policy , they have their place almost anywhere but in a vehicle of official American information to the German people . It is unreasonable to expect the Germans to show signs of remorse and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the cause of Britain 's exhaustion . A NOTHER block to a successful occupation has been the lack of real individual contact between Military Government and the German people . Once after I had attended a German meeting at which American policy was strongly attacked , I called the officer concerned with the particular problem . He told me that a report had been made to him about the meeting , but that it contained nothing outside of routine procedure . The observer , a German employee , had conveniently overlooked the significant points and serious innuendoes , of great interest to the American authorities . Unable to speak or understand German , many otherwise capable officials have leaned heavily on German interpreters and secretaries . Nobody can gauge the mood of a German audience , capture the inflections of a German politician 's motives , or contribute personally and positively to better understanding with the democratic elements of the population through the mouthpiece and earphone of a middleman . Although there may be mitigating circumstances in some special cases , I find it difficult to see how an official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the German people for more than a year can have failed to learn the language and yet claim to have carried out his job . The idea that an occupation can confine itself to office hours ? from nine to five , Monday through Friday ? is ridiculous . To be effective , the occupation official must live with the German people , get to know them well enough to distinguish good from bad , and come to be the friend and ally of every potentially democratic citizen . From the outset , the primary barrier against this understanding has been the creation of tightly insulated American islands within German cities and towns . The security reasons for these islands long since ceased to exist , but the almost airtight communities within communities lived on . Their unreality demoralized both Germans and Americans . A few Americans became friendly with some members of the former German aristocracy , but this was largely done in the spirit of the souvenir hunter collecting a few stray countesses and barons . It was not neighborliness or constructive contact . Even externally the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germans without the visa of special permission . Signs outside almost every American home or billet said : " No Admission for Germans . " In headquarters buildings toilets bore discriminating labels , " For Americans Only " or " For German Personnel . " ( In some places consolation may have come to the Germans in form of a third washroom category , set aside " For Officers Only . " ) I was deeply ashamed to find a neatly engraved notice on the reception desk of an American hotel in Bavaria which collectively barred admission to Germans , displaced persons , and dogs . I wonder whether the clerk , the maids , and the waiters ? even if they had never been Nazis ? could now or ever become friends of democracy . Or imagine the feelings of a German governess who is told by an eightyear-old American youngster : You ca n't give me orders . You 're only a kraut . " Occupation , to be even moderately successful , is an aroundthe-clock job of education ; the " superior " island mentality has tended to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ despicable , no matter who their members . We have wavered between back-slapping acceptance of some of the worst German elements and blanket treatment of all Germans as an inferior people . A very pro-American German trade-union leader last year complained that American officers and civilians frequently fired German employees with a total disregard of labor standards , government rules , and union practices . Such high-handed tactics create an unhealthy and hostile relationship between colonial master and native subject ; they also destroy the legal foundations of the non-authoritarian society which it was our mission to build . The harm done is aggravated when other German employees , by contrast , are permitted liberties which no American in a similar position would dare to demand . / recently watched the German secretary of a fairly important American official suddenly stop taking dictation , without a word of apology , put down her pencil , fish about for a cigarette , and after lighting it permit the official to resume his dictation . When I remarked about this doubtful office procedure to another American correspondent , he smiled : " She @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truism that the problem politely known as " fraternization " has influenced the occupation . But how deeply these subconscious sexual considerations have colored attitudes and actions is rarely realized . A veteran American correspondent explained , somewhat facetiously , that the American male , in contrast to many Europeans , is too generous , grateful , and gallant to become obligated to a woman 's physical charms without permitting her ideas and emotions to influence , if not to dominate , him . It is therefore not surprising that German secretaries are a policy factor and an instrument of propaganda . In an extreme , though happily exceptional , instance , German girls incited Amer- ican soldiers into molesting Jewish displaced persons near Ansbach in 1947 ; in less violent ways pretty girls have done much to obscure the mission of the occupation to a great number of Americans of all ranks . This is not a contradiction to my criticism of the American " island . " On the contrary , the unnatural confines of the " island " have helped to reduce fraternization to the lowest level of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those German women who developed their personal and political values in Hitler 's youth groups and among the SS girls . One unforseen result of the sexual influence on the occupation is the sharp contrast between the predominantly pro-German attitude of most American men and the indiscriminately anti-German feeling of most American women . Subconscious jealousy and an instinct of competition , fanned by wartime and postwar stories of obliging " enemy women , " have thrown up a barrier of female prejudice . This is intensified by the fact that an American man can offer a German girl a great many material attractions , to which she responds with a degree of servility such as few American women would ever show . A German man , on the other hand , can not promise an American girl anything like the luxurious attention offered by an American ? particularly in the easy wealth of an American " island " ? and he regards all women as his social and intellectual inferiors . The effect of these complicated sex-reactions was dramatized when an American girl , who had worked for Military Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that she would never consider a date with a German . I asked her whether she would feel differently if she found that an attractive young German , who had asked her for a date , had spent the Nazi years fighting against Hitler . She answered abruptly : " It would make no difference . He still remains a German . " Although hers was an exaggerated reaction , it was a valid demonstration of the trend and its effects . Like most irrational extremes , friendly-male and hostile-female prejudices have had their intangible , detrimental effect . They have solidified native antagonism to occupation personnel as a foreign element ; they have made the rational selection of dependable Germans as our real friends and assistants even more difficult ; and they have created new hatreds and dislikes in addition to the many already existing ones . W HEN we look at Germany today , we can find a certain cold comfort in the fact that what we have failed in was an almost impossible job from the start , given human frailty , the international situation , and our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with . On the positive side , too , there have been isolated but brilliant and promising individual achievements . Here and there a handful of teachers , a group of youngsters , a trade-union leader or two , perhaps even an occasional politician , have been given a glimpse of something beyond the confining horizon of the old Germany . If they , and their revolt against the threat of the autocratic status quo , can be strengthened in any way now , perhaps the failure of the occupation can still be modified and complete disaster averted . The beginning of Mr. McCloy 's regime seems to give hope that this may happen . He has indicated that he is not willing to make friends indiscriminately with all who offer their services and that he wants to see a nonmilitary Germany as a member but not the center of the Western European family . One of his first actions was an order to remove the no trespassing " signs outside the American islands , and members of his staff have been instructed to learn German if they plan to remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his ability to recognize past failures and his honesty in pointing them out . But the danger remains . We have failed to make Germany a bulwark of democracy , or even a democracy at all . The elements that twice led the world to war are still at work in Germany and they are gathering strength . Nothing could be more fatal to future world peace than the assumption , which so many Americans apparently hold , that the German eagle has been transformed into a friendly and potentially helpful bird just because the swastika has been removed from its chest .                     