@@493795

THE WEEK WAITING TOD CHINA LAKE SUCCESS ( NR C 00000 pondont ) Six major activities occupied the United Nations last week . Listed roughly in order of importance , they were : Communist China . On the all-important question of the Korean War and allied problems , operations at Lake Success came nearly to a halt , pending the arrival of the nine-member Peiping delegation to discuss China 's charges of American " aggression " on Formosa . There was no expectation that real progress could be made in solving Far Eastern problems through formal proceedings . It was hoped , however , that private conferences between the Chinese Communists and the UN delegations from countries which have recognized their Government might throii some light on whether or not China and Russia want the Korean situation to degenerate into world war . South Africa . The Union of South Africa has now shouldered aside the United States as the scene of the world 's worst relations between the white and other races . The special Political Committee of the UN Assembly has been discussing this matter , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special zones for land ownership by whites , Negroes and Indians . The South Africans continue to insist that this is a domestic issue and were persuasive enough to make the UN Committee wind up by telling South Africa and India to continue to confer privately until next spring , even though there is no prospect of any real agreement . Trygve Lie 's Peace Plan . By an overwhelming vote of 51-5 the Assembly recommended that all UN bodies should study Trygve Lie 's 20-year peace plan put forward some months ago . The Lie Plan would have the Security Council meet regularly and frequently to consider dangers to peace ; would make another attempt at control of atomic weapons ; would halt the armament race ; and would set up a special UN police force . Political Refugees . The World Court has handed down a disturbing decision saying that no country can be permitted a unilateral decision on who is or is not a political refugee . If generally accepted it will curtail the " right of asylum " of a political figure who seeks sanctuary in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should not affect the status of political refugees who escape across a border . Point Fourisni . The Assembly has adopted a significant study program on problems of effective aid to undeveloped areas of the world : National income , landlordism , irrigation for arid lands , obstacles to foreign investment and development of farm cooperatives . This is at least a start , and in the right place ? the UN . Eritrea . The compromise solution on the future of Eritrea that has been developed in the Special Political Committee of the Assembly is for Eritrea and Ethiopia to be joined in a federation , with the former given a substantial ( but at present vague ) degree of autonomy . Like all compromises , this one is wholly satisfactory to nobody ; but it might provide a stopgap solution of the question for 10 or 20 years until the Eritreans are ready ? as they certainly are not today ? for complete self-government . SCNUMACRER 'S SNOW The waning popularity of Chancellor Konrad Adenauer and his aloof Bonn regime was made clear November 19 when his Christian Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wiirttemberg-Baden which centered primarily over the question of Germany 's role in European rearmament . Never loth to take up a popular cause , Kurt Schumacher led the Social Democrats in exploiting discontent over the prospect of war , domestic hardships and . a divided Fatherland , and thereby won a majority in industrial Hesse , while replacing the CDU as the largest party in the Wiirttemberg-Baden parliament . Unlike Pastor Niemliller , whose attacks on Adenauer 's policies are credited with leading many Protestants out of the CDU in Hesse , Schumacher and the Social Democrats are not " neutralists " and are not against rearmament as such . They say that they are against rearmament without consultation of the German people and without sufficient Allied supporting forces and are repeating their demands for a national election , which they now would be likely to win . These two states are sufficiently balanced politically to reflect widespread German annoyance at Adenauer 's highhanded way of handling a complex emotionally-charged subject . Most Germans seem by now to have developed an understandable reluctance to serve on any firing-line . This was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germans would rather live in houses under the Bolsheviks than in holes as free men . " Other party leaders , however , especially Ernst Reuter and Franz Neumann in Berlin , are militantly anti-Communist , and Schumacher is likely to be forced to change his tune if and when he leads the party to national power . The full extent of the shift in Germany is not quite clear , and is not likely to be clarified by the December 4 balloting in Berlin , where the atmosphere and the issues are far different from the Western Zones . The Catholic-Protestant split , aggravated by Niemiiller 's agitation and the recent resignation of the Protestant Minister of Interior , Gustav Heinemann , may lead to further CDU losses . There has always been Protestant feeling against Catholic predominance in the federal Government ; an intensification of it might relegate the CDU to the role of a traditionally Catholic Center party . The international effects of the antiAdenauer shift in Germany are likely to be considerable . If French reluctance against German rearmament is finally overcome , Britain and the US @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . The French , in turn , are likely to view a Schumacher victory with a jaundiced eye . Adenauer 's leanings have always been much more to the West than have the Socialist leader 's , who has continually harped on the lost territories in the East . But each in their own way , the French and German reac tions illustrate traditional fears and problems which will have to be overcome if the bolder European programs are to succeed . ALUMINUM CUTBACK The National Production Authority , which now controls the distribution of most scarce materials , has ordered a 35-percent reduction in the use of aluminum for civilian production ? the first of many similar cutbacks affecting strategic metals likely to be ordered soon . Following this announcement Dewey Anderson , director of Public Affairs Institute , warned that federal officials responsible for adequate aluminum for mobilization must do more than cut back civilian use . " They must greatly expand production by backing new producers or we will be caught woefully short of this vital metal , " he said in a letter to Secretary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Bigger capacity is the real answer , and it must be built under a sound plan , " he said . Anderson has studied this problem in the past , first as executive officer of the TNEC and later as secretary of the Senate Small Business Committee which conducted an extensive investigation of light metals . He points out that World War II brought two new giant producers of aluminum , the Reynolds Metals Company and Kaiser Aluminum &; Chemical Company , into existence without increasing the overall amount of aluminum available and without reducing the price of metal previously maintained by Alcoa ( Aluminum Company of America ) . " These two newcomers have traveled regularly , happily and profitably under Alcoa 's price umbrella , " Anderson said . " They have done nothing to increase aluminum use through lowered prices . They have been in competition really with the 17,000 independent fabiicators .. . and ) consider themselves free to cut off or limit the supplies of these independents to favor their own fabricating plants . They have even done this with supplies they have withdrawn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " To provide the needed supply of new aluminum and to help rather than injure competition , Anderson recommended a five-point program that would include the following elements : Bring in several new producers in addition to the Big Three . In each contract for Government funds require that new producers turn over all or a major part of their production to independent fabricators or to the Government stockpile . Make these new producers really independent of Alcoa by helping them obtain a bauxite supply and establish a Bayer plant that would be jointly owned and operated by all of them . Obtain a large proportion of emergency aluminum requirements from Canadian sources at or below current prices and under conditions safeguarding our domestic industry . Give the independent fabricators an early opportunity to get defense orders . " If these new producers really compete in prices , as Kaiser and Reynolds were expected to do , " Anderson said , " the savings to the economy would not be inconsiderable . On a national consumption of two billion pounds in 1955 , a three cent per pound reduction would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " CONGRESS AND TIME CANS= When the 82nd Congress convenes in January , President Truman will report the number of members of the House of Representatives to which each state is entitled . The 1950 Census , which recorded a 14.5 percent rise in the population since the 1940 census , will result in a reshuffling of House seats and is sure to cause a political spat . Because of the shift in population , seven states will gain and nine will lose seats in the 435-member House to be elected in two years . And , of course , if statehood for Hawaii and Alaska is passed during the interim session , the total number of House seats will either be increased , or again reapportioned . The size of the House is left up to Congress . The Constitution simply provides that whatever the total number of seats , they must be apportioned among the states according to population . In 1790 , there were 105 members of the House . As new states were admitted to the Union and as the population in-creased , Congress added new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the size of the House reached 435 , after the 1910 census was taken , Con-gress called a halt to any further increase and agreed to redistrib-ute those seats among the states after each 10-year population count . Under the Congres-sional Apportionment Act , Congress has 15 days after it receives the latest official census totals to enlarge the House membership by the necessary 14 seats or to reapportion on the basis of the present 435 members . Califor-nia , which accounted for about one-fifth of the population growth of the entire United States , will gain seven House seats . It advanced from the fifth most populous state in 1940 to a posi-tion second only to New York in 1950 . Florida will gain two seats , and Maryland , Michigan , Texas , Virginia and Washington , one seat each . If Congress does not enlarge House membership , New York will lose two seats but will still have the largest delegation with 43 members . Pennsylvania , which will lose three seats , will rank with California as second largest delegation with 30 Representatives . Missouri and Oklahoma @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Kentucky , Mississippi and Tennessee each lose one . The real battle will begin in the states losing House seats if Congress decides to redistrict rather than enlarge the House . Governors and state legislatures will be notified to make the necessary changes in state districts in time for the 1952 elections . In states like New York and Pennsylvania , where Republican and Democratic factions often control certain districts , political parties will attempt to seek advantage for themselves in mapping out the new districts . If a state losing seats has not done its redistricting by the next Congressional election , all its Congressmen must be elected " at large " and that could spell disaster for the political party in the minority during the Presidential election year . RACE TAG ON BLOOD For decades it has been an established scientific fact , known to every freshman student in biology , that human blood is all alike , from whatever race it comes . There are classifications for blood , according to " type " or the presence or absence of the RH factor , but the color @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classifications . In the past the Red Cross , more for political than medical reasons , dutifully tagged blood according to race ? white , Negro , Oriental or any other . Last week , however , the national board of governors , meeting in Chicago , finally moved to eliminate the racial designation of donors in the Red Cross blood collecting program . For years a blood donor 's race has been noted on his medical history card . Negro organizations have charged that it is a form of racial discrimination . The question even arose before a Government loyalty board during the hearing of Dorothy Bailey , whose case is now pending before the Supreme Court . Judge Henry Edgerton of the US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia , in his dissent , cited the following colloquy between a member of the Regional Loyalty Board and Miss Bailey to show that some loyalty boards are not aware that unconventional views do not always indicate disloyalty : " Mr. Blair : Did you ever write a letter to the Red Cross about the segregation of blood ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : What was your personal position about that ? Mi.rs Bailey : Well , the medical . . . Mr. Blair : I am asking yours . Miss Bailey : I have no personal opinion . " It is gratifying that the Red Cross has finally moved to help clear up the blood myth . PRONE STRIKE ENDS The 11-day-old telephone strike ended last week with satisfactory gains for the 33,000 telephone equipment workers involved . Seventeen thousand CIO Western Electric workers obtained average wage increases of 11.3 cents an hour . The union had asked for 15 cents an hour over the former bask scale of $1.55 and $1.62 . In Detroit 16,000 other members of the Communications Workers of America settled their separate controversy with the Michigan Bell Telephone Company , with the company agreeing to a $5-a-week raise for workers earning $78 or more , $4 for those who earn $50-$77 and $3 for those making $49 or less . Major victory for the unions was an agreement to shorten the duration of the new contract . Both Western Electric and Michigan Bell had at first insisted on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The final agreement reduced this provision to 15 months . In addition , the contract provides wage progression payments as employees accumulate service and periodic merit wages for workers with long employment records . The union announced that the contract is the biggest and best negotiated this year in the Bell system . ? THE RELUCTANT RANKERS The Federal Reserve Board has issued a stiff " last warning ' . to the banks to curb the present record volume of inflationary credit or take the consequences in the form of tighter Government controls . Mixing mild words with implied threats , FRB Chairman Thomas B. McCabe wrote the System 's 7,000 banks that " the sacrifice of some bank earnings at this time is a small price to pay " for curbing inflation . So far Government authorities have relied on bankers ' self-discipline , but the figures show that their resistance to the lure of quick profits has not been every high . Apologists for the banks point out that while the volume of commercial credit has risen very sharply , the total amount of outstanding obligations has risen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been heavily unloading their holdings of Government securities for inflation-feeding business loans . Stressing that the " persistent and unprecedented rise in bank loans has been the major factor in the country 's increasing money supply , " McCabe has again called on the banks to cease undercutting the Government 's attempts to stabilize the dollar . LETTER PROM INDIA NEW DELHI On the crisp afternoon of November 11 , India spread the regal red carpet at Palam Airport in New Delhi to receive His Nepalese Majesty . The King that stepped down was in commoner 's clothes , a fugitive breathing free air for the first time in 45 years . On November 5 , the Indian Ambassador in Kathmandu , Nepalese capital , had put in a telephone call to Prime Minister Nehru in Delhi . The next day the " Incarnation of Vishnu , " accompanied by his family and a number of tiffin boxes filled with jewels , left his palace " prison , " ostensibly for a picnic . As their route passed the Indian Embassy , the party in a split second was inside the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign embassy gave asylum to a king on his own soil . The ruling Ranas of Nepal had miscalculated . The repeated visits to Kathmandu by the American ambassador and the British High Commissioner from Delhi had left Maharaja Mohan Shumsher Jung Bahadur Rana , the hereditary Prime Minister , with the belief that Nepal could go over India 's head . But when the test came , the Rana found both those countries following India 's lead . A stern note was dispatched from Delhi , demanding the safe passage of the King , or else . . . ! The King 's departure for India was a signal for public mourning in Kathmandu , and popular revolt on the Indo-Nepalese border . Still under the impact of events in Tibet , Delhi oscillated between a sense of danger and a sense of opportunity in the period of turmoil that followed . The troops of Red China are still 450 miles northeast of Simla across the snow- ' capped mountains . And now that the " roof of the world " has blown away , there is great anxiety to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decide the outcome : First , the ruling Ranas . About a century ago , this clan , descendants of an Indian Rajput family , effected a successful coup . They turned the King into only a spiritual head , made him a palace prisoner and began a system of hereditary prime ministership by which the office passes to the younger brother from the elder one . The Ranas have provided most of the generals in Nepal ? as numerous as Kentucky Colonels in America . By protecting and glorifying their own blood-purity , they have kept power away from the " native " Gurkhas . The ruling Ranas have been traditional friends of India , marrying among the Rajput families of this country . At present , they are estranged because their fugitive King has been given asylum and India has refused to recognize the " boy king " they have put on the throne in his place . But the Ranas are bound to be even less friendly to an eventually Red Tibet and an already Red China , so a compromise with India is not out of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ periodic coups , palace revolutions and family feuds , these and their descendants live in India , where they have property worth one billion rupees . These " halfcastes " are the financial mainstay of the current revolt . Third , His Majesty the King . A descendant of another Indian Rajput clan surnamed " Shah , " he is grateful for India 's support , and prefers to be a " Constitutional head " to an " imprisoned head . " Fourth , the Nepali Congress . A composite body of Nepali democrats , disillusioned Gurkha soldiers , neo-Communist agitators , dissident Ranas and Indian sympathisers , this group operates from a base in India along the lines once followed by the Indian National Congress . They hope that India will back them to the full . The Delhi authorities dashed those hopes somewhat by confiscating 3,500,000 rupees their President was bringing to the fugitive King . Fifth , the Gurkha troops . The loyalty of these renowned fighters with their famed Kukris holds the balance . Their oath of allegiance is to the King , but their bread and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form not too negligible a part of the Indian Army and of the British Army in Asia . However , the 100 percent Hindu Nepal has flatly refused Pakistan any troops . Sixth , the Indian attitude . Even though still neutral between the Eastern and the Western blocs , India is apprehensive about Communist infiltration in and around the sub-continent . Only a stable regime in Nepal can give liberal-democratic India a stable buffer . The strong autocracy of the Ranas would make the people amenable to Communist appeals . 00 the other hand , it would take time for a Gurkha democracy to put down firm roots in that rocky soil ? and this is the moment in Kathmandu ! Both sides have appealed to India , and possible compromises are in the Delhi air . Some of the alternatives are : an invitation to the Indian Army to stabilize the situation ; the return of the King with enhanced powers , with India helping to frame a more democraticconstitution and supervising its implementation ; " accession " to India in regard to the neighboring kingdoms of Bhutan and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign policy . Outside reactions to events in Nepal have underlined the trend toward greatercooperation between India , America and Britain that started with Korea . The " faithlessness " of Red China with respect to Tibet rankles in Delhi 's bosom , and India is fast losing its color-blindness , fostered by centuries of friendship , and is beginning to see red for the yellow . For the first time in 2,000 years , India is facing the prospect of China as a rival , and as a result Delhi is on the eve of a re-orientation of its " external affairs . "                     