@@476796

WARD the end of the campaign a ranking Administration speaker , referring to some gloomy indications out West , said that if things went the way they seemed to-be going the Republican party might " have to rethink the power and resources policy . " The verb is from the advertising-agency jargon that the Administration has learned to speak so fluently but it is not likely to mean much . Things went the way indicated but rethinking the power and resources policy wo n't get farther than some new comme rci al s . Mr. Richard L. Neuberger 's defeat of Senator Cordon has drawn attention away from other signs that point in the same direction . In spite of the Democratic sweep in Pennsylvania , the four Republican Congressmen who broke with the Administration 's public lands policy were all re-elected . Congressman Leon H. Gavin was supposed to be in trouble because of severe unemployment in the Twenty-Third District , but his constituents remembered his decisive role in the defeat of the Administration 's two grazing bills and its timberlands-exchange bill . The proximity of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they sent Mr. Gavin back to help fight off the next raids . The Twenty-Second District proved to be easy for Mr. John P. Saylor , who had led the fight in the House on Echo Park Dam . Mr. Saylor will be needed , for the Administration is not going to rethink Echo Park Darn . As I explained in the August Harper 's , it can enthusiastically support federal dams on the Colorado River , for no utility company will ever want to build there . The Upper Colorado Storage Project would now be on the books if it had dissuaded Utah and Colorado from demanding that the Project continue to include this dam atthe site originally selected , which is in Dinosaur National Monument . Conservation forces had beaten it once before and there is no doubt that the purpose it is intended to serve can be served just as well , if not better , by any of several alternatives outside the Monument . But the two states and the Bureau of Reclamation insisted on the original plans straight across the board , the President backed them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lost out . B UT during the campaign the President took a refresher course in hydrology , engineering , and national-parks policy . During his swing through the West , that is , his plane made a detour that took him over Dinosaur Monument , with two representatives of the Bureau of Reclamation at his side . From a mile up it was obvious that the Monument was not worth preserving and that Echo Park was the only satisfactory site for the dam . As a result of this briefing , we are told , the President will send a special message to Congress recommending Echo Park when a new bill to authorize the Upper Colorado Project is introduced . The message will not get the dam authorized . Echo Park Dam will be beaten again and the whole Project will be held up for two more years . That may be time enough for the forces brilliantly represented by Mr. Raymond IVIciley to stop it for good . In Idaho Mrs. Gracie Pfost was re-elected ; her campaign focused on a single issue , a federal dam in Hell 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effective opponent of the Administration resources policy in the last House , won hands down . Congressman Wesley D'Ewart , who had quarterbacked for the Administration in the same House , was defeated for the Senate . This was a vicious and foul campaign , full of slanders against Senator Murray by Madison Avenue 's most evni-rt erinv-writer , but it got nowhere . Mr. D'Ewart was defeated on his demerits : on his energetic service to the power and resources policy that the Administration is now supposed to be rethinking . C ONSERVATION won further victories with the return of Mr. O'Mahoney to the Senate and the re-election of Senator Anderson . We can take little comfort from the fact that Congressman Engle of California now becomes Chairman of the House Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs and , though Oregon elected a Democratic Congresswoman as an advocate of public power , Congressman Ellsworth , who spends his time assisting attacks on the public lands , survived the campaign . ? Mr. Ellsworth , however , 1611 occupy the same hot spot as Secretary McKay , who ? with Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other ? now becomes the most uncomfortable member of the Administration . A very tall pine indeed toppled when Senator Cordon was defeated . Mr. McKay , the giveaway emcee , is understood to have been his appointee and has certainly been his front man . The progressive curtailment of the public-power program has been carried on under his direction : in his quiet backstairs way he has /al or helped most of the other giveaways ; and no one of his skill at the job is left in either house of Congress . Senator Barrett , the rodeo star from Wyoming , is not first-team material and besides specializes in representing the cowboy lobby and attacking the Forest Service . His score so far is no hits , no runs , and a fistful of errors . The meaning of Mr. Neuberger 's victory is unmistakable and it is national . Oregon , which is as incorrigibly Republican as Vermont , had had enough of the principal Congressional architect of the Administration 's resources policy . He had spent two years utilizing the golden opportunity which the Republican victory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy of federal conservation ; Mr. Neuberger stood squarely on that historic policy . Senator Cordon 's managers had at their disposal as much money as they might need . Billboards advertising his achievements in burnished B.B.D. &O.; slogans were on every road into and out of every town in Oregon . Radio and television programs practically used up the propaganda that had been stored in utility company safes . At one time seven Republican Senators , all irreproachably reactionary , were in the state campaigning for him . And as a climactic assist the President went to McNary Dam , where as a local wisecrack said at least the fifth generator was Republican , and delivered a funeral oration over public power . Prematurely . The President 's speech was most helpful to Mr. Neuberger . It was an exercise in creative imagination which , as Governor Stevenson promptly said , set up a straw man andwholly non-existent intention by persons not named ( but obviously including the voters of the Northwest ) to create a federal power monopoly , which happens to be not only undesired by anyone but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hobgoblins and made a number of severe statements about them that were simply not so , that the Northwest knew were not so . It was a nonsensical speech at an injudiciously chosen site . All the audience had to do was to take a look at the dam the President was dedicating . It did so and Oregon voted Mr. Neuberger in . The defeat of Senator Cordon and Congressman D'Ewart , the re-election of Senator Anderson , Mrs. Pfost , Mr. Metcalf , and the Pennsylvania conservationists , the election of Mr. O'Mahoney , the House seat picked up in Oregon ? they make as complete a repudiation of the Administration resources ixdicy as could be achieved at a mid-term election . As I write , it is not entirely sure that the Democrats will organize the Senate but the House is theirs and , with the help of the Pennsylvania Republicans , they should be able to stop the giveaways . So far , that is , as Congress can stop a process so much of which can be continued by administrative ruling in the Executive departments and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the national forests by the cowboys and the trade associations of the lumber manufacturers will be stopped even colder than they have been up to now , that the Bureau of Reclamation will be kept out of Dinosaur Monument , and that a half-dozen other current or planned raids on various national parks will get nowhere . The loan and operating funds of REA will be increased but we can only speculate about the other nooses that the Administration has knotted round its neck , the contracts that limit the sale of federal power to rural co-operatives and the process of forcing them to raise their rates . s 0 FAR the Administration has been able to conduct the assault on REA and the public-power program without much reference to Congress . It is always possible to pass another semantic miracle and renegotiate the already renegotiated contracts , or possibly Congress can void them . Indeed the Administration might call on semantics to make clear that it is much more . more m favor of public power than has been suspected . Even before the election , though with the election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Kutenai River . It was a safe and inexpensive fanfare , for the dam can not be built now and maybe it never can be built . The future of REA depends in part too on the investigation of the Dixon-Yates affair that Congress is certain to make . So does the immediate future of TVA , though the effort to begin its strangulation-has been at least tenmnrarilv intorto produce fireworks . It will go into the workings of the Holding Companies Act and it may very well embarrass the Securities and Exchange Commission . We arc going to hear a lot of ingenious semantics . Of course , we may get in the end nothing but some more slogans , a mass-medium campaign its " con-sinner education " as silly as the President 's speech at McNary Dam . And there is another possibility : the boys may decide that they are on the way out , that they wo n't be around after 1956 , and so had better get rid of as many public assets as they can in the remaining two years . The new Hoover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Twentieth Century by proclamation , the sale not only of the federal darns but of the reclamation projects , the national forests , and all other federal holdings except , possibly , the national parks . So much the better ; the recommendation will get things in the open where everyone can see them . It wo n't get to first base in the 84th Congress , or in any later one , but the trade associations and the utility companies will have to stop working both sides of the street . This is their Commission and they will have to line up beside it . C ONSLICVATION proved to be a winning issue for the Democrats . It will be even more important in 1956 and the Democratic party had better spend the next two years working out a co-ordinated program . In the campaign just finished the defense of the public lands , public power , and the related values was extemporized and essentially a rebuttal . No doubt it had to he , for the Administration attack had been piecemeal and in part by stealth . But we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voters stand . It is possible to abandon the defensive policy of merely holding the line and to plan positively . In some areas of conservation , thinking has long been static ; it badly needs revision and invigoration . As a single example , reclamation . The most urgent reality in the West is the need of metropolitan and industrial complexes for water . We are now put to the expensive subteras a secondary result of spending five hundred dollars an acre to make two-dollar land worth forty dollars . This concept , which was sound and much less expensive in 1902 , needs modernization . Also , I for one can tranquilly contemplate abandoning , in some specific areas and under intelligent safeguards , the concept of multi* use . National forests near Los Angeles , Denver , and Salt Lake City are now used by several million people a year : once remote and difficult of access , they are now practically in the suburbs . The basic necessity will always be to protect the watersheds ; but it seems clear that , this being assured , sizable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recreation " and that other uses , grazing and timber-cutting among them , must be restricted or prohibited in those areas . Again , there should be a strenuous counter-attack on the foolish allegation that REA , TVA , and the public-power program are " socialistic . " These are no more socialistic than the Post Office Department or a church supper . On the strictest theory of classic capitalism they are capitalistic instruments , far more so than the private collectivism of the holding companies , as conveniently illustrated by Dixon-Yates . Finally , if it is desirable to have the federal government generate 15 per cent of our electric power , instead of the 10 per cent it now generates , or to have what the Chamber of Commerce calls " a land-hungry bureaucracy " buy up another million acres of cut-over and eroding timberland in the East and South , there is no reason to he defensive . Add such measures to the program and start fighting for them . T 14E principles behind these inarks apply , I believe , to entire Democratic preparation the campaign of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be fitted together as perfectly as a watch , but they need not be as spasmodic and unco-ordinated as those of 1952 and 1954 . Governor Stevenson , for instance , emerged from the recent one with notably increased stature , influence , and power but he was used haphazardly . He was a lead-off man and both a cleanup hitter and a pinch-hitter as well , and though he was effective in all three roles it was an inefficient use of talent . The idea seems to have been to have him speak as often and in as many places as possible , without regard to the cumulative effect that might have been secured by programing his campaign . It would have been much better to provide a planned structure , so that his speeches could have constantly gathered momentum and ended in a climax that would have unified the whole Democratic campaign . It would also have been sagacious to provide him with a larger staff . Fr HE election established that there I is a Democratic drift but clearly it is not one that can be increased or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now on the hot spot . As the opposition it could be opportunistic and ad hoc ; as a party which is in control of Congress under a Republican Executive , it has got to have a coherent , planned program . And as with the resources problem , the program has got to be more than one of holding the line and re-establishing it where the trade associations have broken through . Simply standing on the achievements from 1952 to 1952 could be as disastrous as looking back to 1896 has proved to be for the Republicans this year . The program has got to be progressive , and progressive not only in agreeable generalizations but in concrete measures to which the party will commit itself . This year and in the 1952 campaign as well there was too much extemporization and too little co-ordination . There has been too much undirected amateur effort . There has been too little co-operation among the state organizations and too little teamwork between Congressional leaders and such leaders who do not hold office , as Governor Stevenson and , before the election , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the remarkable capacities manifested in 1952 by the people who temporarily organized themselves as the Volunteers for Stevenson . They are a reservoir of very willing , very useful , and often very talented people positively crying aloud to be used . The organization was properly dissolved after the 1952 election ; but something could have been done to incorporate its members in the regular organizations , which uttered some perfunctory and usually unfelt expressions of good will and dropped the matter . But the professional organizations need more renewal than they have had and the best source of renewal is this unused group , which contains most of the independents who voted Democratic in 1952 and a great majority of the eggheads . The eggheads are indispensable to the Democratic party ; let 's face it . they will provide most of the outline , at least , of the program that is going to be developed , as in fact they have always done . A scarcity of eggheads is one of the signal weaknesses of the Republicans . T HE need for co-ordination of the various elements of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislatures and eight governorships . They are as im-portant for 1956 as control of Con-gress , very likely more important . The party needs a mechanism for assuring continuous liaison among its various power sources . Each house of Congress has a committee that is supposed to do that job incidentally to many others . The National Com-mittee is in the same situation ; its paramount duties leave it too . little time . A new body is called for , designed for this sole purpose . I do not pretend to say how large it should be or who should compose it , but it ought to contain Senators and Congressmen , Governors , repre-sentatives of the National Committee and of the state organizations , and representatives of the Volunteers for Stevenson , who were amateurs in 1952 but do not all have to retain their amateur status in the 1956                     