@@431427

Have you ever given thought to the old-fashioned virtue of humility ? Very likely not . Nowadays it is n't popular . Mention of it brings up a picture of sniveling , hypocritical self-depreciation of the kind best illustrated by Uriah Heep . Also , it suggests a person who either shrinks into silence or turns loud and aggressive in the grip of an inferiority complex . As a matter of fact , humility and an inferiority complex are as different as dawn is from midnight . Humility does n't mean being a perpetual door mat or disowning your gifts . It does mean looking at yourself realistically , surveying your talents and handicaps , and doing the very best that you can , without any emerald-eyed discontent because somebody else is able to accomplish more . The truly humble person 's aim is not to prove his superiority but to use his gifts to make his world better and more pleasant . The person who exchanges competitive pride for humility gets immediate returns ? relaxing of tension , dropping of hundreds of fears and worries , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on competitive striving is in excellent company . He walks with great souls of many ages ? religious teachers , self-sacrificing national leaders , front-rank creators of beauty , and scientists who study galaxies of far-off stars . People who forget themselves in work and service are always humble . You could n't imagine Abraham Lincoln pettishly demanding every honor to which protocol entitled him , or Florence Nightingale being furious because she did n't have the best place in a receiving line . It would be a good thing if American women were more generally acquainted with humility . I do n't mean to imply that contentious pride is unknown to American men ; but at least their drive for prestige usually is channeled into their jobs . Usually , women find outlets in frustration-breeding trivialities . Anybody who knows feminine clubs and social groups can testify that thousands of us are wearing ourselves out in efforts to prove our superiority . Probably you could light a city with the energy wasted in attempts to give a more elaborate party than a neighbor , lasso a visiting celebrity for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or win a club election . A couple of years ago , I watched some members of a women 's club garden  | department whose flower arrangements were being judged by a visiting expert . There were no valuable prizes involved ? not even a blue ribbon . The expert merely made a few remarks about each arrangement and then chose the three she liked best . Instead of taking the contest in an appropriately light spirit , many of the members wore expressions strained enough to suggest defendants listening to the footsteps of a returning jury . The woman across the aisle from me had clenched her hands so hard that her knuckles were white . Flower arranging , which ought to be a joyous activity , became , under the influence of competition , something not far from torture . Though such exhibitions of competitiveness may seem amusing , the failing has a serious side . The envy , resentment , and short tempers it produces can badly damage one 's disposition . Besides , a wellknown medical expert states that the strain of endless contests often reflects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and long-continued fatigue . He cited a case of a woman who suffered severe gastric disturbance for two weeks because her club had given someone else her accustomed place as toastmistress at its annual banquet . Another example of pride produced more alarming results . A woman who had been social leader in her community heard that a newcomer who challenged her pre-eminence planned to give a large luncheon . Although the older woman had had a heart attack and had been instructed to keep very quiet , she insisted on giving a big party on the same date . It was an outstanding success ? but a few minutes after she had said good-bye to the last visitor , the hostess dropped dead . An especially damaging form of pride is using one 's children as competitive weapons . A youngster might be goaded to bring home superlative report cards , excel in some art for which his talent is microscopic , or make an exclusive high-school social club mainly to give the mother a chance to triumph over her acquaintances . Sometimes the child , pushed beyond his capacities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In other cases , the spirit of envious rivalry is so stimulated in the unfortunate youngster that he becomes dissatisfied for the rest of his life . PERHAPS you have had the experience of meeting someone who immediately chooses you as her official rival . If you give a party , she tries to give a more alluring one ; if you are talking to an interesting person , she moves in like a revenue cutter and tries to lead him away ; if you accept the nomination for a club office , she tries to defeat you . Having done nothing to incite her attitude , you can see no reason she should make getting ahead of you her yardstick of success . Very likely she does n't know the reason , but probably you remind her , subconsciously , of a childhood competitor . " Insecurity of one sort or another generally lies behind the scramble for esteem , " said Doctor Phillip Polatin , Chief of Women 's Service at New York 's Psychiatric Institute , " A neglectful husband , early poverty , a mother who encouraged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's brothers and sisters seemed to have a larger slice of parental love , or recollections of disparaging remarks overheard during one 's early years might be among the reasons . What the strivers fail to realize is that they are on the wrong road . A person does n't get lasting emotional security by outclimbing somebody else . " Granted that the best cure for the unhappiness , fatigue , and physical and emotional illnesses caused by the race for prestige is an unproud , objective spirit , how can one go about acquiring it ? In the first place , it ca n't be put on externally , like an evening wrap . The change must come from the heart . Religion points out one way in the quest for humility ; modern psychiatry , another . Yet the two paths are not far separated . Religion stresses that real security is found , not in being elected club leader or having the best house on the block , but in a firm faith . Religion advocates that a person seeking humility think of his place in the vast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself in loving service for others . " Humility is a by-product , " a wise clergyman said recently . " You ca n't achieve it just by saying , ' I 'll be humble . ' When you lose yourself in something greater than your own personality , humility will develop . " In addition to recommending wide , self-forgetting interests , both religion and psychiatry emphasize the need of taking a realistic look at ourselves . According to Doctor Polatin , one way to start is to make as candid a list as possible of your good and bad points . SOME authorities have advised the spectator approach : recounting to yourself your doings and motives each day as if you were telling the story of another individual . The character that emerges from this third-person account might startle you , but getting acquainted with her is a long step toward wisdom . Looking at yourself honestly means getting the whole picture ? recognizing your good traits and gifts as well as your faults and deficiencies . " A truly humble person can rejoice in his own talents as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " said Doctor Robert J. McCracken , pastor of New York City 's Riverside Church . " The point is that he does not boast , or give himself airs , or look down superciliously on those who are climbing below him . " When , facing yourself as you are , you have decided to do the best you can without regard to getting ahead of other people , you 'll find that one of the first results is a rush of new energy . All the vital force you have been wasting is available for making life more enjoyable for your family and your friends , improving your education , and doing things in the community that are interesting and important . One of the side effects of humility is to make people serene and charming . You may have noticed that human beings become much more popular when they cease pursuing popularity with a reinforced butterfly net . Then they can relax at parties and really enjoy them . A woman begins to be charming when she listens wholeheartedly to what others say , instead of giving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remark . Being able to enjoy people without reference as to whether they are above or below her on the social scale , she soon finds that she has more freedom and fun than ever before . In addition , she discovers that her acquaintances do n't necessarily forget her because she has stopped pushing herself forward . People delight , as a matter of fact , in thwarting someone who wants an honor too badly . A member of a club to which I once belonged had an unveiled desire to be its president . Although she was able and competent , she never got the job . Every year members of the nominating committee would remark , " She wants it too much , " and named her for an office near the end of the ticket . The presidency went to somebody who had n't sprained her ankle running after it . ANOTHER thing humility can do is relieve people of the burden of lying about themselves . Many citizens invent incomes larger than they have , and tehn struggle to live up to them . Some create @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deception is n't so expensive as the long line that follows . One lie of that sort is likely to result in a hundred more , all garnished with growing fear and self-consciousness . I remember the daughter of a locomotive engineer who married a well-to-do lawyer in another city and then impulsively created a father who was a scholarly archaeologist . Her life soon became a never-ending melange of reading on Egypt , where she claimed to have been born , having a " sick headache " whenever she was invited to meet a real archaeologist , and running like a startled doe from people who came from her home town . When the fiction finally was exposed , acquaintances who would have respected her if she 'd told the truth about her father 's job laughed hard enough to shake her social position to pieces . No reward of humility is more important than this : because she is serene , a person free from competitive pride is likely to have a home life much happier for herself and her family . Some women justify their drive for local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them is helpful for their children . Still , the people whose memories of home are happiest are n't necessarily those whose mother won the most bridge prizes . And the best-adjusted children do n't come from homes where the parents are worried over meeting mortgage payments on an ostentatious house or where the father is being driven to the brink of collapse trying to sustain an overblown standard of living . The way to humility might have painful moments , such as meeting unpleasant memories that helped develop the superiority drive . But in putting aside wounded feelings and looking at people objectively , we can enter a new world of compassion and understanding . Then , by dropping the burden of unreasoning , energy-consuming competitiveness , a person can begin to live . As Thomas a Kempis remarked many years ago , " The humble enjoy continual peace , but in the heart of the pround are envy and frequent indignation . "                     