@@476739

This fall 's Senatorial elections ? the most important in twenty-two years ? will decide the future of both parties and the actual control of the government . A topflight Washington correspondent uncovers the underlying issues . . . and ventures a few predictions on the winners in crucial states . Tut oncoming elections for control of the United States Senate will be a series of contests of extraordinary meaning . They will be most significant , certainly , since the last days of the Hoover era . They will ? barring the remote chance of a tie ? resolve a parliamentary political crisis . It is also quite possible that they may create a new and quite different one . And if history 's word can be reasonably depended upon ( which is by no means certain ) they are likely to have a strong bearing on the outcome of the 1956 Presidential election . Ever since the Civil War , with the single exception of 1934 , the party in power has always lost seats in off-year , non-Presidential elections . When this loss has gone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the party in power , that party has also lost the following Presidential election . The single exception was the 1946 Congressional election , which led to storied 1948 when Harry S. Truman confounded every sage and returned to the White House . The Senate of the departing Eighty-third Congress has struggled with a highly abnormal division of the parties . For most of this session it had 48 Democrats , 47 Republicans , and one Independent ? Wayne Morse of Oregon , who was prepared at any showdown to vote Republican on the single issue of whether the Republicans should continue their nominal control . The closest parallel occurred when Mr. Hoover 's Senate had 48 Republicans to 47 Democrats and one maverick ? Henrik Shipstead of Minnesota , who was then a Farm-Labor man . Twice before in history , the position has been even worse , as between the major parties , but not much worse . Andrew Jackson 's confident view that a President ought to he as truculently strong as Constitution and custom would possibly allow was no doubt reinforced by the fact that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between Democrats and National Republicans , with eight other members roaming handsomely free amongst the minority parties . James A. Garfield , though not affected by it in the same vehement way as old Andy Jackson , had a Senate split thirty-seven to thirty-seven betwixt Republicans and Democrats , with one maverick running loose and one vacancy . Whatever may have been the situation in those old days , the situation in the present Senate has been untidy in the extreme . And in November the voters will do a job in the national interest if they give some party some kind of control of the most powerful parliamentary mechanism in the world . For eighteen months , nobody has had any . It has been a " Republican " Senate only by the saturnine grace of Mr. Morse ; if a challenge had come his vote would have tied it and Vice President Nixon would then have broken the tie in favor of the Republicans . Consequently , the Republican leader of the Senate , William E Knowland of California , has not in fact been able to lead at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate legislative program in his hip pocket , so to speak ; putting up a bill at odd and relatively favorable moments ; speaking in corners to every Senator of every party who would stand still ; crossing his fingers and hoping for the best . This is not altogether because the Republicans no longer have a Taft , or because there simply have not been enough Republicans anyhow . A good part of the trouble has sprung from the fact that the Republicans are more fundamentally divided , and in more ways , than the Democrats ? more divided , even , than the Democrats were in the long years of minor civil war between the Roosevelt-Trumanites and their intra-party opponents . President Eisenhower carried the country handsomely in 1952 ? but he did not quite carry the Republican party , and he was far from carrying the Republican Senate . Allowing for a little oversimplification , the Democratic division of late years may be described as horizontal . It was defined by the Mason-Dixon line and limited basically to the emotional issue of Civil Rights , along with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic issues . The Southern and Northern Democrats have in fact been hand in glove much more often than they have been fist to fist ; the generality have been together on foreign policy , trade policy , housing , power , farm subsidies , and much of the " welfare state . " B UT the Republican division is vertical and multi-lined ; the party is severed by a series of incisions head to toe . The Eastern part of the party is out of sympathy with the area not far beyond the Appalachians ; the Midwest is out of key with both the Appalachians and the Mountain West ; and the Far West stands all by itself . There arc , in this party , at least three distinct views of the world and of this country 's place in it ? not to mention the endless homemade troubles about tariffs , abut t labor , about agriculture , and so on . The Senate Democratic leader , Lyndon Johnson of Texas , does not altogether speak with partisan malice in his favorite summary : " Say what you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have : We do n't have half of our fellows disagreeing on foreign relations , and the other half opposed to foreign relations altogether . " Senator James H. Duff of Pennsylvania , for an example , is actually more at home with the whole mixed face of the Democratic side ? running from the scrubbed liberal countenance of Senator Hubert Humphrey of Minnesota to the rocky conservative mien of Harry Byrd of Virginia ? than he is with a Jenner of Indiana , a McCarthy of Wisconsin , or a Dirksen of Illinois . This split personality on the grand scale has , of course , long existed within the Republican party . It has , however , been much inflamed in this last year and a half by the frictions of unaccustomed Republican power in Washington . Rock-Bottom Needs HE Republican problem for November T involves , therefore , not only the rock- bottom necessity of electing enough Republicans ? of whatever sort ? to control at least the new Senate . It involves also the profound desirability , if there is to be any Republican coherence , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small and lonely bloc of pro-Eisenhower Republicans in such a way as to increase the President 's practical , operative party influence in the Senate to the necessary minimum . The other alternative is to elect the kind of Republicans who can join with the present nonEisenhower Old Guard , to dominate the scene clearly and indisputably . The simple fact is that the Republicans now need , if they are to stay in effective business , a great decision fought out altogether amongst themselves . They urgently need to know not only whether they are to operate the next Senate , but what kind of a party is going to do the operating . The original Eisenhower Republicans ? the Duffs , the Sahortstalls , and their like ? have in this Senate hung on only with the greatest difficulty to the thin lodgments of power . They will not survive , even as a remotely effective political faction , unless they gain recruits in November ? or unless the President turns to them again , in some final disenchantment with the non-Eisenhower Republicans whose co-operation lie had , until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patiently , and on the whole so vainly sought . All this is not to say that the Democrats , with their doubtful to fair prospects of becoming the majority after November , have before them a clear and benign vista . Their conduct in the expiring Senate , under the direction of a Southern-based regency headed by Senators Johnson of Texas , Richard B. Russell of Georgia , and Earle C. Clements of Kentucky , has been one of great subtlety and technical competence . But because it is a new tactic , and because it has put old-fashioned partisan Democrats on a very thin diet indeed , its ultimate worth may not be known even after the November elections , and maybe not until after the great decision has been made in 1956 . The Courtly Democrats ENATOR Johnson advised at every point by the skillful Russell and Clements , has persuaded the minority to act with a courtliness ( most of the time ) that would shame the House of Lords . A partisan record of two kinds ? and one of them a very curious kind , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate Democrats . More than oncc they have " saved " a Republican President ? in part because issues have arisen that are genuinely close to Democratic doctrine ( as in foreign policy and some aspects of housing ) , and in part because of minority respect for the Presi-dent 's undoubted power with the country . The question is whether this policy of " sav-ing " the Republican President on the " good " points of his program will have in it enough strong partisan meat to satisfy the simple hun-ger of the " give ' em hell " type of brass-collar Democrat who is still numerous and athirst for revenge . The second half of the Demo-cratic record has been traditional ; Senator Johnson and his people have given the Re-publicans their lumps ' on such bread and butter matters as labor and farm measures . At the outset of this Congress , Mr. Johnson declared to his party caucus that he intended to follow a policy of " responsible opposition " and would not participate in or countenance any partisanship for the simple , traditional purpose of putting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terrain would accommodate . This led for a time to a good deal of criticism , both from the Northern Democrats ? whose necessities have made them instinctively combative ? and even from some Southerners . Even the classical Democratic leader of the House , Representative Sam Rayburn of Texas ? who is really happy only when he is leading an assault with all weapons blazing ? seemed anxious , now and then , at the rather lofty , remote plateau of seeming non-belligerency on which his Texan prot ? g ? , Lyndon Johnson , had pitched his campaign tent . Nevertheless , the Johnson strategy , which had enormous defensive advantages , has largely told the story of this Senate . Moreover , it has not kept the party troops perpetually restrained . Again and again , when it had seemed to many that . Johnson was adopting something resembling outright pacifism he has suddenly brought his Democrats forth with a sharp ? and almost invariably successful ? counterattack . So Johnson 's policy of awaiting the decisive moment and then striking was handsomely vindicated on many occasions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost total unity to the Senate Democrats . It is an astonishing spectacle to see Senators Byrd of Virginia , Eastland of Mississippi , and McCarran of Nevada . voting often alongside Senators Murray of Montana , Humphrey of Minnesota , and Lehman of New York . But it happened . THE Senate Democrats therefore will en- ter the decisive phase of the campaign carrying the theme of " responsibility . " This will not , of course , exclude the exploitation of many palpable issues ? public power in some areas , Taft-Hartley revision in others , farm subsidies in yet others , and so on . But the wholly national aspect of the Democrats ' case must rest , by the very nature of their record , upon the belief of Johnson and his senior associates that the country is so tired of fracas that it will reward those who represent unity and quiet . It is a theory that will require much testing ? for even if the Democrats win the Senate in November it will not be certain that the decisive factor was " responsibility " or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , such as farm prices and unemployment . Moreover , what will be the influence of " McCarthyism , " and what weight will be assignable to the whole complex of questions posed by the Eisenhower Administration 's " New Look " in military-foreign policy ? Besides , the mere fact that the notion of " responsibility " has become settled Democratic policy for the Senate contest will inevitably limit the Democrat 's range of partisan action on through the pre-convention period of 1956 . Under these circumstances , it may not be possible for the Democrats to hit very hard at the center of Republican power : the White House . The Center of Democratic Power T HUS it is that while the Republican problem for this year 's Senate races is a good deal more complicated than at first it might appear , the Democratic problem also is one of great complexity . If the Democrats should win the Senate ( and if they do , it is safe to assume that they will capture the House as well ) , what then ? First of all , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It would have become a regency clearly overshadowing the ordinary party mechanism , including the national committee . Indeed , it could become a junta before which even so formidable a non-Senatorial politician as Adlai Stevenson ? the odds-on present choice for the 1956 Presidential nomination ? would have to stand in pause . For the Senate wing of the party would be able to make the powerful argument of success . It would be able to say that it had won in 1954 the victory that Mr. Stevenson was unable to win in 1952- It would be able to contend that the centrist Democratic record of the Eighty-third Congress , with which Mr. Stevenson naturally had only the most remote connection , had been the decisive factor . It is entirely possible , indeed that the center of practical power in the Democratic MAGAZINE party might come to rest not , as at present , in the area vaguely defined as " the North , " but in the Southern and Border area in which the Johnsons , the Russells , and the Clementses stand supreme . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election could lead to outright SouthernBorder State control of the 1956 Democratic convention , and specifically to the balking of Mr. Stevenson 's nomination . It does suggest , however , that Senator Johnson and his associates will have led much of their party ? probably enough of it , actually , to control its spirit ? back a long way from Roosevelt and Truman toward the political center . It might be usefully recalled that Senator Warren G. Harding was nominated for President in 1920 through the power of a very similar Republican Senate regency . It suggests also that given a Democratic Senate next year , Senator Johnson himself would be a great factor at the next convention , Texas background and all notwithstanding . This in all likelihood would be true even assuming the ( quite probable ) election again to the Senate of the indestructible Alben W. Barkley of Kentucky , ex-Vice President , and ex-Democratic Senate leader ? and even assuming that Mr. Johnson might retire from the leadership in favor of " the old man . " For the essentials of power would remain in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party from the floor . In summary , therefore , the position seems to be about this : A gain of a few seats by any brand of Republicans would end the present paralysis in the Senate . But if these should be non-Eisenhower Republicans , the result would be yet another crisis . It would mean that the White House had lost even partial control of national policy . What we would have then ? in fact , though not in form ? would be government by the Senate , with the House in junior association . A s TO the Democrats ? the thinnest possible net gain would put them in nominal command of all Senate affairs , and in unquestioned command of such capital matters as foreign policy on which they would count upon the help of nearly all the internationalist Republicans . The Democratic Senate leaders would find themselves close to the top of the party pyramid as well . They would then , however , be under far different operational necessities . They would be required , for the country 's sake and their own sake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President . It might well be that this would not be so easy as it has been easy thus far to support , as a minority , the " good " parts of the Eisenhower legislative program . In the first place , some of Mr. Eisenhower 's closest associates in the Administration ? notably Attorney General Brownell ? have struck deep wounds among the Democrats that will be a long time in healing , if ever they heal . There is a carefully suppressed longing in many a Democratic heart to pay off certain scores ? what Mr. Brownell said about Mr. Truman and alleged spies in government ; what most of the Republicans said in the 1952 campaign about Korea and corruption ; and so on . A Democratic party as master of the Senate would be far harder to restrain than a Democratic party working , as it has been , always in fear of the popularity of Eisenhower . In the second place , it has seemed a fact of political life that almost any Democratic group in the minority is far more disciplined and cohesive than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , with some justice that a Democrat so loves a fight that , driven to it , he will find one among his own brothers . T HERE are many in Washington ( and of course most of them are Democratic members of the Senate ) who will say that it would be " good " for President Eisenhower to have a Democratic Senate next year . They assert this view in face of a historical record which plainly indicates that it is about as good for a President to Jose party control of Congress as it is for a baseball team to lose ten consecutive games in August . At all events , the election of a Democratic Senate would certainly mean the entrenchment in power of its Johnsonian masters . Nothing that could conceivably happen could do more than increase in a trifling way the party power of the liberal Democrats . Their relationship to the hierarchically dominant center Democrats would be , in its way , analogous to the relationship of the all-out Eisenhower Senate Republicans to the hierarchically dominant center-to-right Republicans . Such minor influence as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the present Senate has been largely by sufferance of the more conservative Democratic majority , just as the Duffs have had to operate largely by the sufferance of the more othodox Republican majority . Seats in Jeopardy I N ATTEMPTING to forecast the outcome of the November elections , a reasonably prudent reporter ( particularly one writing before it is possible to make even an intuitive grapple at the probable meaning of the foreign policy and McCarthy issues ) will open the whole bag of qualifying phrases . This reporter herewith opens the bag and at the same time invokes every kind of exit and escape hatch now in the market . A fundamental in the position is that while the long slope of tradition favors the prediction of Republican ill-fortune , the present circumstance puts the Democrats in cruel hard case . Only fourteen presently-held Republican seats are at stake , while twenty-two presently-held Democratic seats are at the disposal of the voters . And worse than that , from the Democratic viewpoint , at least six of the Republican seats involved ? in Nebraska , New Hampshire ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Maine ? will remain Republican through every storm , assuming that all past experience means anything at all . Thus , only eight Republican seats may he said to he in peril . On the other hand , ten of the twenty-two Democratic seats in issue will stay Democratic beyond question . These are in Mississippi , Louisiana , Texas , Tennessee , North Carolina , South Carolina , Arkansas , Virginia , Georgia , and Alabama , where John J. Sparkman , Southern-style liberalism and all , is plainly back in Senate business for another six years after the collapse of a determined primary opposition . Therefore , twelve presently Democratic seats are at least conceivable prizes for the Republicans ? running from rather hypothetical prizes , as in Rhode Island , to quite probable prizes , as in New Mexico . The real heart of the contest , then , will lie in five states ? Kentucky , Michigan , Minncsota , Illinois , and Ohio . There are many other states with possibilities for overturn one way or another ; but it is these five that most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kentucky , the early form suggests a Republican loss ? that is , that the widelyrespected Senator John Sherman Cooper is unlikely to be able to survive the challenge of old Alben Barkley . To those who are reasonably detached about their politics , this race has a unique interest . Good , sound , partisan Democrats known to this correspondent shake their heads sadly over this affair and mutter : " Damn it , I would hate to vote in Kentucky . " Erom the Democratic point of view there is a human dilemma . Who among the party faithful could cheerfully vote to deny Mr. Barkley that return on which he has set his heart , considering his immense service to his party ? But in Cooper there is a Republican Senator whose views on some of the gravest matters , internationalism for one , are very close to Democratic views ? and a Senator , moreover , who has behaved with a gentility and bravery much commending themselves to the more sensitive in both parties . In Michigan , it appears at this writing that the dogged Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee , has engaged himself in a very close race with Blair Moody . Not Moody but Governor Mennen Williams would have been preferred by those Democratic managers whose only interest is in the Senate . Still Williams atop the ticket ( he is trying again for Governor ) is expected to pervade it with considerable strength from top to bottom . Ferguson has formidable resources , peculiarly , and latently , within the Administration . If the Administration goes all the way for him , as they put it in the political trade , he may be assumed to be a very slight favorite . But he would still be likely to fail , if unemployment worsens in Michigan before Election Day . IN MINNESOTA , Senator Hubert Humphrey is generally accounted to have a slightly better than even chance against Republican Val Bjornson . Though he complains that the Minnesota metropolitan press tends to give him " the silent treatment , " Humphrey is an inexhaustible campaigner and he has , inthe past at least , raised up in his state just such a curious coalition ? half urban-labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Master , Franklin Roosevelt , improbably sustained for the better part of twenty years . This reporter will risk ( timidly ) an out and out prediction that Humphrey will come back . In Illinois , as of now , Senator Paul H. Douglas looks more likely to retain or lose his Democratic seat on what Chicago 's Democratic organization does than on what is done by his Republican antagonist , J. T. Meek . Douglas got himself into great and understandable political difficulty , with the Democratic political professionals of all of the United States as well as those of Cook County , by his actions in the 1952 national convention . Douglas ' frantic exertions in behalf of Senator Estes Kefauver of Tennessee ? rather than for his fellow Minoisian , Adlai Stevenson ? puzzled many and angered the rest of those who really control the Democratic party in the United States . If the organization people really exert themselves for him this time , it will be primarily because they want to save the rest of the Democratic ticket in Illinois . No two ways about it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " close . " I N OHIO , all is opaque . In anything ap- proaching an ordinary political situation ; the Republican candidate for the old Taft seat , Representative George H. Bender , would he an overwhelming favorite . It happens , however , that he is running against a Democrat already seated , if only in a very tentative way : Senator Thomas A. Burke , former Mayor of Cleveland . Bender , though in some ways in the old Taft tradition , is not in it altogether and is held in something less than the highest regard by a considerable section of the Taftites . Burke , whose brief Senate career has been a model of quiet intentness , will run a very good race indeed , if the sometimes enigmatic Democratic Governor of Ohio , Frank Lausche , should so ordain . Lausche , certainly one of the most extraordinary and powerful politicians ever to arise in the Middle West , is at times a brooding man where other Democrats are concerned . When Taft in 1950 was making his supreme effort to come back to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Joseph Ferguson , left him disenchanted . He even suggested that Ohio could do a lot worse than to go along with Taft , and , of course , Taft won . So what Lausche finally decides may not in fact decide Ohio , but it will be a most important consideration . No predictions here . These five , then , are the " big " races . It seems a reasonable prediction that the Democrats will win Kentucky and hold their present seat in Minnesota . In the other three states , any bet at this stage would be rash . TAKTNG the sum of the Republican seats at issue , the rather timid general pre-diction is this : That the Democrats have an excellent chance at one seat now held by the Republicans ( Kentucky ) , a fifty-fifty chance at a second ( Michigan ) , and a slight chance at two others ( New Jersey and Massachusetts ) . Clifford Case , the Republican nominee , would appear to he home beyond question in New Jersey but for the fact that the Republican organization has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is looked upon by some orthodox Republicans as dangerously " New Dealish . " In Massachusetts , Republican Senator Leverett Saltonstall has been running one of the most " scared " races in the country . As for the twenty-two presently Democratic seats at issue , the Republicans appear nowhere to have quite so substantial a prospect for net gain as the Democrats have in Kentucky . There are , however , states of great potential trouble for the Democrats , apart from Illinois and Ohio . Senators Clinton P. Anderson in New Mexico , Allen J. Frear , Jr. , in Delaware , Guy M. Gillette in Iowa , and James E. Murray in Montana , all gaze in one degree or another upon the bright face of danger . In Wyoming , the death of Democrat Lester C. Hunt leaves the race wide open . Of all this lot , the relatively most safe probably is Gillette , whose hardihood in a Republican state like Iowa is one of the odd facts of political life . And the least safe is possibly Anderson in New Mexico . Still , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ story . Incredible as it may sound , Senator Guy Cordon of incontestably Republican Oregon is not absolute certainty against the Democratic challenger , Richard Neuberger . Public power , toward which the Far West takes a pretty hospitable view , is a major issue in the Oregon race and Cordon has been widely presented as on the wrong side . Moreover , the indomitable , if not necessarily wise , maverick Senator Morse ? an erstwhile Republican who is officially an Independent but otherwise indistinguishable from a liberal Democrat ? must be taken into account . If Mr. Morse has any good wishes for Mr. Cordon they have been well hidden . Again , for an oddity , there is the strange position in Idaho . The Republican Senator Henry C. Dworshak is quite likely wishing that the Democratic primary will he won by Glenn Taylor , the erstwhile " singing cowboy " Democratic Senator who went off into the Leftist void with Henry A. Wallace in 1948 as the Vice Presidential candidate of the " Progressive " party . Highly competent opinion in Washington is that Dworshak 's return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opponent ; but that otherwise he will be in deep trouble . IN SUMMARY , so many enigmas hang over the November campaign that no re-sponsible soothsayer would be eager ? at this stage , anyhow ? to make a firm guess on the control of the new Senate . The power of the sleeping issues ? of which perhaps the most important surround Senator McCarthy ? can not be gauged even approximately until about October . The only present certainty is that the McCarthy controversy has hurt the Republican party beyond any doubt . But how much it has hurt is still an open question . Other wild cards , almost as important in the showdown , will be the state of business and employment this fall ; the degree of tension between Secretary of Agriculture Benson and the farmers ; and the depth of our involvement in southeast Asia , Guatemala , and other troubled lands . The one reasonably safe prediction , therefore , is that a Senate that nobody controls and which has had no typical tone or flavor will very probably acquire some kind of new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? and such a strain on the national interest ? that it is not likely to survive another round at the polls .                     