@@265167

A Harvard Divinity School graduate with a lingering devotion to the Boston Red Sox last week became the spiritual ruler of 1,300,000 Greek Orthodox believers in North and South America . Elected Archbishop of the Americas : black-bearded , handsome Metropolitan James of Malta , 48 , a U.S. citizen who was born Jacob A. Koukouzes on the Turkish island of Imros . His impressive qualifications for the position , second biggest in his church : 16 years as a Greek Orthodox theologian and chief vicar of congregations in New York and New England , four years as Greek Orthodoxy 's highly effective liaison agent at World Council of Churches headquarters in Geneva . <P> Nothing seemed more logical than to give the American post to Archbishop James , succeeding Metropolitan Michael , who died in New York last July . But behind his election loomed a split in the Greek Orthodox Church , and outright mutiny against towering , white-bearded Athenagoras I of Constantinople , 268th Ecumenical Patriarch of the Eastern Orthodox Church . Athenagoras ' enemies call him a " religio-politician , " while his friends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his predecessor went mad . The Patriarch of Constantinople has only the power of persuasion among three others of equal rank , ruling the patriarchates of Alexandria , Antioch and Jerusalem . For " Elder Brother " Patriarch Athenagoras , 72 , adroit politics is the main healing art in a strife-torn church that includes some 250 million souls . <P> Last month in Istanbul , Athenagoras backed James for election to the New York see against stiff opposition . The battle arena : Greek Orthodoxy 's twelve-seat Holy Synod , composed of 16 metropolitans ( on a revolving basis ) , whose actual or titular sees are in Turkey . To elect James , Athenagoras needed a minimum of six votes plus his own tiebreaker , but could muster only five . The majority considered strongly anti-Communist Archbishop James too " progressive . " When four anti-James metropolitans took their case outside the synod , leaking word to Turkish newspapers that James was " an enemy of the Turkish people , " Athenagoras promptly took the strong action of dismissing the four metropolitans from the current synod . Then , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election . <P> Last week , the announcement made , the problem was whether Religio-Politician Athenagoras could also swiftly heal the wounds opened by his maneuver . Some worried that the rumbling dissidents might try to force him out . Should they succeed , the seat of Eastern Orthodox Church power could well shift to the patriarchy called " the third Vatican " - Moscow . Against such fears stood the new reconciliation between Greece and Turkey over Cyprus ( see FOREIGN NEWS ) , which tended to downgrade " anti-Turkish " charges against Metropolitan James . One of the Cyprus reconcilers : James himself , who in London last week helped swing Archbishop Makarios behind the agreement , then prepared to move on to New York for his , formal installation .                     