@@493813

IS DISARMAMENT POSSIBLE ? THERE IS much talk of a " settlement " with Soviet Russia . What are the prospects ? The word " settlement " tends to put expectations dangerously high . For nothing is so likely to create , or aggravate , a dangerous situation as the shock of sudden disillusionment . Moreover , the people who most ardently expect and desire a peaceful settlement are the people most likely to suffer the worst reaction , even a bellicose reaction , when their hopes of a settlement are disappointed . Peace planning too often seems to breed a sense of self-righteousness that provokes war , or precipitates it , instead of preventing it . The word " settlement " has an unreal sense of finality in it ? and thus paves the way for dis illusionment . A study of history does not encourage much belief in its possibility , however desirable it may be . Politically , the settlements which governments make are liable to be upset by changes of government , changes of popular mood , changes of friendship , changes of economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind of settlement that takes the form of a signed-andsealed treaty is often the most precarious ? because its fixity makes it less adjustable to changing conditions . Nor does history make one hopeful of the ' possibility of arriving at a " settlement " about disarmament . There have been repeated attempts to make progress toward peace by this path , but no successes . While the pursuit of security in armament races has always proved fatal , disarmament has offered no way out . The proposal for a general scaling down of armaments seems the easiest solution , and has the most obvious appeal ? not least on economic grounds . But numerical scales form , in practice , the most difficult approach to the problem . Each country is naturally inclined to exaggerate its own special circumstances , and overestimate its own minimum needs ? while failing to see the justification for what others claim . Thus a discussion of the relative size of national forces leads to interminable wrangling , and to no definite conclusion . Any such quantitative approach to the problem seems especially impracticable now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in numbers , of men and machines , that any all-round reduction of a proportionate kind would do nothing to improve the security of the Western countries , who are much weaker in armed numbers .. It would entail the fixation of their present condition of inferiority . The effect would be dangerous psychologically as well as materially . A feeling of insecurity makes for war , whereas a feeling of security makes for peace . A qualitative kind of disarmament , as proposed at Geneva in 1932 , was a more promising approach . First , because the abolition of particular weapons had a better chance of being agreed to than any numerical scale . Second , because the general abolition of certain weapons at that time would have nullified the prospects of successful aggression . If tanks and bomber-aircraft had been universally abolished in 1932 as was then proposed , and nearly agreed , and a system of international inspection established as a check on their revival , there could have been no successful blitzkrieg in 1939-40 . For Hitler owed his initial victories mainly to those particular defense-breaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Indeed , his opponents had the superiority in that respect . If the decisive weapons had once been banned , it would have been very difficult for Hitler to have developed them in secret to an adequate pitch of effectiveness -- even without the check of an international inspectorate . For tanks and bombers largely depend for their effectiveness on their crews having operational practice in exercises , and such piactice could hardly have been hidden . But the value of any such agreement now on qualitative disarmament might be nullified because of the much greater chances of carrying out the necessary practice somewhere in the depths of Asiatic Russia . Evasion of any agreed system of inspection would be far easier than in Europe . There would also be much less chance of any fresh , developments of a sinister kind being spotted and reported by travelers . An awareness of what science is doing also discourages optimism about the basic solidity of any disarmament agreement , even if agreement could be reached . In earlier centuries , the pace of development was very slow and thus provided a reasonably firm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abundant error , simply because official military minds were even slower to change their conceptions . But in this century the application of science to warfare has produced an ever-increasing acceleration of weapon development that is now threatening to nullify even the possibility of military calculation . I was one of the early advocates of what is called " operational research " ? the application of the scientific method of inquiry to the study of warfare . In trying to apply it myself I managed to be fairly successful in predicting , after World War I , the main military developments that governed World War II . Yet I feel very dubious now in attempting any predictions about a World War III , if war should break out . And I do n't feel much confidence in even the best organized system of operational research . Things are moving so fast in the weapon sphere that even the most scientific calculation becomes little better than speculation . The technical instability of any military basis of settlement , and plan for mutual disarmament thus becomes all too clear . It is worth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these lines because of the psychological value . But it would be unwise to count on such steps too much , and wise to regard them as subsidiary . The main hope of preserving peace lies on the higher level of " grand strategy . " Whereas strategy is only concerned with winning a war , grand strategy takes a longer view . Even in war it never loses sight of the peace that will follow and should guide the war with that aim always in view . It is no less needed in peace ? not only to preserve peace but to produce a better state of peace . It might be called the higher strategy of enlightened self-interest . The conduct of grand strategy rests with statesmen ? though soldiers ought to understand it , as servants of government . While it is primarily political , in the sense of policy , it requires on the part of the political leaders an understanding of war , and particularly of how wars come about . In dealing with the present problem , it would be wiser for Western statesmen , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continuation of difficulties , and tense maneuvering , than to look for any definite settlement . Such settlements are uncommon in history , but situations change . That very changeability may , in course of time , solve our present problems indirectly . It has frequently done so in the past , even in the case of problems that seemed quite insoluble . The problem we face today is appallingly hard , the most difficult in history since the devastating wars of religion between the rival , fanaticism of Catholicism and Protestantism three centuries back . Yet that seemingly insoluble problem gradually faded away . Then from 1815 to 1905 , a stretch of 90 years , Britain and the British in India lived almost continually under the cloud of war with Tsarist Russia . Yet by an amazingly rapid change we came to find ourselves in alliance with the Russians , against the Germans ? our traditional allies ! My vocation has been the study of war ? the exploration of its causes , conditions , course and effects . In studying the way that wars break out I came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a well-judged avoidance of the things that always tend to produce . a catastrophe . In a sense this is a negative solution ? but it is a negative that proves the way for the positive . It keeps clear of the accident-causes that are apt to be fatal , and keeps the road open for eventual progress toward a better situation . Statesmen need to realize the psychological- effect of getting an opponent in a corner . Many people have now come to think that Soviet Russia can not be placated , and there is a ' growing belief that no conciliatory move will allay her rulers ' desire to grab more gains wherever they can . If that belief is correct it becomes all the more vital that in our precautionary counter-measures we should bear in mind the long-standing lesson of police experience that " a burglar does n't commit murder unless he is cornered . " That applies in the community of nations as in any smaller community . The study of war has taught me that almost every war was avoidable , and that the outbreak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or their patience , and putting their opponent in a position where he could not draw back without serious loss of " face . " Clumsy efforts to forestall a feared aggression have ' too often provoked it ? particularly where politically-inspired moves have jumped beyond strategic possibilities . There have been too many recent examples . Chamberlain 's " guarantees " to Poland , in 1939 , a sudden reversal of his policy of appeasement had the obvious effect of combining provocation with temptation . No dictator could be expected to submit to such a slap in the face . At the same time , the palpable impossibility of Britain giving any effective help to a country so remote as Poland tempted Hitler to show the futility of the guarantee . Yet the captured German archives show that Hitler had not intended to deal . with Poland in 1939 , and that he only made up his mind to attack her after Chamberlain had made his unfulfillable offer of support . ? So the guarantee merely guaranteed that war would start at the time most disadvantageous for the Western powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last autumn was the surest way of provoking the Chinese to intervene in the Korean conflict ? after three months ' hesitation on their part . It is a sad reflection on Western statesmen that they were carried away by the flush of success in regaining South Korea , and made no adequate effort to put a brake on the continuation of the advance . The statesmen of the Western democracies should have learned two fundamental lessons from their bitter and repeated experience since 1939 . Do n't try to bluff on an obviously weak hand . Do try to look at each step you plan from the other side 's viewpoint ? before you take the step . To minimize provocation in building up our power of defense , we need to get into " the other man 's mind . " We must try to understand Communist-Russian mentality ? not only its Marxist logic , missionary fervor , and urge for expansion of power , but its underlying fears , intense suspiciousness , and strange ignorance : all accentuated by prolonged isolation and the nature of its system . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what the Russians ? may feel about American military activities in Iran , close to their vital sources of oil supply in the Caucasus , or about efforts to make Sweden join the Atlantic Alliance . It is evident that Soviet Russia does not want to venture on war , for if she did she would have struck before the West began to rearm , when the going would have been easy . The biggest risk now is that the Western powers may say or do things likely to make the Russian Government feel that the Western powers will take the offensive once their rearmament is completed . If the Russian Government becomes definitely convinced that such a stroke is certain to come , they will not be likely to wait for it . From that point of view there is obviously more threat in multiplying the scale of America 's long-range strategic air force than in NATO 's effort to build up a ground force and tactical air force for the defense of Western Europe . The planned scale of this NATO force is such that it may suffice to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not nearly enough for an invasion of Russia . It is thus plainly defensive , not offensive , in purpose ? a shield rather than a sword . An adequate covering force on the ground is a better safeguard than to depend purely on the retaliatory threat of atom bombing . An atom bomber is a bad policeman or frontier-guard . It is uncertain of stopping an invader , while likely to be mutually fatal in ultimate effects . But the best safeguard of all is for all of us to keep cool . Indignation and exasperation are primary risks , for such emotions are all too likely to produce a fatal explosion . Nothing can be more fatal than the feeling , . " it 's bound to come ? let 's get it over . " War is not a way out from danger and strain . It 's a way down into a pit of unknown depth . On the other hand , tension so intense as now is almost bound to relax eventually if war is postponed long enough . This has happened-often before in history , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is always dangerous to be too dynamic , and impatient , in trying to force the pace . A war-charged situation can only change in two ways . It is bound to become better , eventually , if war is avoided without surrender .                     