@@476520

was summer , the fruit-and-vegetable bel as the worst outbreak of of central California experienced what virus encephalitis ( sleeping sickness ) on record . Terror-stricken farmers and townsmen hastily packed their families off to the shore or the High Sierras as the number of cases mounted week by week . By early fall , more than seven hundred altogether had been reported ? nearly three times as many as in 1941 , the previous record year Eor this area . Curiously , though , there was not much more than the usual seasonal rise in deaths . What had happened was that California , concerned over encephalitis , not only had put some four hundred medical workers of its own into the sleeping sickness area , but had called in four teams from the U. S. Public Health Service . With the aid of sensitive laboratory techniques , this small army uncovered and reported several hundred low-grade cases that would ordinarily have escaped notice . In short , central California had more reports national income . In no area do we accept figures more enthusiastically or uncritically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mortality rates as an index to the nation 's health , we fix our fears by the statistical alarums of health agency fund-raisers , we peer over the researcher 's shoulder as he tots up the score on a new drug to see whether it should be added to the physican 's armamentariurn . Unfortunately , there are few fields with more pitfalls for the statistically unwary . We have a formidable apparatus for gathering medical statistics . Yet we have no reliable information on , for example , the incidence and burden of many kinds of chronic illness ; most of the figures commonly quoted are little more than uninformed guesses . In other areas the figures themselves may be valid , but , as in the California story , are grossly misleading when taken alone . It is no great exaggeration to say that Albert Deutsch 's quip of a few years back ? " the truth is that one out of one will die " . ? is almost the only medical statistic that can safely be taken at face value . Yet there is no field in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ data arc central to every phase of medicine and public health , from pinpointing the causes of disease to the construction of new hospitals and the organization of medical care . It was accurate information on an outbreak of German measles , for instance , that led the Australian ophthalmologist Gregg to the connection between congenital blindness and deafness and German measles during pregnancy . Lack of data on the incidence and costs of " catastrophic illness , " on the other hand , has long delayed the extension of medical insurance to this area , where insurance is most wanted ; prepayment plans and insurance companies arc only now beginning to venture into the catastrophic illness field , because no one has known how often catastrophic illness occurs or what it costs , and , consequently , how much of a premium to charge . IN ORDER to show how shaky some of our favorite medical statistics are and how little we really know about the nation 's health , we must set down a definition . The word statistics has two related but distinct meanings . To most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ data , whether on births or bankruptcies . Numbers , however , vary in quality as well as quantity ; not all figures have an equal warrant to public confidence . They may be distorted by errors of arithmetic , systematic bias , or the operations of chance . Thus , all of the first ten persons chosen for interview by a poll-taker might , in any large city , turn out to be Democrats , even though the poll-taker avoided known Democratic neighborhoods ; he would need to interview more people or select his subjects more carefully to obtain a more representative sampling of opinion . In the past half-century , mathematicians have devised a variety of ingenious procedures for gauging the relevance and validity of data . Statistical analysis , as this branch of statistics is called , is employed not only for detecting errors in statistical computations of all kinds , including medical statistics , but in testing new drugs and : new methods . medical treatment , to determine whether the tests mean what the experimenter says they mean . We will consider first the gathering of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supporting new developments in medicine . The central agency for compiling figures on the health of the American people is the National Office of Vital Statistics , originally a part of the Census Bureau , since 1946 a divi-MAGAZINE sion of the Public Health Service . Life insurance companies and many other agencies also collect medical statistics , but their figures usually represent selected segments of the population , such as group policy-holders ( who tend to be healthier than the rest of us ) , buyers of straight-life policies ( who tend , curiously , to have a higher mortality rate ) , or annuity purchasers ( who live longer than those who can not or do not choose to make provision for retirement ) . The National Office of Vital Statistics alone draws , for its figures , on the entire American people . NOVS , which also keeps tab on marriages and divorces , performs two main functions in the field of health statistics . It compiles birth and death data from copies of birth and death certificates received from state health departments . It reports at regular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the forty or so " notifiable " diseases , which hospitals and physicians are required to report to local or state health authorities . In addition other branches of the Public health Service make special studies from time to time of the frequency of other ailments . NOVS is ably staffed and does its job competently . Its figures are good ? as far as they go . But its coverage is limited and there are complexities , which are not immediately apparent , in its neatly printed tables . Thus , the reports by NOVS show a decrease of almost 50 per cent in the death rate for diabetes since 1948 . The drop is the tenth , not of a great advance in the fight on diabetes , but of a change in the reporting of diabetes deaths . Cases of diabetes involving arteriosclerosis ( a frequent complication of diabetes ) used to be classified with diabetes ; they are now generally classified with arteriosclerosis , since the sixth revision was made in the International List of Diseases and Causes of Death , the vital statistician 's Bible . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inevitably in the position of the late Lord Stamp , who silenced a Parliamentary critic by pointing out that he could easily have given an " exact " figure for the population of the town under discussion , but he happened to know that the town registrar had been drunk on census day . Like Lord Stamp 's " exact " population figure , NOVS compilations are no better than the often imperfect raw material on which they are based . For four decades , all forty-eight states have required the filing of a birth certificate for every child born . Yet as late as the 1940 census , at least thirteen individuals were counted ( after allowance for deaths ) in every age class , right down to infants less than a year old , for every twelve births on record . The situation has since improved but many births are still unregistered and the NOVS annual figure on new citizens of the United States is only an estimate . With the exception of stillbirths and fetal deaths ( which a recent study indicates may total 500,000 a year instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are registered . The fact of death. , though , is but part of the story ; from the point of view of the public health , it is more important to know what people die of . NOVS ' elaborate tabulations of deaths and death rates by cause ? the most authoritative guide to what kills Americans , if not to the state of the nation 's health ? are no more , however , than approximations of the facts . NOVS ' death tables are based on the causes of death listed on death certificates . In the case of an individual struck by an automobile , there is seldom doubt as to the cause of death . Certifications of accidental death can be accepted even from the Kansas coroner who reports all deaths not due to accidents as due to " coronary disease " ( spelled seventeen different ways in the death certificates he has filed so far ) . But most of us are done in by more subtle causes , which can not always be determined even by autopsy . As a result , the indicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sizable proportion of death certificates . On others , the cause is falsified ; many physicians still cover up " un-nice " diseases like cancer and ncurosyphilis . Additional death certificates can not be classified at all ; about one-fifth of the certificates for the many people with two or more pathological conditions at the time of death are improperly filled out and contain insufficient information to show which condition the physician regarded as the cause of death . Our mortality tables accurately measure the lengthening American span of life and progress in combating certain diseases liketuberculosis and typhoid fever . Beyond that , they are best viewed with reserve . T EJT 's get on to the NOVS reports on dis- eases . The big problem here is that our national disease-reporting system not only ignores non-infectious diseases like cancer and heart disease , but does not take in some of the most widespread infectious diseases . Two-thirds of the ailments on the notifiable list are diseases like diphtheria and smallpox . They arc dangerous and must be watched closely , but they are now rare and statistics of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation . The notifiable list used to include influenza and pneumonia . They were dropped because fewer and fewer physicians have bothered to report them since the advent of sulfa drugs and antibiotics . In the last year for which figures on the incidence of influenza and pneumonia were compiled , four-fifths of all reported cases came from three Southern states , where influenza and pneumonia notification regulations were enforced to the end . The Public Health Service has kept track of flu and pneumonia since then by checking school attendance and sickness insurance payments ? methods that reveal when and where influenza outbreaks occur , but that is about all . Despite their limited coverage , however , there 's a good deal of information tucked away in the communicable disease reports ? most of it encouraging . When the Army began building training camps in the South in 1940 , the Army ( together with a host of magazine writers and Southern officials ) believed that the South had a malaria problem ; for a long time , hundreds of thousands of cases had been reported annually from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troops to come , the Army called in malaria experts from the Public Health Service . The hardheaded PHS men ( long suspicious because the known malaria death rate was inconsistent with the alleged incidence of the disease ) started with a blood-testing program to locate proved cases and define the inalarious areas . The blood tests showed malaria to be , in the American South , a figure of speech , a local synonym for cold or chill . Only a few dozen cases of provable malaria were found . Now all states require laboratory proof of malaria and only a dozen or so cases of domestic origin turn up each year in the entire United States . The best news from the NOVS communicable disease studies is that 1952 was n't the " worst " polio year on record and that polio is n't the " No. 1 fatal infectious disease of childhood . " The total number of polio cases reported in the 1952 polio season was more than 50,000 , an unprecedented number . But there was also a record number of children in the particularly susceptible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were unprecedented inducements ? in the form of polio insurance and more aid than ever from the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis ? to make sure that no case was missed by a slothful or backward physician . It is doubtful if the real rale ( number of cases per 100,000 children in susceptible age groups ) was much different from that in many previous years . In any event , preliminary NOVS figures for the first half of the 1952 season indicate that polio  - -  - fatalities will total about 2,500 for the year ? higher than usual , but below the level for 1949 ( a bad year ) and only one-third the number of deaths in what was really the worst year , 1916 . As to being the " No. 1 fatal infectious disease of childhood , " polio claims many fewer young lives than pneumonia or tuberculosis , and not many more than . rheumatic fever or whooping cough ; and tuberculosis and rheumatic fever are responsible for as much or more disability . III ' N A statement on disease reporting , a corn-mittee of the New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dies but once , but he may have many illnesses . " A three-year study of 1,600 families in Hagerstown , Maryland , made shortly after World War I by Edgar Sydenstricker of the Public Health Service and his associates , disclosed that an individual could then expect to experience somewhat more than one hundred illnesses , exclusive of colds , in a lifetime . The number must be larger now , since the span of life is materially greater . But how much larger we can only guess , because no study comparable to the Hagerstown inquiry has been carried out in recent years , and because we have little dependable information on the incidence of the diseases responsible for the overwhelming majority of illnesses : upper respiratory infections , gastro-intestinal disorders , assorted " female troubles , " diseases of the heart and circulation , arthritis , allergies , and skin disorders . Of them , we know not much more than can be deduced from mortality statistics ? and peptic ulcer and arthritis , to name but two widespread ailments of which this is true , seldom show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerning the equally critical question : how many months or years of sickness and disability do each man 's hundred-plus illnesses add up to , how much of his life will he spent sick in bed or wholly or partly disabled ? Our ignorance is largely the product of a persistent failure to go beyond nineteenth-century concepts in disease reporting . The reporting of disease first began as an adjunct to sanitary regulation ; the purpose was to facilitate quarantine and similar measures for the control of epidemic disease , especially cholera , small pox , and other pestilences . It never occurred to nineteenth-century medical men ? and it still has n't occurred to many twentieth-century ones ? that disease statistics are not simply -- an accessory to sanitary regulations , but are also indispensable tools for research and planning . Hence the continued - emphasis in the notifiable list upon ominous but relatively infrequent communicable diseases , and our lack - of information on the ailments that Americans really experience and on the total burden of sickness in the United States . A number of agencies , public and private , have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special studies . In general , two techniques have been employed : intensive study of a comparatively small group of families over a period of time , and single visits to a large number of families . The former has not been carried out on a sufficient scale to furnish figures applicable to the country as a whole . The latter , when carried out on a broad basis , is very expensive ; there has been , in fact , only one such survey of American health . This was the National Health Survey of 1935-36 , a joint undertaking of the Public Health Service and Depression-time WPA . Three-quarters of a million families , representing 2 per cent of the population , were visited and asked about illnesses lasting seven days or - longer during the previous twelve CAUTION : MEDICAL months . Though defective in several ways , the survey yielded useful estimates of the number of persons in the United States with various chronic ailments and of the disability caused by each ; particularly revealing was the disclosure that the greatest volume of disability , in terms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the disorder about which , both clinically and statistically , we know the least . The findings of the National Health Survey , however , are out of date by eighteen years which have seen not only a huge increase in the American population ( from 125 to 153 million ) , but a substantial rise in the proportion of people past forty-five , the segment of the population most subject to chronic disease . It has been possible to prepare trustworthy new estimates only for the number of persons disabled by illness for three months or longer ( about three million ) , the number with some form of heart or circulatory disease ( ten million ) , and the number with some form of arthritis ( also ten million ) . An inevitable product of the lack of reliable current data has been the growth of a sizable body of counterfeit medical statistics ? figures worked out for various purposes-by organizations or individuals without the resources to gather information directly and without the sense of caution required for the numbers game . An example is the calculation of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the prostate gland in the United States ? which would be enough to provide 1. l carcinomatous prostate glands for every male in the susceptible age group ! Another is a prominent n.eurologist 's estimate that one American in twelve suffers from migraine ; since migraine is responsible for a third of chronic headache cases , this would mean that a quarter of us must suffer from disabling headaches . Still another is the figure of 250,000 often given for the number of multiple sclerosis cases ; death data indicate that there can be , happily , no more than thirty to forty-thousand cases of this paralytic disease in the country . Bogus statistics remain in circulation because we have a low index of suspicion for improbable figures ? and because we have none better . A few states have recently made cancer a notifiable disease . The rest should do the same , and the notifiable list should be extended to take in other important chronic ailments as well . This would provide a long overdue start toward the construction of an acccurate index to the nation 's health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Dr. William McD . Hammon of the University of Pittsburgh and a corps of assistants conducted a test of the blood fraction gamma globulin in Utah , Texas , and Iowa as an agent for temporary immunization against polio . Their experiment was painstakingly designed to measure precisely the degree of protection conferred . To make sure of a fair comparison between children given gamma globulin and " controls " given . an inert substance , the score was kept only from the exact date when each child was inoculated . To eliminate any possibility of inadvertently favoring or discriminating against a particular group of children , the doctors who gave the injections were handed numbered capsules without any visible indication of what they might contain . And the test was executed on a sufficient scale to reduce the play of chance to unimportant proportions . As a result , when Dr. Hammon recently told the American Public Health Association that gamma globulin offers considerable protection for five weeks or longer , lie could be believed . He had the figures , and the figures meant what he said they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ data in reports on many other new developments in medicine . As much nonsense and sloppy thinking lie hidden in the sheaves of " statistical evidence " supporting new drugs and other medical measures as in figures on our health . The results are sometimes ' merely ridiculous , as when , two winters ago , a dozen different investigators reported figures showing that a sizable percentage of colds clear up soon after the taking of antihistamine pills ; the antihistamine investigators had overlooked previous studies disclosing that just about as many colds clear up in the same period of time , regardless of treatment . But statistical muddling may also have unfortunate conse- consequences , as when failure to distinguish between different forms of hypertension delayed by several years recognition of the effectiveness of the nerve-removal operation , sympathectomy , in prolonging life in malignant hypertension . In any event , not all sets of statistical tables arc equally good as evidence on the worth of a new medical development ; one must keep his guard up here , too . A case in point is the belief that early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to think that this is true , but it ca n't be proved by the figures most often cited , those of the Connecticut Tumor Registry The records of the registry , which go back to 1935 , purport to show a marked increase in the percentage of five-year survivals among Connecticut cancer patients , especially in the years 1935-41 . The registry has actually been collecting records , however , only since 1941 ; records for the years before were obtained by tracking back . The registrars had no difficulty locating all those who had died in Connecticut , but others were more elusive ; many had moved out of the state and could n't be found . As a result the figures have a whopping built-in bias ? enough to account for nearly the whole of the claimed improvement in survival rate . One of our most cherished he4iefs is that modern medicine is responsible for the marked decline in the toll of the traditional childhood diseases during the past half-century . It is a curious fact that the decline in two of the diseases ? measles and whooping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countermeasures for them were found ; in another , scarlet fever , it set in more than a decade before the first remedial agents were discovered ; and in diphtheria , it set in well before diphtheria immunization became widespread . Perhaps we ought to give improved living standards credit for an assist . In the past several years , the Public Health Service and a number of voluntary health organizations have spent large sums of moneyon mass X-ray surveys to detect tuberculosis . The universally accepted presumption is that case-finding , as this technique is called , will reduce tuberculosis mortality by finding the disease earlier and will eventually reduce the incidence of tuberculosis by drying up sources of infection . Indeed , tuberculosis deaths have dropped from 50,000 a year to 30,000 in the past five years , the period when the largest number of chest X-ray vans were on the road . But the same years have also seen a marked rise in American living standards and wide use of potent antitubercular drugs ? both factors that could well have a marked effect on the tuberculosis death rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mass X-raying has , in fact , been put to the test . In 1943 , Swedish physicians X-rayed 99 per cent ( a much higher proportion than has ever been achieved in an American community ) of the population over the age of one of Gotland , a sizable island in the Baltic seven hours by sea from Stockholm . Every Gotlander with signs of the disease was placed under treatment . The physicians returned in each of seven succeeding years to check results . Changes in the tuberculosis mortality and incidence rates were practically the same as in Sweden itself , where little mass X-raying had been done . If the Gotland study is to be believed , mass X-raying is a service to the individuals X-rayed and people close to them , but it is hardly an effective method for bringing a costly disease under control . Something better is needed ? as in the case of the other stubborn ailments which comprise the bulk of the disease problem today , something which does n't just " look good , " but can be shown , by carefully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I repeat : carefully compiled and rigorously analyzed data . That 's what we need for sound medical progress . 