@@487625

FOR GERMANY an historical epoch has just come to an end . It began in 1949 when the German Federal Republic made its difficult entry into the world with General Lucius D. Clay as midwife , and its dissimilar twin , the German Democratic Republic ( East Germany ) , , was nursed into life by the U. S. S. R. It ended in Geneva where the Big Four foreign ministers , instead of reuniting Germany as they were supposed to do , confirmed its division for the foreseeable future . In any democratic country such a disaster to national aspirations would have been followed by a parliamentary storm . But not in the Federal Republic . Harmony , reigned as the Bundesrat met to survey Geneva 's outcome . Chancellor Adenauer , just recovered from a severe illness , entered the legislative chamber and took the unprecedented step of shaking hands with Erich 011enhauer , leader of the Social Democratic Opposition . It was , indeed , as though no Opposition existed , as if the interminable struggle between the Social Democrats and the Adenauer coalition which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political life had never , taken place . CAROLUS is The Nation 's correspondent at Bann. - " Where there was debate , it was about the irremediable past , not about the future . The government sought to shoulder the Russians with the entire blame ; the Opposition decision to remilitarize West Germany which had furnished Moscow with an excuse for wrecking the Geneva conference . 011enhauer reproached the West for : not even having put to the Russians the possibility of unifying a " neutralist " Germany , , free of NATO or any other military alliance . In this he was echoing what the London Times , the Manchester Guardian , and the most important West German newspapers have been saying . The Frankfurter Rundschau wrote on November 23 : " The Western maneuvering with half-truths and ambiguities , and the anemic lip service paid to German unity made things easy for the Soviet Union . " Twelve days earlier the Manchester Guardian had written : Why do n't we tell Molotov that we would be prepared to exclude German armed forces from NATO if the Soviets agreed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decisions on Germany as a whole only with respect to federal military policies ? But we did not pose the question , in the first plate for the reason that the federal government an Bomar was opposed to The London Times at one point had charged that no real negotiations of any kind had taken place at Geneva ; a shrewd and respected German commentator had remarked that the West had merely dabbled its toes in the water and had never plunged ih . The Social Democrats had a case to argue in the Bundesrat ; they never argued it . True , 011enhauer gently chided Adenauer for the failure of the Chancellor 's " policy of strength , " but in the same breath he pledged his party , in effect , to support a continuation of that policy . In a speech that could almost have been made by Adenauer himself , the leader of the Opposition warned Moscow that bolshevization of I West Germany would never be permitted and that only a majority of an all-German parliament , constituted on the basis of free elections , hay the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reunited Ger- , many . All this was well and good , provided the shadow of the new Russian ambassador were not already darkening Bonn , Mr. Zorin , who as ambassador to Prague in 1948 was responsible for the gleichgeschaltung of Czechoslovakia , is at this writing packing his bags for his trip to the Rhine . Dr. Adenauer 's illness lasted seven weeks . Neither physically nor politically is he the man he was . His capitulation at Moscow so damaged his prestige with the West that all his actions since have been dictated by one thought : to win back the confidence of his Western allies . That was why , on the very day the ' Geneva debate on European security opened , he decreed from his sick-bed the induction into the new West German army of its first officers and men . That was why he risked ? a break with the Free Democrats ; the second largest party in his coalition government , by " ordering " them to disavow their leader , Dr. Thomas Dehler , who was demanding direct negotiations with Moscow . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stood by Dehler and Adenauer had to back down ignominiously on his ultimatum . The party still remains in the government . Significantly , Dehler 's most fervent supporter in this fight was the largest and most powerful of the Free Democratic provincial organizations  --  the Rhenish-Westphalian Landesverband , led by West Germany 's great industrialists and their nationalistic following . For years German industrialists have been casting covetous eyes at Eastern markets . Before Adenauer 's trip to Moscow , I wrote in The Nation that the Chancellor was a creature , of West Germany 's big-money clique ; can not his capitulation at Moscow , as well as to the Free Democrats , be ascribed to this fact ? ) WITH an eye to Western approval , the Chancellor continues to press for remilitarization . But on certain aspects of his military program , he maintains discreet silence . After two years of preparatory pro-army propaganda , only 30,000 men hive volunteered for the Chancellor 's new army , and of these only 10,000 are fit for service . So say the experts . In order to fill the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some training , is being incorporated . Tomorrow the - Anglo- American Labor Service , composed of 150,000 civilians , will follow . What sort of an army will this be , unwanted by k the ? masses of the German people , and which experts are convinced is useless from a military standpoint ? The fact is that remilitarization of West Germany has been a great success in Paris and in Geneva but in West Germany it has been a failure . Meanwhile Russia begins to raise an East German military force , increasing the unrest in the Federal Republic . Disquiet is spreading among West Germany 's workers , who have much to coniplain. about . They are demanding higher wages to offset inflationary prices . Their united labor movement is threatened by a new Christian labor organization financed by foreign funds . One of their gifted and more militant leaders , Dr. Agartz , a proponent of the nationalization of the coal , steel and electric-power industries , has been dismissed as leader of the Institute for Scientific Economics . Bavarian labor is demanding an , extraordinary labor congress to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all this unrest was manifest at a recent election for union shop stewards in a large Dortmund coal and steel works . For the first time in such an election in the Federal Republic , the workers voted a Communist majority . Meanwhile the Soviet Union 's propaganda machine , aimed primarily at the labor unions and the Social Democrats , is in high gear . Yet the Russians ' success in this effort will depend less on themselves than on the social and political climate within West Germany . And in this connection one is reminded forcibly of the great comeback being made by German reaction , which continues to exert increasing power in the state bureaucracy  --  and especially in the administration of justice . Nazi criminals regularly win acquittals or get off with ludicrously light punish .. ment . As government employees of Hitler 's Reich , they continue to receive pensions while their victims must fight for every penny of the restoration funds due them . Moscow is using every means in its power to secure Bonn 's recognition of the East German regime , and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The newly begun cold war for Berlin is a striking example . After all , one must strike a balance . Having taken due note of the West 's wrongful policy on Ger- - many since the founding of the Federal Republic and up to the agreement on its ' remilitarization , one must recall that at Geneva Molotov , too , failed to pose the questions which Dulles so carefully withheld . One can not safely ignore the dangerous and hypocritical role the Russian leaders are now playing . To accuse the West of fascism for years on end , and then to curry favor with the feudal powers of the Near East ; to charge the West with reawakening Prussian militarism , and then to elevate Prussia 's Napoleonic generals into national heroes in East Germany in order to arouse the vilest kind of German nationalism : where is the difference ? If in the future the German people should surrender to " national bolsheVism " as in the past they surrendered to a Bismarck . and a Hitler , will that mark progress ? This is ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to know where democracy enters the picture , and ethics , and justice . Shall we uncritically approve , when done by the East , that which we have denounced in Western conduct since 1949 ? It is Moscow which struck the weapons from the hands of Adenauer 's West German opponents in that fateful Bundesrat debate . It is Moscow which created the harmony in Bonn which bodes ill for all who feel that peace , democracy and social justice are more than , mere shibboleths. 