@@431595

 | The Man Who Tamed the Automobile FROM the balky horseless carriage that had to be run by an " engineer " to the smooth living-room-on-wheels driven by women ? the evolution of the modern automobile paralleled ( and was shaped by ) the career of one remarkable man , Charles F. Kettering , who died last fall . He was probably the last of the great inventive geniuses in auto development . Kettering passed himself off as a homey " screwdriver and pliers engineer , " but this may have been largely to express his distaste for erudite phonies , the kind of men who , in his words , said , " You can see through glass because it is transparent . " He looked the part : lanky and stooped , with a long , bony face . In reality , Boss Ket was no farm boy turned tinker . He had a solid formal education ( Wooster College and Ohio State ) , and more important , the alert , curious , open mind of a true scientist . ( He was also a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ famous invention ? the starter ? he demonstrated all these qualities . Kettering was then partner in a successful patent laboratory , Dayton Engineering Laboratories Co . ( Delco ) , which had developed and sold to several car manufacturers a battery-ignition system . Cadillac was one customer . When a friend of Cadillac president Henry Leland was killed cranking a car , Leland urged Ket to work up a starter . Kettering knew that a small electric motor could do a heavy job if it only had to work briefly , an obvious fact overlooked by other enginers who could n't get out of the rut of thinking about constant-duty trolley motors . He had used the same basic idea years before to develop an electric drive for cash registers . So Kettering 90 POPULAR SCIENCE provided gears that quickly disconnect an undersized motor from the engine cranked . Kettering 's starter was a success , but not until some soap-opera melodrama had intervened . Ket broke his leg testing an experimental car . Then the only starterequipped Cadillac was damaged in a fire at the Leland garage in Detroit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sickbed , traveled from Dayton to Detroit and put the scorched car and starter back on the road . He went on to supervise auto development for 40-odd years , first independently and later as GM 's long-time research chief ( he called himself " consulting inventor " to General Motors ) . His men developed Ethyl fluid ( engine knock had been blamed on Ket 's ignition system by the magneto advocates ) , quick-drying lacquers , the modern two-cycle diesel engine . and air-cooled compressors and Freon gas for home refrigerators . Kettering was a vocal proponent of cut-andtry research . But his cut-and-try methods required very sophisticated scientific knowledge and planning . You can get the idea from his own account of the way Thomas Midgeley discovered Freon refrigerant : " Midgeley said of the work , We plotted the boiling points , worked slide rules , brushed away eraser dirt and pencil shavings and did all the other formalities that take the place of tea leaves and crystal balls in the life of a scientific fortune teller . ' " After this had gone on for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ... they called F-12 . " Kettering contributed fortunes to fundamental research on photosynthesis ( he called it research on " Why the grass is green " ) and cancer . But the breadth of his interests is best typified by his election as president of both the Society of Automotive Engineers and the American Association for the Advancement of Science .                     