@@492212

VIRGINIA 'S nationally celebrated Byrd machine , which recently won another famous victory . has been variously described as a bulwark against socialism , extravagance and waste , and as the most corrupt political organization in the United States . It has been termed by admirers the salvation of the commonwealth , and by some of its enemies the smoothest-operating and most powerful bit of political apparatus outside the Kremlin . The average American , reading these totally conflicting declarations , must wonder whether United States Sen. Harry F. Byrd , leader and symbol of the machine , is a cross between a cherub and an archangel , or a man who combines the worst trails of Machiavelli , Metternich and Huey Long . Many have seen his picture in the newspapers or the magazines , and have noted the youthful appearance , the dimpled chin , the smooth akin almost free from wrinkles . Hardly anyone would take this man to be sixty-two years old , for he keeps in fine physical shape by means of regular exercise in the open . Senator Byrd is almost always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can flash an engaging smile that has been compared to that of the Laughing Cavalier , ahown in the celebrated painting by Frans Hats . He probably pays a lot of money for his clothes , but the results are uninspiring . He would not win a prize for the " worst-dressed man in the Senate , " but he is no fashion plate . When thirty-eight-year-old Harry Byrd was elected governor , one of his fanner friends expressed the hope that he would n't get " upstage " in the mansion at Richmond . Byrd said he would n't , but the farmer remained unconvinced , " I 'll bet you 'll wear a stovepipe hat in the inaugural parade , and put on a lot of dog down there , " he said . " You probably wo n't know any of your old friends . " So Byrd was the first Virginia governor in a long time , if not the rust in history , to wear a derby at the inaugural ceremonies . Not only so , but later in his administration , when photographed in winter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , lest his agricultural constituents write him down as a city slicker . As one who , as a reporter , covered Mr. Byrd 's office while he was governor of Virginia more than two decades ago , and who has watched the operations of his machine at close range ever since , I believe Jam in a position to give a reasonably fair appraisal of its modus operandi , and to set down its good and bad qualities . Perhaps I should add that although I have criticized the machine editorially more often than not in the columns of the Richmond Times-Dispatch , I have voted for Mr. Byrd and his candidates from time to time . The Virginia Democratic machine , or the " organization , " as its members prefer to term it , goes back to the time of United States Sen. Thomas S. Martin , its dominant personality throughout the early years of this century down to his death in 1919 . Senator Martin was a competent and honest public servant . An unimaginative conservative , he was a potent political operator , and extremely zealous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decade of his life , his machine was in close alliance with that of the late Bishop James Cannon , Jr. , the slippery , tough and brilliant prohibitionist leader , who for several years eclipsed even Senator Martin as the state 's political boss . Doctor Cannon was made a bishop at about the time of Senator Martin 's death , and was given a see far removed from Virginia . This combination of circumstances left something resembling a vacuum in the state 's political leadership . Into this vacuum shortly thereafter rushed a young man named Harry Flood Byrd , a direct descendant of the famous aristocrat , William Byrd of Westover , who founded Richmond more than 200 years ago . Asa nephew of the powerful Rep. " Hal " Flood , of Virginia , and the eon of Speaker Richard E. Byrd , of the House of Delegates , Harry Byrd bad trained with the machine . While a member of the state senate , he led the successful fight , in 1923 , against a $50,000,000 bond issue for roads , and thus became identified with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ star of his fiscal and political philosophy ever since . It was Byrd 's leadership against the bond issue which made him a logical organization candidate for governor , but it is probable that he would not have run in 1925 if Bishop Cannon had n't told him to wait another four years . The conversation between them took place in a New York taxicab during the marathon Democratic National Convention of 1924 . The bishop and Byrd happened to catch the same cab to the convention hall , and Cannon took the opportunity to tell Byrd that he had better not run for governor in 1925 , since " we have decided to elect Walter Mapp . " This made Byrd so mad that , although he did n't want to offer at that time , he decided to do so . He ran and defeated Mapp by a large majority . That event permanently ruptured the alliance between Cannon and the machine . When Byrd took over as governor in January , 1926 , he began one of the most fruitful gubernatorial terms in Virginia history . His machine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the state government in a manner which attracted national attention . He was instrumental , too , in securing the passage of the first state anti-lynching law of its kind , a law which makes lynching an offense against the state as a whole , subjects all participants in lynchings to ebarges of murder , and authorizes the governor to have the attorney general aid in the prosecution and to spend any sum he  --  the governor  --  sees fit in bringing the guilty parties to judgment . There has n't been a lynching in Virginia since that law was passed twenty-one years ago . And strange as it must seem today to those who consider Senator Byrd a spokesman for business and industrial interests , be was a militant critic of several of the most important of those interests during his years in the mansion at Richmond . Specifically , he won bitter fights with the oil companies and with the Virginia subsidiary of the American Telephone &; Telegraph Co. , and he was responsible to a considerable degree for placing control of all insurance rates , except those on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his term as governor ended , and Harry Byrd became United States senator from Virginia in 1933 , he emerged as an early critic of the Roosevelt New Deal . The deficit spending , the Federal intervention in state affairs and the lush growth of the Federal bureaucracy all seemed to him contrary to the spirit of the founding fathers . The social-security system also impressed Senator Byrd as tending to undermine the initiative and morale of the average citizen , and to make him look to the Government for salvation . At the age of fifteen , Harry Byrd had taken over the financially broke Winchester , Virginia , Evening Star and had turned it into a paying proposition . From this shoestring , and by dint of his own efforts , he had accumulated great wealth , including two newspapers and some 200,000 apple trees , the largest privately owned apple orchards in the world . When he saw President Roosevelt urging such things as old-age pensions , relief for the unemployed and aid for the blind and for dependent children , he felt that the national will to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind . He admits frankly that he made a mistake in opposing the program , and he feels now that the requirements for matching by the states and localities have largely obviated the evils which he anticipated . It has been a long time since Senator Byrd bucked any such business elements as the oil or telephone companies . That phase of his activity seems to have ended during his term as governor of Virginia . His great and continuing concern for a balanced budget in Washington is reflected in the fiscal policies of the Virginia state government . The state budget is never unbalanced , for his organization always sees that the appropriation bill contains provisions which prevent deficit spending . While North Carolina issues bonds in the hundreds of millions for roads and schools , Virginia adheres to the pa y. as-you-go philosophy . That explains , in part , why it is one of the states which are entirely free of debt . This policy of extreme fiscal conservatism brings jeers from certain quarters , notably Jonathan Daniels ' Raleigh News and Observer , which recently declared that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Byrd machine . Pointing to the fact that the Old Dominion was once known as the " Mother of Presidents , " the paper snickered that she " has n't even been pregnant for fifty years . " But Virginia 's current condition is really not so uninspiring as the Raleigh newspaper would have its readers believe . Virginia highways are distinctly superior to those in North Carolina , as even the News and Observer has admitted . It is because Tarheelia 's secondary-road system is so very inadequate that its people recently voted a $200,000,000 bond issue . In cultural realms , Virginia has a good deal to be proud of , including the first art museum established in this country with a state subsidy  --  and an extremely creditable museum it is . The first and only state-subsidized theater also is to be found in Virginia ? Robert Porterfield'e Barter Theater , which enjoys an international reputation . It not long ago presented Hamlet by invitation at the ancient Danish castle in Elsinore , the only American theatrical troupe ever to be accorded this honor . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Virginia stands in the front rank or anywhere near it , but neither is it at the bottom , and progress is being made . Among the Southern states , Virginia 's rank in these two fields is not too bad , although certainly there is room for improvement . The University of Virginia leads the Southeast in pure science and is outstanding in law and medicine . In welfare , it must be admitted , the Old Dominion stood forty-eighth only a few years ago in per capita expenditures for old-age assistance , aid to dependent children and the blind , and general relief , but the state does not rank so low today . Another point to be made is that fewer than one in ten Virginians over sixty-five is on the old-age-assistance rolls , as against one in four for the nation as a whole . It appears either that Virginians are prouder than others about seeking assistance or it is more difficult for them to get such assistance . Both explanations probably are partly valid . It must be conceded , too , that there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Various explanations have been advanced , one of them being that the government has been so largely centralized in Richmond that the counties and cities have fewer employees than in many states . In other words , under the rule or the Byrd machine there has been the very sort of centralization at Richmond which that machine decries at Washington . Efforts are being made to whittle the state bureaucracy down to size . Legislation to this end was introduced at the session of 1948 , but it was cut to pieces by the machine-dominated General Assembly , and its already limited scope was reduced by at least 50 per cent . Nevertheless , there has been progress , and more seems to be in the offing . How does the Virginia state bureaucracy compare in scope and cost with the Federal bureaucracy ? The percentage of increase in the former between 1924 and 1942 was considerably greater than in the latter , exclusive of war agencies . During the game period the state budget climbed astronomically , almost as much , percentagewise , in fact , as the Federal budget @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expanded its peacetime bureaucracy much faster than the Federal Government , and its expenditures almost as fast . On the other side of the ledger , it must be pointed out that United States Census Bureau figures show Virginia 's per capita tax collections to have amounted in 1944 to only $26.80 , compared with an average for the country of $42.74 . Only five states had a lower per capita . In general expenditures for 1948 the Census Bureau puts the Virginia total at $58.82 , as against an average per capita of $72.96 for the forty-eight states combined . The foregoing would indicate that down to 1944 , at least , Virginians were taxed more lightly by the state than most other Americans , and that the state government 's expenditures are low by comparison with those in the rest of the country , despite the oversized bureaucracy . Yet in 1948 Virginia became a high-tax state when the General Assembly increased taxes substantially on both personal and corporate incomes . Here we have an example of the compromises which a political machine must make , or thinks it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is reliably reported that Senator Byrd was opposed to yielding to various pressure groups for increased taxes at the session of 1948 , but that this was one instance where his advice was not followed . Certainly the taxes went up , and Virginia , which had long been recognized as a low-tax state , lost that rating . Indeed , last year 's General Assembly was one of the worst in a good many years . Dominated completely by the machine in both branches , it went haywire in various directions . First , the leadership introduced , under the sponsorship of Gov . William M. Tuck , and the specific public endorsement of Senator Byrd , one of the most objectionable bills over to go into the hopper of America 's oldest legislative body . This was a bill which sought to keep President Truman 's name off the ballot as the Democratic nominee , and which left to a State Democratic Convention or to the State Democratic Central Committee the right to decide in advance whether the state 's eleven electoral votes would be cast in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leadership railroaded this far-reaching bill through the House committee with no hearing whatsoever . There was such an immediate outburst of wrath from all parts of the state that it was recommitted and substantially altered . As finally passed , in much-amended form , it was less objectionable , and the power it conferred upon the State Democratic Convention to put another Presidential ticket in the field in Virginia against Truman and Barkley was not used . But had there not been a violent popular reaction against this legislative monstrosity , it might well have passed as originally introduced . The second major aberration of the 1948 session came near the close , when the House of Delegates voted each of its members a $300 " expense bonus , " although the state constitution Carbide any salary increase for members of the General Assembly during the term for which they are elected . Instantly the press landed on the House membership so hard that about half the delegates sheepishly returned the $300 . While they had a technical right to vote themselves this money , they had no moral right to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But it let matters get out of hand again , and lost further prestige in the process . This loss was especially dangerous , since the organization was heading into an important gubernatorial campaign , in which it would need all the power and strength it could muster . The challenge came soon thereafter in the form of a four-way contest for governor . The principal antimachine candidate was Francis Pickens Miller , a former member of the General Assembly who had served as a colonel on General Eisen-bower 's staff at SHAEF in the second World War and had been decorated several times . This former Rhodes scholar and highly cultured student of history and national and international affairs was the most formidable foe the machine had encountered since 1917 . He put on an aggressive campaign and scared the boys half to death , but in the end he trailed their candidate , John S. Battle , by nearly 24,000 votes . Money was tossed about on an unprecedented scale in this campaign , and the sovereign voters were plied with vast quantities of free hamburgers , wienies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beer . Sometimes the results were slightly appalling . At one of the Battle rallies a speaker who had partaken freely of the beer , and then topped it off with Scotch , moved unsteadily to the platform and began a campaign oration . He opened with a story in Negro dialect , and was supposed to proceed from that point to a serious discussion of the issues . But his audience grew increasingly popeyed as they heard him confusedly deliver his entire speech in dialect . " Din yore man will make yuh a fine gov'nah , " were the words which smote upon their ears its the orator swayed gently back and forth on the rostrum . Yo ' all ca n't fin ' no bettah canadate clan ol ' John Battle . .. . " Why did Francis Miller lose , despite his ninni fest assets and the fact that the machine was on the defensive as seldom before ? Not only did he have the hulk of the union vote and the Negro vote , as well as most of the antimachine vote , but a large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Nevertheless , the handsome and articulate colonel lost . For one thing , the voters realized that the legislature was overwhelmingly against him in both branches , and that he would find it impossible for at least two years to put through a comprehensive legislative program . Another reason was that he devoted much of his time and energy to attacking the Byrd machine , but he admitted that he would have a machine of his own , if elected . Another was that he was seen to be the favorite candidate of the labor unions , and he refused to say whether he would urge the repeal of state labor legislation which had been put on the books in recent years , and which was favored by most nonunion Virginians . This legislation had , among other things , prevented several serious strikes on public utilities . Still another reason was that he announced his intention to fire all top department heads closely allied with Senator Byrd . But no analysis of the reasons for Miller 's defeat would be more than fractionally correct unless it took into account @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first place , John S. Battle was the strongest candidate who could have been chosen . A Charlottesville lawyer of the highest standing who had served twenty years in the General Assembly , much of the time as chairman of the crucially important Senate Finance Committee , he possessed unusual vote-getting qualities . No extremist or reactionary . a man enjoying the respect of all who know him , John Battle appealed to the people as safe , sane and reliable . He impressed the electorate with his capacity and his inegrity and , equally important , with his ability to put through a program for schools , health and welfare . Another important asset possessed by the machine candidate was , of course , the machine . In the urban areas , where labor and the colored vote are strong , this was not especially significant , but in t he rural regions , where the courthouse rings are dominant , it was often of crucial importance . That remarkable mechanism , the State Compensation Board , also mile ! have figured importantly in the outcome , although nobody can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the machine , and headed by E. R. Combs , clerk of the State Senate and suave backstage manipulator of the political wires , has control over the salaries of several hundred local officials throughout the state . Nobody has demonstrated that this important authority has been improperly used , but it can readily be seen that a machine-controlled three-man board sitting at Richmond with say-so as to pay increases is a powerful " persuader " for keeping recalcitrant local officials in line . Then , too , the average citizen feels that the Byrd organization has given Virginia honest government over a long period of years . The organization wields immense power , and that power is sometimes abused , but the fact remains that Virginia officialdom has far more integrity than is to be found in many states . Whereas in some legislatures bribery has come to be almost routine , such a thing is literally unheard of in Virginia . True , the state has moved forward only gradually , and at times has seemed to lag behind the procession . Dr. George H. Denny , former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Virginian , remarked a few years ago , " It is a tradition that Virginia 's motto ' Old Virginny Never Tires ' is to be traced to the fact that Virginia habitually refuses to move fast enough ever to get tired . " Doctor Denny did n't elucidate . The causes of Virginia 's leisurely tempo are not altogether obvious . They are to be found , in part , in the Anglo-Saxon conservatism of the state and its people . They lie also in the penchant of the machine for moving no faster than public opinion induces or forces it to move . But whereas a decade or a decade and a half ago a good many Virginians were annoyed with the machine and its leaders for their lack of co-operation with President Roosevelt 's New Deal , the manner in which President Truman has pushed matters much further toward the " welfare state " has made a good many of these citizens wonder whether the machine was n't at least partly right , after all , They see the Federal debt mounting to heights never dreamed of in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They note the ever-growing efforts of the White House to extend Federal encroachments , in the manner of the Laborite government of Great Britain , and the favoritism shown to organized labor . Those who object to these policies view the Byrd organization as a bulwark against such trends , not only in the state but in the nation . The effort to overthrow it in Virginia had nationwide significance , as was shown by the prominence given the recent election in the press from coast to coast . Some critics of the Byrd machine convey the impression that it is headed by a political phony and a rabble rouser , but this is nonsense . For example , the League Reporter , published in Washington , a C. , as the organ of Labor 's League for Political Education , described Mr. Byrd on the eve of the recent primary as " essentially an intellectual racketeer constantly preaching things he does not believe and which his record contradicts . " Anonymous circulars distributed at the same time accused Byrd of selling apples to the Government at exorbitant prices , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ programa , and of buying fertilizer from the Government at half price . These charges were circulated so late in the campaign that Senator Byrd was una his to answer them until the ballots had beencounted . At that time he issued a statement saying that he has never received a check or money in any other form from the Government , aside from his salary as senator . He added that he has never sold apples or anything else to the Government , has never bought fertilizer from it at any price , and has never accepted soil-conservation payments . It is estimated that the latter payments , to which Mr. Byrd is legally entitled , but which he has never taken , amount to more than $10,000 . The above-mentioned accusers of Senator Byrd have made no effort to hack up their wild accusations or to disprove his statements . Actually , the record made by him in refusing to profit in any way from his Federal contacts reflects great credit upon his integrity as a public servant . If everybody in Washington were equally conscientious , this would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criticism of Harry Byrd , it is a fact that he is one of the moat scrupulously honest men in American public life . His machine ie a formidable affair ? yea . It steam-rollers those who get in its way . At one time , although he seems no longer to be in this mood , Mr. Byrd was extremely irascible with those in his own organization who failed to agree with him in all respects . He even suspected them of plotting against him . It must also be said that the Byrd machine has thrived on holding down the vote in Virginia . With a hard core of supporters on whom it could always count , this well-oiled and stem-winding mechanism won victory after victory because so few of the opposition could or would go to the polls . The three-year poll tax , which has to be paid no lees than six months before the election , helped mightily to discourage independents from casting their hallote . The result of thin , and of the general apathy induced by the seeming unbeatahility of the machine , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the weak Republican competition and the absence of widespread dissatisfaction have combined to give Virginia primaries the lowest per capita participation in the entire Union . Repeal of the poll tax by constitutional amendment was voted on this past November , but the amendments were so complicated and contained so many barbed-wire entanglements and jokers that they were badly beaten . Some suspect that the boys planned it that way . They have long wanted the poll tax retained , and if there has been a change of heart of late , it is only because of the imminent prospect that Congress will abolish this admission fee to the polling booth for all Federal elections , and thereby plunge the commonwealth into electoral confusion , with one set of franchise requirements for Federal candidates and another for those from state and local units , Elections in Virginia have been reasonably clean , certainly by comparison with those in a number of other states . True , there has been occasional skulduggery in local contests , notably in 1945 , when poll books were stolen from the Wise County courthouse to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Judge Julien Gunn , who sat in the case for the Richmond City Circuit Court , held that in this election Wise County " was impregnated with political crooks and ballot thieves . " But Wise is in Southwestern Virginia , where sharp practices in politics have always been more prevalent than in the rest of the state , and where absent-voter frauds have long been notorious . The Democrats and the Republicans are evenly balanced in these mountain counties , and the warfare is extremely bitter . Neither can claim to be superior to the other where political morality is concerned . Under the late C. Bascom Slemp , one-time secretary to President Coolidge , and his father , Campbell Slemp , the GOP was dominant in the region , but since 1922 the Democrats have generally been in control there . One reason why elections in Virginia have been cleaner than moat is that the Byrd machine is not only headed by a man of superior character but it usually chooses such men for positions of trust . The sitting governor , William M. Tuck , is a jovial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who likes hillbilly music and has won the respect of the people through his rugged honesty . His action in preparing to draft light-and-power-company workers into the state militia in order to prevent a strike was a highly questionable maneuver , but it led to the adoption , on his recommendation , of legislation which prevented another similar strike through the simple expedient of having the state take over the company and operate it until a settlement was reached . Two other labor measures adopted during " Bill " Tuck 's term are the " right-to-work " act which outlaws the closed shop , and a law which forbids mass picketing or violence on picket lines . These three enactments caused a leading spokesman for the unions to declare that Virginia had next to the worst labor laws in the United States , Delaware 's being " the worst . " Since that time the Delaware laws have been repealed , at labor 's insistence , so that , apparently , puts Virginia at the head , or foot , of the parade , depending on the point of view . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when he appointed 9.4 I III. : V1'talt1111 ' EVENING PIIST January 7 , 1950 an emergency fuel commission , under wartime powers not yet expired , and what he termed his " inherent powers , " and produced suled antial quantities of coal from the strip mines of the Ante , under the protection of state police . Virginia was the only state thus to defy the United Mine Workers during the coal strike . Governor Tuck has done several other notable things during the four-year term which is just ending . He brought about the abolition of ( logging in t he penal system . He also secured the adoption of legislation clearing the way for t he installation of an all-Negro staff at the Piedmont Sanitarium for tuberculous Negroes , despite strong opposition from many white people in that part of the state . If t here is one way to rouse Bill Tuck to furious wrath , it is to insinuate that he goes around with a ring in his nose , said ring being manipulated from the office of Senator Byrd in Washington . Actually , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has devoted less and less time to state matters , Tuck has taken over . He is not a rubber stamp for anybody . Neither was his predecessor in office , Colgate W. Darden , Jr. , now president of the University of Virginia . Like Tuck , Darden refrained from kicking over the traces and going off on anti-machine tangents , but he did his own thinking ut various times , and certainly was not just a stooge for Senator Byrd or anybody else . What of the Virginia delegation in Washington , beaded by Senator Byrd ' ? Is it under the heel of the senior senator , and subject to his dictation ' ? In the first place , Mr. Byrd has not tried to obtain uniformity in voting attitudes on the part of the state 's other senator and its nine representatives . In contrast to the situation which prevails in certain states , where a machine hands down voting orders to all members who will take such instructions , members of the Virginia delegation normally use their own judgment . The best proof of this is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ junior senator , a man of high character and capacity , and a leading student of taxation and international trade . Although Senator Robertson , who succeeded the late Sen. Carter Glass , is a member of the Byrd organization , he has diverged in his voting from the position of Mr. Byrd on at least a dozen major issues . In general , the Virginia delegation in Congress is on the conservative aide . Now that John W. Flannagan , who retired after nine straight terms as representative from the southwestern tip of the state , is no longer in office , there is not a " New Dealer " or " Fair Dealer " in the lot . Nor is there a Bilbo , a Heflin , a Talmadge or a Huey Long in office anywhere in the Old Dominion . More , there has n't been one in our time . Candidates for office in Virginia do n't always discuss the issues frankly , but neither do they remove their socks or their shoes in front of country audiences , as has been done in other states , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Virginia , and race relations are exceptionally good . The over-all average of salaries of colored public-school teachers last year throughout the state wax slightly higher than the average for white teachers Northern papers please copy ) . An episode at the Democratic National Convention of 1924 serves ' to illustrate a point concerning present-day Virginia . The then-governor , E. Lee Trinkle , was suddenly called to the platform to second the nomination of Senator Glass for the presidency . With little time to assemble his thoughts or prepare his remarks , Governor Trinkle rose in his seconding address to the following I I tunderous climax : " No one Cal/ point the linger of scorn at Carter Glass . .. except with pride ! " Unscrambling the foregoing , one may say that it is possible to point the linger of scorn at Virginia today on certain grounds , but that there are also reasons for pride in some of the state 's accomplishments . It is undeniable , however , that the Byrd machine has been in control too long for its own good . Any political organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sure to become complacent , cocky and arrogant at times . Some of the heads of state departments ought to be replaced in the interests of economy and efficiency , and many employees ought to be dropped . But when this is said , the fact remains that the machine has given the majority of Virginians what they want . No individual or group can stay in office long without some sort of machine , and the voters of Virginia have evidently preferred the conservative rule of the Byrd organization , with whose good and bad qualities they are well acquainted , to some unknown and untried substitute . Harry Byrd , Bill Tuck and one or two others make most of the important decisions , and it is undoubtedly bad in principle for a handful of politicians to determine far-reaching policy matters for a great state . Yet if they were ousted , another small group presumably would make similar decisions . It boils down , theh , to the question of which group you prefer . Most Virginians evidently like what they 've got . At all events , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they want to keep it . If it had been a two-way contest between Battle and Miller , the result would almost certainly have been the same . Virginia made its recent choice in the face of a strong trend in the rest of the country against political bosses . The landscape is strewn with the wreckage of the Tammany , Hague , Crump and Kelly-Nash machines . For a time last summer it seemed as if the hour had struck for the Byrd machine as well . That expectation was not fulfilled . The organization headed by Harry F. Byrd and William M. Tuck will eventually be beaten , but after a quarter of a century of dominating Virginia in the well-groomed conservative tradition that has made it known throughout the United States , it is still hitting on all six cylinders . Indications are that it will continue to do so for some time to come . 