@@431568

 | THEY VOLUNTEERED FOR CANCERAt Ohio Penitentiary courageous convicts are risking cancer in a history-making research project that could lead to a breakthrough in the struggle to understand this dread killer RISONER Frank J ? , bank robber , long-term inmate of the . Ohio State Penitentiary in Columbus , and linotype operator for the prison 's weekly newspaper , read and then re-read the official notice which had been handed him to set in type : " CANCER RESEARCH VOLUNTEERS WANTED . " Scientists from the Sloan-Kettering Institute in New York City , the notice explained , would soon visit the penitentiary seeking volunteers for a heroic experiment . " The study 62 will consist in the injection of li cancer cells ( taken from some p son who has a cancer ) into bo forearms of the volunteer ? by n dle injection under the skin . " No reward was promised ; o the cautiously phrased hope that t study might yield important n facts for science 's war against ca cer . Prisoners willing to participa were asked to send a " kite " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Frank J ? rubbed his own arm THEY VOLUNTEERED FOR CANCER 63  | easily . Living cancer cells ? there ? hen he pondered some more ? ' out cancer , about the people he d known who had died of it . lowly his shoulders squared . He id the notice aside and reached for sheet of coarse yellow kite-paper . " Dear Warden , " he wrote , " I want he the first to volunteer .... " Not until his kite was signed , sealed and deposited in the prison mailbox did he return to his keyboard and set the notice in type for age one of the newspaper . " We had hoped , in our more optimistic moments , " says Dr. Chester M. Southam , who supervised the project , " that as many as 25 of the men would have the moral courage to say yes , and the physical courage to go through with it . " Yet on June 14 , 1956 , when Dr. Southam and his associate Dr. Alice Moore reached Columbus Penitentiary for the first of a continuing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inmates were waiting expectantly to play their part in one of the most dramatic experiments in the history of medical research . About one American in four , at present rates , will eventually develop cancer . Most cancer research has been focused on the disease itself , its , uses and its victims . In the Ohio Penitentiary project , the researchers were standing the traditional question on its head and asking : Why is it that three fourths of us do n't get ulcer ? " This was no fishing expedition , " Sloan-Kettering 's director , Dr. C. P. Rhoads , points out . Much evidence had been assembled to suggest that laboratory animals , and human beings as well , are equipped with a built-in resistance to cancer . If scientists could pinpoint the ways in which this natural immunity operates , they might be able to devise methods for strengthening it , extending it and even for providing immunity where it is lacking or has broken down . To pursue this theory , the researchers proposed to compare the effects of cancer-cell injections on two groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be presumed to lack cancer immunity because they were already suffering from the disease , and the other composed of normal , healthy persons . Among the patients at the Memorial Center for Cancer and Allied Diseases in New York City ? of which Sloan-Kettering is the research arm ? there were some who were willing and even eager to volunteer . To date , 17 patients ? men and women with advanced incurable cancer and a very short life expectancy ? have participated in the injection experiments . But where could Dr. Rhoads , Dr. Southam and Dr. Moore find healthy men willing to stretch out their forearms to the cancer-laden needle ? Long-term penitentiary inmates , unlikely to change their location while the project was under way , had a major advantage over other possible volunteers . So the historic appeal for cancer volunteers  | was addressed to the inmates of the Ohio Penitentiary , which is convenient to Ohio State University laboratories . The University 's director of medical research , Dr. Charles A. Doan , cooperated in the study . Of the 130 men who sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first injections . In age they ranged from 23 to 57 ; nine were serving life sentences and the maximum sentences of the remainder averaged nearly 18 years . Nearly half of them were married . When the experiment was first announced , an East German newspaper screamed , " Atrocity ! " A Connecticut scientist protested it as " an impairment of human dignity . " But from the prisoners themselves , and from the kites they sent Warden Alvis , we learned the facts . " My father died with cancer , " one wrote , " and I would consider it a special privilege to do something to help . Thank you . " Another declared : " My sister at home has cancer . Doctors have told her she will never be well again . I want to help in any way possible . " A young Negro serving his ninth penitentiary year told us with quiet dignity : " I 'm an orderly here in the prison hospital . I 've seen men come in with cancer , I 've nursed them as they got sicker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " To volunteer after such experiences required guts of a very special kind . Several of the men gave a different reason . " This is a decision I reached after much thought and a good m prayers , " one of the murder wrote . " I hope I can be of some good to humanity after being no good so long . " Injection day came and the vol teers lined up outside the door of office assigned Dr. Southam . M of them admitted they were scar yet not one man " chickened o The doctor chatted with each in t as he sterilized the skin of the forearm , inserted the needle , then pressed the plunger , sendi through the skin a few drops salty water containing some th million living , virulent cancer c In all , seven different types of c were used . The essential charac istics of each type were well kno The question now was what re tion these cells would produce insi normal human beings . The injections themselves stung only a little , much like any injecti But in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inflamed , hot the touch . At the sites of the inj tions small , firm lumps appear these grew until some were an in or more in diameter . Dr. South worried with the men through t weeks of mounting concern , w the time came to remove one 1u from each man for examination t der the microscope , a procedt known as biopsy . " You can imagine our relief , " I Southam recalls , " when the biopsi showed beyond any doubt that t lumps and other symptoms we not caused by malignant growths  | but arose out of the men 's natural defense mechanisms ! " In each forearm , countless millions of protective white blood cells called leucocytes had mobilized at site of the injection and attacked cancer cells . Larger " scavenger " cells called macrophages had joined battle . Blood serum had seeped into the region , accounting for much of the swelling and other symptoms . most of the volunteers , these built-in defenses had killed off the invading cancer cells within two weeks . In a few cases victory took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prisoners were dead in less than month . These results were all the more pressive when compared with rets from injecting the same seven types of cancer into patients already suffering from the disease . In these patients there was little or no inflamation , little evidence of leucocytes macrophages rallying to the dense . The lumps which appeared at c site were caused by growing , ultiplying cancer cells rather than immune responses . In only two the 17 cancer patients did the planted cells fail to flourish for a considerable period . " Obviously , " Dr. Southam Beres , " healthy individuals have me kind of built-in protection against implanted cancer cells which terminal cancer patients seem to lack . " Can some way be found to entice this natural immunity ? To heIp find the answer , Ohio Penitentiary 's volunteers ? now increased in number to nearly 7o ? submitted themselves to a second and then to a third round of cancer injections . During the second round each of the original volunteers was inoculated with the same type of cancer he had received before . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the cancer cells were promptly killed off . For the third round , each prisoner received injections of a different cancer type . The responses were prompter than in the first round , but not as prompt as when the same type was reinjected . Just what defensive mechanism is it which terminal cancer patients lack ? Tests showed that the cancer patients and the penitentiary volunteers both had about equal quantities of leucocytes and macrophages . Other tests indicated that the cancer patients were perfectly able to manufacture antibodies in the usual way . But for some reason the defensive cells were not mobilized to meet the challenge . One by one , possible explanations were checked off with negative results . Then , early in 1957 , Dr. Southam journeyed to Western Reserve University in Cleveland carrying blood serum samples for special tests to be made by Dr. Louis Pillemer . Dr. Pillemer , who died a few months after these tests were run , was the discoverer of properdin , a remarkable substance contained in the blood which seems to be involved in our natural defenses against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comes from two Latin words meaning " prelude to destruction " ? does not by itself attack an invading particle ; but under certain complicated circumstances it joins with other blood chemicals to destroy the invader . Dr. Pillemer 's laboratory tested each of Dr. Southam 's blood samples , which were labeled only by numbers . Slowly the data accumulated . When Dr. Southam entered the findings on the chart showing each sample 's origin , the results nearly jumped off the paper . All the blood samples containing high levels of properdin came from the penitentiary prisoners ; all samples showing little or no properdin came from the cancer patients . Even more remarkable , perhaps , were the differences among individuals within each group . The serum from the two cancer patients in whom the implanted cells failed to flourish showed relatively high properdin levels . Conversely , the Ohio Penitentiary volunteer whose body had taken longest to kill off the cancer cells was the one with the least properdin in his blood serum . " Seldom before , " Dr. Southam told us , " had I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neatly . " He cautions , however , that the low properdin levels could be the result of malignancy , rather than a contributing factor . Additional research is now under way to illuminate this question . Unfortunately , the supply of purified properdin is extremely limited . " A number of the projects which we are supporting financially , " reports the American Cancer Society , " are now aimed at studying the mechanism of resistance to cancer and what can be done to strengthen the immune response . " Meanwhile the men at the penitentiary are waiting with impatience for the launching of the next round of injections . A long-range experiment , this will no doubt take years , but it will ultimately reveal whether the injections these men are receiv ing can protect them against naturally occurring cancer as well as against implanted cells . Sooner or later , at Ohio Penitentiary or somewhere else , the intensive research efforts now under way are bound to pay off either in effective weapons against cancer or in effective meth ods of prevention . " I hope it happens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and so d the men behind bars . But from ou point of view , this research has al ready paid off . " It has provided all our men ? the volunteers and the others alike ? with a new sense of pride in our common humanity . Equally important , it has helped the public outside our walls to appreciate that prisons , too , house human beings ? men who are still able to respond with nobility when confronted with a noble challenge . "                     