@@491467

ORE than two years ago in Red Wing , Minnesota , an editor of the local newspaper , Philip Duff , decided that the United Nations was not accomplishing as much as it should do , and he wanted to discover why . So he in-vited a few men and women of his acquaintance to get together every other Sunday evening to figure out some of the things which are wrong with the U.N. , and how such defects might be corrected . After these small-town citizens had started their discussions they learned that they were part of a multitude of people in all the forty-eight states and fifty foreign countries who were debating possible revisions in the United Nations . They also learned that this multitude has been shooting at a target date  --  the year 1955 . The Red Wing group is exceptional only because it was started informally and is not associated with some national or international organization . But all the millions of men and women who have been concerned recently about the future of the U.N . have had the year 1955 in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago by the delegates who started off the U.N . in San Francisco . And this is how that happened : When the World War II victors met in the spring of 1945 to get the United Nations going , the representatives of a number of small countries were not happy about the projected organization . They complained that the Big Three  --  Soviet Russia , Great Britain and the United States  --  were trying to put across a U.N . charter in which these giants reserved almost all the real power for themselves . So the Americans at San Francisco devised a plan to soothe the little countries . The American delegates said : " Well , we ca n't change the U.N . charter very much just now because we are bound by the wartime agreements made by Roosevelt , Churchill and Stalin , But we realize that the U.N . in its present form is experimental , since nobody can be sure whether this kind of organization will work . It will take at least ten years to show what the U.N . can do . So we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or charter , which will make certain that the global body can be reappraised at the end of ten years , and that reforms may be considered then in the light of a decade 's experience . " That is how 1955 was designated as the year for a long second look at the United Nations . The founding fathers decreed that the 1955 session of the U.N . General Assembly should convoke a constitutional convention , officially described as a review conference , if a simple majority of its members so desired . The Big Three specifically agreed that this matter would not be subject to their veto . Two years ago the American Government publicly confirmed the promise which its delegates had made at San Francisco by committing itself to vote in 1955 for the review conference . It has therefore been assumed since 1953 that the General Assembly will vote for the special conference at this year 's session , and that the conference will be held shortly thereafter . The number of people who have been preparing for this conference has surely broken some kind of record @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been considering possible reforms in the U.N. , through thousands of discussion groups arranged by dozens of organizations . These organizations range all the way from those which want to scrap the present United Nations completely and substitute a world government for it , to those which do not want to make any changes at all at this time , and believe that the review conference will do more harm than good . For all these earnest students , whatever their opinions , an elaborate effort has been made to provide impartial information . During the past two years the world organization has , in effect , been put under powerful microscopes and scrutinized by specialists from every conceivable angle . Full-time researchers have been assigned to this task by the U.N . secretariat , by many of the sixty member governments and by a variety of private organizations in several countries . In Washington three very comprehensive studies have been conducted simultaneously for more than a year by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , the State Department and the Brookings Institution , a private foundation . Recently I spent several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the experts who have been reappraising the United Nations in preparation for the projected conference . I first met some of these specialists while they were working for the old League of Nations in Switzerland , and I saw them again at the 1945 San Francisco conference . Of course , their number has multiplied during the past decade . They belong to a distinct new profession which has developed since the first World War , concerned with international organization for peace . A number of these professionals have been assembling all available material dealing with charter revision , and it has been a formidable task . The mass of printed records which has grown up around the U.N . is enormous . I was shown the manuscript of a list of documents and of books in a dozen languages dealing exclusively with charter revision  --  and the bare list , merely the titles , would make a good-sized book . One result of these surveys has startled even the specialists who have been closely associated with the United Nations from the beginning . Some experts told me that they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U.N . has departed from the original version . The world organization has demonstrated an extraordinary aptitude for transforming itself to meet unforeseen conditions , despite the obstacles to any changes which were imposed by the wartime Big Three drafters of the charter . The U.N . has broken out of the original mold and has developed along lines which few people anticipated . One veteran of the San Francisco conference told me that he feels like the inventor of a mechanical man which suddenly gets up and walks off by some mysterious powers of self-locomotion . A much more hopeful picture of the United Nations has thus emerged because so many people began to re-examine the world organization . During 1955 the reappraisal will continue . The Brookings Institution alone will publish several books this year outlining the pros and cons of proposed charter revisions . The Brookings staff played an influential role in drafting the original U.N . charter , and in helping to steer it through the political pitfalls at San Francisco . Today , Brookings research is being supervised by former Ambassador Maynard Barnes and Robert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such organizations as the United World Federalists and Federal Union , who propagandize their views . But the most surprising discoveries about the U.N . have been made by a subcommittee of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee which has been surveying possible charter reforms since January , 1954 . This is said to be the first Senate committee which has taken a question of foreign policy directly to the people by holding hearings outside Washington . During 1954 the subcommittee visited Akron , Ohio ; Greensboro , North Carolina ; Louisville , Kentucky ; Milwaukee , Wisconsin ; Des Moines , Iowa ; and Minneapolis , Minnesota . In each city hearings were organized locally , usually by Junior Chambers of Commerce , and were broadcast and televised . Sen , Alexander Wiley has taken a keen personal interest in this project , and presided at all the 1954 hearings . Hundreds of interested persons were given five minutes each to present their views  --  most represented civic clubs , veterans ' organizations , patriotic societies , women 's associations , trade-unions and churches . The testimony taken and the staff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ books and large pamphlets . The American who probably has done most to disclose the unsuspected extent of the U.N . ' s transformation during its first decade is Dr. Francis a Wilcox , chief of staff of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations . Doctor Wilcox is one of those rare officials occasionally found in the world 's great political centers who have become authorities on significant subjects and yet remain deliberately in the background . Doctor Wilcox has held his important Senate post since 1947 , retaining it through several shifts in the control of Congress . He has got along equally well with Republican and Democratic senators of diverse views and personalities . I know nobody else in our Government who combines his book learning and practical knowledge about the United Nations . Before World War II this forty-six-year-old former professor got his Ph.D . at the University of Iowa , in the state where he was born , and then worked in the Institute of International Studies at Geneva . Switzerland . There he acquired an intimate view of the old League of Nations . He thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who were delegates to the San Francisco conference , the late Sen. Arthur Vandenberg and former Sen. Tom Connally . And he sat in on most of the private talks and secret negotiations which were the most interesting events of those weeks while the U.N . charter was being hammered into shape . The remarkable flexibility of the U.N . charter has been brilliantly described by Doctor Wilcox in a staff study made for his Senate committee . The charter has proved to be almost as flexible as the American Constitution , to the astonishment of some of the men who drafted it . Up to 1955 not a single formal amendment to the charter has even reached the final voting stage in the General Assembly , which means that no amendment has got within striking distance of being adopted . Yet most of the changes which were really essential to the U.N . ' s survival during its first decade were accomplished without either amending the charter or violating it . This was achieved by what Doctor Wilcox calls " informal amendments . " The desired effects were produced in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the charter fall into disnsP , or by applying some portions in a manner which the drafters did not contemplate . The most vivid example of an " informal amendment " is shown by the curious history of the United Nations ' so-called " teeth , " its police force . The wartime Big Three who drafted the original version of the charter wanted to give the new organization more power to enforce its decisions than the old League of Nations possessed . So they wrote an entire chapter into the U.N . charter making provisions for a police force . They assumed that the Big Three , at least during th : early ' lit stages of the postwar period , would have to supply moat of the armed forces which the U.N . might need . So they devised a Military Staff Committee to actas consultants to the Security Council in working out I he details for a police force . The Military Staff Commit tee consieted of the Chiefs SATIPIti ( of Staff of the Security Council 's live permit nen ( members or their representatives . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has not succeeded in making a single important agreement during the entire nine years since it was sot up in 1946 . In that year the U.N . secretariat . assigned an impressive sin ff of about twenty analysts and secretaries to assist the committee , originally headed by a formidable array of high-ranking generals and admirals . The members have been going through t he motions of meeting twice monthly ever since , in closely guarded rooms . Their staff assistants have solemnly continued to record the meaningless proceedings and to analyze theoretical problems . But in 1950 , when the U.N . became involved in the Korean war , the Military Staff Committee 's futility was so generally taken for granted that it was not even consulted . For several years , membership on the committee has been regarded as a sinecure for deserving officers who need a rest . So what went awry here ? Political orators at the United Nations have frequently undertaken to answer that question , and usually they answer it wrong . One of the most serious offenders in this respect is Henry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.N. , who is very fond of repeating that most of the U.N . ' s difficulties today can be traced to the innocence of Americans at San Francisco . These Americans , Mr. Lodge would have us believe , trustingly based the U.N . ' s future on their confidence that the Russians would cont inue to be " our close and friendly allies . " But . Mr. Lodge was in a position to know that the Russians never were our " close and friendly allies , " even during World War II , as some of us reported at the time . The Russians and Americans happened to be fighting Germans at the same historical moment only because both nations were kicked into the war by German and Japanese attacks , respectively . I can personally testify that American delegates were by no means so hoodwinked by the Russians as Mr. Lodge seems to believe . During the San Francisco conference I talked with most of the American delegates and advisers , and I did not find a single one of them who expected " close and friendly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was obvious to all persons familiar with the facts that postwar relations with Russia were certain to be difficult . However , there had been a brief period during 1942-43 when President Roosevelt and his Secretary of State , Cordell Hull , had assumed that enough postwar co-operation with Russia could he obtained to make a Big Three police force workable . That was the period when the original drafts of the U.N . charter were drawn . Those drafts had been endorsed with very little change by Roosevelt , Churchill and Stalin at the Yalta conference only a few weeks before the U.N . delegates met on ( he West Coast in 1945 . The San Francisco conference got under way very soon after President Roosevelt 's death , when the war was still on and the U.N . had become the hope of millions throughout the world . There was not the slightest chance at that late date of getting any fundamental changes in the charter by agreement with the Russians . So the delegates were confronted with the alternatives of scrapping the U.N . altogether or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Big Three . EVENING HIST This explains how the myth arose that Americans at San Francisco really counted upon " close and friendly " relations with Russia . That myth has done a lot of harm , because it has created the false impression that the United Nations has " failed " because its teeth were extracted . The fact is that by 1945 influential Americans were well aware that the Big Three police force written into the charter was almost certainly unworkable . For that reason they devoted much thought at San Francisco to possible substitutes for the global police force . The substitute which they hit upon was regional defense arrangements . The recollections of Americans who sat on the inner councils at San Francisco are sometimes contradictory . But there is a general agreement that the embryo U.N . was given an alternative set of teeth only alter a sharp dispute among American delegates and advisers . Some Americans vigorously opposed Article 51 and its supplementary articles which specifically permitted member governments to conclude regional military alliances within the framework of ( he U.N . The opponents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argued that they would upset the big Three police loree . Cut the Americans who insisted upon Article 51 , and got their way , had no confidence in a Big ' 1 : . ree police force , and , in any case , were determined to preserve the regional military arrangements then already existing between the United States and our neighbors on the two American continents . If they had not insisted upon Article 51 , it would not have been possible in later years to organize NATO t North Atlantic Treaty Organizations without violating the charter of the United Nations . Perhaps more important still , it would not have permitted the Organization of American States to intervene in the recent Costa Rica ? Nicaragua dispute in accord with the letters and spirit of the U.N . charter . As matters turned out , Soviet . Russia was the first of the Big Three to organize a postwar regional military pact . Early in 19.17 Moscow proclaimed the Cominform ( Communist Information Bureau , which bound together under the Kremlin 's leadership all the communist governments of Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Communist Parties of France and Italy , which at that time were para-military organizations , with their own private armies , like the Communist Party in China . Moscow 's representatives have never argued that the Cominform was a regional defense system permissible under the U.N . charter , but they could logically have done so . Almost two years before the birth of NATO the Cominform forecast future developments . Of course , the relationships between Russia and other members of the Cominform are very different from those between the United States and other members of NATO . But it can he argued that all such military arrangements are permissible within the framework of the U.N . charter , and that they have , in fact , provided the very " teeth " which the Big Three drafters of the U.N . considered essential . All this has a bearing upon Republican criticism of President Eisenhower 's foreign policy and particularly of the President 's attitude toward the United Nations . One Republican senator with whom I talked recently seemed to believe that the U.N. , as it exists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under Presidents Roosevelt and Truman . However , there is impressive evidence that Republicans have exerted at least as much influence as Democrats in constructing the 1955 version of the U.N . as contrasted with the original Big Three model presented to the delegates at San Francisco . Some weeks ago I asked a number of correspondents who covered the San Francisco conference to name in order the Americans who , in their opinion , played the most important roles there . The first three or four men mentioned by almost all the correspondents were Republicans . There was almost unanimous agreement that Senator Vandenberg . Harold Stassen and Nelson Rockefeller overshadowed their Democratic colleagues at San Francisco ; and several correspondents noted that John Foster Dulles , who was merely an adviser at San Francisco , probably has done more than any other American to reshape the original U.N . charter to fit his own conception of what it should be . The part played by Mr. Dulles at San Francisco and during the following decade has acquired great political significance because of his vast influence as President Eisenhower 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Secretary Dulles has been one of the most fasci- nating aspects of the present administration . It was an open secret after the 1952 election that . General Eisenhower was very doubtful about whether he could get along with Mr. Dulles , and that the latter was appointed Secretary of State more or leas on trial , as a favor to Gov . Thomas E. Dewey , with whom Mr. Dulles had worked intimately since 1944 . The President and Mr. Dulles are not personally very congenial even today . But there is no doubt whatever that Secretary Dulles has risen steadily in the good graces of the President , until his influence in the field of foreign policy has become supreme . There is no equivalent of Harry Hopkins or Sumner Welles to stymie the current Secretary of State when he wants to consult the President . The President not only profoundly admires Mr. Dulles ' detailed acquaintance with world problems but he has gradually been won over to the Dulles viewpoint upon most phases of foreign policy , including American relationships with the United Nations . So the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's conception , and is not likely to change so long as General Eisenhower is President . Mr. Dulles has been a public figure for decades , and has been an inveterate speaker and writer on world affairs , so that his ideas about the United Nations can he traced back beyond the present organization 's beginnings . As early as 1944 , after Mr. Dulles had been shown the preliminary drafts of the U.N . produced at the Dumbarton Oaks conference , he expressed extreme skepticism about the provisions for a Big Three police force . He wrote then : " The ( Dumbarton Oaks ) plan to impose peace presupposes a political unity of the great powers which has rarely occurred and which , if it prevails , will itself assure peace . While the Security Council can he useful as a forum where controversial matters are discussed and where public opinion may focus its pressures , the force proposals little ' , lore than scenery . " In other words , Mr. Dulles had no confidence whatever in the so-called teeth in the pre-clan Francisco drafts of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different ideas on this subject . ill , 1911$ During the 1944 election campaign Mr. Roosevelt declared , " The United Nations ( Security ) Council must have the power to act quickly and decisively to keep the peace by force if necessary . . . It is clear that if the world organization is to have any reality at all , our representatives must be endowed in advance . . . with authority to act , " In 1947 , when Mr. Dulles was first appointed a member of the American delegation to the U.N. , he recalled with satisfaction his disagreement with Mr. Roosevelt on the question of the police force provided for in the original U.N . charter . He wrote then : " It has not discouraged us to discover that there would not he an indefinitely continuing war alliance to impose peace by force , for we did not believe in that . On the contrary , we redoubled our efforts to make the United Nations a moral mechanism . " So it is clear that Mr. Dulles never did believe that the Big Three should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that he was not disappointed when the war coalition with Russia swiftly disintegrated . But Mr. Dulles is not a pacifist . He always has advocated armed forces to preserve the peace . The kind of police force be believed in was restricted to the regional military systems which he , helped to devise at San Francisco . In his hook War , Peace and Change , Mr. Dulles declared that he personally drafted Article 51 of the U.N . charter in 1945 , in consultation with Senator Vandenberg and Nelson Rockefeller . Convinced that the U.N . was chiefly valuable as a " moral mechanism , " he could logically support a world organization without any police force of its own . Mr. Dulles and the Republicans with whom he worked most intimately at San Francisco and during the ensuing decade were chiefly interested in making the U.N . a " town meeting of the world " in which global opinion could he mobilized against future aggressions . These men labored indefatigably to develop regional military alliances " within the charter , but outside the veto , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States could no more afford to abandon the veto in the U.N . than THE SATIUltIEVI ' EVENING NISI ' Rtt is or any ot her great power could , anti I but no American adminietral ion should even consider surrendering its veto on any lineation involving the use of American soldiers . Every move which Mr. Dulles has made since he became Secretary of State indicates that he has not hasicall , altered the conception of the United Not ions which he first expressed during World War 11 . It is therefore interesting to note t hat the 1955 model of t he U.N . conforms much more closely to t he Dulles conception of what . the World organization should be  --  a " moral meehaniton , " buttressed only by regional military alliances  --  than it does to the original Roosevelt-Hull conception of a global body equipped with its own powerful police force , subject to the veto of I he Big Three . In this year 1955 , designated a decade ago as t he proper time to reappraise the United Nations , Secretary Dulles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the decisive factor in the forthcoming review conference . He has favored holding that conference because of the American pledge made ten years ago to email countries . But he has since made it clear that he does not expect or desire the projected conference to make any drastic revisions in the charter . In fact , the 1955 model of the United Nations is just about as far as the present Washington administration is willing to go in the direction of global organization for peace . The U.N . charter 's flexibility , demonstrated during its first ten years , makes it possible for the American Govern ment to obtain , without any charter revision , most of the changes in the world body which Washington is likely to accept , . Already the U.N . has transformed itself drastically , not only in respect to its police force but also in the nggrandizement of the General Assembly and the swift decline of the Security Council . Ten years ago , the Security Council , dominated by the Big Three and their vetoes , was pictured as the real seat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acting as a kind of Greek chorus . But in 1955 the Security Council has become almost as inactive as its Military Staff Committee , while the General Assembly has acquired increasing authority with every passing year . This development suits the Vandenherg-Dulles conception of the U.N . as primarilya " town meeting of the world . " By use of " informal amendments " Americans can get additional changes in the U.N . without any charter revisions . We can , for example , get new members of our own choice into the U.N . at any time we condescend to strike a bargain with the Russians . For two years now , American spokesmen at the U.N . have been very self-righteous in denouncing so-called package deals concerning the admission of new members , by which the Russians agree to accept countries of our choice if we accept countries of their choice . Our spokesmen have loftily declared that such deals would be " unprincipled " and that the application of every new member should be considered on its merits . This American attitude produces more amusement than respect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question . Because , in 1946 , the American Government itself was the first to propose a package deal in the United Nations ; Washington proposed to make a trade whereby we agreed to admit Russia 's two most obvious satellites , Albania and Outer Mongolia . In those days it was Soviet spokesmen who grandiloquently denounced our proposal as " unprincipled . " Today Russia has swung around to our original " practical " viewpoint on the admission of new members , but meanwhile Americans have switched over to the original Soviet toplofty position . This kind of monkey business does not impress other members of t he U. N. with either the sincerity or the common sense of the two great powers . In 1936 the great English historian , H.A.L . Fisher , inserted a paragraph about the prewar League of Nations in his invaluable one-volume History of Europe , as follows : The importance of the League of Nations is that it offers to the world as much world government as the world can stand .... The League can be no better than the member states of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the League provides machinery by which peace may be the better secured and maintained . But , League ur no League , a state which is resolved on war con always have it . And now , nineteen years and several wars after Doctor Fisher wrote those words , it is apparent both in Washington and in U.N . headquarters in New York that the United Nations bears almost precisely the same relation to its member governments that the League of Nations did in 1936 . The serious-minded millions of men and women who are re-examining the United Nations in 1955 are learning that the U.N . ' s importance , like that of the old League , is that it " offers to the world as much world government as the world can stand . "                     