@@188078

Slouching angularly at his front-row desk in the House of Commons , Conservative Prime Minister John Diefenbaker deftly handled some fast-breaking problems of state . With a quick parliamentary shuffle he bottled up a CCF ( socialist ) demand for Canadian recognition of Red China , thus earning Washington 's warm approval . He coolly denied strife-torn Newfoundland ( TIME , March 23 ) the lavish federal aid that the province wants ( leading Liberal Premier Joseph Smallwood to cry " betrayal ' ' and drape provincial buildings in crape ) . Then , as the House droned toward Easter recess , weary John Diefenbaker caught a Saskatchewan-bound jet transport for a few days off on the anniversary of his monumental election victory a year ago this week . <P> Diefenbaker 's year as undisputed boss has left a large mark on Canadian affairs . His " vision of the north " moved toward reality as plans were drafted for new roads , railroads , and air routes stretching into the mineral-rich northland . He improved Canada 's social welfare system , put into effect a long-planned national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a two-month good-will tour of Commonwealth capitals . <P> After alarming some Americans with election-campaign Yankee-baiting , Diefenbaker has emerged in office as a firm and responsible friend of the U.S. His ministers take pains to assure U.S. investors that their dollars are welcome and safe in Canada . Diefenbaker 's cooperation in defense has strengthened the effectiveness of the joint U.S.-Canadian North American Air Defense Command . <P> Through a year of recession , unemployment , and some essential naysaying , Diefenbaker has managed to keep the voters on his side . The Gallup poll reports that 54% of the Canadians like the Tories-exactly the same proportion that voted for them a year ago . Reasons ( as reported by Gallup ) for the Tory popularity : old-age pensions , the government 's record , and the buoyant , aggressive personality of John Diefenbaker.                     