@@493810

RUSSIA 'S ECONOMIC STRENGTH TODAY AMERICAN journalists are fond of writing articles comparing conditions in the Soviet Union and the United States . Sometimes these come out heavily in favor of one country , sometimes of the other . Many of them however share a common defect : they translate rubles into dollars at an arbitrary rate , usually 25 cents to the ruble . This gives us such fantastic , unrealistic items as reports of men 's suits in the USSR at $277.25 , men 's shoes at $85 a pair , and the like . Before Korea , we also used to get comparisons between Russia and American military expenditures which showed that Russia was spending twice as much ? or according to other figures , more than three times as much ? as ourselves . For the dubious quality of such statistics , the Russians themselves are partly to blame . Official production statistics in various basic branches of the Soviet economy are Karl Scholz , professor of Economics at the Wharton School of finance and Commerce , University of Pennsylvania , holds M.A. and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many years devoted much of his time and attention to a study of economic conditions in Russia , and visited the country several times for that purpose . Ile is co-author with Dr. S. Howard Patterson of " Economic Problems of Modern Life , " and has written s al other books on economic subjects and many magazine articles.published regularly by the Central Statistical Administration of the Council of Ministers of the USSR . But the data are almost invariably presented either in terms of a percentage of change from an earlier period or a percentage of fulfillment of the annual production plan . Only rarely are official figures given of actual physical volume of output . This method of statistical presentation of productive achievement may be in accordance with dynamic socialist theory , which views economic activity in terms of continued growth , rather than in terms of absolute data . On the other hand , it may be deliberately designed to make it almost impossible for one without access to basic data to obtain an insight into the actual status of Soviet output , which would indicate the strength @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a foreign investigator to arrive at an estimate of actual production results in various basic branches of the Soviet economy . These estimates may then be checked against intermittent authoritative statements appearing in Soviet publications , which occasionally do indicate actual production accomplishment in a particular year . For example , the gross grain harvest returns in the Soviet Union in 1949 were said to have been above the prewar 1940 level and almost equal to the target set by the Five-Year Plan for 1950 . In 1940 , according to official statistics , the grain harvest amounted to 119 million metric tons , while the 1950 plan calls for 127 million tons . But the official figure of grain output for 1949 was 124.6 million metric tons , which was , as officially stated , above the 1940 level and close to the planned output for 1950 . A recent study of Postwar Economic Reconstruction and Development in the USSR , by Abram Bergson , James Horton Blackman and Alexander Erlich , represents a scholarly attempt to arrive at estimates of production in a number of selected Soviet industries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These estimates are based on a careful interpretation of official Russian data regarding percentual changes in physical volume of output in various branches of the Soviet economy , related to such basic Russian source data as can be discovered . The 1949 percentual changes over 1948 for a number of fields of economic activity , as set forth in the Statement of the Central Statistical Administration , were applied to these 1948 data , to obtain an estimate of physical volume of output for various branches of the Soviet economy . These estimates were checked against as yetunpublished independent estimates of Russian output in postwar years through 1949 , made by the Department of Commerce . With one exception , the Department of Commerce data did not deviate by more than two or three percent from the estimates based on the Bergson study . This exception pertained to estimates of actual output of coal in the Soviet Union in 1949 . More recent pronouncements made by Soviet spokesmen would seem to suggest that the Bergson estimates were too conservative . But absolute figures of physical output in any given year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy at a particular period of time . These data must be related to corresponding production data in another economy in order to obtain some idea of the comparative economic strength of the two . Such a comparison is made for the USSR and the US , for a selected group of industries , in the following tabulation . In making this comparison for 1949 , it should be borne in mind that the territory of the Soviet Union is nearly three times that of continental United States , with a population upward of 200 million , compared with a population in the United States only about three-fourths as large . Moreover , while there were around 35 million industrial workers and office employees in the Soviet Union in ' 1949 , approximately 43 million were thus employed in the United States . These figures on employment should be borne in mind when observing the overall production achievement in various basic fields of production . A more meaningful comparison might be made if the number employed in 1949 in each branch of industry in the two economies were compared with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ currently available . The comparative tabulation appears on page 15 . The basic production statistics for the United States are taken from such official sources as the Survey of Current Business and 1949 Crop Production Statistics ( Bureau of Agricultural Economics ) . For comparative purposes , physical output was converted to metric units , as employed in the Soviet Union . Crude oil production in the United States is ordinarily reported in barrel units . These were converted to metric tons at the ratio of 5.5 barrels ( 430 pounds each ) per metric ton . Short tons of metal production were converted to metric tons by considering a metric ton as equal to 1.1 short tons . Comparison of physical units of output , such as tractors , trucks and automobiles , must be viewed with decided reservations . Such a comparison allows neither for varying horsepower per unit , nor for possible difference in quality of product , a factor which can not be overemphasized . For example , the linear measure of cotton and woolen cloth gives no indication of either the width of the cloth , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patterns . Admittedly models and patterns in Soviet production have often been simplified in order to achieve a specified quantity of output . Comparisons between gross production of grain in the Soviet Union and the United States in 1949 may be accepted only with decided qualifications . Since 1933 official crop production statistics in the Soviet Union have been based on the so-called - biological yield , " rather than the actually harvested or " barn " yield . This change was said to have been necessitated because the Russian peasants were hoarding grain . While an allowance of around 10 percent is made for harvesting loss in estimating the gross crop yield on a biological-yield basis , in the prewar period agricultural experts in the United States estimated harvesting losses at upward of 20 percent of biological crop yield . ( These losses tend to vary , not only with efficiency in harvesting and the use of mechanical aids , but also with weather conditions at harvest time . ) Qualified observers maintain that the current reports of gross crop yields on a biological basis , as published in the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as much as 10 percent . Russia is still very largely an agrarian economy , in spite of the emphasis on industrialization under the several Five-Year Plans ; in 1949 she produced about four-fifths of much grain as did the United States . Production of petroleum , iron and steel , products often referred to as the sinews of modern warfare , in 1949 lagged far behind the'same items in the United States . The production of such consumers ' goods as cotton and woolen cloth and leather shoes was less than half that of the United States . Although Lenin propounded the magic formula " electrification plus Sovietism equals Communism , " comparative data indicate that the United States is much better off as to electrification than is the Soviet Union . In the production of motor vehicles , Russia still appears to be in her infancy in comparison with the United States . All in all , the comparative estimates of production in various basic fields of economic activity support the belief that Russia 's real national income in 1949 was not much more than one-third as large as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a liberal margin of error in the estimates , relative economic weakness rather than strength is indicated for the present-day Soviet economy . That economic progress has been made in the Soviet Union since the inception of the first Five-Year Plan , and particularly since 1946 , is not denied . But as already suggested , the percentual data of accomplishment published from time to time by the Soviet government are rather deceptive , and may easily lead to erroneous conclusions . Only as these percentages can be applied to a given base do they attain any practical significance . When this is done , the inferiority of Soviet production in various blanches of basic industry is rather apparent . One reason for the Iron Curtain may be to conceal this weakness as far as possible from the outside world . The foregoing data as to the relative strength of the Soviet economy and the economy of the United States , based on an interpretation of official statistics , would scarcely seem to warrant widespread fear of Russian military might , which in the last analysis is dependent on economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spend a larger percentage of her national income for military purposes than did the United States ; . but such percentages have little significance unless related to the real income of the country . It can scarcely be doubted that Soviet Russia , with its much smaller real national income than that of the United States , is feeling the burden of armaments far more than is the United States . What to the people of the United States may be an expensive luxury , may be a heavy sacrifice to the people of the Soviet Union . The frequent pleas to curb the armaments race , emanating from the Soviet Union , may be prompted more by economic than by purely humanitarian considerations .                     