@@476629

TIME was when teaching in a university meant first term and then second term , and perhaps a summer session , on the same campus , squeezed in before the beginning of next-year 's first term . Once in a lifetime the professor might go somewhere else to teach for a year . All that is greatly changed now , and if you ask what has changed it , you may receive a variety of replies , but you may also be answered with the single cryptic word , " Fulbright . " Let my own case serve as example . The telegram came on August 5 , 1952 . It asked whether I would go , for the coming academic year , to the University of Athens as Professor of American Literature and Civilization . I cleared with my own university and wired back that I could accept the appointment but for the first term only . On August 19 , governmental red tape having been cut with surprising rapidity , I received official and final notice . ( At the same time my loyalty must have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggest that my life has been blameless to the point of insipidity . ) Ten days later ? having rented the house , bought clothes , organized lecture notes , secured reservations , and settled all other business , as with lawyers , dentists , and doctors ? my wife and I left home , on August 30 . I should hasten to add that this procedure , while it well illustrates the new element of sudden change that has entered academic life , is by no means typical of the way in which Fulbright appointments are handled . There was an emergency in the Greek situation , someone unable to go at the last moment . Moreover , although I had not applied for the appointment , I was considering an application for the following year , and this was known to various people . In any case , we drove across the country and sailed from New York on September 12 . After more than the ordinary vicissitudes of travel , and some resultant delays , we arrived in Athens on October 18 . The term " Fulbright " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , himself a former Rhodes scholar , and therefore sensitive to international cultural relations . In 1946 he sponsored Public Law 584 , Seventy-ninth Congress , commonly called the Fulbright Act . As Department of State Publication 3197 declares succinctly , this legislation was inspired by " two compelling factors : ( 1 ) the need for broader international understanding and ( 2 ) the shortage of dollars . " In certain foreign countries , after the war , there was much valuable property of the United States . The foreign countries were eager to buy these supplies , but lacked our currency . Public Law 584 permitted them to buy the surplus property , not by expending dollars , but by bringing American scholars and students to those countries where they could be paid in domestic currency . A so-called " reverse Fulbright " has also been made possible ? that is , the sending of scholars and students from the participating country to the United States . The ultimate aim , as expressed in another official document , is " to further goodwill and understanding between the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , lecturers , research scholars , and specialists . " Moreover , although the same statement emphasizes scholarship , the most significant factor of the individual 's participation is stated to be his continuing effects or influences " in the direction of ultimate World Peace . " Under the act , agencies known as United States Educational Foundations have been set up in the participating countries . These boards are generally composed of members in equal numbers from the United States and from the respective foreign country . On their recommendation the funds are expended , the programs established , and the candidates appointed . Appointments fall under the three general heads of Visiting Lecturers , Research Scholars , and SpeCial Categories . The first are generally professors of established reputation in sonic American university . Research scholars may range from people who might equally well he Visiting Lecturers to modestly compensated " f unior Fulbrights , " who are young graduate students . Under Special Categories fall librarians , social workers , and specialists in many other fields . Teachers , typically at the secondary-school level , are also sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less than twenty-six countries , al- though those with China and Korea have recently been ( for obvious reasons ) suspended . Even at the risk of compiling a mere catalogue , the countries should be listed , for by their very names they display the far-flung nature of the enterprise , and suggest the importance of this two-way cultural influence . In Europe the participating countries include Austria , Belgium and Luxembourg , Denmark , Finland , France , Germany , Greece , Italy , the Netherlands , Norway , Sweden , and the United Kingdom . In Asia the alphabetical list runs from Burma , through Ceylon , India , Iran , Iraq , Japan , Pakistan , the Philippine Islands , and Thailand , to end with Turkey . Australia and New Zealand bOth participate . The continent of Africa , with only Egypt and the Union of South Africa included , might seem to be slighted , but actually most of it is brought within the range of action because the colonial depencies of participating countries are included . The arrangements are in general set up on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left to run in most countries . The number of appointments varies with the countries , being affected by a number of factors . it is highest , as might be expected , for the United Kingdom , France , and Italy . In 1951-2 the program for the first of these-countries , including its colonial dependencies , called for thirty-two Research Scholars and twenty-eight Lecturers and Specialists . The figures for France were thirty and twenty ; for Italy , twenty-three and twelve . Some of the smaller countries , however , took unexpectedly large quotas . Egypt accommodated eight and fifteen ; Norway , seven and ten . Greece , too , ranks higher in the list than one would expect of a country with a population of seven and one-half millions , smaller than that of New York City . 1 N ATHENS I found a university valiantly struggling to recover from the ravages of war , and a program in American studies which had to be created rather than continued . But , as Scott puts it , " ' twcre vain to tell " the petty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Dean with an interpreter , scheduling classes , and locating rooms . It ended by my having three classes , for nine hours of teaching , and one public lecture weekly . At least this was no sinecure ! On the other hand , the late date of starting , Christmas vacation , and a special vacation on account of the Greek elections . all reduced the number of teaching weeks to such a small figure that I can lay no claim to having been overworked . Almost immediately I discovered that most of the students did not know English well enough to do much reading in literature . I therefore decided to emphasize the " civilization " rather than the " literature " of my double-barreled title , and was thus put into the paradoxical position of trying to teach civilization to the Athenians . I ended up by devoting most of my time to American geography and history , because of the obvious utility of these subjects when the students should become teachers of English in Greek secondary schools . The students themselves were delightful . They were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but most of them about the age to be expected of American freshmen and sophomores . They could . of course , like any students , be irritating at times . Greeks like to talk , and periodically , in response to some petty stimulus , the whole class would break into floods of an unintelligible tongue . Then I would have to struggle to get them back into English . The language problem was always a difficult one and made every hour 's teaching the equivalent in labor of two or three at home . The students had learned English by all sorts of means , one of them merely by listening to radio broadcasts from London . The amazing thing was that they could handle the language at all , not that they had difficulty with my American speech . But they were in general eager , polite , and intelligent . One American assured me , " There are no dumb Greeks ! " While I distrust even complimentary generalizations about a- whole race , my experience at the University of Athens would lead me to confirm this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few weeks were available to me , the actual amount of teaching that I could do would not be very important . Of greater moment would be the organizing of a program and the establishment of good relations with the students , both of which I could pass on to my successor . So , as part of this plan and after some hesitation , I decided to invite each of the classes to a Sunday afternoon at my house , with refreshments . This was a somewhat revolutionary procedure , and might not even have been approved by the university authorities if they had known of it . In Greece the continental tradition holds , and a professor is a thing apart from and above his students . Moreover , the straitened postwar finances of the country are reflected in low salaries for professors , and most of them simply can not afford to entertain . Each of the afternoons turned out to be a tremendous success . In spite of his postwar poverty , the Greek never omits to be polite , and so my wife and I were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of flowers was delivered with the compliments of the class . At the proper hour the students arrived , almost wholly in a body . After a few moments of stiff formal conversation in English , we showed them into the dining-room , and like true students everywhere they fell upon the food . They also drank moderately of the mild Greek wines and liqueurs . When the food had been consumed ? I speak literally ? we returned to - the other room . Now things had loosened up , and the conversation was more animated and easy . They looked at pictures of our house in the United States and of our children . It ended by their sitting on the floor singing Greek folksongs in magnificent voices and with a full distribution of parts . Upon my final departure from Greece I was again much touched ? remembering their poverty ? when each of the classes presented me with a farewell gift . The small framed watercolor of the temple of Zeus hangs now in my living room , and the copy of a little Greek vase stands nearby . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more about the whole Fulbright set-up in Greece . The U. S. Educational Foundation had its headquarters in Athens , and from the office of its chairman , Maurice S. Rice , the lines of its influence radiated outward . Besides myself , there were six lecturers at work . One of these was Merle Rife of Muskingum College , my colleague at the University . Three were at the University of Salonika , and two others in specialized work in Athens . Three Americans held research appointments ? a numismatist , a historian , and a New - Testament scholar . There were seven at the graduate-student level . In addition , thirty Americans were variously distributed in other kinds of work ? as librarians , in connection . with the YMCA and YWCA , and , mostly , as teachers in schools of the secondary level . Some of these last were attached to the four private schools that have always been under considerable American influence , but eight teachers were actually functioning in the Greek public-school system . As someone put it , " Scratch a cultural activity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the foundation did not even cease at this point . No less than $70,000 was expended in the course of the year on scholarships for Greek students at the four private institutions already mentioned . The education of some 250 young Greeks was thus facilitated . And at the same time , under sponsorship of the foundation , sixty-eight Greek students were studying in the United States . Of all these varied activities the one that seems the boldest and to call the most for special comment is the new practice of sending American secondary-school teachers to the gymnasia in various smaller Greek cities . It ? was a bold experiment and might well have failed . Most of the provincial Greek towns are very dull , few people speak English , the standards of living are vastly different from our own . There was a very good chance that a young American suddenly isolated in such an environment simply could not take it . But , on the whole , the program turned out to be a brilliant success . The work of these teachers has made certain that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only by the Athenian ( who is a good deal of an international anyway ) , but also by the grass-roots Greek of the provinces . As Justice Douglas pointed out in Beyond the High Himalayas , really to get at a people we must work at the village level . These Fulbrighters in Greece were not quite in the villages , but they have shown that Americans can successfully move in that direction . I N SIMILAR fashion one phase of my own work took me away from Athens and into the provinces . I had scarcely arrived when William Weld , the cultural attach ? and a member of the Educational Foundation , approached me with the idea of giving lectures in various Greek towns . I took a dim view of the matter . I had been advised by friends that the project was scarcely worth my energy ; like most professors , I knew how outside lectures can sap a man 's time and strength and generally seem to accomplish little . In the end I let myself be persuaded , more because the novelty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accomplishing any great good . First , I had to write a lecture . 1 took as my subject The Influence of Greece upon the United States . " My idea was not to talk of the general influence of Greek civilization upon the Western world , but rather upon its specific influences in the United States , such as the effects upon our architecture , names , and literature . The language raised a particular problem . My audiences would know little English , and my own Greek was definitely at the stage of " **28;865;TOOLONG . " So we had my lecture translated , and then with my teacher I worked at perfecting myself well enough to read the first ten minutes of it in Greek . This was about as artificial as learning a part in a play , but I thought it worthwhile to make the gesture , because Greeks are not accustomed to having Americans try to learntheir language , and would be correspondingly pleased . Then , just before Christmas ? armed with manuscripts in Greek and English and with interpreters arranged for ? I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Patras and Pyrgos in the southwest ; Rhodes in the Dodecanese off the coast of Turkey : and Kaballa and Salonika in the north . I ended by feeling not only that these lectures were among the most interesting of all my doings as a Fulbrighter , but also that they were perhaps the most useful . Twice I read the lecture altogether in Eng Iish , presenting a paragraph or two , and then pausing while the Greek interpreter read from his text . Three times I read my introductory section in Greek , and here I shall state ( recalling Churchill 's immortal ten-ad ) that if I have never shed blood or tears in the cause of Greek-American amity , I have at least expended a great deal of toil and sweat . I certainly hope my audiences appreciated the gesture . It was the hardest , working gesture in which I ever indulged . One Greek-American friend paid me a high compliment upon my performance . He said , " I understood every word you said , and sometimes it sounded like Greek . " M @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps the most typically Greek . The others can be considered as variations . Pyrgos is a town of some fifteen thousand people , in the ancient territory of F.lis , close to Olympia . It is not a prosperous town even for Greece , and this means that by our standards it is indescribably poor . As usual , the U. S. Information Service had sponsored the lecture , and had made efficient arrangements in advance . We made a long day of it by visiting Olympia first , and finally pulling into Pyrgos about five o'clock . It was a chilly , drizzly day , and the town offered little in the way of hotel or restaurant . So we had been invited to take tea with one of the leading families . Their hereditary business was the export of currants , but they had recently shifted to rice , which is now being grown in the district as the result of the work of American agricultural experts . Tea-dine was a memorable experience . There was real Greek courtesy and consideration , and plenty of real Greek food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , came to have tea also , and proved highly intelligent and agreeable . All four of the grown-up children spoke English , and the younger son , in his lieutenant 's uniform , made the world shrink even beyond its proverbial smallness . We Californians met him in Pyrgos where he had just returned from being attached to an American division in Korea . Then we all went to the lecture-hall . It ? was the best place in town , a very bare and barn-like room indeed , but seating about two hundred , on benches . It was full , and people were standing . Their clothes showed the poverty that is all but universal in Greece . They were mostly men ; even yet , oriental customs have a strong hold in provincial Greece . All the local dignitaries were there . The nomarch sat on the platform to make the introductory speech . The mayor was there too , along with the . interpreter and Nelson Stephens , the U. S. Information Service representative for that area of Greece . In the front row sat that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , magnificent with long black beard , flowing robes , and colorful insignia . First the nomarch spoke . Being a true Greek , he spoke fluently and at length . My wife , in the balcony , whispered to one of the daughters we had met at tea-time : " What 's he saying ? " The reply was : " He is telling what your husband has done . " Ten minutes later my ever-loyal spouse whispered again : " Well , he ca n't still be talking about my husband ; George has n't done that much ! " However that may be , I eventually got the floor . Scarcely anyone in the audience understood English , and they soon developed a routine . When the interpreter talked , they listened intently . As soon as I began , they relaxed with an audible rustle , and began ? quite naturally and not at all disrespectfully ? to clear their throats and blow their noses . The exceptions were a few young boys , whom I took to be students of English . They were scattered here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eyes on their progeny during the periods of my own speaking . From the strained looks on those youths ' faces I doubted whether they understood much , but at least they could pick up the Greek that followed , and so the parental pride need not be deflated . I concluded , and then the interpreter concluded , and then came the applause . I thought it was over , and was ready to make my break from the platform . But the bishop was on his feet . He was speaking formally and with great dignity . I could not follow his Greek , but the occasion reminded me so much of- the awarding of a degree to a commencement speaker at the university that I momentarily imagined I was being created an honorary archdeacon . I believe , however , he was only giving some kind of official commendation and thanks . Finally we adjourned to the balcony and there the town notables assembled for a slight collation with Greek brandy and ouzo . ( If you have been to Greece you will know ouzo ; if not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I have decided the lectures served a good purpose . Whether , considered as high-level propaganda , they helped to prevent anyone 's conversion to communism or to aid his reconversion , I would not know . They showed a certain number of Greeks , however , that an American professor was willing to take the trouble to come to speak in their towns , and Greek respect for a professor is very high . Such lectures ? others of the Fulbrighters also gave them ? may likewise help to show that the United States is interested in other things than the purely material ones . The reception of the lectures was flattering . The halls were full ; sometimes people were standing , and at Patras and Pyrgos a number had to be sent away for lack of even standing room . Local dignitaries turned out regularly , and some of them always sat on the platform along with the American representatives . At Kaballa ? not far from the Bulgarian border and a Communist center ? the major-general commanding the area attended , and a large number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At Salonika the patriarch himself , although unable to attend , was careful to send his regrets . The lectures were well reported in the local papers . In one city the demand was so great that the U. S. Information Service had the Greek text mimeographed for distribution . In another city the text was published in the newspaper . A THOUGHTFUL man can scarcely return from Greece without feeling that the Fidbright program there is tremendously important and successful . Granted it has some shortcomings and some individual weak spots , the general conclusion can stand . As elsewhere , the program in Greece works in two ways . It enables Americans CO know Greece and Greeks , and it enables Greeks to know Americans . The contacts , moreover , are deeper than those of the tourist level , In the course of months they are established as living contacts , cultural contacts , and working contacts . In such international relationships the danger is always , of course . that the result may he bad , not good . In getting to know each other , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end in dislike and lack of mutual respect . Too often some such distressing situation has resulted , or seems to be developing , in countries where large numbers of Americans have been engaged on missions of various kinds ? thus giving the Communist propagandists their excuse to raise the cry of " the American occupation . " Our missions ? economic , military , and other ? have done incalculable good in reconstituting the war-shattered systems of many nations , but they have also piled up a stupendous debit of bad personal feeling . Proud peoples have too often felt themselves treated like " natives . " American colonies have fenced themselves in with invisible wire ? ridden in their own buses , bought at the PX , eaten in their own restaurants , sent their children to American schools , learned not a word of the language of the country , gathered in their own clubs . While I was in Athens a story circulated about an American woman who had been there for a year or more and had never seen any Greek money . When someone showed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( except that he probably said " dracks , " in the usual American fashion ) , she replied , " What are they ? " I can not vouch for the accuracy of the story , but it may well be true . It would certainly be possible , for in Greece many Americans are paid in dollars and spend them at the Post Exchange and the snack-bar in the Tameion Building . . On the other hand , the Fulbrighter ? by the very terms of his appointment ? is largely kept out of such an artificial situation . He is paid in drachmae and rarely sees a dollar . In Athens ' we called ourselves the members of a mythical alphabetical set-up ? the AWOP 's , meaning Americans Without Privileges . We could not use the Army Post Office . We could not use the PX , actually a considerable financial hardship . We could not use the Mission buses , except by bluffing with our American clothes to get on , hoping we would not be thrown off . I developed something of a Greek 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coffee there , though I might have broken one of the six dollar hills I carried in my wallet . ( Be-. sides , when in Greece , I would rather sit in a street caf ? and drink Greek coffee . ) Such a situation may have a tendency to develop a slight paranoia in the Fit ! brighter , but at least it helps develop a sympathy with the people of the country . In addition , the Fu ! bright ranks are recruited from teachers and scholars , those classes which are most carefully trained to appreciate other people 's points of view and to be interested in their customs and history . The Fulbrighters , if they have not remade economies and armies , have at least spread good will , and ? I think ? very little bad will . They have not been primarily missionaries or do-gooders . If they had been or had attempted to be , they would have been less successful . On the other hand , they have not been exploiters . In contrast to the salaries and living-allowances received by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the currency of the country , and sometimes ends the year with a deficit , which he has to make up expending whatever dollar-savings he may have had at home . If you ask various Fulbrighters why they are on their jobs , you will get various answers . Those on research appointments can simply say they are doing their own research and are essentially working in line with their own careers . The teachers will most likely say they want the experience of living and working abroad , that they want to get out of their rut at home , that they enjoy learning about a foreign people . Rarely will one of either kind say that he wanted to " h el p " the foreign country , carry on propaganda against communism , or spread American ideals . Largely , I think , because he is not a professional in any of these departments , he actually manages to accomplish a considerable amount in all of them . 