@@493869

CHURCHILL 'S TASK WNSTON CHURCHILL is once again Prime Minister of Great Britain . We suspect that he could be elected President of the United States . It is not for us to rejoice or to weep at the downfall of the Labour Party . It is to help free Churchill to act on a world scale , so that his bold imagination and incomparable prestige can serve world peace as in the days of the Grand Alliance . In those days Churchill and Roosevelt led the free nations . Together they established a working union of Britain and the United States . Every phase of our combined effort was jointly managed then . Every major decision was jointly arrived at , as the Hopkins papers and Churchill 's own memoirs show . The tragic failure was that this partnership was personal , to two great and congenial men . They did not prepare their peoples to perpetuate the unity they achieved . When the war 's end coincided with Roosevelt 's death and Churchill 's defeat , Britain ceased to be an equal partner and fell in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ critical US for aid . In the days of Roosevelt and Churchill , world policies were made in the White House and at 10 Downing Street by two men with the highest degree of mutual respect . In contrast , Attlee and Truman lacked the self-confidence in foreign affairs to develop a similar relationship . So policy-making reverted to the State Department and the Foreign Office whose traditional , institutionalized approaches prohibited a partnership that was vital and alive . America fell into the illusion of unlimited sovereignty ; Britain into the illusion of Socialist self-sufficiency . We lacked the skill , Britain lacked the resources , to provide in separation the leadership we provided together . In separation , both nations were befuddled by isolationism , the nagging , unconstructive isolationism that soiled the pages of Socialist papers like the New Statesman and of our press . British Socialists feared that partnership with capitalistic America could jeopardize their autarchic schemes . American tories feared the contagion of the welfare state . Labourites won votes by harping on the unreliability of an independent US . Republicans seized on Labour 's inability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Fair Deal . So the weaknesses caused by separation were exploited to drive the United States and Great Britain much further apart . Despite these irritants , both peoples have recognized their dependence on each other . In recent months , the false tensions of conflicting ideologies have lessened . In the heat of election , Labour candidates tried to make use of anti-American sentiment and to corner the hopes of Britons for peace in a way that was illegitimate , since Labour could not guarantee peace and the Tories did not countenance war . Churchill stood fast on Anglo-American partnership . To that extent his victory is a gain and permits more rapid progress toward union . But this gain will be more than offset if Churchill becomes the prisoner of a deepening economic crisis . The Conservatives , in opposition , supported Labour 's foreign policy . The responsible leaders of Labour , for whose achievements in government the free world stands in debt , will certainly try to support in opposition the programs which they initiated . But they may well have lost control of their party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must rise . The trade unions , which acted with great restraint while their comrades ruled in Whitehall , must press wage claims and threaten strike action . And pressed by the dynamics of opposition , the gifts of Aneurin Bevan and the slim margin of the Conservative majority , the Labour Party may reverse itself on Britain 's foreign policy and obstruct necessary developments in Anglo-American co-operation . There are many aspects in American politics today which British Socialists can not and should not stomach . They are , we believe , superficial irritations , which will diminish if a positive and dynamic program of Anglo-American unity gives reasonable people a rational hope . Without this , hope , intolerance and extremism may flourish in both parties and do great damage . All this means that the full restoration of the Anglo-American partnership should follow hard on Churchill 's victory if both are not to turn sour . The first great problem to be overcome by combined action is Britain 's economic crisis . It is a crisis of inflation , intensified by rearmament and by Labour 's obsessive fear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clearly to the decline of enterprise among the businessmen who staff the Conservative Party , as to Labour 's inflationary bias . As Colin Clark wrote recently : Not merely the British Government but virtually the whole British people , its major parties and its press , has allowed itself to cherish three economic illusions ? each taken singly is extremely serious , and the three in combination are fatal . They are Cheap Food , Limitless Taxable Capacity , and Rapidly Increasing Productivity . Cheap food was maintained under Labour by subsidies . These subsidies , costing $1.5 billion each year , have become unmanageable as the terms on which Britain exchanges her exports of industrial products , for her imports of food and raw materials have turned against her . The shift is certain to continue as the world 's population outstrips its food supplies and the food and raw-material producing areas , cut loose from imperial control , trade on their own terms . Britain must eliminate her food subsidies , according to the Economist , or raise taxes by another $1.2 billion next year . And Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Clark argued , and Keynes agreed , that 25 percent of the national income was the outer limit which taxation should be allowed to reach . lip to that limit , Clark maintained , taxes countered inflation by curbing purchasing power . Beyond that limit , taxation intensified inflation by destroying all incentives to work harder , to raise productivity and to produce more . Yet in no postwar year did taxes in Britain fall below 40 percent of the national income . They represent 47 percent of Britain 's income today . Clark concludes : The inflationary forces which this excessive taxation let loose have been held in check by the force of public opinion , by vigorous controls and by favorable external trading conditions . These temporary barriers will shortly all be swept away , and Britain will have to face the full consequence of the attempt to impose taxation at the rate of 40 percent of national income , to which proposal no serious opposition came from any political party . Rapidly increasing productivity is the third illusion noted by Clark . Raising productivity is one long-term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present , as officials had hoped it would , to offset Britain 's worsening terms of trade . Productivity in Britain , according to Clark , has risen only five percent above prewar levels . The immediate impact of inflation in Britain is the loss of gold and foreign-exchange reserves , the life-blood of the sterling area In the third quarter of this year , Britain 's reserves fell by $600 million to $3.2 billion , wiping out the hard-won gains achieved since devaluation . Losses are unlikely to continue at this rate , but by next autumn Britain 's reserves may be approaching the $2 billion mark , below which they can not be allowed NSW REPUBLIC to fall . Six months before then , Churchill will have to take some decisive step to arrest the decline . One factor in this deepening crisis is Britain 's shortage of coal . If Churchill can dramatize the issue as he did in wartime , he may be able to cut down absenteeism in the coal mines which keeps 83,000 British miners idle on a given working day . But raising productivity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solution . With considerable courage , Britain 's Labour Government set out on a major rearmament program and held to it despite Bevan 's resignation . Whether or not Bevan was right in asserting the program was too large , it has shrunk already due to rising prices . Labour leaders refused to cut it further . They established for Britain a harsh list of priorities in which the defense program came first , followed in turn by the export drive , the capital-investment program and , last , the maintenance of civilian standards . The Labour Government declared simply that if Britain 's reserves fell to a minimum level , the drive to increase exports would have to replace rearmament as the top priority . It is not easy for Britain to increase exports . Her capital-investment program has been starved for 10 years , while factories and equipment age . Civilian consumption in Britain remains close to minimum levels . This year , for example , 80,000 cars were sold to British citizens ; that is one-twentieth as many per citizen as were sold in the United States . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welfare and education be further reduced . And if expenditures on transfers of wealth , such as the food and rent subsidies , are cut , prices will rise sharply and the pressure for wage increases will mount . Even with a majority of 80 or more , it would have been hard for the Conservatives to resist the pressures of housewives and workers which could lead to further devaluation and rapid inflation . With the slim majority that Churchill holds , action to reduce the subsidies and to hold the line on wages becomes almost impossible in the absence of US aid . Without aid the construction of a realistic budget next year is a task beyond Churchill 's present power . A cutback in British rearmament becomes almost inevitable , and that , General Eisenhower has stated , would be a gamble with world peace . For this reason , the restoration of the partnership means , in the first instance , generous US aid . Hugh Gaitskell , on his recent trip to Washington , asked the US simply to provide some weapons for British soldiers , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to regularize US purchases of raw materials to prevent the wild swings in material prices that upset the sterling area . None of these steps is enough , and further discussions were barred during Gaitskell 's visit by the wooden mentality of Secretary of the Treasury John Snyder . The issue should be reopened right away . By now it is clear that the favorable trends of 1950 which led to the suspension of ECA aid for Britain were superficial and temporary . As in the case of UNRRA , ECA aid for Britain was cut off too soon . Neither military nor economic aid can be taken out of the present mutual security appropriations since these have already been slashed and represent programs already scheduled in Europe . Further economic aid must be granted Britain next year to prevent a run on sterling as reserves waste away . The grant should be proposed no later than in the President 's January State of the Union message . For political reasons alone , Republicans should support this aid . ? The need , and the positive advantages for both nations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when Congress reconvenes . The appeal of the partnership for economy-minded Americans and weary and divided Britons rests on its ability to indicate a new program for peace . Basic in that program , we believe , are two bold , Churchillian strokes : first , to carry through European federation ; second , to start new negotiations on atomic-energy control with the USSR . On European federation , the Labour Government was always hesitant and weak . It clung to traditional British policy of resisting the consolidation of continental Europe . This policy was designed to prevent Germany 's domination of Europe and to maintain Britain 's role in the balance of European power . Labour and the Foreign Office refused to recognize that this policy became obsolete and wrong when the survival of a weakened Europe demanded federation and when the key problem became to prevent the advance of Russian-controlled Communism to the British Channel . In contrast , Churchill , in opposition , was the founder and chief spokesman of the European movement . Now he returns to power at a critical moment . The organizers of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and controlling its own finances , is vital . Robert Schuman , France 's Foreign Minister , has declared that at the next session of the European Assembly France will demand a political federation for Europe . Belgium and Italy will support the French proposal . Germany is likely to resist it . Enthusiastic backing by Britain and America is desperately needed . Eisenhower is for it ; Truman and Churchill should join in carrying it through . Then the North Atlantic Treaty Organization can be recognized as a realistic , tripartite alliance . Lastly , Churchill takes power at a time when negotia- tions with Russia seem again to be just over the horizon . Churchill can give to these negotiations the confidence and daring that the West has lacked since the days when he and Roosevelt pursued their grand design . Atomic energy control is the central issue and the easiest to negotiate . " As our case is new , we must think anew and act anew . " The Baruch plan is dead . It was based on a monopoly of atomic weapons that we no longer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proof that she is on the high road of production . A new plan is needed . Any new plan for control of atomic weapons must be coupled with proposals for the reduction of conventional armaments . For the sole reason that atomic bombardment is the only military deterrent we hold today to check Soviet aggression , the Western nations can not disarm in the field of atomic weapons alone . Until now the Western position has been that an agreement to control weapons of mass destruction is impossible because the Russians refuse to permit effective inspection . There is no conclusive evidence that this is true . We believe that , if agreement is reached on the purposes of inspection , its technical details can be worked out without a transfer of more sovereignty than the Russians are willing to surrender . The purpose of inspection , we assume , is to reduce , and if possible to prevent , the further production of atomic bombs and other weapons . This raises the problem , academic when the Baruch plan was formulated , of what to do about existing stockpiles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not be destroyed tomorrow . Perhaps they can be placed under UN guardianship , to be reduced on a time-table and released in case of aggression which the UN resists . To further deter aggression , a non-aggression pact has psychological and political value . The Five-Power Pact proposed by the Russians is meaningless in its present form . A pact that established a reduction of conventional armaments would be highly desirable . These ideas are , of course , general and tentative . The cloak of secrecy has spread so wide that citizens are at a disadvantage in formulating intelligent proposals . But these proposals must be formulated . We suggest that , in place of the Lilienthal-Oppenheimer Commission of 1946 , Truman and Churchill create a Joint Commission of British and American scientists and political experts to prepare a new plan for the control of atomic energy for the West . If , now , the partnership of America and its closest ally can be recreated on an open and equal basis , and if it can advance on the lines set forth here , then Churchill may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     