@@494482

Chiang Kai-shek on the Shelf A British expert returning to Taipeh after two years , reports that US pressure is transforming the role of the Nationalists on Formosa to one of defense , while time is working in favor of self-government by the Taiwanese . by Colin Jackson . AT first sight , the visitor who returriS to Formosa after two years concludes that nothing has changed . The customs at the airport are still the most thorough and prying in Asia . Compared with Tokyo , , the , streets seem empty of cars and full of dawdling pedicabs . Freedom Square in the center of Taipeh is. still crowded with American military vehicles ; the Friends of China Club is still full of people who are , to say the least , mildly critical of General Chiang Kai-shek . The walls about the city still have the huge blue signs in Chinese lettering " Give us back our mountains and streams ! " " Death to the Communists " and " Back to the Mainland . " Nationalist soldiers , neat and well behaved , still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without friends . But the longer I stayed in Formosa the more I became aware of subtle changes in the atmosphere of the island that had taken place since 1953 . The boasts are still being made , the extravagant claims of coming victory are still there , but their hollow ring is a little more obvious , these recitations a little more automatic than on my previous visit . two years before . In one interview after another in ways direct and indirect it became clear that General Chiang Kai-shek has been put on the shelf . United States pressure and changes on the island have made the defense of Formosa rather than the reconquest of the mainland the preoccupation of the Nationalist Goverment . This I discovered , at first when I went to see General Tiger Wang , the Air Force Commander . He is a tough , aggressive , attractive person . His aides are young and full of fight . Jet planes are coming into his air force and from what I saw jet pilots , Chinese and Taiwanese , are being paired efficiently . Across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up at breakneck speed . Whole groups of air fields are sprouting around Amoy and tuthow . These are obvious andvital targets for an aggressive Chinese Nationalist air force , a build up that must be smashed . But Tiger Wang is not allowed to attack these Communist bases . He made it plain to me that it was the United States Government that had vetoed his actions . " Attack is the best method of defense , " he said , " but we are condemned to sit here and do nothing . " The Nationalist newspapers in Taipeh make great play of Nationalist Air Force attacks on Communist planes and ships , ( not to mention British shipping ! ) but in fact their air force has now been assigned a purely defensive role . Then I went to see General Huang , Chief of Staff of the Army . Huang was in charge of the Nationalist forces in Indo-China for two years . He is a hard and bitter fighter . In his office one whole wall is covered with a map of mainland China , and just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him about the defense of the islands , the danger of a Communist night crossing , of crushing air attacks , of the break down of supplies . His sharp answer , " The islands will never be taken , " reminded me of Hitler in 1945 . I mentioned that General . Wang had said that , " Attack is the best form of defense . " Would the Chinese Nationalist Army , I asked , launch a counter-attack from the islands on to the mainland if Quemoy and Matsu were attacked by air or sea ? General Huang 's eyes lit up for a moment . Here obviously was the one thins he wanted most , a war on the mainland with United States support . But then bitterly he replied , " We are not allowed to attack the mainland ! " There are other signs that show clearly that Formosa has been shifted from an offensive to a defensive role . The Nationalist Army , for example , is in the process of changing from being predominantly Chinese to a force whose majority is Taiwanese . Already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discharged as too old or too sick . A ceiling of 45 years is now placed as the age limit for all soldiers . And in the next twelve months , another 70,000 unfit or aging Nationalist soldiers are to go . To replace these retiring Chinese mainlanders , Taiwanese are being drafted into the Nationalist Army on a large scale . There had been previous small inductions but now all Taiwanese are required to serve either 4 months reserve training , or 16 months regular service with the Nationalist Army . The exact proportion of Taiwanese to Chinese mainlanders now coming into the Army is an official secret , as is the number of Taiwanese in the Army now . However , I got a good estimate as to future proportions when I went to visit an Army infantry basic-training camp some fifty miles south of Taipeh . Here four out of every five of the trainees undergoing their first of sixteen months service are Taiwanese . This change over in the content of the Nationalist Army must inevitably change its whole fighting outlook . The Taiwanese may be interested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less than a dollar a month pay , this may be doubtful ) . But it seems highly unlikely that inspiring slogans such as " Back to the Mainland " will have much appeal to soldiers who have never come from there . Mainland private soldiers are not allowed to marry , and for them , embarking for China has more than military attractions . But the Taiwanese soldiers are allowed to marry , and as an American officer said to me : " Who ever heard of leaving your wife for a girl you 've never met ? " The Political Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs , Chen , was government spokesman when I met him two years ago . A member of the Central Committee of the KMT , a tough , young , fanatical sort of Nationalist , he has received promotions quickly in the last few years . In 1953 he was full of the " day of liberation . " The American Seventh Fleet now was no longer protecting the Chinese Communists and soon the Chinese Nationalists , he said , would strike back and reconquer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certainly Chen gave the impression that 1954 at least must be liberation year . T His time when I saw Chen , on the surface he was still the same , almost incoherent with his own enthusiasm . But the conversation quickly got around to the subject of a cease-fire in the Straits. - In 1953 this would have been sheer heresy . Today Chen admits that there is a tacit cease-fire in the Formosa Straits and does not seem too sorry about it . Of course , he adds , the Chinese Nationalists can never agree openly to a formal cease-fire . This he claims would make it quite clear that Nationalist China had given up all hopes of getting back to the Mainland . And if the Nationalist Government did this , he warns , morale on the island would collapse overnight . There would be nothing left to work for . Chen , in other words , seems resigned to his island base . Noting the change in this most fanatical of the Nationalists , I suggested perhaps that Nationalist China 's theme ? hope of getting back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in favor of the Chinese Nationalists on the mainland rather than in a military reconquest . Chen agreed at once and launched forth into a tirade which seemed to center around the drowning of several million Chinese in the mainland China floods . As the Chinese Communists were so unpopular , I asked Chen if he did not think that the best way to block for all time their claim to Formosa would be to hold a plebiscite on the island . Both Mr. Adlai Stevenson and Sir Anthony Eden had suggested this . Chen 's answer was the one I expected . Yes , the Nationalists would agree to a plebiscite if a vote was held on the mainland as well ! - Nonetheless the whole question of a poll of Taiwanese opinion does raise the question , by whom would the inhabitants on Formosa like to be ruled if they are given a free choice ? ? There are three obvious alternatives : the Communists ; the Nationalists ; or a Taiwanese Government . I T is not easy to give an answer as to what the people of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not articulate and in any case it is very difficult to penetrate the barrier between any Westerner and the indigenous population . The Chinese Nationalist Government discourages any attempts by visitors to poll , however discreetly , Taiwanese opinion . One thing , however , seems fairly certain . That is that the Taiwanese are in agreement with the Nationalist Chinese in not wanting a Communist government on the island . As far as I could see , Communism in the last two years has grown less rather than more attractive to the Taiwanese . Probably not more than 3,000 people altogether are interned on the island for Communist sympathies . This may seem a large number , but it is considerably less than in 1949 to 1951 . The Taiwanese who have no particular love for the Nationalists have no obvious reason for wanting to swap one lot of mainland rulers for another . Under Land Reform the Taiwanese farmer is enjoying a prosperity that he has never had before . Taxes may be high , but so , relatively , is his income . As one Taiwanese farmer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gives us land ; on the Mainland the government takes away the land from the farmer . " Then too I was told that the Taiwanese commercial classes have done very well financially out of the Nationalists and they have no particular desire to see the Communists ' come in and take away their profits . In most cases the people who are well housed and well clothed on Formosa are the Taiwanese . Most of the cheap labor is mainland Chinese . If not the Communists , who do the Taiwanese want ? . Governor Yen , the Nationalist leader , of course told me that the Taiwanese were more than contented with their share of the government under the Nationalists . He pointed out , quite accurately , that the majority of the civil servants , both national and provincial , are Taiwanese and that 56 out of the 57 members of the Provincial Assembly are islanders . He denied that there was any Move or desire on the part of ' the islanders to have any other government than the Nationalist Government . Such a view is held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials such as General Chase when he was here . Resident foreign correspondents belittle any " Taiwan for the Taiwanese " movements . T HE only outspoken comment in favor of Taiwanese rule I heard by a government official was by the Speaker of the Provincial Assembly . ' Himself a Taiwanese away from the island for 25 years , he maintains that the people of Taiwan are not satisfied with the share of the government that they have now . Measures passed by the Provincial Assembly can be vetoed by the NatiOnalist Premier Yui and usually are if Chiang disapproves . The Speaker of the Assembly ; to the obvious discomfort of the Nationalist Government official accompanying me , said that the Taiwanese want to run their own Parliament . But he stopped short of claiming again the over-all right for the Taiwanese to run the island . Perhaps one of the times when such an issue came nearest to being decided by vote was in the campaign for the Mayor of Taipeh . The Nationalists had picked their candidate , General Wang , to be elected without opposition . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But then a Taiwanese , energetic and forceful , came forward as an official candidate . His whole campaign was based on the argument " Taipeh for the Taiwanese . " He demanded the right to run Taipeh not for the Nationalist Government but for the people of the city . And he won . The Nationalist defeat came , I was told , as a shock for Chiang 's Government . The missionaries in Taiwan are some of the few Westerners who are in dose contact with the Taiwanese . But they are divided in their views on whether the Taiwanese really want to run the island for themselves or not . The English missionaries in Taiwan in the southern part are quite sure that the whole of Taiwan is seething with a desire to get rid of the Nationalists . They even list the various demands in order for a staged withdrawal of Chiang 's Government on which the Taiwanese insist . But who these organized Taiwanese nationalists are , the missionaries can not say . Canadian missionaries , such as the McKays in Tamsui , maintain that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Nationalists . Mrs. McKay told me that in 1947 during the Nationalist excesses and the executions in Taipeh , the movement for Taiwanese independence was strong . But she adds that . thanks to education , land reform and government par-ticipation the islanders are now satisfied . What seemed to me the best and most realistic assessY British friend concludes by pointing to two things that in the long run may bring the Taiwanese up to positions where they can take over real control of the country . The first is the number of Taiwanese now going to secondary schools and University . Before the war the Taiwanese went to University in ones and twos each year ; now they go by the hundreds . In the future it will be by the thousands . The Taiwanese are slowly building up a cadre of skilled administrators who one day will be able to run the country . The second trend in favor of the Taiwanese is the fact that their birth rate is higher than that of the Chinese . I tried to get figures from the Provincial goveminent as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each year . The Governor promised to lee me have them but never did . However , there is no doubt that the Taiwanese rate is higher . Many of the Nationalist Chinese were Middle aged when they came over to Formosa . Many left their wives behind ; others their whole families . There is a marriage problem amongst Nationalist Chinese males and most of them are unwilling to marry Taiwanese . So as the years go by , this British observer reports , the ratio of Taiwanese to Chinese on the island must increase . Consequently the Taiwanese control of affairs and likelihood of complete independence is bound to grow . It may be therefore that time , in its slow and unseen ways , will work out a solution on Formosa that the Chinese , Nationalist and Communist , do not welcome and yet can not prevent .                     