@@493846

COLLIER 'S WAR OF THE FUTURE The Chapter the Editors Forgot was hastily scrapped , however , and instead Sen. Robert A. Taft substituted the famous " Republican Round Robin , " pledging the party to hold up all funds for the Voice of America and overseas aid until the outcome of the Woods Hole parley was known . At this time the nation 's gross national output had reached $285 ' billion and was rising steadily . Due to action of the previous session of Congress in hamstringing price controls , the movement of living costs had resumed its upward spiral . Administration efforts to hold down installment buying and consumer credit had been weakened in Congress , and there was now the enormous figure of $20 billion of credit outstanding . Since the outbreak of hostilities in Korea , 18 months before , retail living costs had advanced eight percent . Convinced by the action of Congress that no serious effort was likely to be made to balance the budget or hold back inflation , the stock market had reacted buoyantly in the late days of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference . The statement emanating from Moscow was singularly mild . There was only one reference to " capitalistic warmongers . " Great emphasis was placed instead on what Stalin told Roy Howard in 1936 . There was actually a polite phrase for Mr. Truman himself . And reasonable terms were hinted at for a Korean truce . The stock market opened hesitantly . US Steel actually advanced an eighth of a point . But then came the deluge . Selling came in waves and lasted throughout the day . At one moment the market was seven minutes behind . And Black Tuesday was only the start . Those Bolsheviks ! Eight years later we know from documents miraculously saved from Ed Murrow 's destruction of the Kremlin that the Moscow peace plot was no sudden improvisation . Why the Russians had not hit on the device before is still a matter of wonder among thinking people . It shows that dictators , caught in the web of their own propaganda , are incapable of seeing what lies just in front of their noses ? in this case the weakest point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Congress had been caused by some act of Communist belligerency . It was so in the Truman decision ' to aid Greece and Turkey . It was so in the formation of the North Atlantic Pact . The very rearming of the US came only after Communist forces had invaded Korea . In no single case would Congress have gone . along with President Truman if it had not been goaded by Russia itself . Mr. Truman 's opponents were legion , but they were undercut by the Communists themselves . Their eagerness to throw off international leadership was instantly evident . America was prepared for just about everything from Russia except agreement . And that was what the wily Stalin plotted ! The scenes at the little airport at Hyannis as Stalin stepped out of his great military transport plane and obediently acceded to imperious American news photographers to " Smile ! " " Stop smiling ! " " A big grin , Joe . " " Put your hand around Vishinsky 's neck ! " Smile again ! " are quite indescribable . Every new , amiable gesture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vaults , caused the stock tickers to dive farther . When , at last , Stalin stepped before the television cameras and proposed a toast " to international amity " in a glass tumbler ( it was really water , but for stage purposes the technicians called it " vodka " ) the stock market had to be closed down . Financial Wall Street was saved only by the bell . As we know , the Woods Hole preliminaries were inconclusive but superficially hopeful . The reaction in Congress was immediate . The last tax increase of $5 billion was quickly rescinded and the depletion allowance on coal , copper , petroleum and other minerals doubled through a shrewd maneuver of the oil lobby in affixing a rider to the measure . The conservative coalition , seeing a Presidential issue materialize as it watched , ordered all defense contracts , not already awarded , " frozen " under the Taft-Byrd resolution . Work was halted at several munitions factories even though new models had already been approved . Within two weeks 46,000 machinists were thrown out of work in the Detroit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Now a still more dangerous development appeared . Which started the price-cutting war , Wanamaker 's or Gimbel 's , is difficult to say . But retail prices began to sag while the great mass of consumers stayed away in anticipation of still further declines . In no time at all desperate shop-keepers were offering sales ; it became possible for a housewife to march to the counter and look a butcher in the eye , and plumbers actually appeared at the hour designated Obviously this could not go on . Like the larger sitar Y related in Collier 's magazine , this preliminary episode in World War III had a happy ending . In another month the Russians would have smiled America into bankruptcy . Already curtailments in the Mutual Security Program caused violent anti-American sentiments among erstwhile allies . In the nick of time the smiles on the Soviet faces tightened and disappeared . Why the Russians altered their course will always be a mystery because of Ed ' Murrow 's over-precipitate destruction of the Moscow archives . Some think that Stalin was threatened by a palace revolution while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cape Cod ; others think that the whole episode was a diabolical maneuver to destroy capitalism that simply ended too soon . In any case , Stalin suddenly knocked the ashes out of his pipe , withdrew from the conference table , tried to kick an Associated Press photographer who asked him to " Smile ! , " boarded his plane and soared away .. Two days later Pravda denounced Life magazine , the New Republic and the London New Statesman &; Nation as " capitalistic war mongers , " and Moscow started a new blockade of Berlin . From then on , as everyone knows , events resumed their happy course . Work was recommenced on the atom bomb . The cancelled munitions contracts were restored , and in no time at all the almost unbelievable recuperative power of modern industry had exerted itself . The pre- " peace scare " boom was resumed , a boom that was giving the nation guns and butter , too , on an ever-ascending inflationary spiral . Collier 's magazine brilliantly picks up the story as of May , 1952 . But this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ played upon the nation had sowed its seed . When the die was finally cast , the nation was all the more united because of the ordeal through which it had just passed . I think Collier 's is to be congratulated for its work back in 1952 . It vividly painted the happy vision of a war of " liberation ' . ' and assembled some of the ablest commentators to present it . Such a vision of a clean , sharp victory and instant reconstruction of a reformed opponent on the side of freedom were goals held before Americans ' eyes in World Wars I and II . Unfortunately , they did n't work before , but this time they . had Collier 's to show them how . Such cynics as George Kennan ( a one-time consultant of the State Department ) , in a little-heeded book , American Diplomacy 1900-1950 published in 1951 , warned against this thesis as the most dangerous fallacy of the age . " There is no more dangerous delusion , " he wrote , " none that has done us a greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a greater disservice in the future , than the concept of total victory . " But these writers in Collier 's , with the advantage of Walter Winchell and retrospect on their side , were able to prove what folly Mr. Kennan uttered . It is true , as their account recalls , that it took four years to defeat Russia , but after that the task of liberating her masses and teaching them freedom and democracy was done in a twinkling . The moral guilt of starting the war was plainly on the Russian side , and you can see from reading Collier 's that perhaps it was n't such a bad thing after all .                     