@@477049

Arithmetic may be a better guide than history in guessing the Congressional winners and losers this year . . . for the final count may depend on the " five percenters " in the race . WHATEVER the problems besetting Adlai Stevenson at this moment ? and they are many ? he can take comfort from the fact that he is free from one worry plaguing his favored Republican opponent . If Mr. Stevenson is elected President he is virtually ccrtain to have a Congress controlled by his own party . President Eisenhower , on the other hand , faces a very real possibility that he again will have to deal with a House and Senate controlled by the opposition . This somewhat paradoxical situation arises from the statistical context in which the fight for control of Congress is taking place : Of the Senate and House members running this year , more Democrats than Republicans come from " safe " districts , more Republicans than Democrats from " dangerous " ones . As a result , it is almost inconceivable that Mr. Stevenson could win the Presidency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 85th Congress . But if Mr. Eisenhower wins , the Republicans will control the new Congress only if his coat tails are commodious and effective enough to offset the Democrats ' clear statistical advantage . Here are the facts which give the Congressional battle plenty of suspense ? more , it may seem , than the contest for President . Thirty-five Senate seats and all 435 House seats will be at stake in the November voting . But control of the two houses actually will be determined by just about one hundred races in twelve to fifteen states . The crucial hundred include , among many purely local and regional contests , some clashes with great national interest ? the bitter grudge fight in Oregon between **26;1006;TOOLONG Senator Wayne Morse and former Eisenhower Secretary of the Interior Douglas McKay ; the Ohio battle between clowning Republican Senator George Bender and the conservative Democratic Governor Frank J. Lausche ; the Kentucky Senate races , where a Democratic Governor may lend behind-the-scenes support to a brace of top-flight Eisenhower lieutenants out to capture two seats now held by Democrats . This year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and they are pouring money and talent into the crucial races in unprecedented amounts . Democrats , not too optimistic about the Presidential outcome , feel it is essential to control the House and Senate in order to keep a place in the political sun . They sec a Democratic Congress as an essential base for the preparation and launching of their assault on the White House in 1960 , when the Republicans , under the two-term limitation , will not have Mr. Eisenhower leading the ticket . In addition , of course , Democrats generally feel that they must control Congress in order to frustrate Republican programs of which they disapprove , such as the alleged giveaway of natural resources . Despite the frequent breaching of party lines by " bipartisan " alliances ? temporary and permanent ? continued control of Congress would still give the Democrats their most effective means of scuttling those portions of the Eisenhower program with which they disagree . For their part , Republicans , convinced that Mr. Eisenhower 's re-election is certain , are determined to crown this victory in November by regaining the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bitterly resentful of the fact that it ruled Capitol Hill for only the first two years of Mr. Eisenhower 's first term . They claim they must win back control in order to put through important parts of his program blocked by the Democrats . Republicans are made all the more determined in their drive to win Congress this year by the certain knowledge that if they do n't turn the trick now they 'll be out in the cold until at least 1960 . The Senate election outlook for 1958 makes a Republican victory all but impossible . Of the thirty-two seats that will he up two years from now , only twelve will be Democratic . Nine of those twelve will be in safely Democratic states , leaving only three real targets for the Republicans to shoot at , On the other hand , more than a dozen of the twenty Republicans up for election that year are in " close ! ' states . They are Senators like Purtell of Connecticut , Beall of Maryland , Malone of Nevada , Williams of Delaware , Smith of New Jersey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Michigan . All benefited from having run on an Eisenhower ticket in 1952 and some probably would not have been elected without him . In 1958 , though , they 'll be on their own ? the President wo n't be running . The grim GOP outlook for 1958 was stated best by a Republican Senator : " We certainly ca n't expect to win in 1958 seats we could n't win in 1952 . But we sure can lose some of the seats Ike helped us win in 1952 . " UNEASY SEATS N EVER in recent history has a President failed to carry into office a Congress controlled by his own party . He may have lost Congress in offyear elections , but not in the years when he was on the ticket himself . Woodrow Wilson came closest to breaking the precedent when he was elected to a second term in 1916 . He found the Democrats controlled the Senate but were narrowly outnumbered by Republicans in the House . The Democrats were able to organize the House only when the votes of nine independent Congressmen swung @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closest call in 1952 . His own electoral landslide carried into office a Republican Congress , but the margin was paper thin , only eight votes in the House and one in the Senate ? a margin promptly lost in the 1954 elections . In the session just ended , the Democrats had a two-vote margin in the Senate and a twenty-nine-vote edge in the House . To take control of the House now , the Republicans must make a net gain of fifteen seats . To control the Senate , they need a net gain of two seats ? or , assuming a Republican Vice President will be available to break tie votes , a net gain of only one . It sounds easy , but Democrats are confident it wo n't be . They make much of the fact that while the President in 1952 carried 297 MAGAZINE Congressional districts for himself , Republican Congressmen carried only 221 . They also cite their own Congressional- victory in 1954 and a steady stream of state and local wins during the past two years as evidence that " the steam is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aside , the Democrats ' best hope is in the mathematics of 1956 politics . In the House , 94 incumbent Congressmen won in the 1954 elections with less than 55 per cent of the vote in their districts . These districts therefore are the trouble spots for each party ? what the professionals call the " five per centers , " since less than a 5 per cent switch in the votes could oust the incumbent . Sixty-three of these uneasy incumbents are Republicans ; only 31 are Democrats . Thus , twice as many incumbent Republicans as Democrats are involved in fights that are tough per se . Looking at the other side of the coin , 201 Democratic seats ? just 17 less than the 218 majority needed to control the House ? were won in 1954 by the comfortable margin of 55 per cent or more of the vote compared to only 140 on the Republican side . In the Senate , the statistical picture is only slightly less gloomy for the Republicans . Eighteen of the 35 Senate seats up this year are Democratic ( a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accept the gubernatorial nomination would make that 19 of 36 ) , while only 17 are Republican . But ? and it 's a big but ? all except five or six of the Democratic seats seem safely in the hands of the incumbents , while at least eight or nine Republican seats are clearly in danger . As is painfully obvious these days , both parties are putting an unusually large amount of money into the Congressional races ? the Republicans , as might he expected , considerably more than the Democrats . Television , which the Republicans - put to good use in the 1952 campaign , is being used even more extensively this year . The House Republican Campaign Committee , which operates like a small , high-class advertising agency , has produced some thirty short films on such nonpolitical subjects as " atomic living " and " the Nike guided missile . " A Republican Congressman has been able to step into Congress ' own recording and motion-picture studios in the Capitol , dub in short introductions and closings ( at party expense ) , and ? send @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of five-minute " public service " films which effectively keep his name and face before the public . Republican members of the House running for re-election have for some months had the use of three still photographers and a movie cameraman , without cost . Thanks to elaborate darkroom facilities at the campaign committee 's headquarters in the Congressional Hotel , next to the House Office Building , pictorial records of a local mayor , woman 's club delegation , or applefestival queen visiting a lawmaker have been in the hands of home district newspapers and TV stations within twenty-four hours . Also , the photographers have been turning out unlimited quantities of postcard pictures of the Congressman and his guests for mailing back home . Free of charge , Republican candidates can receive three sets of twenty-four different advertisements for use in local newspapers , reams of research material and ghostwritten speeches , films for training local party workers on the most effective methods of getting out the vote . Also available ? the first one free and additional ones at a nominal $17.95 each ? is an outsized carton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approved " Give Ike a Republican Congress " motif . The Democrats ' arrangements for helping their Congressional candidates , hamstrung as usual by lack of funds , have been far less elaborate , lint they , too , are doing their best . There have been a few films produced for campaign use and the usual speech and research material has been made available . Shortly before Congress adjourned , the House Democratic campaign committee hired a still photographer , but his time was rationed and all but the first few prints he produced had to be bought by the members themselves . Naturally , the Democrats tend to pooh-pooh the effectiveness of the Republican strategy of mass-saturation . " Once the campaigns get going , " one Democratic official said , " people do n't want that canned stuff ? they want the candidates in person or live on television . " DEMOCRATS IN DANGER A C H party has a carefully-drawn list of targets in the fight for Congress . The Demo-crats seem especially vulnerable on five Senate seats they now hold . By all standards , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Angered both by his switch to the Democratic side and by the virulence of his attacks on the Administration since he made that switch , Republicans are going all-out to beat him . Oregon has a long Republican history . Eisenhower carried the State in 1952 with more than 60 per cent of the vote and Mr. McKay , the Republican candidate , was a good vote-getter as Governor . While it 's true that Mr. Morse got 76.3 per cent of the vote when he last ran in 1950 , he was running then as a Republican . In 1954 , Democratic Senate candidate Richard Neuberger won with a meager 50.2 per cent of the vote ? against a much weaker Republican than Mr. McKay . On the other hand , Senator Morse has a far greater reputation in Oregon than Senator Neuberger had in 1954 . Moreover , some Oregon Republicans resented the way Mr. McKay was injected into the race at the last minute on White House orders . Finally , Senator Morse hopes to get support from Republicans and independents who favor his pro-public power stand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate seat of the retiring liberal Herbert Lehman . Mayor Robert Wagner 's acceptance of the Democratic nomination is likely to step up his party 's chances . At this writing , the Republicans have not yet chosen a candidate but they expect Mr. Eisenhower , who carried New Yolk in 1952 with 56 per cent , to carry the state again , sweeping in the party 's Senatorial candidate . They maintain this even in the face of the Democratic victory in the state elections in 1954 , when New Dealer Averell Harriman took over the Governor 's mansion . Republicans are also given a good chance of picking up at least one and perhaps both of the Senate seats at stake in Kentucky . They are running a high-quality pair of candidates ? former Senator John Sherman Cooper , who resigned as Ambassador to India to run at the President 's request , and former Representative Thruston B. Morton , who resigned as Assistant Secretary of State to make the race . Mr. Cooper is opposing former Governor Lawrence Wetherby for the seat of the late Alben Barkley , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Earle Clements . The handicappers regard Mr. Cooper as a favorite to win and Mr. Morton as an excellent possibility . They arc counting not only on the President 's popularity and his likely appearance in the state on behalf of his candidates , but on covert help from Democratic Governor A. B. " Happy " Chandler . Mr. Chandler has been warring bitterly with the Clements-Wetherby faction in the Democratic party , and he tried to prevent the nomination of both men . It is believed that he would feel no chagrin over their defeat , which would solidify his own control of the state 's party apparatus . The combination of good GOP candidates and Democratic dissention may give the Republicans an even better chance in Kentucky than in Oregon or New York . The Democrats foresee serious danger in Nevada , where freshman Senator Alan Bible 's seat is at stake . The state organization in Nevada is torn by an internecine struggle , and there , too , the Republicans offer an attractive , capable candidate in youthful , Eisenhowerbacking Representative Cliff Young . Those are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are two other Democratic seats which could go Republican if the Eisenhower tide is strong . One is in Washington where Governor Arthur Langlie , keynoter of the Republican national convention , is taking on the popular Democratic Senator Warren G. Magnuson . " Maggie " is considered one of the most effective campaigners in the Far West and Langlie , despite his fine record and popularity , would need a virtual Eisenhower landslide to win . The other state where Republicans are'given an outside chance to pick up a seat is West Virginia . Fierce Democratic feuding earlier this year has hurt the party 's chance of keeping the seat of the late Senator Harley Kilgore . Former Senator Chapman Revercomb , the arch-conservative Republican whom Presidential candidate Thomas E. Dewey refused to endorse in the 1948 campaign , is running against Democratic Governor William C. Marland . The rest of the Democratic seats seem safe . All but three are in the Deep South , and those three are in Oklahoma , Arizona , and Missouri , where Senators Mike Monroney , Carl Hayden , and Thomas Llennings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most partisan Republicans admit that defeat for any of them would be the most extreme kind of upset . HARD-RUNNING REPUBLICANS T H E Republicans , of course , have acute problems of their own . They are most concerned about their Ohio Senate seat and are not much happier about the situation in at least four other states ? Pennsylvania , Maryland . Connecticut , and Colorado . In Ohio , Republican Senator Bender has been working furiously , speaking to every group of more than two voters who will listen to him . But Governor Lausche 's tremendous following in both parties and his record as an unbeatable candidate are working against Mr. Bender . If MAGAZINE their man loses , Republicans will have the consolation of knowing that Mr. Lausche 's voting record in the Senate is more likely to resemble that of a conservative Republican than a northern Democrat . In fact , Mr. Lausche has said that if President Eisenhower wins , he would vote with the Republicans in orginizing the Senate . The chances of Republican Senator John Marshall Butler of Maryland for re-election improved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of ill health in late August . However , George P. Mahoney , wealthy Baltimore contractor who replaced Tydings on the Democratic ticket , will give Butler a rough race . Butler has failed to make a deep impression on the electorate during his six years in office . In Colorado , the Democrats , once again in control of the State House , claim they 'll pick up the seat being vacated by Republican Senator Eugene Millikin . Dan Thornton , former Governor and a golfing companion of President Eisenhower , will try to hold the seat for the Republicans , but he lacks the prestige of Mullikin , one of the real elder statesmen of the Republican party . At this writing , Colorado Democrats still have not decided whether Charles F. Brannan , President Truman 's Secretary of Agriculture , or John A. Carroll , former Democratic Congressman from Denver , should carry their standard . Either of them probably could give Thornton a tough time . In Connecticut , the lone Democratic Congressman , Representative Thomas J. Dodd , is fighting to unseat Senator Prescott Bush @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong Eisenhower supporter and the Administration attempted to boost his stock by making him chairman of the platform committee at the GOP convention . Dodd is expected to capitalize on the fact that the state is now in the hands of a popular Democratic Governor , Abraham Ribicoff . And in Pennsylvania , the dynamic young mayor of Philadelphia , Joseph Clark , Jr. , is waging a strenuous campaign against Senator James " Big Red " Duff . Senator Duff , who made an outstanding record as Governor , has been a disappointment as a Senator . Moreover , he has the problem of a divided Republican organization . The Democrats , by contrast , have scored impressive victories in recent years , building strong machines in Philadelphia and Pittsburgh and capturing the governorship in 1954 for the first time in many years . Democrats are also talking of possible wins in at least three other states . In California rising young state legislator Richard Richards is making a serious try for the seat of Senator Thomas Kuchel . In Idaho , Republican Senator Herman Welker , the McCarthy sidekick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Illinois , the recent scandal in the Republican state administration is expected to hurt Senator Everett McKinley Dirksen , who is being opposed by Richard Stengel , commonly rated as one of the ablest young state legislators . If farm discontent should increase , two other seats might fall to the Democrats ? those now held by Senators Homer E. Capehart of Indiana and Bourke B. Hickenlooper of Iowa . Former REA Administrator and Agriculture Secretary Claude Wickard is trying to remove Mr. Capehart . And Mr. Hickenlooper 's opponent is R. M. " Spike " Evans , who was a top official in the Agriculture Department and a governor of the Federal Reserve Board . As a last possible bonus , the Democrats are keeping their eyes on Wisconsin , where they hope that the split in GOP ranks between supporters of internationalist Senator Alexander Wiley and the old-guard forces behind conservative Representative Glenn Davis may remain wide enough to allow a Democrat to slip into Wiley 's seat . EXCHANGE OF CLAIMS T O WIN the House , we only have to pick up some Democratic seats , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he was not just stating the obvious but meant that he was not worrying about the fate of any GOP incumbents . " Those who survived 1954 should be pretty safe now , " he declared . Republican strategists are n't worried even about their Congressmen in the farm areas , where reports of discontent were common earlier in the year . These Congressmen , they explain , have always been elected by topheavy margins . Farm unhappiness could cost them 5 or 10 per cent of their following without preventing their return to Washington . Extra insurance for many of these farm-state Republicans is the fact that they bolted on the farm issue and voted for high price supports . Republicans may spring a surprise on Democrats in the South and in the Border States . They say Eisenhower 's popularity in these areas is greater than ever ? despite the segregation row ? and that Republican organizations have been steadily increasing their effectiveness . The GOP tacticians claim they have a good chance ofexpanding their single Florida seat to three or four , doubling their present two Virginia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Deep South . Good opportunities also exist , they claim , in Kentucky , Arkansas , West Virginia , and Missouri . " It will be strange if we can carry Kentucky for Eisenhower , elect one or two Republican Senators , and still elect no more than two Republican Congressmen , " one obviously optimistic Republican leader declares . Another points out that the GOP now has only two Missouri seats out of eleven , compared to nine out of thirteen some years back , and intimates that the time is ripe for a comeback . Outside of the South and Border States , Republicans will center their efforts to build a House majority on the seats they won in 1952 and then lost in 954 . They blame most of the 1954 losses on the economy slump early that year , which they say caused many voters to switch back to the Democrats . Proclaiming that times are better now , they count on substantial gains in Illinois , Pennsylvania , Michigan , and the Rocky Mountain states . Representative Richard M. Simpson of Pennsylvania , chairman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gain of thirty House seats for the GOP . This prediction does not take into account reports of Republican inroads into the labor and Negro voting blocs . If a sizable portion of union and Negro votes switch to the Republicans , the net Republican gains could go much higher , says the GOP . These groups are concentrated where the Republicans have traditionally been weakest ? in the big cities . GOP speeches have long lamented that Republicans have n't held control of Congress because " we 've always been stopped at the city limits . " According to party chairman Leonard Hall . Republicans have penetrated effectively into the cities in House races only once in the last twenty-five years . That was in the 1946 election when Republicans reportedly benefited from housewifely resentment against meat rationing , and took 246 House seats . " A swing in the Negro vote could bring into the picture twenty or twenty-one Congressional districts we do n't now consider even remote possibilities , " a Republican National Committee official has said . Any sizable labor or Negro defection from normal Democratic allegiance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ races in such key states as New York , Ohio , Michigan , Illinois , Pennsylvania , and California . The Democrats profess to he unimpressed by all this Republican calculation . " We were down to absolute rock bottom in 1952 and still lost the House by only eight votes , " one party spokesman stated . " I feel sure we 're going to improve our present position ? perhaps not by much , but by some . " He listed California , Washington , Indiana , Connecticut , Illinois , New York , Pennsylvania , and Michigan as likely to contribute new Democratic Congressmen , with possibilities in Ohio , Wisconsin , and other states . While the Senate races are studded with familiar names , few well-known Congressmen are involved in the crucial House races . There are several reasons for this . For one thing , since there are only 96 Senators compared with 435 Representatives , the average Senator is better known than the average Congressman . More important , few members of the House achieve any national prominence until they 've been around Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that long are almost certain to be from " safe " districts , whether Republican or Democratic . Men like Speaker Sam Rayburn , Majority Leader John McCormack , Minority Leader Joseph Martin , Representatives Charles HaBeck , or Howard Smith seldom face dangerous fights for re-election . CRISSCROSS OF ISSUES I N MOST of the House and Senate races , local issues figure heavily ? power in the Northwest , farm policy in the Midwest , schools , tariffs , immigration , civil rights in other areas . But certain national issues cut across all constituencies . Republicans everywhere , no matter what their voting records , have hitched their wagons to the Presidential star , harping on the " Give Ike a Republican Congress " theme . They read out the Eisenhower record of " peace and prosperity . " Incumbents take credit for it and new candidates imply that times would be even more peaceful and prosperous if Ike had a friendly Congress . Many Republicans are attacking Democrats for failure to push aid to schools , civil rights , and other basic legislation through the Congress they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the claim that their party offers " government for you , not just for the few . " Candidates stress charges of Republican big-hts-iness bias ? giveaway of resources , tax breaks for the rich , falling farm income , opposition to social-security ex-MAGAZINE pansion , rising small-business failures , and a trend toward monopoly . Democrats hope to capitalize on their position as the political " outs . " " For five Presidential elections now , we 've been on the defensive , " a National Committee official said . " Now we have room for attack . And there 's nothing in politics like being on the offensive . " In reply to that , a Republican leader snorted : " We 'll take Ike , peace , and prosperity and give the Democrats anything else they can find . " Both sides are seriously worried about the effect of voter apathy on this year 's Congressional races , The Republicans remember longingly the fervor of resentment against Harry Truman and his aides in 1952 . That " anti " feeling , which pulled out voters , is lacking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fears that too many Republican will assume Eisenhower is safely in and that therefore there 's no need for them to vote ? leaving high and dry the Congressional candidates who hope to ride Ike 's coat tails to victory , Some Democrats also are troubled about the feeling among Democratic voters that the Eisenhower ticket is hound to win , " so why bother to vote for Stevenson ? " As the campaign waxes , however , this fear wanes . Only the foolhardy would make a flat predicdon on the outcome of the battle for control of the new Congress . However , certain well-iffed predictions can be ventured : ( I ) If Adlai Stevenson wins the Presidential election , Congress will certainly remain under Democratic control . It is inconceivable , with the mathematical line-up of the close races the way it is , that the Democrats could capture all the states needed for a Presidential victory and still not win both House and Senate this year . ( 2 ) If President Eisenhower barely squeaks through , he 'll almost certainly have to work with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large margins in key states , then the Democrats probably will take most of the close Congressional races and continue to hold the House and Senate . ( 3 ) If President Eisenhower wins an overwhelming victory , he 'll probably carry in a Republican Congress . Even with the line-up of close races against them , the Republicans should benefit enough from a Presidential landslide to take the House and Senate . ( 4 ) If President Eisenhower wins by a fair margin but no landslide ? something short , say , of his 1952 victory ? it 's anybody 's guess as to how Congress will go .                     