@@488273

PENNSYLVANIA politics is not for queasy stomachs . Neither is it for orderly minds , likely to be ' unhinged by bizarre inconsistencies . This is a state in which Democrats investigate Republican corruption in Philadelphia and Wilkes-Barre , Republicans investigate Democratic corruption in Pittsburgh , and both are properly scandalized , but only by their own findings . It is a state in which Republicans denounce the Democratic nominee for governor as both a " fuzzy-minded pink " - and a vicious " labor-baiter , " while Democrats cite charges by the most reactionary Republicans that the G. 0 . P. nominee is only a phony liberal . It is a state in which the Attorney General is barred from practicing law in the principal city on the ground that he lacks " good moral character and repute . " In this welter of paradox it is perhaps dreamy to talk of issues . Actually the millions of decibels of noise that a pour out , the reams of campaign paper , have more to do with personalities than issues . To- be specific , they have to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political life of four years has become the Democratic candidate for governor ; his opponent , Superior Court Judge John S. Fine , pious churchman and long the boss of the powerful Luzerne County Republican machine ; mild , dignified Francis J. Myers , President Truman 's faithful party whip in the United ' Statei Senate ; and fiery , short-cropped Governor James H. Duff , running to succeed Myers over the prostrate form of the GrUndy - machine , which he pummeled almost to death in the primary . As in other states , the nation 's unpreparedness for the fighting in Korea promised to be a powerful aid to the Republicans in the early days of the campaign , only to fade with the sudden shift in our military fortunes . Judge Fine is fond of talking about how the Truman Administration spent " forty-six thousand million dollars more than all other Presidents together , including Franklin D. Roosevelt in his first tWo terms , " the implication being that all the money went down a sewer pipe because our forces were not in position to make a quick kill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wants 386 the voters to know that victory in that contest was " due to MacArthur and to nobody else in the universe , " though the General appeared to be caught as flat-footed as the rest of us . Much of the steam was bound to go out of this issue , however , particularly when the conservative Philadelphia Bulletin printed voting records of the city 's Congressmen showing the Republican delegation lined up solidly against economic aid to Korea last January , and the Democrats just as solidly in favor . Senator Myers has been asking all over the state where the Republicans were when it came to helping Korea , without expecting to get an answer . McCarthyism as such seems to have made little dent in the state . Duff himself was among the Republicans who denounced the Wisconsin wild man at the last Conference of Governors . But this is not to say that the electioneering is free of the scent of red herring . Far from it . Communism and subversion are being pushed as traditional Republican campaign staples . " Do you know , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communists took over Russia . . . there was only one Communist to every 2,770 Russians ? Do you know that today in. our own United States there is one Communist to every 2,700 ' Americans and- that if you count in Communist sympathizers and suspected sympathizers , there is one to every 300 Americans ? " - The hitch is that it is Fine who does the suspecting , and for his purposes a good proportion of Pennsylvania Democrats apparently fall into the evil category . This is because the head of their ticket , Mr. Dilworth , was once chairman of the Philadelphia chapter of Americans for Democratic Action and is still a member of the national board . After what happened in Philadelphia in 1949 one would think the Republicans would be happy to forget the A. D. A. That was the year in which William Meade , the G. 0 . P. city chairman , described that outspokenly anti-Communist haven for liberals as " sinister . . . shocking . . . infested hothouse of reds . . . denizens of the red underground . . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ etc . The results included the first Democratic sweep of Philadelphia in half a century , a fine assortment of libel suits ( one plaintiff has already collected handsomely in an out-of-court settlement ) , and ultimately the ditching of Mr. Meade , who compounded his stupidity by guessing wrong in the primaries . In spite of this happy episode the Republicans are back at the old stand tIO year , but they are somewhat more circumspect . Judge Fine now talks of A. D. A. as " a notorious socialistic organization " and suggests that both Myers and Dilworth " openly welcome subversive support " when they allow this " pink-hued " group to campaign for them . The strategy is born not of ignorance but cynicism . Neither the Philadelphia Bulletin nor the inquirer , both Republican papers , takes this line on the A. D. A. , though neither has much use for its The NATION policies . The Inquirer , in. fact , lashed out against Meade for his scurrilous campaign last year and in the end supported Dilworth , who takes time off from subverting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken in by his own turgid rhetoric I ca n't say , but I can say definitely that Governor Duff knows better . The approach failed dismally in Philadelphia , but the Republicans hope for more success with it in rural areas . IF DUFF were not the skilled campaigner that he is , and if he were not leaving behind him a record of competent administration in Harrisburg , he would be in a tight spot for a line to take . Having run in the primary as the Teddy Roosevelt of Pennsylvania Republicanism , the inveterate foe of the ' black Grundy machine which has long run the state  --  party as an adjunct of the Pennsylvania Association of Manufacturers , he is at a disadvantage in attacking much of the Truman prOgram . By inclination a moderate of the Ives ? Margaret Smith school of Republicans , the sixty-seven-year-old Governor is forced to fall ' back on the formula that welfare spending is essential , let reactionaries scream as they will , but at the same time there must be limits , and economy , . and full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he regards himself as ' an anti-isolationist , though he does n't - think we can afford " to spread ourselves too thin . " When his own candidate , Senator Vandenberg , was counted out of the Presidential race in 1948 , he turned-to Taft , but not , his aides let it be known , because he really favored the Ohioan or his policies . It was a case of taking anyone rather than Dewey . As for - the Taft-Hartley act , he would modify it along the lines proposed by Ives but not repeal it . All in all , a vague middle ground , difficult to stand on and for a less talented vote-catcher extremely hard to sell . But Duff  --  has color . He has the appeal of one who has successfully - routed a collection of greedy mossbacks , with whom , by the way , Harold Stassen , the " carpetbagger " president of the University of Pennsylvania , mistakenly cast his lot . And , finally , the Governor can point to a record of achievement in cleaning Pennsylvania 's slag-poisoned rivers , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ start toward revamping the state 's almost medieval system of caring for the mentally diseased . - The political complexion Of Pennsylvania is such that Duff would be almost certain to go to the Senate if it were , not for several special circumstances . One of these-is that his opponent is popular and highly respected , a liberal who , as a good Roman Catholic , can hardly be branded a Communist . In a state that has traditionally suffered the senatorial services of Grundy hacks , Francis J. Myers - enjoys the unusual prestige of being a Pennsylvanian second in command of his party 's forces in ? the Senate . He has devoted considerable energy to flood-control work , October 28 , 1950 which will stand him In good stead in some areas of the state that are usually taken for granted by the Republicans . Another weakness of Duff 's position is the implacable enmity he has aroused in the rival faction of his party . Higher-echelon Grundy men are sitting out the campaign and will lose no sleep if the party goes down to defeat , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principle " and the ranks are ' being dosed behind the chosen standard-bearers . All too eager to heal the breach , Fine has posed for photographers shaking the hand of his Grundy rival , Jay Cook ; but Duff remains adamant and will have no reconciliation . Duff 's real cross in the campaign is his running-mate , the political judge . Local experts , assure me that , on his own , Fine would have little chance of beating the dynamic and hard-hitting Dilworth , that in fact he can be elected only if Duff sweeps him in . The danger to Duff , on the other hand , is that Fine will pull him down . Luzerne County , where the Judge holds sway , is one of the least savory regions of the state , and the common expectation is that some of its politicos will ultimately be indicted . The Democrats attribute Fine 's damaging presence on the ticket to simple necessity . To beat the Grundy crowd in the primary Duff needed all the support he could get from various county machines . Fine 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To drive home the nature of that candidacy the Democrats treat their audiences to recordings of speeches on the subject made , not by one of themselves , but by Grundy Republicans during the primary . I have one of these , from an address by Representative Kunkel , who opposed Duff for the nomination . I quote : Let me tell you that during Fine 's reign racketeering in Luzerne County has been turned into big business . It 's been organized and systematized . There is a take of about a million dollars in a normal year , cut and distributed according to plan . A percentage goes into a boodle chest controlled by the political machine . The Luzerne County machine milks the slot-machine and lottery rings , the gambling dens , the whiskey and beer trade , the number games ? and the other rackets . Exploitation and shake-down have been reduced to a fine art . Pipe lines into the state police and the liquor board give ample warning if anyone from ' the outside tries to interfere . The police records show that in Luzerne @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he travels in the right political circles . When I asked a Republican campaign official how his party answered this sort of thing , he replied , with fine moral fervor , that the Democrats - should be ashamed of themselves for leaning on Republican speeches . Could n't they stand on their own feet ? Besides , it was just a " family quarrel " that has been all patched up . Other Republicans reply to this , and to the more familiar revelations387 of municipal corruption in Philadelphia , that the crime record in Kansas City and St. Louis is worse , that the federal grand-jury investigation " is nothing more than Democratic political claptrap , " and that , above all , their opponents should look at Pittsburgh , where Democratic officials are at present involved in an unlovely scandal of their own . This last point is a telling one , and the Democrats are uneasy about the possible reduction of their normally heavy margin in the southwestern corner of the state . The Pittsburgh scandal revolves around the alleged weakness of local officials for having their summer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employees . N o t surprisingly , Governor Duff lost no time in superseding the local district attorney with Charles Margiotti , his own Attorney General and the man whose character made so unfortunate an impression on the Philadelphia bar . It is true that Margiotti was once associated with some gamey individuals in the slot-machine business ; it is also true that he is a keen criminal lawyer , and Philadelphians with ? no personal interest in the matter suggest that he is being barred from practice in that town because of the business he could probably divert from present channels . B OTH Duff and Fine are concentrating their fire on Dilworth rather than Myers . This is partly because the Philadelphia , city treasurer has ' been spearheading his party 's campaign , is the recognized leader of the reform movement which has already begun to scrape off the corruption with which the City of Brotherly Love is encrusted , and takes a gusty delight in personalizing his assault on political sin . In part it is because " Dizzy Dilworth , " as his enemies call him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weaken the almost solid support he enjoys from liberal and labor quarters , Republican campaign strategists have been getting out releases on " Injunction Dilworth , Labor-Baiter , Strike-Breaker , and Hypocrite . " This strange line of attack , coming from ardent supporters of the Taft-Hartley act , is based largely on the fact that Dilworth 's law firm back in 1946 obtained an injunction to limit picketing at a plant of S.K.F. Industries , its client . Moreover , the Republicans indignantly complain , " he has not given a forthright indorsement of labor 's aims and objectives . " It is true that an occasional trade-union leader , notably the president of the Hosiery Workers , is opposed to Dilworth , and that a few others are for him with a waitand-see attitude : But the overwhelming majority are working hard for him , both in the C. I. 0 . and in the A. F. of L. , and this includes the very local , 2898 of the Steelworkers , which suffered the injunction . Officials of the local have issued a statement pointing out that Dilworth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , and from the candidate himself last year came the statement : " I am apposed to injunctions and always have been . In my opinion injunctions lead only to violence and bitterness between the parties which make doubly difficult any equitable settlement of a labor dispute . " On balance , it is believed that the ugly primary fight in the Grand Old Party , the possible effect of the Luzerne revelations on the rural vote , and Dilworth 's tire-less campaigning , which began last spring , combine to give the dapper , well-spoken ex-captain of marines a real chance , although Democratic governors are only a little more common in Pennsylvania than wild kangaroos . No Democrat since the Civil War has ever carried Philadelphia in a try for the governorship , but Republican leaders privately concede that Dilworth will . He captured the city by a margin of 122 ; 000 last year , but that was largely , as one Republican ruefully admitted , because the people of Philadelphia were " obviously disgusted with certain people in the city government . " They will have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in about the same volume , without their fellow-voters getting comparably worked up over the milder municipal sinfulness in Pittsburgh , if the Democrats are to make the grade . But in a close campaign in which personalities prevail over issues , the experts are not overlooking the possibility that Democratic Dilworth may go to Harrisburg and Republican Duff to Washington .                     