@@494756

BOOKS AND THE ARTS " The tingling atmosphere of plans and expectation and uncertainty " which Albert Mayer found in India ten years ago is now almost spent and the opportunity for a decisive American role in the Indian drama almost exhausted . And yet the sympathetic American interest which has grown up in these ten years has a way of feeding on itself , growing in direct proportion , or so it often seems , to the decline of India 's own self-confidence and political elan . The first gesture of sympathy - and curiosity - is the search for some one " book about India . " It does not exist . There are instead books about IndoAmerican relations , Indian Communists , Nehru ; books unburdening the response of this or that journalist to six weeks or six years in India . Thus one can say that the book to read for a solid background on Indian attitudes in world affairs is the acute presentation by Phillips Talbot and his Indian collaborator , S. L. Poplai . The mere fact of collaboration by an American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a substantial achievement . Joint authorship meant that bold judgments had to be avoided ; but it also implied , by its nature , an unusually disciplined attempt to define assumptions and motivations , and , in so doing , to offer a picture which does not seem so mysterious or unmanageable . It is lucid , and precisely because it is so excruciatingly non-committal it should survive new developments . On India 's relations with China , for example , the book observed at a time when there was no hint of trouble on the Himalayan border that while Indians took pride in Mr. Nehru 's " diplomatic influence in Peking . . . in the American view the effective value of that influence has not yet been put to a severe test . " For a book about Indian Communism the choice is obviously the WindmillerOverstreet study , Communism in India , a 551-page volume carrying the scholarly imprimatur of the Modern India Project at the University of California . Mr. Windmiller 's prodigious detective work on the history of the Indian Party and the analysis of Soviet writings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lift this work far above comparable earlier efforts . Michael Brecher 's Nehru is similarly a scholarly journey over much-traveled territory which can be warmly recommended if the reader 's interest is modern Indian political history . The distinction of the book lies in a wealth of detail about the Nehru era in Indian politics . Professor Brecher is perceptive and did a reporter 's legwork . He had access to some of the early correspondence of Mr. Nehru prior to its release last year by the Prime Minister in A Bunch of Old Letters . In one of several interesting conversations with Dr. Brecher , Mr. Nehru made the revealing comment that he had relented on the creation of Pakistan in part out of the fear that the price for incorporating the whole of the indigestibly large Moslem minority would inevitably be a flabby Indian state . " Even if we got freedom for India , " he said , " with that background , it would be a very weak India . . . a federal India with far too much power in the federating units . A larger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " One rather offbeat book which bears on all of the underdeveloped countries is Albert Mayer 's documentary record of the pilot " community development " project in 263 villages centering in the Etawah district of north India . Mr. Mayer is the distinguished American town planner and architect who designed Manhattan House , Greenbelt , the new cities of Kitimat in British Columbia and Ashdod in Israel . As an Army Engineer officer stationed in India in 1945 he found a friend in Jawaharlal Nehru , then just freed from his last terra in British prisons . They talked of how India could dig its way out of poverty and sloth . " In the context of India 's coming inevitable freedom , " Mayer recalls , " an American habit asserted itself . I gave my own impressions and offered some suggestions as to ' what I would do ' . " He urged pilot projects , experimentation , " the desperate importance of making some specific things work rather well as radiating demonstrations . " Once prime minister , Nehru invited Mayer to work out his ideas as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Indian talent for the Etawah project , which was to be the nationwide model for the " community development " program scheduled to touch all of India 's 600,000-odd villages by 1961 . Mayer and his editorial collaborators , the political scientist Richard L. Park and the anthropologist McKim Marriott , have selected excerpts from 84 reports , letters and other intra-project memoranda which provide a deeply interesting intellectual play-by-play of the evolving Etawah effort . For the sake of the record some space is given to technical problems - how to increase crop THE NEW REPUBLIC yields or construct brick kilns . But , in the main , the book is another kind of how-to-do-it-story of how men set in old ways can be moved to seek change . India , Mayer found , is hyper-organized at the bureaucratic level and the role of the bureaucrat is to command from afar . Government has its personification at the village level in the British-trained magistrate , " a combination of tax collector and keeper of law and order . . . supreme in authority . " Against this tradition Mayer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give-and-take , the joint decisions " of his new village extension workers ' organization . As for the Gandhian village workers , they were so intent on identifying with people 's hardships that they over-identified ; they seemed to take privation as a settled fact . " I felt that their approach assumed the existence of more saintly people than the world contains . I feared there would not be enough of them to go around . " What Mayer found above all at Etawah was that six years of sustained effort are necessary before " the people themselves take hold of the work , " and he is frank to say that anything less probably leads to shabby results . Yet " higher political considerations " have led to a speed-up , an attempt to duplicate the Etawah experience in thousands of new Etawahs " bedeviled by the need for over-speedy tangible , immediate , annual showing in terms of miles of roads , numbers of new buildings , thousands of yards of paved drains . " " We are exceeding a realistic rate , " he concluded sadly in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indian Planning Commission . There is " a serious deterioration . . . . It is relatively easy to multiply the mechanics of the early prototypes , but not so easy to multiply and reproduce their inner content . " Reflecting on the interaction between his work and the traditional Indian social order ? caste , the joint family , the semi-independent village ? Mayer observes that if there is nothing to take their place , " then the work of development may have done more harm than good . " He confesses that " we who are in the action world can not tell the fundamental direction in which our work is tending . " Quite a confession . In Mr. Mayer 's " action world " there is no attempt to confront the fact that India 's is the world 's most rigidly stratified social setting . Thus we learn that wheat-yields in the project area increased by 2,000 tons per year : we do not learn the caste and land ownership pattern of the area , and so have no way of knowing who profited from the increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in time a social revolution . But the evidence in India , where caste provides built-in battlements for economic and political rivalry , leaves this very much of an open question . Taya Zinkin 's readable essays are focused sharply on the social changes going on beneath the political surface . Aside from casually observing that the population problem " threatens the nation with slow strangulation " ( and a brief concluding chapter arguing " the irrelevance of Communism " ) , Mrs. Zinkin , a contributor to the Guardian and the Economist , does n't talk politics at all . Having set out to write a book which will outlast next month 's headlines , she searches for the essential social transformations taking place in India ? the " spectacular emancipation " of women ( " women in India have no need to fight for recognition ; . men are quite ready to make room for them " ) . Caste , she discovers , is in the process of coalescence from myriad tiny sub-castes to larger groupings : " Underneath . . . a new social structure is emerging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps even more forbidding than the old ones . " The most original part of the book is her delineation of the " leaders of social change " ? Mr. Mayer 's village extension worker ; schoolteacher ; civil servant ; Army officer , and technician , " the man with a low-grade degree who does in India what is done in the West by a foreman or skilled laborer " and thus makes manual labor acceptable to his caste . Above all , " . . the ever-growing vanguard of businessmen who are managers . They bring to their new position of responsibility a strong sense of patriotism . As managers grow in number and stature , their impact on Indian thought will be tremendous . They are the brothers , the first cousins or the second nephews of the civil servants and the politicians . . " The most dynamic element in the towns is the young clerk ? the white-collar worker who leaves his social past be . hind , unlike the typical Brahmin clerk who is Western during his daytime work but a Brahmin in his home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take off my caste , and when I take off my shirt , I put on my caste " ) . Mrs. Zinkin 's interpretation of Indian family life is uncritically sympathetic . She idealizes " the warmth of belonging " in the Indian village with little or no attention to the meannesses ? the inherently difficult position of the daughter-in-law , for example , in joint family life . True , " in India . . . nobody has to fight to get accepted ; everybody belongs from birth . " But the same thought is handled with greater balance by Margaret Parton when she takes us to the logical conclusion of such strong in-group loyalties - " more loving-kindliness within a family ( and perhaps within a caste ) in India than there is in the West , less between strangers and out-family people . " The Leaf and the Flame is personal history but it is also a small triumph of engaging and indirect political commentary . Although Miss Parton , a former New York Herald Tribune correspondent , also minimizes Communist prospects in India , she accomplishes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ named Sesh ( short for Attur Pattabh.i . Seshadri Ayyar ) , who turns up in the early pages of the'book , at a Soviet Embassy reception , as a young NOVEMBER 30 , 1959 Communist ; reappears 16 pages later as a militant pro-American ( having found a job on a pro-US newspaper ) ; carries on so among the liberated coeds of Westernized New Delhi that he bounces back to a kind of Gandhian austerity ; and ends up , about page 200 , as a busy and well-adjusted official at a refugee resettlement project . The moral is that Indian Communism with its middle-class appeal ( for middle-class young men who would really rather not be Communists , given half the chance ) is made of somewhat flimsy stuff . Miss Parton 's political comment never gets in the way of her easy narrative . And with the exception of one notable lapse into sentimentalism ( " India is a country which makes you want to be good , yes , to be noble " ) , she speaks as the uncommitted observer . Gandhi was " a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " But , we are told matter-of-factly , she found that Gandhi did not really want to change the caste system , for all of his attention to the " uplift " of the untouchables ; that his attitude here , as in matters of economics , was " let 's clean up the status quo and keep it . " Still , he had a once-in-a-generation political talent for bringing out the best in his country . He employed " ... the trick of telling people that they are already the kind of people one hopes privately they will become . If materialism and greed are evident in people , you tell them they are spiritual . If violence possesses their hearts , you tell them they are peaceful . It 's a little like talking to a naughty but beloved child : ' You 're a very good child , are n't you ? You would n't dream of pulling up the flowers , would you ? No indeed , you love flowers ! ' This is not as silly as it sounds , for when it came to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In contrast to Mrs. Zinkin 's sobriety , The Leaf and the Flame is written with light irreverence . " All of India is awake now , " a young Congress Party leader informs Miss Parton over a glass of warm pineapple juice . " The people are throbbing with new life , conscious of freedom , progress and democracy . " " Politicians talk like that in India , " she explains , " even in private conversation . It is one of their most endearing characteristics , if you are feeling strong . " 