@@494500

" Uncle Nehru " A Critical Portrait by G. S. Bhargava M 4 4 EN LIKE Jawaharlal , with all their capacity for great and good work , are unsafe in a democracy . ? He calls himself a democrat and a socialist , and no doubt he does so in all earnestness , but every psychologist knows that the mind is ultimately a slave to the heart and that logic can always be made to fit in with the desires and irrepressible urges of man . A little twist ' and Jawaharlal might turn into a dictator , sweeping aside the paraphernalia of a slow-moving democracy . He might still use the language and slogans of democracy and socialism , but we all know how Fascism ? has fattened on this language and then cast it away as useless lumber . " That was Indian Prime Minister Nehru on the subject of Nehru . This introspection was in the forIR of an anonymous article , published 18 years ago . Nehru , then president of the Congress Party , was being pressed to continue in office for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resist the pressure of his colleagues , he wrote that article dissuading Congress Party men from re-electing him to that high office , and warning them that too much , pampering might go to his head . Like his proposal last year to lay down the prime ministership and the leadership of the ruling party , the article had exactly the opposite effect . Nehru himself must have anticipated it . But the significance of the 1937 article was that Nehru , like several other observers , then saw in himself a conflict between the head and the heart ? the former given to appreciation and acceptance of the democratic way of life , and the latter , a longing for personal glory and ' power . George Slocombe put it in a different way when he called Nehru " an agnostic Lenin meekly obedient to the precepts of a Christian Tolstoy " ( Gandhi ) . No doubt , many Western observers regarded Gandhi himself as a dictator . In a way it was true , but his dictatorial influence was undoubtedly of the benevolent type . He could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disposition , the Mahatma could not , even if he wanted , get over the Hindu virtue of humbleness and modesty . He was , on any reckoning , a thousand times more popular than Nehru ; he had also more than once toured India from shore to shore . But there was in him no touch of a triumphant Caesar , sweeping through the country like a hurricane . He was more the savant on pilgrimage , begging rather than demanding that justice be done to the untouchables , imploring rather than commanding that nationalism be enshrined in people 's hearts . By temperament and upbringing , as well as in demeanor , Gandhi was unsuited to dictatorial imperativeness . Nehru , on the other hand , was chiselled to be a Robespierre . Born with a silver spoon in his mouth , he knew only to command , not to carry out the orders of others . Western education banished from his mind any oriental tendency to make things and men sacrosanct , to accept them without questioning and to demean himself before so-called supervisors . Success came to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time of his first imprisonment he was a national hero . He did not , like Gandhi , suffer unknown and unheard of in jails peopled by criminals or ruled by the haughty custodians of law and order in South Africa . Nor was he compelled , like the younger Socialist leaders , Narendra Deva and Jayaprakash , to put up with police torture which made physical wrecks of them both . The " meek , destructive Gandhi , " though he saw to it that there was no revolt by Nehru against his saintly authority , never tried to mold the latter in his image . He never demanded that Nehru accept his ideas on nonviolence or decentralization of power . He did not seek to make another Mahatma of his political heir ; he had even , perhaps deliberately , allowed the commissar in Nehru to lie in wait , ultimately to replace the yogi when Gandhi was gone . As long as Gandhi was alive , there was no danger of an omnipotent Nehru . But the moment an assassin 's ' bullet took the Mahatma 's life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country . It was the commissar who gained supremacy in Nehru 's heart , while in the country at large the void persisted . Idolatry of Gandhi as Father of the Nation could not long fill the void ; the nation began to need a new father . Whether a politician could fill that role or whether only a Mahatma could do it was the question . At first Nehru assumed that only a moral authority of Gandhi 's stature could fill the political vacuum . He felt that in the absence , of such a spiritual magnet people would be drawn to Communism which , in addition to its promise of a fuller life , also provided emotional rewards . In the light of developments in China and Tibet , Nehru saw the spectacular Communist victories in South India in the 1952 elections as something more than a local urge for speedy social change . His visit ' to China last year provided answers to Nehru 's questions . The one-leader , oneparty system seemed relevant to problems confronting India , making unnecessary a Mahatma . By the magic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ super-Mahatma , one who did no wrong and who was incapable of nothing . But the people had to believe in him implicitly , carry out his dictates without question and feel happy about it . They would have to be fired ' by a vision of a great country they would be helping to build . In Russia , a few months later , Nehru saw what China might achieve by the one-leader , one-party system . The . pattern was the same . Government , demanded and got absolute cibedience . All else was subordinated to the task of national reconstruction and development . People put up with hardships , sweated long hours without protest and willingly paid heavy taxes . Capital was thus accumulated primitively and the country industrialized . Opposition , the pillar of Western democracy , was a luxury in these countries striving to lift themselves up by their bootstraps . True , individual liberties were not much in evidence , but they did not matter vitally when the more important issues of life and living were at stake . The present generation , perhaps the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was all for the good of posterity . These ideas are as old as totalitarianism , but they appeared in a new light to Nehru . He was convinced that the path of China , with variations , was the path for India . Nehru is , however , too shrewd to suggest that the democratic apparatus be scrapped . In this respect he has improved upon the Chinese technique . Outwardly nothing is done to disfigure the democratic form of India . After all , Western observers are more particular about the form than the content of democracy . They will still regard India as a bulwark of democracy in Asia , as a democratic competitor with totalitarian China . Therefore , Opposition in India is not put down , unless absolutely necessary , as in Kashmir . Nor will it be made constitutionally impossible for the Opposition to function , but as many Opposition elements as possible will be " absorbed " into the ruling party . When the Lower House of the present Indian Parliament came into being in 1952 , there were about 120 non-Congress members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Opposition has no more than 70 members ; the rest have joined the majority . In the next Parliament there will not be even 70 Opposition members . B UT in Kashmir , which is constitutionally part of India , it is different . Opponents , present or prospective , of the regime are first thrown in jail , without trial or sentence , and then branded as " traitors . " Nehru himself , in a recent speech in Parliament , chastized the Socialists for collaboration with known " enemies " of India in Kashmir . He referred to a group of dissidents from the ruling party who demanded a plebiscite for Kashnlir 's future . And the crime of the Socialists lies in seeking to extend democratic rights , guaranteed by the Indian Constitution , to an Indian state . India 's second five-yeai plan , now in the final stages of preparation , is based on the Communist concept of planning . Arbitrarily set targets are established . The stress is on heavy industry , to facilitate the development of which curbs on production and import of consumer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic austerity , heavier and more regressive taxation , and further concentration of economic and political power . Deficit financing , which is also provided for at the rate of 2 billion rupees ( $421 million ) a year for five years , will add to the distress of the fixed income groups by releasing an inflationary spiral . A parallel between planning in Russia and what is being attempted in India is very significant . The industrial superstructure is to be raised on the foundations of a semi-colonial economy riven by glaring disparities and conspicuous for its social immobility . Between 19311932 and 1950-1951 , while incomes below Rs. 25,000 have fallen from 81.9 percent of the total taxable income to 65 percent , those above Rs. 25,000 have risen from 19.1 to 35 percent . The sharpest increase has been in the case of incomes exceeding 100,000 rupees , from 3 to 12.9 percent . Yet , to a demand for lessening of income disparities through taxation measures and institutional changes Nehru 's reply is that in Russia disparities are used as incentives for progress . Nevertheless , Nehru @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups capitalizing on public discontent . In India , where satyagraha or extra-constitutional , non-violent defiance of authority is an accepted form of mass action , the danger is not limited to election periods . Nehru , therefore , has evolved a new method of dealing with Opposition . It consists of subverting the already divided Opposition , ideologically as well as through baits of office . By his foreign policy of friendliness for Russia and China , he has disarmed the Communists . To add to the dissension he had sown in Socialist ranks by a coalition move with them ( the coalition never materialized because the Prime Minister would not allow himself to be pinned down to a definite program ) , he stole their slogan of a socialistic pattern of society . Today the Praja Socialist Party , which showed promise of being the Labour Party of India , is passing through a serious internal crisis . Even with the right-wing cornmunal group , Nehru has made peace by his attitude to Pakistan and by a promise to accept the Hindu revivalist conception of Bharateeya culture . Simultaneously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party and the Communists Nehru has befriended a section of the Communists themselves . " They the Indian Communists are in mental difficulties , " he triumphantly told journalists some time ago , during his tour of Yugoslavia . At home , at the same time , Nehru 's party men were extend ing invitations to ' Communists to join their party . The same panacea is applied to the Sikh trouble in Punjab , which threatens to lead to the carving of a Sikh stateon the Pakistan model . Nehru 's followers tell the Sikhs : " Join the Congress and power will be yours . " Finally , the legend of an infallible Nehru is being sedulously created . Other countries have equally popular prime ministers or chief executives ; but nowhere else do they run the length and breadth of a vast country , receiving receptions , giving sermons , tearing down police cordons ( erected at their own instance to keep crowds away ) and at the same time losing temper with masses who lionize them . Even the dictators of Communist countries are more ? frugal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President of the Indian Union , whose job it is to perform these formalities , is relegated to the background . During the last eight years there has probably not been a day when the government-controlled All India Radio says nothing about . Nehru , either that he has hurt his finger , or that he has received a grand ovation from people shouting " Nehru ki jai " ( victory for Nehru ) at a railway station or an airport , or that some foreign dignitary or journal has praised his role in world affairs . The same accolades are found in the non-governmental press in India . What can not the ? author of solutions to so many intricate world problems achieve at home , newspapers ask ? As an apt epilogue to this narrative we can cite a recent instance when the Socialist leader , Jayaprakash Narayan , took exception to Nehru 's stand on civil liberties . It all started when the police opened fire on a group of students in Patna . Infuriated at the police behavior , students in two other towns tore down the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Day ( August 15 ) . Linking up the flag incidents ( the effect ) with the firing ( the cause ) , Nehru roundly condemned the students . He said he would n't mind if ten thousand or ten hundred thousand people were shot down , but he would n't tolerate dishonor of the national flag . When the Socialist leader politely pointed out that Nehru was speaking the language of totalitarians , the Secretary of the Congress Party , S. N. Agarwal , replied to him saying that , Nehru today " is , in more senses than one , the symbol of national unity and solidarity and symbolizes the aspirations for world ' peace on the basis of Panch Shila . " How could he be guilty of a lapse ? It is an axiom which all rulers over Delhi , from the Moguls onwards , have learned : nothing impresses a backward people like pageantry . ? These days the Indian capital abounds in State banquets and mushairas ( performances by poets ) . While at the former toasts are drunk to the statesmanship of Nehru , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ return from China , where children are in the vanguard of demonstrations , his birthday on November 14 is celebrated in principal Indian towns as " children 's day . " And that day the Prime Minister is called " cha cha Nehru " ( uncle Nehru ) . 