@@487545

ACCORDING to the general opinion expressed a few seasons ago , John Patrick 's " The Hasty Heart " was an interesting play not quite at home on Broadway . Its subject  --  the gradual humanizing of a dour Scotch soldier dying in a military hospital  --  was not very cheerful , and the treatment in a minor key was a little too subdued for a noisy street . Contemplating Mr. Patrick 's new offering , one gets the impression that he was rather too determined that no such criticisms should be made this time and that " Lo and Behold r ( Booth Theater ) is a bit on the brassy side . I joined in the laughter of an audience which seemed to find it highly satisfactory , but I had always the feeling that what might have been a farce comedy with a special tone and flavor degenerated into the commonplace and was funny in mostly expected ways . Even an admirable cast , which included among others the suave Leo Carroll , the engagingly awkward Lee Giant  --  formerly the shoplifter in " Detective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never succeed for long in stamping it with any unique cachet . The initial situation is unusual enough . Mr. Carroll is a famous and very cynical writer who dies serenely during the first quarter-hour of the play , leaving a will in which he provides that his house shall be kept forever vacant so that , if he should survive as a ghost , he may haunt in peaceful solitude his own beloved rooms . Shortly after arising as an astral body he discovers two disconcerting facts : ( a ) that empty houses are much favored by ghosts and that he can do nothing about a mad pianist , a Southern belle shot by a rejected suitor , and a smelly Indian maid , all of whom have moved in on him ; ( 2 ) that a substitute maid , hired a few days before his demise has picked up enough of his Machiavellian morality to take advantage of several coincidences to claim his estate as an illegitimate daughter . For a time , until all the difficulties are happily resolved , it rather looks as though Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uncongenial company but also compelled to contemplate the consequences of his own amoral wsitings . No doubt the moral of all this is that Machiavellianism looks better on paper than in practice , but this moral gets pretty well submerged in the farcical complications , and that is perhaps just as well . What is not just as well is the fact that these same farcical complications among ghosts are not quite sufficiently different from those which occur in farces where the persons concerned are not , admittedly , dead . The heavy hand of the gag writer seems to be responsible for quite a good many of the laughs , and the humor of these airy spirits is seldom sufficiently airy . I am afraid that the odiousness of comparison can not be indefinitely avoided . Like , probably , every other commentator 1 find myself compelled to say : " Lo and Behold " Just does n't achieve that special atmosphere which made " Blithe Spirit " seem to be , in fact rather than merely by premise , a comedy about ghosts . " POINT OF NO RETURN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , smart and sentimental concoction , spiked with fashionable references to anthropology It deals with the fortunes and family life of a young man who works in a bank and aspires to be a vice-president  --  he gets the jab . The piece is handsomely mounted Its star is Henry Fonda , whom everybody loves and who remains Henry Fonda throughout , though his name in the play is Charles Gray . Leora Dana as Mrs. Gray is charming and convincing , and Malcolm Bryant as the anthropologist wields his abstractions with a suitable air of humorous , and impervious , omniscience . I found it amusing and boring by turns , but I suspect it will give many people the feeling that they are enjoying a serious play . It is already a hit . M. M. B. H. HAGGIN I F Balanchine 's " Apollo " in 1928 de-fined the new personal classical style he was to develop and elaborate in subsequent works , his " Four Temperaments " in 1947 gave us that development and elaboration at its highest point , in a much larger work filled much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , its imaginative and expressive power , its unending profusion and variety . That invention was more dearly revealed and had more impact in the New York City Ballet 's recent revival , which discarded the hideous , irrelevant , and absurd cosThe NATION turns that had obscured it ; but though no costumes were better than the bad ones , a work that is " melancholic , sanguinic , phlegmatic , and choleric " should be better with good costumes than with none . Another change was the revision of the end , which I thought increased its effectiveness . " The Fairy 's Kiss , " which also was restored to the repertory , is one of the greatest of the works in which Balanchine 's classical style serves his dramatic imagination and theater sense . The original conclusion has never worked at City Center ; and Balanchine 's experiments with substitutes continued until the very last of the recent performances , where he achieved what seemed to me exactly right : the room from which the fairy has dragged the bridegroom remains empty ; the bride returns in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her earlier happiness there with him , and slowly sinks to the ground ; then the room disappears and the triumphant fairy is seen with the bridegroom for a moment before the curtain falls . Or at least it seemed right with LeCiercq on the stage to communicate the bride 's tragic desolation , as earlier she had communicated her sweetness and gaiety , with a force of presence and projection and a range of expressive power that amaze one anew in her every performance . Of Balanchine 's two new works , " Tyl Ulenspiegel " is a product almost entirely of his theater sense  --  a spectacle with magnificent scenery and costumes by Esteban Frances , an action piece with amusing incidents which are made effective by Robbins 's gifts as a comedian , but almost no dancing . It is , then , a good work of its kind ( and for its purpose of drawing people to the box office ) ; but the kind  --  since it does n't employ the most important of Balanchine 's powers  --  keeps it from being a work of much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for him . On the other hand I doubt that he has ever done anything he cared more about than his new version of Act 2 of " Swan Lake , " which engaged all his powers , and which is one of the most beautiful and most consequential of their achievements . It engaged , first of all , his rema , a-able powers as a musician : what he talked most about was Tchaikovsky 's music  --  the fact that it December 29 , 1951 had been put together with a mastery of musical construction like Stravinsky 's , that it had always been played and danced to in a way which had destroyed its subtleties of accentuation and phrase-construction , and that these would now be heard in the music and seen in the dancing . Those musical powers are evident in the two pieces of music he has introduced from Act 3 and the dances he has invented for them  --  a brilliant pas de trots , superbly danced by Wilde with Fontaine and Jillana , and a pas de neuf which is the most enchantingly beautiful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the corps . His dramatic powers are evident not only in the revisions which create a clear line of dramatic meaning in the first encounter and last scene of the swan queen and the prince , but above all in his invention for the swans  --  their wonderfully animated entrance and first waltz , their groupings when threatened by the hunters , their hair-raising swirling and rushing at the end . And no doubt his theater sense had something to do with the magnificent scenery by Beaton . Tallchief dances the swan queen not only with her technical perfection and brilliance but with the lovely delicacy that she has acquired in the last couple of years , and with dramatic expressiveness . The one thing her performance lacks is the projected personal presence and force that made Danilova 's and Markova 's the great performances they were . As for Eglevsky , he is less damaging to this work than to " Apollo " only because there is less of him . The pied piper of Robbins 's new ballet of that title is the solo clarinetist of the performance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corner in the front of the bare stage , and whose playing , we are asked to believe , lures onto that stage dancers in practice clothes and impels them to dance . As it happens , the music , to my ears , is something contrived by an efficient technique out of no ideas ; and so there is , for me , no lyricism in the slow first movement to produce the soaring lifts and other lyrical movements of the first pair of dancers . Neither am I able to believe in the make-believe of the violent compulsive effects of the fragmentary jazz figures of the cadenza and the second movement ; and most of the resuiting movements that the audiences have found terribly funny I find terribly and embarrassingly cute and corny . Nor , finally , can I believe in the climactic compulsive effect of the music at the end , which is to drive the dancers frantic , and which I suspect represents a Serious Idea , this time about the Jazz Age . There were no Serious Ideas in " Fancy Free " and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Look Ma , I 'm Dancing " ; if there had been they probably would have been no better than " The Age of Anxiety " and " The Pied Piper " ? to say nothing of " Facsimile " and " The Cage " In Tudor 's " Lilac Garden , " in which Kaye and Laing danced their old roles very well , LeClercq 's distinction and force created , for me , the only moments of the " amplitude of meaning " that art ? and dancing , like any other art  --  can give . . 575 