@@183885

Borodino is a name often heard in Moscow . It is a village about 70 miles westward , where Marshal Kutusov 's Russian army made a last-ditch stand against Napoleon in 1812 , and where in World War II a hard-fought battle stopped the Germans . Red propagandists made a Soviet symbol of Borodino . When the Foreign Ministry planned its new skyscraper after the war , it chose a site overlooking the Borodino bridge by which the historic highway from the west enters Moscow . There last week top Soviet policymakers met to plot the strategy of a diplomatic Borodino . <P> It was a battle of deeper attrition than many in the West yet realized . The confusion in Russian leadership has weakened Communist ranks everywhere , given the opponents of Communism an opportunity for frontal attack . In East Germany the Red army is fully engaged in the task of suppressing rioting workers . Berlin newspapers were full of reports of violent uprisings in Poland , which many a U.S. newspaper headlined , though no responsible Allied source confirmed the reports . In Hungary an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sweeping changes in the regime ( see below ) . <P> No one could judge how deep the unrest went into Soviet territory , but recent concessions to nationalist feeling in Georgia , Latvia and the Ukraine indicated a wavering of Soviet power in those theoretically monolithic states . It was becoming clearer every day that the recent conciliatory attitude of the Soviet towards the West is dictated by internal weakness . <P> The Soviet Foreign Ministry moved to meet the new situation by an ingathering of ambassadors . From Washington came Georgy N. Zarubin , from London Jacob A. Malik , from Paris Alexei P. Pavlov , from Berlin Vladimir S. Semenov . At week 's end they were in conference with Deputy Premier Molotov and other Soviet leaders . Whatever counteroffensive they worked out , it would be for the defense of Moscow , and the fighting as tough as the battles of Borodino.                     