@@476110

In the article entitled " Reputation by Sonnenberg " in your February issue , there appears this statement : " During the first few mouths Sonnenberg worked for Goldwyn , two articles appeared in the New York Times magazine section under Goldwyn 's by-line . " The implication is that Mr. Sonnenberg was instrumental in attaining the publication of those articles in the Times magazine . These are the facts : ( 1 ) The New York Times magazine has published in the past five years three articles by Mr. Goldwyn , one in 1945 , one in 1947 , and one in 1949 . Thus , no two articles appeared in any " few months . " ( 2 ) Mr. Sonnenberg had nothing to do with the publication of those articles in the Times magazine . Mr. Goldwyn discussed them directly with me . I do not know what goes on behind Mr. Sonnenberg 's silken curtain , but I want to make it clear that I have never had any part in that activity , whatever it may be . LESTER MARKEL Sunday Editor New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : . . . My wife and I lived in a studio ( garage ) apartment next door to the Robie house for four years . " After Hours , " March 1950 , discusses this house by Frank Lloyd Wright . I doubt that we ever looked out the window , walked down the street , or stepped out the door without letting our eyes wander over the vast planes of that building . . . . If you could see those outlines , those sweeping planes that defy barriers and confinement . . . if you could see them through the seasons , capped with snow in winter moonlight , flowing eerily in rain and fog , lovely beyond belief in summer sun and foliage ! ... The students think of it as a peculiar place ? no , they do n't see the bare bulbs . The tourists call it the " boat house " and tell you that it was designed for the wife of a man who could n't travel . The business staff tell you ( confidentially ) that it is very impractical . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ funds have been raised to build a dormitory and commons on that and adjacent sites ? and the contractors say that it will take blasting to break it up , due to specially fired bricks and concrete mortar . Yes , people are both preoccupied and indifferent . . . Many a man thinks he loves God and yet manages to hate a thousand things that speak to him of creativity and power building like the Robie house should have no decadence . It is unthinkable that it should be destroyed . No one has realty experienced that for which it was designed . What shall we do ? DONALD IRVING BARTHOLOMEW Lisle Congregational Church Lisle , Illinois The Robie house is not owned by the University of Chicago , as Mr. Harper said , but by the Chicago Theological Seminary , affiliated with the University . Stuff or Staff ? ? To the Editors : Re : " Bread , and the Stuff We Eat " by James Rorty , March 1950 . There have been several attempts to make a complete food out of the bread we eat by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , milk , or other nutritious ingredients , and the fact that the resulting bread is a complete food has been demonstrated by maintaining rats on a diet consist ing solely of the improved bread . Dr. McCay has demonstrated that his " yardstick " bread furnishes all the food essentials required by the rat and is therefore a well-balanced rat food . In the developing of a feed for animals , it is necessary to incorporate in the feed all of the nutrients essential to the animal for which the feed is intended . Domesticated animals have no opportunity to select and eat a variety of foods and , therefore , the single food developed for them must constitute a complete diet . No food eaten by humans , including the more expensive foods such as milk and meat , will by themselves fulfill the nutritive needs of the people . People choose a variety of foods which complement one another . If wisely chosen , this process assures an adequate diet . Neither milk nor bread need be made a complete food except for those cases in which milk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of some individual 's physical disability , or because extreme poverty would make it impossible to obtain an adequate diet through the selection of a variety of foodstuffs . Commercial enriched bread may hold its head high in any discussion on nutritive value . Bread has increased in nutritive value through the years because of increased use of milk , because of the use of calcium salts as yeast foods or dough improvers , and because of enrichment . Modern bread formulas contain on the average 4 per cent non-fat milk solids , substantially more milk than grandma used , and more than was used by the commercial baker before the war . At the present time the baker uses 65 per cent of the nonfat milk solids produced . Should the population become conditioned to the flavor of the products made from soya flour , the baking industry undoubtedly will ask for permission to include soya flour in its enriched bread formula . Until LETTERS that time , however , it would be impossible for the baking industry to exist manufacturing a product that the consumer does not like and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not between the chemical industries and the farmer , but between groups within agriculture itself . The dairy interests , the shortening interests , the farmers who grow corn , and the farmers who grow soya bean vie with one another for a substantial part of the bakers ' patronage , because the commercial production of 15 billion pounds of bread per year represents a substantial market-for agricultural products . If all of the chemicals that have been discussed in the Bread Standards Hearings were to be permitted in the bread standards , the products of the chemical industry ( except salt ) would amount at most to 1 per cent of the weight of the loaf , and in 100 pounds of bread would replace only 1 per cent of the farmers ' products . However , when a bread formula containing no milk is changed to include 6 per cent milk , the milk in actuality replaces about 7 per cent of the flour and other agricultural ingredients from which bread is made . It is visualized that the use of milk in commercial bread , which has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is also visualized that as the people become conditioned to the newer food products , such as soya flour , more of them will find their way into the bakers ' formulae . In the meantime , enriched bread with its high nutritive value will continue to serve as one of America 's most economical sources of many of the food essentials and in a variety of forms to satisfy the tastes of the American people . HowARD 0 . HUNTER Executive Vice President American Institute of Baking Chicago , Ill . To the Editors : The argument with which Mr. Hunter attempts to defend his stage bread was abandoned even by his own industry over a decade ago , when American white bread was " enriched " to restore , but only in part , its acknowledged vitamin and mineral deficiencies . It is true , of course , that human beings eat a more LETTERS varied diet than rats . But the " staff of life " is what the phrase implies ? the foundation of the American diet , especially for poor people who ca n't afford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last fall before the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forestry , Hazel K. Stiebeling , Chief of the Bureau of Human Nutrition and Home Economics of the U. S. Department of Agriculture , declared that " . . . efforts should be made to prevent reduction of milk solids in bread ; indeed it would be advantageous nutritionally to increase the proportion of non-fat milk solids in bread in this country to about double the quantity now used . " How much is now used ? Mr. Hunter says 4 per cent , more than before the war . What makes him think he knows ? Miss Stiebeling told the same committee : " We think there is less skim milk , non-fat milk solids , and less fat in breads today than prior to the war , but I do not have satisfactory figures on that . " The reason that neither Miss Stiebeling nor anybody else , including Mr. Hunter , has satisfactory figures is that the present law does n't require open-formula labeling as it should . If it did , and bakers were required to state on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bread , competition would quickly force them to absorb the 140,000,000 pounds of dry skim milk the USDA is now thinking of dumping in England at a cent a pound . Which would make more sense : to feed that milk , via bread , to American children , millions of whom are not now getting enough milk , or to feed it to British pigs ? As a reading of my article will show , Mr. Hunter chooses to by-pass most of my charges . Interested readers will find them fully documented in my Tomorrow 's Food ( with N. Philip Norman , M.D. ) and also in the recent Senate hearings above referred to . JAMES RORTY New York , N. Y. P.S. I erred in my article in saying that Miss Katharine Flack is with the New York State Department of Health . She is dietician for the Department of Mental Hygiene .                     