@@476439

BEFORE you read this , we may have had opportunity to observe the reaction of public opinion to either an armistice in Korea , or definitely no armistice in Korea . I shall not venture to predict what that reaction may be ; but if it should be reasonably definite and coherent , the view of an apparent majority , it will be something that neither the President nor Congress could prudently disregard . The power of public opinion in foreign policy is now such a commonplace that it is hard to remember that only thirty-five years ago there was a great agitation for " democratic control . " It began in England , among people who probably knew they had to fight to defend the Channel coast , but resented the idea that Sir Edward Grey had committed , or demi-committed them to do so without asking them first ; and who were much annoyed when they learned that they were also fighting to turn over Fiume and Zara to Italy and Constantinople to Russia . ( Probably the only useful effect of the Bolshevik revolution was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agitation was taken up in this country , by people who seemed to forget ( until reminded in 1919 ) that the Constitution imposes an oligarchic control of foreign policy , at least when it comes to acceptance or rejection of treaties . And it ultimately triumphed when President Wilson embodied in his Fourteen Points the principle of " open covenants openly arrived at . " Two very different things , of course . That a democracy has a right to know to what its government proposes to commit it , and to accept or reject the commitment , can not be denied . The principle of open covenants has long been established , in so far as formal treaties are concerned ; publication and someform of legislative approval are now universal , among the democracies . Even totalitarian governments publish parts of their treaties , though usually the less interesting parts . ( Irate persons may ask , What about Yalta ? Well , the political agreements at Yalta would have had no constitutional force unless embodied in treaties approved by the Senate ; they were eventually repudiated by so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's information officer to the Tass correspondent ; and as for their practical effect , the Russian armies would have been in there anyway , even if the agreements had never been made . ) But when President Wilson went to Paris to arrive at his covenants he soon found that he could arrive at nothing openly . Nor , it soon turned out , could he operate in total secrecy ; neither could his successors , except for occasional military conferences in wartime , and even there the secrecy was not entirely impermeable . With the right of popular approval of treaties established , it is hard in principle and impossible in practice to deny a good deal of popular control of the process by which those treaties are concluded . Diplomacy is now more than semiopen ; formal conferences have their communiqu ? s , their daily briefings , their authoritative leaks . And thanks to the numerous diplomatic correspondents in every capital , to the cable and radio that carry their reports all over the world , even the routine of day-byday negotiation is under constant democratic observation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least to democratic kibitzing . As a reporter I welcome the partial opening up of diplomacy ; but it has been disputed whether this blend of secrecy and publicity combines the best , or the worst , features of both . It is certainly open to question whether the career of the greatest of our Secretaries of State would have been possible in an age of instantaneous nation-wide and world-wide communication . The policies of John Quincy Adams were in accord with the dominant national sentiment of his time ; but he represented a small nation , which not long before had started a war which it had conspicuously failed to win . To get his way , in dealings with great and formidable powers , he needed a high degree of tactical skill ? sometimes going out on a very shaky limb , occasionally sidestepping . He might never have got away with it if every newspaper editor in the country had been continually breathing down his neck , and saying that what he did yesterday was wrong . For as Dean Rusk , one of the abler of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fields of human endeavor where wishful thinking and self-delusion are as common , or as dangerous , as in foreign policy . We demand simple answers to the most complex questions confronting human intelligence . We expect consistency in policy , though the facts themselves are full of contradictions . We should like an easy way to carry a heavy burden , an agreeable way to perform disagreeable tasks , a cheap way to bring about an expensive result . " Mr. Rusk prudently reserved these observations , however , until he had retired from the State Department to the privileged sanctuary of the Rockefeller Foundation. * y ET it is under this system that the democratic world has operated for thirty-odd years past ; and in view of the history of those years it is not surprising that some people have wondered if all this was not a terrible mistake . International relations are beyond the comprehension , it is argued , of the average man who has no time " Since the foregoing was written the House of Representatives has voted to investigate the great foundations , to see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; presumably meaning something that some member of Congress does not like . There are no privileged sanctuaries any more ? except of course Congress itself ; where a man convicted of crime can retain his scat and go on helping to make our laws . to study their complexities . We were better off , so the argument runs , when foreign policy was conducted by educated and leisured gentlemen who understood all the factors involved and could arrive at sound decisions based on the national interest , without having to worry about making them palatable to the ill-informed and emotional masses . And the argument is usually pointed up by contrasting the Treaty of Versailles with the Congress of Vienna , which made a settlement that averted a general war for a century . If there is a case for aristocratic diplomacy , that instance does not prove it . The pattern in which the Congress of Vienna tried to freeze both the map and the political philosophy of Europe was maintained , almost from the first , only by force ; it was badly shaken in 1830 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of it after 1866 . Meanwhile there had been plenty of wars , several of which narrowly escaped being general : and escaped , it would seem in retrospect , pretty largely by luck . It is true that the period from 1871 to 1914 was the most peaceful Europe has known since the days of Antoninus Pius ; but that stability , by no means perfect , was attained only after most of the errors of the Congress of Vienna had been corrected . Yet the noblemen who met at Vienna had one great achievement to their credit , which would have been impossible to democratic diplomats ? the early alignment of two of the victorious powers , England and Austria , with the defeated power , France , to resist the aggressive demands of Russia and its Prussian satellite . That may have prevented another and calamitous war ; certainly it prevented some undesirable readjustments of the map of Europe ? or more exactly postponed them , since readjustments not dissimilar , in substance if not in form , were made a hundred and thirty years later . No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1945 as at Vienna in 1814 ; nor were there diplomats in the Western delegations comparable in skill and experience to some of the men of Vienna . But even if Jimmy Byrnes had been a Metternich and Ernest Bevin a Castlereagh , American and British public opinion would never have tolerated , in the summer of 1945 , the attempt to arrange an alliance with Germany against Russia which we actually got to work on five years later . Men who had dared to propose it , in the first flush of a common victory and the afterglow of a common hatred , would have been howled out of office . There was this further advantage in aristocratic diplomacy ? that its practitioners spoke the same language . The class to which they belonged , in every country , had the same general outlook on life and more or less similar interests . These interests usually required the maintenance of as much stability as possible . Any serious change was likely to be for the worse ; so whatever the clash of dynastic ambitions , they were all inclined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in an adjustment that would make any general upset un- ? likely . The system had its points ; but it would work only in an age when there were no compelling pressures toward a general upset . It depended at first on ignoring the people ; and when they could no longer be ignored , on holding them down . The time came when they could no longer be held down . Aristocratic diplomacy was generally suited to the conditions of its time , as popular diplomacy is generally suited to ours ; the shortcomings of both are perhaps no more than can be expected from any work of imperfect man . At any rate , we can mark it down as a triumph for democracy ? though a somewhat dubious one ? that public opinion now counts for so much in foreign policy that even totalitarians try to turn it to their advantage . Saber-rattling is still a technique of aggressive diplomacy , but with a difference ; Vishinsky rattles not his saber but ours , as a warning that he may reluctantly be compelled to draw his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if there is one , will be fought between the peace-loving nations and the " peace-loving nations . " Which side will get the quotation marks , in future histories , will depend on who wins . H B ur what is public opinion ? G. P. Baker , in his biography of a man who understood public opinion as well , and used it as effectively , as any politician in history ? Augustus Caesar ? unkindly calls it " a crazy labyrinth of hopes , fears , prejudices , ignorances , passions , and fantasies . " Yet the public opinion of Italy and the Caesarian armydid come to the right decision between Augustus and Marc Antony ; as public opinion has often done since . I suppose that public opinion , in the Almost Perfect State , could be defined as the judgment of the majority of the people , after they have had ample information , and time to sort it out ( if they can ) from the misinformation that accompanies it . But how is that judgment to be ascertained ? How be sure that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merely of the small segment of the people that makes the most noise or has the greatest nuisance value ? No certain method has yet been found . Practically , Presidents and Secretaries of State usually have to determine it by rule of thumb ? a combination of newspaper editorials ( with the necessary deductions for partisanship ) , reports from party leaders and trusted personal informants , letters to the White House and members of Congress ( again with deductions , since people who do n't like something are more likely to write or telegraph than those who do ) , and any other evidence that seems valuable . This is far from satisfactory , and no wonder there have been some rather desperate efforts to find something better . Fifteen years ago there was a proposal that war be declared only by popular vote . The idea was not entirely without merit , but it had some obvious and decisive drawbacks ; it is worth noting that if this provision had been in force throughout our history , such a plebiscite would probably have approved the declaration of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engaged , as well as of the one we came nearest to losing . No doubt the pollsters would tell us that the will of the people can be discovered by asking four hundred selected citizens , whose views will accurately represent those of a hundred and fifty million . Recent events cast considerable doubt on this . There are to be sure five hundred and thirty-one selected citizens ? selected by the people themselves ? who constitutionally have considerable authority ( mostly negative ) over foreign policy , and may be supposed to represent the will of the people . It is said that the members of Congress are an average of the nation ; I am not too sure of that . Some of them are much above the average ; too many are merely the lowest common denominator of the pressures VOX POPULI AND in their districts . And what they do on foreign policy is apt to he determined by domestic exigencies , or supposed exigencies , of their party . When one Republican Congressman demands the annexation of Canada , whether the Canadians like it or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canadians did not seem to think he was very funny . When two hundred of them demand the dismissal of the Secretary of State on the eve of an important international conference , it is more serious . Yet the direct exercise of the constitutional powers of Congress in recent years has , with few exceptions , served the national interest . Not so much can be said for the irregular and extraconstitutional ( not unconstitutional ) pressures which may . reflect only the opinion of an activist minority , perhaps merely of a single influential Senator or Representative , but which can be effective because Congress controls the money . It is hard to say how far our shift in policy toward Spain was the work of the Pentagon and how far of Senator McCarran , with his powerful influence over the State Department appropriation . John Carter Vincent . attacked by Senator McCarthy , was sent from Berne to Tangier ? actually a more important post , but technically a demotion ? shortly before the appropriation came up . Anybody who has ever worked for the government can understand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A head of any department , if he is worth his keep , believes in the great work he will be able to do if Congress will only give him the money to do it with ; and when the appropriation is up , he may feel that it is expedient that one man should be demoted for the people . Let him that is without sin cast the first stone . Senator McCarthy 's campaign of terrorism has not , at this writing , broken the State Department 's will to resist ; but the Department has been forced into some retreats by his attacks and those of Senator McCarran 's Internal Security Committee . This remarkable body quotes diplomatic intelligence reports written years ago , which do not happen to agree with the present views of the Senators , and cross-examines their authors on the apparent assumption that they were and are traitors . That sort of thing threatens to stop the flow of the confidential material that is the raw material of foreign policy . No foreignFOREIGN service officer who cares for his future can any longer afford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is accredited , as it looks to him , without peering into the crystal ball and trying to guess how it will look to congressional investigators ten or twelve years later . There is reason to believe that Russian diplomats dare not report anything but what will please the men in the Kremlin . But at least they are dealing with the men who are in the Kremlin now ; they know who they are ; they do not have to try to trim their reports to fit the prejudices of men they have never heard of , who may be there in 1962 . The classic instance of extraconstitutional pressure by Congress was the heat put on the President last spring by most of the Republicans and some few Democrats , to try to make him adopt General MacArthur 's policy of a ( he hoped ) limited extension of the war . This was no formal action . Members of Congress have the same right as any other citizens to speak their minds ; but their position gives their views more publicity , if not more weight , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and when they attempt to force the Administration into a policy in which it does not believe by noise , uproar , propaganda , talk of impeachment , it becomes a form of extraconstitutional pressure approximating mob rule . For all the while there was at hand an unquestioned constitutional authority which Congress could have exercised if it had chosen . Only Senator Harry Cain of Washington proposed that they exercise it . He offered alternative resolutions ? one calling for withdrawal from Korea , which in form was only advisory , but could easily have been implemented by congressional refusal of appropriations . The other was mandatory ? a declaration of war on China . Mr. Cain 's colleagues wanted the President to make war on China ; he proposed that they make him do it , for a President who refused to fight a war that Congress had declared could certainly be impeached . But if Congress thus exerted its authority , there was an unspoken corollary ? that Congress must accept responsibility for what happened . Senator Cain 's resolution got no support whatever . Many men wanted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the guts to do it themselves . CONGRESS is usually an accurate barometer of public opinion only when that opinion is so unmistakable that no barometer is needed . The isolationism of Congress , in the nineteen thirties , reflected the isolationism of the nation ; but that sentiment probably lingered longer in Congress than among the people , for the simple reason that it is extremely difficult and painful For a statesman to admit that he was ever wrong . IF he did , people might think he could be wrong again . Professors Langer and Gleason , in The Challenge to Isolation , believe that President Roosevelt overestimated popular reluctance to aid the British in 1940 ; hence his zigzags and hesitations . It may be so ; yet he did eventually get enough support to put over his policy of aid short of war . What aroused that opinion ? Langer and Gleason believe , I think correctly , that the active agent was the Committee to Defend America by Aiding the Allies , and more especially its predecessor , the Century Dinner Group . The work of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but they had to have something to work on . For the most cogent influence on public opinion , the most powerful propaganda , is a fact ; a fact so undeniable that even newspapers that do n't like it must print it . The great and irrefutable piece of anti-German propaganda in the war of 1914 was the invasion of Belgium , which in that far more civilized time gave us such a moral shock as hardly anything could give us now . Hohenzollern Germany never lived it down . Popular support for the destroyers-bases deal in 1940 , and later for lend-lease , came partly from distaste for Hitler but far more from the growing realization , which the Century Dinner Group helped to spread , that the British situation was dangerous but not hopeless , that with help England might hold out . That group , many of whose participants later held high public office but few of whom had done so then , may fall into the category that I have called " small segments of the people who make the most noise . " So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what is called the China Lobby . It is-not clear whether the primary objective of this group is to make war on the Chinese Communist government , or to convict the present United States government of treason . Toward this latter end they have made little progress ; they have had better luck in working up sentiment against the Chinese Communists , thanks to the behavior of the Chinese Communists themselves . If we should adopt ( or before you read this may already have adopted ) something like MacArthur 's policy in the Korean war , it will be neither MacArthur nor the China Lobby that deserves the credit . It will be Mao Tse-tung . IV T uts appears to justify the democratic faith that when the people have ab- sorbed and studied all the evidence , the majority will make the right decision . But only those who read honest newspapers get all the evidence ; and in any case a look hack at our recent wars suggests some reservations . The most popular war we ever fought , the war with Spain , was forced by public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the competition for circulation between two Ncw York newspapers . The situation in Cuba did involve a national interest for us , perhaps worth fighting for if there had been no other way out ; but long before the blowing up of the Maine it had become a moral and emotional issue . Public opinion had become so inflamed that when Spain at the last moment conceded all our demands about Cuba ? conceded , that is , all that our national interest required ? President McKinley merely appended the Spanish note as a postscript to his war message to Congress , with a very perfunctory commendation to their attention . Grover Cleveland would have torn up the message and told Congress . " This means that there need he no war . " But Congress would almost certainly have declared war anyway , might even have impeached a President who energetically opposed it , and would probably have had the support of public opinion in either course . That however was a little war , which we could hardly have lost if we had tried . The two great and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a major national interest ? to prevent the domination of Europe ( the second time , of Asia too ) by a single aggressive power . Both times , public opinion was slow in building up ; when we finally got enough of it , in 1917 , it was aimed at symptoms rather than at the disease itself . German atrocities horrified us , tame though they were by modern standards ; the culminating atrocity , which was also an insult , was the declaration of unrestricted submarine war . The atrocity and the insult , rather than the national interest involved , seem to have had most influence on public opinion . ( Fortunately no one could then foresee that twenty-five years later the most successful , and in some respects most unrestricted submarine war in history would he conducted by the United States Navy . ) Even Woodrow Wilson , though he told H. B. Brougham as early as December 1914 that an Allied victory " would not greatly hurt the interests of the United States " ? which implied that a Germany victory would hurt them ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field of power politics rather than of moral principle . When he finally asked for a declaration of war he sublimated his perception of the national interest into the argument that we must make the world safe for democracy , and prepare for a universal dominion of right by a concert of free peoples . Noble ideals ; powerful propaganda slogans , of immense value in solidifying national and world opinion ; but in the end they backfired so hard that it took us twenty years to get over it . President Roosevelt perceived the national interest much earlier and much more clearly ; but his proposal in 1937 for the quarantine of aggressors raised such an outcry that he moved very cautiously thereafter . When war came , he had to deal with a very volatile public opinion , as well as with a determined opposition . In the end we went into the war with Japan with almost total national unity , thanks to the combined insult and injury of the surprise attack on Pearl Harbor ; but many people still opposed the war against the really dangerous enemy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its prosecution . Some remarks of General Eisenhower 's not long before the Normandy landings about the difficulties of that operation were interpreted , not only by Dr. Goebbels but by the newspaper with the largest circulation in the United States , as an advance alibi for failure . That newspaper 's readers did not stop reading it . It would seem , then , that George Kennan has plenty of evidence to support his regret ful conclusion that peoples as a whole incline to regard foreign-policy issues not as matters of national interest but as moral and emotional issues : which , he reasons , makes wars easier to win but harder to end . People dislike war ; when they have to get into it they hate the enemy for disturbing their normal routine ; and go on from that to hating the enemy in general . Hatred rouses the nation to the tremendous effort that modern war entails ; but once roused it is likely to stay roused , to demand the complete overthrow of the enemy ? his humiliation if not his obliteration ? even though something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requires . So , Kennan argues , under democratic control all wars tend to become total . M AYBE . But what made the last war total was less the nature of democracy than the nature of the , say , the War of the Spanish Succession ; that would only have given him time to get his breath and get ready to start all over . But what about that next war that we may have to fight , even though we hope not ? a war not against China but against Russia , or against both combined ? The nature of the enemy would be the same but there would be this great difference . In the last war we were fighting nations of relatively small area , which could be pretty thoroughly worked over by our air power , and occupied afterward so that they would n't bounce back too soon . As a pure matter of geography , the next war could not he total in that sense . Our enemy ? as I observed in these pages three years ago ? would be a government , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the overthrow of that government by its own people ? though God knows what would take its place . But that could come only through a military revolt ; it would be unlikely to come soon : and in the meantime the war between governments might have transformed itself into a war between nations . We have officially proclaimed that we love the Russian people . That is good Christian doctrine , good politics , and good propaganda . But residents of regions overrun by the Russian army in 1945 do not love the Russian people ; if you want to know why , read Jurgen Thorwald 's Flight in the Winter . How successful the Russian government has been in persuading its people to hate us is not certain ; but they would n't love us any better if circumstances compelled us to blow large numbers of them to pieces with atomic bombs . And if a few Russian atomic bombs were dropped on American cities , I doubt if our statesmen would find it advisable to say anything more about how we love the Russian people . Which might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . So far as we can see , overthrow of the enemy government would mean victory . But suppose we had to consider whether to settle for less than that . Suppose we had stopped Russian aggression ( for the time , anyway ) , even liberated the satellites ( for the time , anyway ) ; but the Soviet system had not yet fallen apart and it seemed advisable to negotiate a peace , settle for an eighteenth-century type of victory ? hoping that the enemy system could not survive defeat , but accepting the possibility that it might only try to get ready to fight again . Would public opinion accept that ? Or would it cry out against " appeasement " and insist on fighting on , regardless of the law of diminishing returns ? Who knows ? WAR , for a despotism , may be what Clausewitz called it , but for a democracy it is less a continuation of policy than a failure of policy , a last resort to what diplomacy is unable to avert . American public opinion has risen adequately , if belatedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in tensions short of war , in those crucial intervals when war might have been averted , it is usually less realistic . The catastrophe of the forties might have come anyway , but the isolationism of the thirties certainly helped to bring it on ; and the chief source of our present troubles is the headlong demobilization at the end of 1945 ? demanded by a public opinion as nearly unanimous as this country has ever seen . On those occasions most people could see no probable enemy . Since then Russian ( and more recently Chinese ) behavior has given them something to look at ; so that public opinion is far better educatedon foreign policy issues than it was a dozen , or even half a dozen years ago . But there are people who are working hard to miseducate it ? not only on specific issues , as to which honest citizens may honestly differ ; but on the presuppositions and the entire structure of political thinking . Not merely the China Lobby , but the considerable segment of opinion which has come to share its views @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there can he no such thing as difference of opinion or mistaken judgment ; that whoever did not think , five or ten years ago , what there is good reason for thinking now must have been and must still be a traitor . This ? disregarding its ethical aspects ? is the kind of thinking that can get any government and any nation into trouble ; the doctrine that it is not permissible , in a highly complex international situation , to examine all possible courses and try to decide which one would best serve the national interest . No ? says this doctrine ? we must not only all think the same way , but we all must always have thought the same way , whatever reasons may once have suggested alternatives . IF that view prevails ? and some energetic men are working hard to make it prevail ? there will be little realism and less flexibility in American diplomacy ; and diplomacy that is not realistic and flexible is disastrous . Some of our Senators have demanded that we declare not only that we are not going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the presently visible future ? which makes sense ? but that we shall never recognize it under any conditions at all . " Never " is a word that should never be used in foreign policy . The way the Chinese Communists are . behaving as this is written ( still more perhaps when it is read ) does not suggest that we should ever have reason to change our attitude toward them . But who would have dared to predict six years ago that we would now be rearming Germany and Japan ? Who would have dared to predict five years ago , when American planes were shot down over Yugoslavia , that we would now he giving military aid to Tito ? Last summer there was a saying around the press bar at the United Nations that five years after we have won the next war we shall be rearming the Russians to resist Chinese aggression . I can imagine a future situation ? highly improbable but not impossible ? in which that might make sense from the viewpoint of American national interest . And it is from that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to preserve the power , perhaps the very existence , of this republic . This of course is substantially the argument of George Kennan 's American Dipiomacy : 1900-1950 ; and it has been challenged . Sebastian Haffner , foreign editor of the London Observer , says that national interest is " a most elusive conception , wholly undefinable in the abstract and highly doubtful in the concrete instance . " What do we substitute for it ? America , says Mr. Haffner , wants to create and enforce an international system governed by the rule of law ; which in his opinion is " a highly enlightened answer and in the present power distribution in the world a wholly realistic one . " I confess I can not follow him as to the realism . If we had a Kerensky-type Russia , an early-Chiang Kaishek-type China , an international system governed by the rule of law might he feasible ; human nature might still break out somewhere , but there would be enough force , and conceivably enough unity of intention , to keep it in bounds . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be attained only if one of the two power centers is completely crushed . Maybe the wrong one . That nations have not always correctly discerned their national interest is true ; also that details of that interest may shift from time to time . England backed Turkey against Russia at the Congress of Berlin in 1878 ; years later Lord Salisbury admitted that they had bet on the wrong horse ; so it seemed for decades , but now it looks as if they bet on the right horse after all . The continuing national interest of England was to prevent the domination of the Continent by a single aggressive power ; that interest was served by supporting , in varying circumstances , the Turks , then the Russians , then the Turks again . Who would now want to see the Red Army on the shores of the Mediterranean ? This policy is not free from danger , but what is ? Some of us have grave qualms , both emotional and practical , about rearming the Germans and the Japanese . But it was to our advantage , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as it is now to arm themagainst the Russians . We may have paid more than we needed for Russian help and it can be hoped that this error will not be repeated . That hope now seems somewhat dubious , so far as the Germans are concerned ; in which case , if we had broken the power of Russia , there might again be occasion to worry about Germany and Japan . Certainly an unhappy historical parallel suggests itself ? the last century of Greece before Alexander . They all ganged up against each power that in succession became strongest ? first Sparta and Thebes and Corinth against Athens , then Athens and Thebes and Corinth against Sparta , then all the others against Thebes ; and by incessant wars they so wore themselves out that there was little left in man power or will power to stop the Macedonians . At least there are now no Macedonians ? unless they should come from another planet , as often happens in science fiction . Indeed certain science-fiction writers , observing that nations co-operate only when they are scared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to invent a fictitious extraterrestrial menace so that the United Nations will work . It might be done , if the Russians had any desire to make the United Nations work . So long as we remain on the terrestrial level , however , it is hard to see a better policy than this shifting association with whoever might be useful to us against the present danger . It has brought us some unsavory allies ( and I do n't mean Adenauer or Yoshida ) ; but we have had unsavory allies in the past . and they helped us win a war which , in Europe , we could not have won conclusively without them . I know of no American statesman of the present , or of the past since the days of Manifest Destiny , who could clearly see the interest of this nation for a hundred years ahead ( nor any foreign statesman who could so see the interest of his nation , for that matter ) . The best we can hope for is men who can see clearly five or ten years ahead what will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the interest of the free world . If we can keep working for this dual interest , by whatever permutations and combinations may be necessary , we may gradually move somewhat nearer to that reign of law which many men desire , but which nobody has told us how to get .                     