@@476837

except for government loans on a relatively modest scale , we gave virtually no economic assistance before the war . The Good Neighbor Policy started out , not as a policy of largesse , but as a policy of mutual respect which might be considered incompatible with largesse . Moreover , what assistance we gave during the war ? most of it in direct support of our own wartime procurement and defense programs ? has since been matched by our constantly growing peacetime assistance . ( The wartime assistance has been greatly exceeded if one eliminates , in both periods , such assistance as we were really giving to ourselves in direct connection with self-serving programs of our own ? for example , sanitation programs to make possible the extraction of rubber from the Amazon , or the $83 million postwar program to eliminate the cattle disease in Mexico that threatened ranching in our own Southwest and beyond . ) Indeed , the eleemosynary element in our assistance , virtually unknown before the war and only incidental during it , has attained its present proportions only since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technical co-operation , which averaged $10 million per annum during the war , were in excess of $24 million in 1953 . The stubborn fact is that the increase in this kind of assistance has been closely accompanied by the continuing demoralization of our inter-American relations and the constant nagging accusations of neglect . For several years now it has appeared that the more we did to help Latin America the more we were blamed for the inadequacy of what we did . This is an onus that we did not have to bear in the days when it never occurred to anyone that we had an obligation to do anything at all . Those who attribute the demoralization of our inter-American relations to our neglect may , consequently , have fallen into the common error of confusing opposites . This possibility is reinforced by indications that the complaints are most bitter where our assistance has been greatest . A distinguished Brazilian statesman and scholar recently reported that thoughtful Brazilians feel they would have done better in obtaining public loans from us if ? like other Latin American countries of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unco-operative disposition and exploited her potential nuisance value . The fact is , however , that on June 30 , 1954 , the outstanding credits to Brazil on the books of our Export-Import Bank amounted to $587,479,000 , which was more than the total outstanding credits to all the other Latin American countries put together ( $560 , - 306,000 ) . It remains true that dissatisfaction with our co-operation is probably nowhere greater than it is in Brazil today . Does the cause , then , lie in our neglect to give economic assistance ? Or does it lie , rather , in our neglect to give unlimited economic assistance ? As a matter of human nature such assistance , continued until it has become customary , acquires the character of tribute ; taking its existence for granted , the recipient is impressed , at last , only by its inadequacy . This is likely to be true however great , within practicable limits , the volume of assistance may be . Here is another paradox that may offer a clue to the explanation we are seeking . inter-American solidarity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Axis . One would have expected , as natural , a relaxation of that solidarity with the conclusion of the war and the destruction of the . Axis . But this is not what happened . The war ended in 1945 , the threat to our common safety having begun to recede two or three years before that . Inter-American solidarity , however , reached its highest development two years later at Rio de Janeiro with the signing of the Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance . It was still at a high stage of development in the spring of 1948 , when the Ninth International Conference of American States met in Bogota , the conference that created the Organization of American States ? although at Bogota , we can , 1 think , detect the first clear signs of deterioration . This paradox is compounded when we recall that it was not until these years , 1947 and 1948 , with the Communist seizures of Hungary and Czechoslovakia , that the new Soviet menace became fully evident to the Western world . What happened about 1947 to reverse the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in spite of the growing external menace ? YEAR OF DECISION S S THE passage of time improves our his- torical perspective , I think we shall see more clearly than ever that the year 1947 was one of the great years of decision in our national history . This was the year in which we finally abandoned our traditional but outworn policy of isolation , of peacetime aloofness from the Old World , and deliberately - embarked on a new policy of committing our national strength to the establishment and maintenance of a balanceof-power throughout the world . During the 1930s the twenty-one American republics had had a common defense policy as a basis for their co-operation . They had had a clearly understood common doctrine and a common strategy . They all spoke and acted from common assumptions about the position of the Hemisphere in the world and the requirements of its defense . These assumptions can be summed up in the term " Hemisphere isolationism . " For that was our policy too . It was not national isolation but Hemisphere isolation that we espoused . We took our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the New World had a set of interests essentially different from those of the powers in the Old World , that we must consequently abstain from interference in the ordinary affairs of those powers , and that we could not view with complacency any intervention by them in the affairs of our New World . In the 1930s that doctrine came to be accepted as the basis of common action by all the American republics . In terms of military strategy this meant that we would defend ourselves when our Hemisphere was actually invaded , but not until then . We mounted our defenses , so to speak , along the beaches of our own continents rather than pushing them out , by means of our sea power , to distant shores . This strategy was not even questioned by any American government as late as September of1939 , when the war which had already broken out in Europe prompted the twenty-one republics to come together for an emergency meeting in PanamL Mr. Sumner Welles , the representative of the United States , addressing the meeting at its opening session , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the inalienable right of the American republics to protect themselves ... from the dangers and the repercussions of a war which has broken out thousands of miles from their shores , and in which they are not involved . " The result was the Declaration of Panama , which drew a line around the Hemisphere ( Canada excepted ) beyond which the mighty tides of war were adjured not to go . Three months later , to the accompaniment of unauthorized cheers from the American peoples , some British warships chased the German pocket-battleship Graf Spec right into the estuary of the River Plate , where it committed suicide . Underlying inter-American solidarity , however , and essential to it , was a common policy of continental defense . Such a policy , good or bad , existed up to March 12 , 1947 , that historic day when President Truman announced that , instead of the policy of mounting our defenses on the beaches of the New World , we , the United States , would hereafter follow a new policy of defending ourselves at a distance . REVOLUTION IN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1947 , did not put itself in a position to speak for the entire Hemisphere rather than for the United States alone in announcing this new departure . When he set forth our policy on March 12 of that year , President Truman might have stated that " it must be the policy of the Hemisphere to support free peoples who are resisting attempted subjugation .. .. " He might have expressed the " frank recognition that totalitarian regimes imposed on free peoples .. . undermine the foundations of international peace and hence the security of the whole Hemisphere , " not just the United States . Why should our government not have embarked , beforehand , on a course of inter-American consultation to gain the participation of the twenty other American republics in our revolution of policy ? Surely this is what our government should have done if only it had been possible . Note , first , that the President did not tell Congress what our new policy was but what it " must be . " The fact that , our Constitution notwithstanding , the Congress was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself have inhibited the Executive 's conduct of prior inter-American negotiation . Secondly , there is reason to doubt that the twenty other governments could have revolutionized their own traditional thinking overnight at our behest . What has happened since Items this out . FINALLY , one forgets with the passage of years the limitations that bear on hours in the day , days in the week , and sheer human endurance . In the atmosphere of emergency that prevailed in Washington during the spring of 1947 the human resources of our government were stretched to the utmost . There was not time and energy enough to do everything . It was the last day of February when the British publicly announced that their own domestic crisis forced them to withdraw their support from Greece and Turkey in a month 's time . It was Match 12 , less than two weeks later , when President Truman went before Congress and announced the new policy whereby we would replace Britain in Greece and Turkey . When he left the Capitol at the end of his address he hoarded a plane for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needed vacation . This leaves one question unanswered . Should we not have anticipated the need for our change of policy and so given ourselves the time to bring it about by due deliberation and debate ? Indeed we should ! We should have anticipated it almost fifty years earlier about the turn of the century when our advent to world power coincided with the decline of the Pax Britannica . It seems plain that our persistence for half a century in a policy which the times had rendered obsolete cost us the experience of two world wars . But the American people did not under-stand this and a whole generation of American statesmen had been blind to it . Even in 1947 the final replacement of our antique foreign policy would not have been accepted by the Congress or the American people except under the stress of a dire emergency . It is doubtful that even on February 12 the President could have done successfully what he did on March 12 . The fact remains that since 1947 we have not had , as we had before that date , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which all the American republics participate on the basis of consultation and effectively share responsibility with us . We in this country have given up our own isolationist thinking , but there is no evidence to show that we have taken the other American republics along with us . Instead , our inter-American system has gone on of its own momentum as if the revolution in the defense policy of the United States had never taken place . In the Rio Treaty we formally continentalized the defensive aspects of the Monroe Doctrine . The Inter-American Defense Board has been engaged ever since in studying the common defense of the Hemisphere on its beaches . Meanwhile , we alone , unilaterally , have been bearing the real current burden of Hemisphere defense in Greece and Turkey , on the barricades of Berlin , in Korea , Formosa , and Indochina . For we may say , if we wish , that this is simply United States policy for the defense of the United States ; but because the defense of the United States is inseparable from Hemisphere defense it is really @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to encompass by our new policy . SUSPECTED OF DESERTION T HE STATEMENT of the new United States policy , of its purpose and of the need for it , was quite clear as it was delivered by the President on March 12 , 1947 . Although no special effort was made to communicate it to our Latin American neighbors and get their agreement , anyone who read the newspapers knew what the new policy was . On the other hand , our announcements of what came to be known as the Marshall Plan had , necessarily , an element of ambiguity in them . The circumstances were not so clear , so simple , and so dramatic as those of the Greek-Turkish crisis . In his Harvard address of June 5 , 1947 , Secretary Marshall could only suggest to the countries of Europe that if they would themselves get together on a common plan of their own for their own economic salvation , then we would be disposed to co-operate with them for its realization . Our policy , in this case , had to depend on their policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one hand it was an effort simply to keep the common civilization of the Western world functioning , to avert a collapse that might have led to such barbarism as followed the collapse of the Roman civilization . As such it did not represent that policy of containing Communism all over the world which President Truman had announced three months earlier . The Communist countries were , in fact , invited to par-ticipate and to share in the benefits of the Marshal/ Plan . The other aspect of the Marshall Plan , however , did make it in effect an extension of the Greek-Turkish aid program , designed to serve the same purpose of containing Communist aggression . For the economic collapse of Western Europe would have meant the extension of the Communist empire to the shores of the Atlantic , where it would immediately constitute an overwhelming threat to the safety of our Hemisphere . The refusal of the Soviet Union to joint in the Marshall Plan or allow its satellites to join made it inevitable that this second aspect ? the containment aspect , the defense-at-a-distance aspect ? would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if the Plan Was to work , it was necessary to play down the containment aspect in public . The Western European nations on whose policy it depended , feeling their extreme weakness , were wary of provoking the Soviet Union and would join in the Plan only upon assurances that it was . in fact , open to the Communist as well as the non-Communist world . From the point of view of our Latin American relations it made a sharp difference which aspect of the Marshall Plan was emphasized . If the Plan represented our new policy of defense at a distance we might properly go to the Latin Americans and say : " Look ! This is your defense as well as ours . As you share in the security it produces so you should share in the responsibility and the burden . " But the case was quite different when we said , as Secretary Marshall necessarily did say at Harvard : " Our policy is directed not against any country or doctrine but against hunger , poverty , desperation , and chaos . " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hunger , their own poverty , the elements of desperation and chaos in their own jurisdictions . They could say , and did , that they had just as good a claim on our largesse as any of the European countries . This was , in fact , the point of view that was all but universally ? taken throughout Latin America . The Latin Americans swallowed their ancient pride and , preoccupied with their own economic problems , made clear their view that charity should begin at home . They were our traditional friends , and all of us in this Hemisphere , including the United States , had long been agreed to hold aloof from the powers of Europe . Now , instead , the United States had broken ranks and was cultivating new friends among those same European powers in a manner so lavish as to give color to the embittered charges that it had forgotten its old friends . Secretary Marshall made a vain effort at Bogota in 1948 to dispel this growing bitterness by emphasizing the defensive as distinct from the eleemosynary aspect of the European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out in Europe , " he said , they will become increasingly insecure in the New World as well . This is a matter of as much concern to your countries as to mine . " It was no use . " His words , " according to the New York Times , " were followed with close attention but without applause . " The bitterness continued , and it continues still . The genuine misunderstanding that has grown up between the global United States and the still isolationist Latin America persists and grows deeper with the passage of the years . WHAT MONEY CAN NOT BUY IERE , I think , we have what may be the the principal reason why the common understanding which had distinguished our community of American republics has become confounded . Behind this reason , or coincident with it , are others . It would be a mistake to present too simple a picture . Latin America , like North Africa and the southern rim of Asia , is struggling to emerge from economic colonialism . It is one of the " underdeveloped " areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have invoked the genie of nationalism to help them . It does have economic problems serious enough to give it concern , although its economies and its standards of living have been developing since the war at a pace unmatched by any other area . It has become culturally disturbed ? partly as the result of improved communications that have brought in new thoughts to challenge the old beliefs , partly because of the unlimited expectations aroused by science , technology , and the Hollywood view of life in the United States . - There has , perhaps , been some loss of that self-respect which would have made it difficult a generation ago to offer some forms of assistance without offense ; and the assistance we have been able to furnish has certainly whetted the appetite for more . Self-reliance may have diminished . All these are developments which must make for tension between us and the Latin Americans . By themselves , however , they are insufficient to account fox the bitterness with which the Latin Americans feel that United States foreign policy , since the war , has somehow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we in this country would do well to recognize explicitly , that we all did have a common political policy in the 1930s on which to base our solidarity , and that we have one no longer . AS IS ALMOST always the case when international relations begin to sour , the remedy is not to be found in any simple single action , or even in any one field of action . It is surely not to be found in a mere- increase of the volume of our economic assistance , as the Latin Americans and so many of our own citizens advocate . Economic aid to Latin America can be an excellent thing within limits ; beyond those limits it may have to he continued for no better reason than that it has been begun . In this respect such aid is like a tariff ; while it may originally have been unnecessary , its existence alone creates the conditions that make it indispensable . It is one thing not to undertake pro-grains of economic assistance at all ; it is something else to cut them off . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , we shall be more careful in the future to give our assistance in such forms as to lessen rather than increase the need to continue it . This means , for one thing , that we shall not with our own resources establish in any Latin American country permanent government services ? of public health , say , or agricultural extension ? on a scale which makes it impossible for that country ever to absorb those services within its own budget . It also means that we shall do our best to avoid giving aid on such terms as to impair the recipients ' self-respect , although we can not hope to avoid this altogether . Finally , we shall be most reluctant by our aid programs to seem to assume , in the eyes of other countries , responsibilities for their welfare that we can not meet to their satisfaction , so that the total result is simply to arouse the resentment of those we help . No matter how wisely we shape our economic policy toward Latin America , however , the unity of the Americas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and strategic basis for our common action in the world . The fundamental challenge is in the isolationist thinking that still dominates Latin America as it formerly dominated us . Once that is transcended we shall again have the political foundations for a mature and cohesive community which is able to cope with the dangers of a common environment .                     