@@487548

WHERE does Switzerland stand in the cold war and in the plans for rearming Western Europe ? The sympathies of the Swiss government are no secret , though officials continue to assert the " traditional neutrality " of the country . What the Western military strategists have in mind for Switzerland in case of war has not ' been disclosed ; ' but General de Lathe de Tassigny told the Swiss a year ago , " Your redoubt is the greatest fortress we have in Europe , " evoking the image of Allied armies holding out in the Alps against the Russians . If some Swiss are made nervous by such a remark , ' they must also worry over the facts that 95 per cent of Swiss foreign trade is with countries in the West and that nearly 40 per cent of the national budget is devoted to military expenditures . The problems of Switzerland 's adjustment to the American new order in Western Europe and of its relations with the United States and the Soviet Union during the present crisis have been exposed by a political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the last week in November . Pierre Nicole , a Communist journalist from Geneva , wrote a series of articles a year ago , some of which appeared in Eastern European newspapers , charging that the Swiss government was abandoning the principle of neutrality and preparing to associate itself with American aggression against the Soviet Union . In one article he referred to . . . the absolutely incontestable fact that our present rulers are abandoning not only political and economic " neutrality " but even military " neutrality " In order to Join . . . the Yankee instigators of war . . ? In others he wrote : Our rulers are plotting to betray our people and to associate our country with the anti-Soviet war that the American imperialists are preparing . . . ? Our present rulers are not interested in assuring the future of our people , but only in protecting - the interests of " our " ? . . financial oligarchies , which , they say , depend today on the success of the enterprises of Wall Street imperialists . ? ? . All these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must become conscious of this and react against those who are indeed " about to sell our country for profits " as Lenin had already foreseen in 1916 . ERIC JOSEPHSON was formerly on the staff of Dickinson College . He is now doing postgraduate work at the University of Lausanne . BY ERIC JOSEPHSON After the appearance of his articles , Nicole was brought to trial by the government , accused of " slandering and defaming " its ministers , " slurring and endangering the independence " of the Swiss Confederation by provoking foreign intervention in its affairs , and finally of " provoking foreign undertakings and intrigues " against Swiss security . At the two-day trial , in response to the interrogation of the preSiding judge , Nicole tried to justify his original accusations . Switzerland , he said , had joined the ? Organization for European Economic Cooperation , an institution obstensibly autonomous and supposed to improve economic conditions in Europe but in reality the executive organ of the Marshall Plan and therefore dealing with military problems . Why , Nicole asked , had the government kept secret @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because Switzerland had been forced by the threat of a reduction in American trade to reduce its exports to the East by two-thirds and had been requested to prohibit the re-exportation of strategic materials coming from the West , as the New York Times reported ? What did the presence of Western generals in Switzerland mean ? Did not General Spatz visit the country in order to arrange for the exchange of Swiss and American aviators ? Why did Field Marshal Montgomery , who is known to have held conversations with members of the government , make such " curiously frequent " trips to Switzerland ? Was it not significant that Swiss officers attended an American army school and that Swiss weapons will be standardized on . American models ? Had not the head of the Swiss military department announced that the Swiss army would cooperate with foreign troops in the event of war ? Finally , did not the Davis case prove that the Americans had organized espionage in Switzerland ? ( An American , Davis , had been expelled from the country in October , after a trial , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for the United States consul in Geneva , and for the United States embassy in Paris , gathering information on John Carter Vincent and Swiss and American " Communists . " Four-fifths of Davis 's indictment dealt with espionage he performed for United States diplomatic officials in Europe , a fact not reported in the press . ) The court allowed the defense only six witnesses , five being Communists who repeated or elaborated the remarks of Nicole . Why , they - asked , were certain leftists forbidden to speak , but not reactionaries ? Why was Collier 's admitted to Switzerland but not " peaceful Soviet reviews " ? Did not the government ban a meeting The NATION of the World Council of Peace which was to have been held in Geneva ? Why was a Committee of Inquiry back from North Korea prevented from delivering its report ? A French general was not allowed to speak about the U. S. S. R. , while the German General Speidel spoke in Lausanne on military affairs , and the American " spy-general " Donovan made mysterious visits , The sixth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Geneva newspaper , Was produced to comment on the role of the Swiss " redoubt " in the speculations of European general staffs . The impression the defense tried to give was that the Alps are of greater strategic interest to Americans than to Russians . THE prosecutor answered directly the claim that Swiss neutrality was being abandoned . He admitted that the government had given in to American demands that trade with the East be reduced . Nevertheless , he said , in spite of its historical and geographical orientation toward the West , Switzerland would remain neutral . Its joining of the 0 . E. E. C. and the European Payments Union did not contradict the Swiss statute of perpetual neutrality . These two organizations , unlike the Atlantic Pact , from which Switzerland had remained aloof , were strictly economic in character . Besides , through the so-called " Swiss clause " in the 0 . E. E. C. agreement , the government reserved the right not to participate in any decision of which it disapproved . As for the exchange of officers , it was true that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American officers had been received here , but invitations for similar exchanges forwarded to the Russians Were declined . The Communists , the prosecutor said , set themselves up as the virtuous defenders of neutrality , but there was a time , not long ago , when they wanted Switzerland to abandon its traditional policy and enter the U. N. In a period of international tension , with considerable danger of war , Nicole had embarrassed the Swiss government by questioning its neutrality ; this could afford an opportunity for intrigue and intervention by foreign powers , for increased Russian pressure , and for undermining the people 's confidence in their government . Nicole 's lawyer , who is not a Communist , opened by submitting the celebrated issue of Collier 's on World War III as evidence of America 's designs , centered his defense on the right to express ' deviant opinions , and claimed that the proceedings had been turned into a " trial of opinion . " Even violent views should be heard . Did not freedom of opinion exist in Switzerland ? Was it contrary to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy of the government and to oppose it ? Nicole was violent in his attitudes and a frank revolutionist , but if he exaggerated or committed some errors in his articles , this was the result of the difficulties met by Swiss journalists in obtaining news . Owing to the December 22 , 1951 excessive discretion of officials domestic news sometimei - only reached the country through the foreign press . Nicole himself made a brief final statement in which he expressed his willingness to accept the consequences of his actions as a Commupist , denied nothing , and reaffirmed his conviction that the Swiss government showed more sympathy for the United States than for the Soviet Union . Two days later the presiding judge sentenced Nicole to fifteen months ' imprisonment , and in the course of pronouncing-judgment said : The accusations ? of Nicole imply . . . that the government , while proclaiming a policy of neutrality , plots secretly a policy of war preparation , allied with one group of powers against another , and.these accusations . . . in the present state of tension in international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our country 's foreign policy and our desire for independence and peace with all foreign countries . The accusations tend also . . . to shake the confidence of the Swiss people in the honesty and loyalty of the policy proclaimed by its government and thus also constitute a danger to the country . Nicole can not be ignorant of the falseness of his accusations . ... THE speed , simplicity , and dignity of Nicole 's trial contrast sharply with some recent American proceedings . A large audience in the courtroom was attentive but quiet . No demonstrations in support of Nicole were organized in the vicinity of the courthouse . Most of the press , conservative and ! highly sympathetic to United States policy , reported the trial with restraint . So far nobody outside the Communist Party has appeared to defend Nicole 's rights . Elsewhere in Europe , aside from Radio Moscow and the left-wing newspapers , the trial has aroused comparatively little interest . If the apathy shown by the Swiss themselves toward the Nicole case seems curious , it should be noted that the Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Banned during the greater part of World War II , the Communists today have fewer than 40,000 members , and the trial was not interpreted as part of a campaign by the government against the party . Ironically , the Communist Party in the United States is supposed to have approximately the same number of dues-paying members . In a sense , therefore , the trial derived its chief interest from its focusing of attention on the problem of Swiss neutrality . Switzerland 's experiment with " differential " neutrality as a conditional member of the League of Nations ended in 1935 when the country refused to participate in sanctions requested by the League against Italy , on the ground that such action would violate its neutrality . Subsequently , during World War II and the organization of the U. N. , the Swiss reverted to their earlier policy of " absolute " neutrality . Today , as the statements of defense and prosecution in the Nicole trial made dear , Switzerland is under strong pressure from East and West . While it probably does not intend to abandon its heavily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closer in interest and sympathy to the United States than to the Soviet Union . On the other hand , the Swiss have shown themselves masters at the game of bargaining with great powers in a time of crisis and hanging on until the storm blows over . They may feel that they can once more calculate Successfully their chances of survival . Neutral , but not neutralist , Switzerland  --  with perhaps some misgivings  --  is " on our side . " But as It has done many times before , it will probably make strenuous efforts to keep out of a war . The Swiss like to recall that their army was prepared to fight against either German or Allied invasion , during the last war . There was a time when the statesmen of Europe considered Swiss neutrality a distinct asset to Continental stability and order . Has this been forgotten ?                     