@@487641

Dear Sirs . I read with interest Mr. Kruglak 's article in your December 21 issue on the decline in foreign-news coverage Between the competition of bulletin-style radio and TV news and journalism of the kind the magazines are successfully doing , U S. newspapers have been driven into the citadel of local news It is a good place to he because here they are impregnable But it does give short shrift to foreign news Nowadays newspaper readers have little appetite for foreign news That may be the fault of the daily press , which allowed the desire for world information to become atrophied . The pity of it is that America has world leadership and her citizens should have a better understanding of the nature and motivation of peoples in other countries . I do n't think , however , that our newspapers are doing a bad job in the foreign areas , and certainly the wire services are providing better reports than ever before . American newspapers are serving their own communities ; they must do so to survive . In addition most of them are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to want They are certainly printing more news of government , local and national , than there is any demand for , but that does n't appear to dissipate the general ignorance of the function of government and what makes it go . CARL E LINDSTROM Executive Editor , The Hartford Times Hartford , Connecticut Dear Sirs- Newspapers today are more and more having to fight increased costs as paper firms dealing with eight different unions through The Capital Times Company and the Badger Broadcasting Company ( owner of radio station WIBA ) . At the moment we are faced with a demand from the announcers on the radio station for an increase of $20 a week , this at a time when radio stations are having their difficulties in meeting the competition of TV . The amount of space reserved for news also has been gradually cut as costs went up Several years ago we were running 175 columns of news daily , today we average about ninety columns I think too that the American press feels that there is a reaction setting in against the sending of millions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unemployment is setting in here . The farmers , of course , are bitter too . It seems to me , however , that today 's news , the blow-up of the Vanguard rocket , is going to have a terrific influence on public sentiment . WILLIAM EVJUE Editor and Publisher , The Capital Times Madison , Wisconsin From an Emperor 's Descendant Dear Sirs My friend , Gerald Bregman ( Dartmouth ' 54 ) had told me about the article by David Rattray ( Dartmouth ' 57 ) in your issue of November 16 I looked up the article and was greatly amused by Rattray 's attack on the Pound " clique . " I can assure you that either Rattray was lying outrageously or he has simply lost his sanity I had never composed such a letter as the one reprinted in your magazine . I never declared that I would form White Citizen Councils on Ivy college campuses It is simply impossible for me to do so , since I am not a member or officer of any such council . As for the charge that I am @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say that the Daily Dartmouth was totally misinformed . You may be interested to know that I am a direct descendant of Emperor Lin of the Chou Dynasty ( sixth century B C ) . Wang Wei , the great T'ang poet and painter , was one of my famous ancestors . Having lived under the French in Shanghai , I detest all Kipling-followers and imperialists My main purpose in life is to fight against bigotry and racial prejudice , while upholding the separate but equal station to which the laws of nature have entitled us I am strongly against forced integration I am strongly against miscegenation I am against those mulattoes who have lost their racial integrity and desire to be assimilated with the white race Judging from the article , I can say that Rattray not only dislikes me , but actually hates me . I know , for a fact , that his hatred stems from jealousy . When I was an editor of the Dartmouth Quarterly , I used to reject his manuscripts consistently . I have a very low opinion of him as a poet , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Latin . Secretary of States Dulles is one of the few fine Americans left in the Republican Administration He is not and w ill never be a " wishy-washy Socialist " II lie has any fault , it is , pciliaps , that he is a bit too conservative . We should support rather than attack him . DAVID R. WANG Executive Secretary , North American Citizens for the Constitution ( an affiliation of the Whib Party ) New York City On Morris Cohen Dear Sirs With a view to editing the correspondence of the late philosopher , Morris Raphael Cohen , I am collecting letters by or concerning him , and other memorabilia I should deeply appreciate hearing from anyone possessing materials or information pertaining thereto .                     