@@188183

Fifty years ago this month scholarly Father John J. Wynne , editor and publisher of the Catholic Encyclopedia , gathered a group of fellow Jesuits around him in Manhattan to launch a new magazine . They called it America , the National Catholic Weekly Review , and made it a reflective , sobersided account of broad , cultural trends viewed in the long-range perspective of the Roman Catholic Church . In the 2,600 weekly issues that have slid off the presses since then , America has changed with America , reflecting not only a turbulent half-century but the turbulent views of a wide-ranging group of tough-minded intellectuals . For the Jesuits , like all Catholics , are united only in matters of faith , doctrine and moral law ; outside these areas there is plenty of room for controversy . <P> Under the editorship of Father Richard H. Tierney ( 1914-25 ) , America sparked and smoldered with passion for justice in international affairs , for the plight of Catholics under Mexican persecution , and for Ireland 's struggle to be free of British rule . The next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Maryland 's Woodstock College , brought to America a crusading concern for social justice in the U.S. , and the tradition was carried on by one of the grand old men of U.S. Catholicism , Father John La Farge , now 79 , who founded the Catholic interracial movement . Under the Rev. Robert C. Hartnett ( 1948-55 ) and America 's present editor , Thurston N. Davis , a twelve-man board has waded into such controversial issues as state support for parochial schools and U.S. diplomatic representation at the Vatican , has even been accused of " softness toward Communism " for its stand against McCarthyism and in favor of freer immigration regulations . <P> This week America celebrated its half-century with a special Mass at Manhattan 's St. Patrick 's Cathedral and a 212-page anniversary issue crammed with congratulations and recollections . There were full-page felicitations from Pope John XXIII , Jesuit General John B. Janssens , President Eisenhower ( " a scholarly and responsible magazine " ) , Vice President Nixon ( " a balanced yet forward-looking appraisal of problems " ) , New York 's Governor Nelson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the most entertaining message came from Staten Island 's St. Francis Seminary : a full-page ad , in which the Conventual Franciscans managed to put across a piece of quick recruiting : " In 1773 , when Clement XIV issued the papal brief titled Dominus ac Redemptor formally suppressing the Jesuit Society , no one thought that in 1959 there would be any Jesuits anywhere to be congratulated by Conventual Franciscans for anything . Yet here they are , bigger and better than ever , celebrating the golden jubilee of America . . . P.S. : We are on the lookout for recruits for our missions in Africa , Japan , Brazil and Costa Rica . Interested , unattached males between 4 and 40 write to Vocation Director . "                     