@@487572

This time Chancellor Konrad Adenauer 's proverbial shrewdness has not proved sufficient to overcome the ob:lades that block ratification on schedule of the disputed treaties with the West . There is of course not the slightest chance of a favorable vote before the end of the year , and it looks as though he would have to work hard well into 1953 to disentangle himself from the complications that have suddenly arisen . The most serious of these derives from his conflict with the federal Constitutional Court , which makes the problem much more serious than if he merely had to fight his way through the interplay of German politics . Paced with Socialist opposition to the treaties on constitutional grounds , the Chancellor tried first to win the court to his policy ; but when he saw that he risked an adverse decision , he persuaded the President of West Germany , Theodor Heuss , to withdraw his request to the Constitutional Court for an opinion , In doing so Adenauer only gave new weapons to the Social Democrats . Addressing the nation over the radio on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , assailed what he called the " pernicious tactics " of the government . The Bonn peace contract with the Western allies and the European Defense Community Treaty were under heavier Ere than ever . From the beginning the plan to reconstitute the German army has been resisted everywhere in . Europe , but the greatest obstades to its realization may now prove to be within Germany itself . The only people who take a less gloomy view of the prospect of ratification are those cynics who say that the result of all these difficulties will be to force the United States to pay a higher price for the Germany army on which Washington has built so great a part of its military plan . Trouble at the Palais Chaillot The NATO meeting that opened in Paris on Monday was hardly more promising . Hanson W. Baldwin , who is covering it after a careful previous survey in each affected country , wrote in the New York Times : " The North Atlantic Treaty Organization is now entering upon the winter of its discontent . " This time the non-American members have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opening speech by Premier De Gasperi of Italy pointing out that military effort was not enough and asking for more emphasis on social and political problems won an immediate response . The European members have also been insisting on the necessity of airing complaints and disagreements that are ordinarily hidden in confidential memoranda . It was the French who took the initiative . Perhaps because they consider themselves insufficiently supported in North Africa and Indo-China , or because they resent being constantly blamed for the rearmament slowdown , they are less interested than usual in diplomatic punctilio . In any case they have put the controversial issue of who is to blame for non-fulfilment of the Lisbon plan in the foreground of the general discussion . While the Americans criticize the Europeans for not pushing military preparation ahead of everything else , the Europeans complain that the Americans have failed to make available promised arms and dollars . Coupled with the uncertainty about the intentions of General Eisenhower and his Administration , this mood of reciprocal disapproval does not augur well for a constructive meeting . No Witch Hunters Wanted At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West Virginia ) Post of the American Legion adopted a resolution demanding that the trustees of Marshall College investigate the background of all the speakers to be heard on a college-sponsored forum . It also called attention to the fact that the names of Max Lerner , Margaret Bourke White , and Paul Engle , who had agreed to speak , appear in the records of the House Committee on Un-American Activities . In response to this demand , the president of the college promptly announced that the forum series would be canceled . But the student senate and the faculty just as promptly passed resolutions calling upon the Forum Board to reinstate the series . By a vote of approximately 500 to 10 the membership of the forum then adopted a similar resolution , and the series will now be resumed . In commenting on the membership 's action , the student newspaper notes that " witch-hunters . are as great a menace to our freedom as any Communist or Communist sympathizer . At least we know what to expect from the Reds . But these witch-hunters , who are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of our cherished freedoms in order to dig up their red herrings . " The students and faculty of Marshall College obviously do not intend to permit the administration to be intimidated by off-campus pressure groups . A few more actions of this kind- would go far toward erasing the unpleasant impressions created by the indecent ouster of Dr. Luella Mundell from the State Teachers ' College at Fairmont ( see The Nation of August 9 ) . The De Luxe War The Korean War , reports the veteran correspondent Homer Bigart , has become " relatively endurable . " It is gratifying to learn that it is now possible to get a fairly good martini at division headquarters and that ice cream is occasionally available " clear down to the platoon level . " With good roads , safe lookout posts accessible by jeep , warming tents in which to thaw out , prefabricated bunkers , heated latrines , and other minor miracles , our forces in Korea are obviously fighting a de luxe war . To be sure , the casualties now exceed 128,000 , but that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the idea of the war in Korea becoming a " way of life , " a - stalemate made less - unendurable by modern conveniences and ice cieam . While continuing to place the accent on comfort , a little more attention might be paid to achieving a cease-fire by negotiation . For Solvency , Freer Trade The final statement of the Commonwealth Prime Ministers ' Conference in London has been criticized in the British press as verbose and platitudinous . Nevertheless , it does suggest some important changes in Commonwealth economic policy . That it does so in very cautious terms is understandable , for , as the communique hints plainly , the feasibility of these policies will be determined by Washington as muck as by London . Tentatively at any rate the Commonwealth nations have rejected those ideals of self-sufficiency pressed on them by both the Beaverbrook imperialists and the Bevanite leftists . In principle they agree that " a multi-lateral trade-and-payments system should be extended over the widest possible area . " Full achievement of this , they recognize , will require the restoration of sterling convertibility and the abolition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to protect sterling reserves . The Commonwealth countries propose to help create conditions favorable to convertibility by suppressing internal inflation and encouraging economic development ? a pair of policies , incidentally , that do not take kindly to double harness . At the same time they declare that " the rate of progress in removing discrimination will depend on the advance toward equilibrium between the United States and the rest of the world . " Further , the pre-conditions of convertibility include adoption by the trading nations of policies " conducive to expansion of world trade " and " the availability of adequate financial support through the International Monetary Fund or otherwise . " Clearly this communiqu ? must be regarded as an urgent memo to the incoming Republican Administration . But before it can receive the attention it deserves , Mr. Eisenhower will have to resolve the inner contradictions of his party on the subject of foreign economic policy . That is likely to prove a long , tough job . Those Bothersome Briefcases On December 2 , an atomic scientist , homeward bound from Eniwetok burdened with grim and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " at the Fort De Russy billeting office in Honolulu . A day or so later Foy D. Kohler , a high official in the State Department , was arrested in Arlington , Virginia , on a charge of intoxication and was found to be carrying two " secret " reports in a briefcase . ( Classified papers are marked : " top secret , " " secret , " " confidential , " or " retricted , " in that order . ) " There is no question of Kohler 's loyalty or anything like that , " reports Michael McDermott , the State Department 's press officer ; " he has had an excellent performance and security record during twenty-one years of service . " Nor , one may be sure , was there any question about the loyalty of the absent-minded atomic scientist . Doubtless bath men merited the highest rating as security risks . Yet one missing briefcase could expose this country to dangers which the President 's loyalty program , with its threat to civil liberties and the morale of federal employees , could not prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security risks will , near Christmas , take one drink too many . Obviously this is not an argument against reasonable security precautions ; nevertheless it should give some pause to the chief victims of the loyalty obsession as they cook up their morbid security projects . Unfortunately it wo n't . The Corruption of Business Recent studies made by the F. B. I. show an " alarming increase " in defalcations and embezzlements . During 1951 the number of embezzlements and shortages in banks and savings associations increased 25 percent , with a total increase of 188 per cent since 1946 . Of 19 banks to which the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has given financial assistance in the last six years , 16 had suffered from large defalcations . Last year more than .700 bank officers and employees were involved in criminal embezzlements or similar shortages , most of the December 20 , 1952 offenders being bank officers rather than clerks , tellers , or lesser employees . The F. B. I. study attracted little attention , but the recent report of the House Judiciary Committee ( released on December @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " on the part of lawyers in the Department of Justice won headlines from coast to coast . The transgressions detailed are ascribed to the corruption of the " Washington conscience , " which sanctions wrongdoing on the " unpardonable justification that everybody is doing it . " So long as men in public office set such " hideous examples , " the committee declared , " we can not even begin to think about a solution to the very grave and pressing problem of restoring public confidence in government . " But what about public confidence in business ? Is the percentage of " hideous examples " - among government lawyers greater than among the officers and employees of American banks and other fiduciary institutions ? And is n't the " Washington conscience " simply a reflection of the " Main Street conscience " ? From Shape- Up to Shake-Down T HE water-front investigation of the New York State Crime Commission is still in its early stages but it has already uncovered a shocking state of affairs in the world 's greatest port . Examination of witnesses , mostly reluctant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ union alike are deeply involved in corruption and that murder , mayhem , and theft run riot in an industry in which a criminal record appears to be the requisite of advancement . While many new details are being spread on the record , the pattern revealed is familiar enough to those with memories beyond last week 's headlines . The rotten state of New York 's water front was revealed by several previous investigations , and voluminous information on the subject has beet published by enterprising reporters . Seven years ago , in Noverriber , 1945 , two articles by Maurice Rosenblatt in this magazine gave a vivid account of the methods by which Joe Ryan , president of the International Longshoremen 's Association , a well-heeled gentleman with excellent political connections , ruled his " kingdom " with the aid of gunmen and racketeers . The root of the evil , Mr. Rosenblatt showed , is the " shapeup " system of hiring which insures a constant over-supply of workers and gives absolute power to the hiring bosses . This system , frequently challenged by rebel rank-and-file movements , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bosses . On the West Coast the " shape-up " has been replaced , thanks to the International Longshoremen 's and Warehousemen 's Union , by a " hiring-hall " system that insures a fair division of available work among all registered longshoremen . One Crime Commission witness , Andrew D. Warwick , president of a stevedoring firm , expressed dislike of the hiring halls but conceded that costs were lower on the West Coast . " I believe , " he said , " that if the San Francisco system was adopted - in the Port of New York , the efficiency here would increase from $15,000,000 to $25,000,000 a year . " The I. L. W. U. is not run by racketeer ; but because some of its leaders are left-wingers it has long been harassed by the DepartMeat of Justice , which has taken singularly little interest in the New York water front even though pilferage and smuggling there cause huge losses to the federal Treasury . Perhaps this is because Joe Ryan and his cohorts are exponents of that vociferous patriotism that seemed to Dr. Johnson to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long ago the I. L. A. won the hearty applause of the Hearst and Scripps-Howard press by refusing to unload cargoes of Russian furs . Now evidence given to the Crime Commission shows that this noble gesture was part of a skin-game : after payment of $70,000 to two mysterious water-front characters , the union boycott was quietly ended . 0N THE water front bribery appears to be a normal if not legitimate business ' cost . The evidence shows that as much as $20,000 have been paid to shipping-company executives by stevedoring concerns as a means of procuring business . The shipping companies are at the top of the pork barrel , and when their leading officers stoop to such practices it is not surprising to find the rot spreading toward the bottom . In fact , there seem to be illicit profits for all except the real " working stiffs , " of whom scarcely one-third earn $3,0,00 or more a year . Another third , according to a witness before the commission , take home less than $200 a year . " We regard such men . as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on other jobs to make their living . In a war emergency , however , we would be glad to get these men to go to work . " Rank-and-file workers , from whose dues Mr. Ryan as lifetime president of the I. L. A. is paid a salary of $20 ; 000 a year , might well ask for what purpose their employers give him the handsome presents revealed in the testimony before the commission . Is it payment for refraining from demanding better wages and working conditions ? In an article on the investigation in the latest issue of the I. L. A. Longshore News , Ryan passes over testimony raising such awkward questions and pours scorn on the commission as a " boondoogling " group , a " haven for retired politicians and ambitious political hacks . " He points out that the docks are " just about the most policed area in the country , " since not only the New York police but the F. B. I. , the Customs Bureau , the Port Security Bureau , and the Coast Guard have " jurisdiction there . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water front , " says Ryan , " these groups would certainly have found it . " Mr. Ryan , we think , has a point , though not the one he is trying to make . The water front is well covered by officers , local and federal , whose job is to detect and prevent crime . How is it , then , that so many criminals operate so freely there ? The New York State Crime Commission will not complete its job unless it insists on getting an answer to that question . Can the Armament Boom Be Leveled Off ? THE Republicans are back in power ; the last longhaired professors in Washington are hurriedly packing their belongings ; " hard-headed , " " practical " corporate executives are swarming through the government agencies ; the political climate in Congress and the Administration could not conceivably be more favorable to busineSs , even with Mr. Durkin as Secretary of Labor , and still there are no signs of exuberance in our insatiable " business community . " On the contrary , as if mindful of the day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , thoughtful business men seem to allow their worries about the future to doud their enjoyment of the present . Happily , editors of Fortune have taken it upon themselves to provide some cheer for their dispirited clients . The magazine 's December issue is dedicated to this task , presenting its readers with an " encouraging appraisal of what 's ahead . " On the basis of a careful inspection of the crystal ball the Fortune editors see absolutely no reason for taking a dim view of the filture . In any case whatever disagreeable situations may have to be faced will not arise until " late 1955 . " The reasons for the selection of that soothing date are not disclosed  --  the available information usually makes it late 1953 , when the " building-up " phase of the armament effort is to come to a close and the " maintenance " phase to begin . Also puzzling is the assumption introduced in passing that forty billion dollars will be spent annually on the military establishment even after the maintenance phase has set in . An awful lot of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particularly if one considers that half of this sum is to be allocated , according to the Fortune editors ' estimate , to purchases of " hardware . " Though technical progress today and consequently . obsolescence are extremely rapid , quite a bit of additional building-up would have to take place for forty billion dollars to be spent year in and year out by the military . Large as this amount would seem if all that mattered was defense , it is disturbingly low from the economic standpoint . Compared with the current level of military bpeneing . t represents a cat of some twenty-billion dollars . The Fortune forecasters , however , are not too alarmed . Consumers ' purchases of durable goods are to pick up  --  although there is not the . slightest hint as to where the purchasing power'for this expansion is to come from . The low- and middle-income groups , it has been established by the Bureau of Labor Statistics , are either barely making ends meet or going into debt ; the . upper-income groups are pretty well saturated with automobiles and television @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Fortune analysis itself predicts only ! a " relatively stable " market for automobiles and a decline in house construction . Yet automobiles account for the lion 's share of all spending on durables , and less house construction means fewer kitchen stoves , fewer refrigerators , fewer washing machines . N OR is it likely that the demand for investment goods , the second pillar of the Fortune optimism , will rise sufficiently to offset the drop in military spending and the possible contraction of consumers ' spending . The Fortune editors point ' to the ambitious investment plans of the chemical and oil industries . The expansion plans of the former , however , are importantly determined by the level of government spending , while the oil companies are already complaining about mounting excess capacity . Indeed , Fortune 's picture of the future will hardly pep up its listless readers . All that it expects is " a gross national product of $348 billion in 1955 the same as in the fourth quarter of 1952 ; a larger labor force , higher productivity , and unemployment possibly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " encouraging appraisal of what 's ahead " shows a stagnant level of income , sizable and growing unemployment , and ever-increasing danger of a major depression . But if Fortune is doing its best to inspire its readers with the hope that even reduced military spending can be weathered successfully , its contemporary Business Week is more outspoken . Discussing Korea , on November 29 that journal remarked : " A truce will make the predicted business slide almost certain . It wo n't alter our rearmament plans materially . We will go ahead , building up here and abroad . But the argument of urgency will become even less persuasive . . . Failure of cease-fire efforts could be a stimulant , ? . . " The pressure for such " stimulants " will increase as the armament prosperity loses its present momentum , and Mr. Dulles seems to be counted on to deliver the required " crises . " In the words of Business Week , " he advocates freedom to ' counterattack ' where desirable . This is risky . He could underestimate Russia . But it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is playing with fire next to a powder keg to prolong and intensify an armament boom . December 20 , 1952                     