@@488259

THERE is a strong probability that the coming election will be decided by the emotions of the American people  --  by their dislike or hatred of Truman , by the appeal of Eisenhower and Nixon . Yet the issue which should decide it is this : " Which candidate is most likely to save us from a third world war ? Does Eisenhower mean war ? Of course he does not in the personal sense . He says , " Peace is my passion , " and there is no reason to doubt his sincerity . Yet the question remains whether he would not be more likely than Stevenson to lead us into that catastrophe . No honest student of world politics can blink the fact that we are likely to move on into another world war whirl-lever ticket is elected . The victors of the last war fell out over Eastern Europe in 1945-46 . In 1947 the Truman Administration proclaimed the containment of both Russia and communism and began to encircle the Soviets with military force , including a giant ring of air bases , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makers ? press , magazines , radio , and television . When this policy was put to the test in Korea we rushed to amass overwhelming force . For the first time in our history we ate at the very center of world politics . We are the strongest nation In the world and the leader of one side in a power struggle . Our responsibility for another global war will not be marginal . It is likely to be primary . The other side may force the issue , but we certainly have the power to do so and thousands of our leaders and citizens have the disposition . Winning every war and every game is our tradition . We hate and fear communism . stupendous tragedy , unless Washington puts a firm band on the brakes . In determining whose hand that is to be we need- to ask ourselves several questions about the opposing candidates and give the matter the coldest , hardest thought of which we are capable . - 1 . Will our next President lead a crusade to liberate the Communist world ? We have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1945 . Powerful racial and religious forces are involved , and also our resentment at losing Eastern Europe and China . The liberation idea flared up in the open in Eisenhower 's speech to the American Legion on August 25 . D. F. FLEMING is research professor of international relations at Vanderbilt University . BY D. F. FLEMING The Republican nominee solemnly called the roll of all the countries in Europe and Asia which have succumbed to communism and asserted that their people , " terrorized , beaten down , " were working hard to help the Kremlin achieve " the economic containment and gradual strangulation of America . " If this is so , is it not our duty to make a " preventive " war on Russia , if only to stop its economic growth ? But there is also our liberation duty . Said Eisenhower : " We can never rest  --  and we must so inform all the world , including the Kremlin  --  that until the enslaved nations of the world have in the fulness of freedom the right to choose their own path , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is a possible way of living peacefully and permanently with communism in the world . " This was as plain an avowal as could be made of a determination to destroy communism in all the many nations enumerated . The advance copy of the speech even contained this unmistakable threat of war : " Our government , once and for all , with cold finality , must tell the Kremlin that we shall never recognize the slightest permanence in Russia 's position in Eastern Europe and Asia .. . never shall we rest content until the tidal mud of aggressive communism has receded within its own borders . " In his Philadelphia speech on September 5 Eisenhower retreated . He spoke repeatedly of using only peaceful means to bring hope to " the - world 's enslaved peoples . " And he added the terrible truth that in this day of frightful weapons " victory is impossible in a global war . The beginning of such a war would be a loss from which the world could not recover in a millennium . " It is not enough , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destroy our civilization must be avoided , As the London Economist said on August 30 : Unhappily " liberation " applied to Eastern Europe ? and Asia  --  means either the risk of war or it means nothing . There is no way in the foreseeable future by which Poland and Czechoslovakia can be released from Soviet bondage except by force of arms . In Asia the situation is even more discouraging , since the bulk of the Chinese would probably actively resist " liberation . " Even to incite Eastern Europeans to seek for liberation entails the risk of world war , for if they were to rise against their Russian masters  --  as the Poles did in 1864 ? America and its allies would have the choice of intervening to support the rebels or of suffering the shame that came Palmerston 's way . " Liberation " entails no risk of war only when It means nothing . Yet in his Cincinnati speech , on September 23 , Eisenhower was again talking of " opening opportunities in Eastern Europe " while asserting that this is " the farthest thing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no Eisenhower voter can complain if he finds himself led into a liberation crusade which would begin by destroying Western Europe and end by barbarizing half the earth . Would Stevenson be any better insurance against the atomic destruction of some of our great cities and a trillion-dollar debt with consequent galloping inflation ? Stevenson starts with a plank in the Democratic platform looking forward to the day when all the nations under Soviet domination , in Europe and Asia , will " again take their rightful place in the community of free nations . " He has behind him , also , liberation pledges by Truman which were substantially as strong as Eisenhower 's . Yet he told the Polish people of Hamtramck , Michigan , on September 2 that " the cruel grip of Soviet tyranny upon your friends and relatives " could not be broken by awakening false hopes that would only lead them to the execution squads , or by starting a war that would- " liberate only broken , silent , and empty lands . " And he continued : " Not in the ashes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peaceful world , can the reaffirmation of the right of self-determination have any meaning , or can the enslaved nations be free and independent again . " These words reveal courage and the insight of a statesman . They are in accord with the proposal made by British Field Marshal Slim on August 22 ? that the West try to split off the satellites by trade and diplomacy . Such a policy makes sense . If the terrific heat of our " liberation " threat were turned off , we might get somewhere in achieving defections from Moscow . 2 . Willthe next President negotiate with the Communist poWers ? This is an absolutely vital question , because the present stalemate can not go on forever without slipping over into world war . The Korean war , in which we rightly defended the United Nations law against aggression , has to be settled , and all the great issues behind it have to be dealt with , including the future of Formosa and China 's seat in the U. N. The division of Germany and Austria has to be ended by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a world war , into which we could slide just as easily as we stole across the Thirty-eighth Parallel two years ago , on our way to liberate North Korea . The stage is set in Germany for a vaster Korea . Stevenson has shown a dear understanding of these frightening realities . At San Francisco he said : " Co-existence : will involve ? c negotiation and adjustment ? compromise , ompromise out never appeasement  --  and I will never shrink from these if they advance the world toward secure peace . " Then he added the comment : " A wise man does not try to hurry history . " Compare this with EisenOctober 25 , 1952 bower 's statement two weeks later , in connection with the " plain peril " of Stalinism in which we live , that we need " a government which is in a hurry to face its problems , however tough they may be . " have searched Eisenhower 's speeches carefully for some hint of willingness to negotiate and have found none . On the contrary , he has declared that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ' compromise , ' the more they encourage the Soviet Union to keep up aggressive pressure on them ; and that very aggressive pressure in turn softens their will to oppose the Soviet . " In stark contrast to this avowal that the very thought of negotiation is self-defeating , Stevenson had said earlier , on September 1 , " I tell you now that I will never fear to negotiate with the Soviet Union , for to close the door to the conference roam is to open the door to war . " That sentence bears thinking about again and again . 3 . Will the next President 's chief advisers work for peace or war ? It is generally assumed that Averell Harriman would be Stevenson's- Secretary - of State . Harriman is closely tied in with the Acheson policy of no negotiation with Russia until we have preponderant armed strength . On the other hand , when be spoke at Buffalo in August he showed that he understood the necessity of avoiding another world war . Besides , no one would expect him to dominate Stevenson . John @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eisenhower 's Secretary of State . It was he who announced on August 26 , after an eighty-minute dmference with Eisenhower , that the Presidential nominee would map a new foreign policy . " General Eisenhower , " he said , " agreed with me again , " and he proceeded to propose a policy of splitting the satellite states away from Russia . He insisted that we should never tolerate a divided Korea , Germany , or Austria and urged a Presidential declaration that we could never accept as a finality Russian rule over any of these states . Later Dulles explained that we could aid the resistance movements in the satellite countries by dropping machine-guns and other supplies from the air  --  though actually this would invite the shooting down of the American planes engaged on such missions . On August 27 , in a speech at Buffalo , he proposed to start the disintegration of the " empire of Soviet communism " by fostering passive resistance , slow-downs , non-cooperation , and industrial sabotage . In a formal statement on September 3 Dulles said2 " The aggressive despots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we shall have to check them from without in the head-on collision of atomic war . " This is a flat assertion that the only alternative to atomic war is a desperate campaign of internal subversion In eighteen Communist countries covering half of Europe and Asia . The issue here is sharp and clear : Shall we go on from containment to roll-back ? Dulles has been preaching roll-back for many months . As early as February 24 , 1952 , the New York Times reported a British belief that Dulles " contemplates- positive efforts to split China from Russia and ultimately to overthrow the Mao regime . " On February 13 Dulles declared that " the United States must let all the Far East know it would not stand idly by while any part of , the world remained under the rule of a Communist or foreign dictator . " This is a simple declaration of implacable war . As the Wall Street Journal put it , it would tell the Communist leaders everywhere that " wet are going to keep up the cold war forever  --  or until it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us a complete preview of what he would do as Secretary of State . His roll-back policy may satisfy all our belligerent instincts , but before we embark on it we should understand that , win or lose , it means the end of our world . In voting for a " change " on November 4 we should be clear that it includes a change from . containment to roll-back. 4 . Will our new leader accept war in preference to depression ? This is one of the gravest hazards we face . Eisenhower has recognized the fact , saying repeatedly that we live in a " war economy . " We do , and if the giant war orders are sharply reduced , we shall face the danger of world , depression : The economy of Western Europe , already overburdened with armaments , is faltering visibly , open to grave trouble should there be even a mild recession in our dominant economy . The Research Institute of America has recently warned American business men to prepare during the next two years for a " recession wider , deeper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If the crisis comes , it will be met either by the development of a garrison state or by a return to the concepts and practices of the welfare state . Then we would really be impaled on the horns of the dilemma our hysteria had created . Would General Eisenhower , advised by the coterie of old military friends that would surely surround him , take the road to militarism or give us a bigger and better New-Deal ? Would his Taft-controlled Congress ever vote to distribute the abundance of our productive machine to the people instead of channeling it into the bottomless pit of war ? 5 . Will our chosen leader drift into a final military showdown ? This question compels us to compare the temperament , experience , and training of the candidates . Eisenhower has always thought in military terms . He is one of the most democratic generals we have ever had , but we can judge him as a civilian leader only by his record since he became a candidate . We find that at every turn he has surrendered to expediency . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so completely that even Walter Lipp- mann , one of the General 's earliest supporters , observed ruefully : " If this is the way that General Eisenhower is going to toss off decisions in civil life , then his supporters have a lot to worry about . " Before getting behind McCarthy and Jenner , the traducers of his great chief , General Marshall , Eisenhower really had a struggle . He was angry and distressed , but he took them both to his bosom . As Thomas L. Stokes remarked , " he surrendered in advance to a bunch of bawling top sergeants . " Again in the Nixon affair Eisenhower was angry when he learned that his running-mate had compromised his anti-corruption drive by quietly taking $18,000 from a millionaires ' club . He telegraphed Nixon to come to see him " at once , " saying , " my personal decision will be based on a personal conclusion . " But in the end he let Nixon submit the issue to his fans in an emotional television appeal and ratified-this " decision " by embracing " mysboy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occasions does not indicate that in the crises of the cold war which lie ahead he would weigh all the consequences and do what he believed right . It indicates rather that he would yield to the loudest clamor or the strongest pressures . Moreover , Eisenhower has staked his final place in history on opposing Russia in Europe . He has come home to get into his own hands the full power to.do so . Is it possible to escape the conclusion that Eisenhower has steadily diminished in stature from the day he took off his five stars ? And is it not equally plain that ' Stevenson has grown from the day of his nomination ? Eisenhower waited until he was in the North to speak strongly about civil rights . Stevenson said his piece courageously in Richmond , Virginia . Stevenson told the American Legion that he would resist its pressures , and he has defied , the oil lobby . Everywhere he has told pressure groups , face to face , that he would protect the interests of the whole people . His entire campaign has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another world war is placed on his desk he will study it from every possible angle and resist every popular cry for rash action . This nation desperately needs strong , affirmative , and moral leadership . Are we to have it , or only drifting improvisations ? In assessing the probabilities of a global liberation war we should keep in mind one perilous factor ? Nixon 's presence at Eisenhower 's side . Here is a young man whose sole qualification to be President of the United States is the fact that he is a relentless red-hunter . Therefore we may be about to put him where only one life stands between him and the chance to be the greatest gangbuster of all time -- the man who smashed world communism . When our gigantic war machine is ready , will it be Nixon who commands it ? If this adventurous young man should be in the White House when a grave crisis in the cold war comes , what would he do ? Would anyone be able to sleep in his bed pending the outcome ? The statistical chance that Nixon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with its deep understanding of what an American liberation crusade would mean , has swung steadily away from Eisenhower and toward Stevenson . Dispatches in the New York Times of August 29 , September 4 , and 26 told the story . " Dulles Adds to Europe 's Fears " ; " Europeans were amazed and alarmed " by Eisenhower 's Legion speech ; they were " puzzled by General Eisenhower 's reference to China as a captive of Moscow , which few believe it is . " The people of Western Europe know that one more war , a war to " liberate " the Communist lands , would mean millions of deaths and ruin for the survivors for. ? ever afterward . Can the exuberant Americans be made to understand , in time , that essentially the same fate would await them ? 