@@494543

HAVING read ten US dailies* throughout the cam ' paign and sifted examples of press bias submitted by nearly 1,000 readers , this journal does not conclude , as we did four years ago , that all but " a handful of newspapers . . . gave their readers a dangerously one-sided view of the Presidential campaign " ( NR , Nov. 17 , 1952 ) . Indeed , in our judgment only a minority of the press can be called " dangerously " one-sided . Perhaps Adlai Stevenson seemed less " dangerous " to most editors and publishers than he was in 1952 ( and certainly less " dangerous " than Truman or FDR before him ) ; or perhaps most GOP papers were never really worried about the outcome . Whatever the reasons , the press in ' 56 was fairer than the press in ' 52 . And that view is shared by seven professional students of the press whose opinions we solicited . All seven , incidentally , were among the co-authors of the still-born plan for a $650,000 study of press performance in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ journalistic fraternity , Sigma Delta Chi . The University of Missouri Journalism School , as one example , Subscribes to 50 US dailies ; its Dean Emeritus , Frank Luther Mott , reports his own distinct impression of " considerably fairer coverage of political news in 1956 than in 1952 . " Dean Nathan B. Blumberg of Montana State University Journalism School , who studied the 1956 performance of 14 of the 35 newspapers analyzed in One Party Press ? ( his post-mortem on the 1952 election ) , finds the good ones better , the bad ones just as bad , and the sample as a whole " considerably improved . ' ' But , if the patient is healthier than he was , we do n't mean to suggest he 's ready to compete in the Olympics . Bias was apparent in press coverage this year . Our starting point for an examination of the manner in which newspapers report a political campaign is the local event . This is so , first of all , because radio and TIP With their nation-wide hookups are more and more bringing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through newscasts and commentators , but through interviews , *Columbus ( 0 . ) Citizen ( Scripps-Howard ) ; Dallas . Morning News ; Flint ( Mich . ) Journal ; Kansas City Star ; Los Angeles Times ; Milwaukee Sentinel ( Hearst ) ; New York Daily News ; New York Post ; Portland Oregonian ; and Seattle Post-Intelligencer. debates and speeches . Furthermore , insofar as newspapers frame campaign issues , they are dependent for their source material primarily on the two major wire services . T T seems to us that the AP and UP ( in contrast to the pro-Republican INS ) maintained reasonably balanced coverage in 1956 . We refer to what went over the ticker . What happens , once the stories are taken off the ticker , is something else again . As we have shown in these pages papers can give a biased slant to the news merely by the emphasis and the display which they accord certain stories . It was the newspaper editors ( not the wire services ) , for example , who were largely responsible for the protective solicitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Justice Department for suspect stock market dealings ( NR , Oct. 15 ) and in charges that Leonard Hall pressured firms seeking government contracts for GOP contributions ( NR , Oct. 29 ) . And yet , outright suppression of what Adlai Stevenson had to say was rare ; even in such firm anti-Stevenson papers as The Los Angeles Times or Hearst 's Milwaukee Sentinel , the pattern of bias was unsystematic and unpredictable . The most noticeable bias occurred whenever the national campaign landed in a given newspaper 's own backyard . Pro-Republican papers , to illustrate , helped to swell Eisenhower 's crowds before his arrival in a city , then fed the calculated Republican " bandwagon ' psychology afterward by padding crowd estimates . The line between the " news " and " public relations " became , one might say , somewhat blurred . When Stevenson came to town , the Democrats frequently suffered downgrading . Even the illustrious Baltimore Sun managed to put its announcement of Stevenson 's speech next to the comics when he spoke in Baltimore on October 30 . On the preceding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sentence : " Mr. Stevenson is scheduled to talk at noon tomorrow in City . Hall Plaza . " This appeared on page 34 , inside a story devoted mainly to GOP Truth Squads dogging Adlai . Six days before Eisenhower 's October 1 speech in Cleveland , The Plain Dealer bannered PRESIDENT TALKS HERE MONDAY . On September 28 , an eight column map , plus a story on the President 's parade route , dominated the whole top third of the front page of the Cleveland Press ? which confined its advance reporting of Stevenson 's November 2 visit to Cleveland to a caption ( page six ) underneath a photograph of someone else . THE NEW REPUBLIC Stevenson spoke in Seattle on October 9 , but the day before not a single mention of this news appeared on the front page of The Seattle Post-Intelligencer . Two days before Ike 's arrival in Seattle on October 16 , however , The Post-Intelligencer gave him the lead news spot on page one , and on the day of his arrival , still a full day before his speech , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ route on page one . By the time of his speech on the following evening all Seattle had seen Ike 's arrival climactically splashed across page one with a five-column photo . In Portland , as Edward P. Morgan broadcast , The Oregon Journal proclaimed 500,000 WELCOME IKE when the President arrived . " That would have to be virtually the entire population of Multnomah County , " joshed Morgan , " and it quintupled the most ambitious neutral estimate . " The Portland Oregonian estimated 100,000 . In some closely-contested local battles , such as California 's Senatorial race between Sen. Thomas Kuchel and State Sen. Richard Richards , Democratic campaigners suffered from a double standard newspapers applied even more baldly than they did in the case , of Stevenson . While Thomas E. Dewey 's forthcoming Pasadena visit rated front-page space plus a photo in The Pasadena Independent on October 14 , nearly two weeks before his scheduled arrival , Richards received only a single paragraph on page three on the day of his appearance at nearby La Crescenta . The Sacramento Bee , which opposed Richards but backed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first local speech . HOSTILE papers have no difficulty in transforming a " candidate 's visit to suit the paper 's desires . In the monopoly ' news community of Rochester , N.Y. , where the Gannett chain owns both the morning Democrat-Chronicle and the evening Times-Union , every major headline that appeared in Rochester during Estes Kefauver 's visit centered on an alleged " snub " Kefauver had suffered because Gov . Harriman was not among his greeters : SNUB TO NOMINEE , ESTES DENIES HE FELT SNUBBED HERE , SNUB TALK SUBSIDES . Whatever Kefauver had to say about the Republicans got lost . Similarly , the actual reporting of the national debate in some newspapers was relegated to signed " interpretive-commentary , at the expense of straight news accounts . Thus Los Angeles Times correspondent Robert Hartmann could say in a Portland dispatch on October 18 that Oregonians " were rewarded by a rare demonstration of the Eisenhower magic when the sun shone through almost simultaneously with the President 's exit from the Columbine . " Boston Herald political writer W. E. Mullins could report from the Nixon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the menace of Communism , Adlai Stevenson , as President , would be more inept and dangerous than Harry Truman was in the White House , in the opinion of Vice-President Nixon . In a calm and dispassionate appraisal of the attitudes toward Communism of Truman and Stevenson , Nixon ... In the Knight Newspapers , the use of feature-type byliners virtually obliterated straight accounts of what Stevenson was saying . Instead , the Knight papers pushed able commentaries by Peter Lisagor . The Akron Beacon Journal with seeming objectivity front-paged Adlai and Ike side by side on October 24 . But while the Ike story was a UP account of the President 's H-bomb white paper , Lisagor 's dispatch ? TIME RUNS OUT ON ADLAI on page one and STEVENSON 'S SPEECH ROUGH AND TOO LONG on the runover ? amounted primarily to a prolonged indictment of alleged Stevenson ineptitude and only secondarily to a report of his Madison Square Garden speech on foreign policy . " What the man needs is an editor , " Lisagor led off . Lisagor 's dispatch on October 3 , seeing in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prep school headmaster , " was headed ADLAI SET TO PUNCH , LACKS FIRE . All of this may be in order in bylined political commentary , but when the commentary supplants rather than supplements the news , the question of fairness and propriety needs to be raised . Bias can enter news columns through still other byways , including , implausibly enough , the small-town gossip column . Amid wedding announcements on October 18 , The Ackley ( Iowa ) World-Journal sandwiched : . In the new atmosphere of responsible government in Washington , an official who comes under even a cloud of suspicion , regardless of his legal innocence , automatically writes his own resignation from the Eisenhower Administration . Braven Dyer , conductor of " Sports Parade " in The Los Angeles Times , observed on October 20 that rumors the Washington Senators baseball team was moving to Los Angeles " sound like a cock-and-bull story cooked , up by somebody , probably the Democrats , who seem to be promising a lot of things they wo n't be able to deliver . " In its harmless-looking weekly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Both sides had better watch their steps on thc health issue , because on the bedside chart President Eisenhower and Adlai Stevenson come out about even . To match Adlai 's two kidney stone operations , Ike has had a heart attack and an operation for an intestinal block . IN the final analysis , there is a mercurial quality about news bias when you try to put your finger on it . It can , be intelligently studied only in relation to more all embracing inadequacies in the American press . Bias may take the form not of overt suppression or distortion but simply a downgrading of an issue that one side ' ( in this case the Democrats ) is attempting to sharpen against an ? DECEMBER 3 , 1956 incumbent ? in this case an incumbent who chose not to argue ( NR , Oct. 1 ) . The final week of the campaign is a case in point , for the Democratic nominee was shouting in vain against a hurricane . But the subtle problems of fair and adequate treatment of the views of the candidates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world crisis . It is a fact , for example , that the debate between candidates strikes most newspaper readers as a headline swiftly scanned ; calculate as they will , candidates and their speech writers are at the mercy of newsmen whose judgment determines what is likely to go into that headline . Furthermore , even the ablest reporter is often hard put to do Justice to a speech within the framework of the " spot lead . " As executive editor J. R. Wiggins of The Wash- . ington Post and Times-Herald observed in a staff memo : A published account of a speech ? political or otherwise ? ought to try to disclose to the reader the total view of the speaker , insofar as he exhibits it , and not just a fragment . This doctrine sometimes seems to be at war with our news techniques . We look fora lead ? usually the most provocative , inflammatory , controversial thing the man says . Yet , without resorting to the British practice in which news becomes " a veritable abstract of an address , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? : ' exercise caution in trying to keep the controversial phrase in context . " It seems to us regrettable that thus far no competent and thorough-going evaluation of these questions , in relation to a national political campaign , has been ' undertaken by a responsible research group . The New Republic 's survey this year was sketchy and inevitably subjective . As Sigma Delta Chi has noted , there is a great deal which none of us yet know about " the effect of different kinds of display on the likelihood of a ? news item 's being read . . . whether the item is , for example , above or below the fold , accompanied by a one or two-column headline , or accompanied by a picture . " Neither do we know how much *influence , or bias , relatively , new " news " magazines ? have . ' Newspapers know they are being watched , " Professor Blumberg says . .. and many of them are making a determined effort to improve . Where perhaps the most important element of bias in reporting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circulation magazines , particularly those magazines which pretend , in whole or in part , to be chroniclers of political events . Careful study of the performance of these publications during the campaign ' would reveal a remarkable journalistic orgy which would make our newspapers look chaste indeed . And finally , we do not know whether or not The New York Times correspondent , James Reston , was right or wrong when before the election , he wrote bitterly , that it really does n't make much difference what newspapers say in a campaign , because the people " do n't read . " 