@@494385

CORRUPTION in government has reaLned the point where a change in Administration is essential . " These words were spoken by an opponent of the Democratic Administration of another day , John C. Calhoun , temporarily a member of the opposition party , the Whigs , in 1835 when America was looking about , seeking a successor to Andrew Jackson , then in his second term in the White House . His party had come to power with Thomas Jefferson in 1800 and had not since been defeated . Jackson personally chose his own successor in Martin Van Buren . The Whig coalition , unable to unite upon a candidate because of basic internal differences , ran several regional favorite sons , hoping to throw the election into the House of Representatives . The campaign centered around an effort to " drive the rascals out . " The rascally Democrats , their opponents claimed , were corrupt to the core and were led by a dictatorial spoilsman ( Jackson ) who had no respect for the constitutional limitations upon the executive power . and who was so faithful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so stubborn that he never forgave an enemy . The Democrats were accused of having brought about virtual universal manhood suffrage and then in order to keep themselves in power , of having offered any type of political promise to anyone for votes . The time had come when a halt would have to be called , the opposition leaders declared . In November , 1836 , " King Mob " went to the polls after having listened to the Whigs conjure up a chamber of horrors and to the Democrats promise four more years of control by " the people " and not by " special privilege . " The Democrats were the In Party and they won the election . Indeed , they won every election , save two , between 1800 and 1860 . Facing the 1952 election today , many of the concepts and accusations found above sound ' amazingly familiar . This prompts the inquiry as to just what is the meaning of the In Party and what relationship does the Out Party bear to it ? How often has the Out Party won in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Out Party ? the party that must convince people that it is actually " time for a change " ? win the Presidency ? An examination of the six Out-Party wins shows that it has happened only where one of two conditions have existed ( and neither condition will , in any sense , guar ? antee an Out-Party win ) : ( 1 ) where there has been Charts R. Adrian is an instructor in government at Wayne University . a sharp economic recession within the receding four ears , or ( 2 ) where the In Party is plagued by a sufficiently serious third-party movement . Military heroes as candidates , claims of hiving won or averted a war and political myths dealing with foreign affairs all may have their effect upon Presidential campaigns , but contrary to popular impres ? sion other factors , such as charges of serious corruption in government or arguments for change for the sake of change because the one party has been " in too long , " have not been important influences . The Whigs ? the party of Henry Clay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democrats , one in 1840 and the other It is worth noting that in both campaigns Whigs engaged in a definite Me-Too approach on neither occasion were they able to win with a Whig , but were forced to nominate a military hero with no political record . No man who was actually an active Whig was ever elected President . Their outstanding candidate perenially was Henry Clay , the voice of the conservative business community ? in many ways the Robert A. Taft of something over a century ago . Clay never got near the Presidency , always failing either to get the nomination or failing at the polls . In 1840 when the long reign of the Ins was about to be broken for the first time , Clay thought he saw his chance at last . To his disappointment , however , the word was passed around that he " could n't win " ( he had lost before ) and the Whig convention turned to a military hero , a man who had made , a reputation as an Indian fighter , William Henry Harrison . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not on record on any of the major issues confronting the nation . Hence the Whigs had found an ideal candidate . During the campaign , they used the slogan " Tippecanoe and Tyler , too " ( Tippecanoe was the location of Harrison 's greatest victory ; John Tyler , a renegade Democrat , was the Veep candidate ) and promised the working people " two dollars a day and roast beef " while keeping all real issues in the background . In its use of generalities , irrelevancies and emotional appeals in preference to rational argumentation on the questions of the day , this campaign became a model for future Presidential races . It was a Me-Too campaign in the sense that the Whigs tried to sell their candidate as a more genuine frontier product than was Jackson 's own candidate , Martin Van Buren . In reality , Harrison was a product of the old Virginia aristocracy . The Whigs hinted that Van Buren was an Eastern aristocrat ( actually his father had been a saloon keeper ) who liVed like a king in the White House and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his beard ! Obviously , if the people wanted a Jacksonian in the Presidency , the Whig " frontiersman " was their man . All of this hoopla probably would have left the Demo ? crats unphased if they had not had to try at the same time to hide a rather sizable skeleton in the family closet ? the skeleton being the memory of the Panic of 1837 , a depression caused by over-speculation in a young , optimistic nation . Its effects were felt for a decade ? and the Whigs blamed the Democrats , the In Party . Despite all these factors , the Democrats came very close to winning again . True , the electoral vote was decisive-234 to 60 ? but Harrison won by only 145,914 votes out of nearly two and one-half million . Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr . has shown in his wonderful story , The Age of Jackson , that a shift of a mere 8,184 votes in the right spots would have re-elected Van Buren . Four years later the Ins returned to power when Democrat James Knox Polk-defeated Henry Clay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office and his successor , John Tyler , was persona non grata with the Whigs ) . Polk refused to run for re-election and the stage was set for the second successful campaign by the Outs . In 1848 , the Democrats nominated a most able man , Sen. Lewis Cass of Michigan . The Whigs refused to nomi ? nate Clay again and passed over Webster who was too closely tied to the remnants of New England Federalism for availability . They decided to try the formula that had succeeded eight years earlier . On the fourth ballot the nod went to a military hero whose views on specific national problems were as unknown as Harrison 's had been and who had become a sort of Douglas MacArthur of the Mexican War by feuding with the Democratic Administration ( which was at least equally to blame ) and by corresponding with Whig leaders while in com ? mand in Mexico . Zachary Taylor , despite recent at ? tempts to polish his badly tarnished reputation , was a good soldier , but knew nothing about politics . The Whigs again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Jacksonian tradi ? tion . With the slavery issue becoming increasingly im ? portant , the party talked " states ' rights " in the South and courted the abolitionists in the North . The Demo ? crats did not have the advantage of incumbency and were faced with the omnipresent reaction against any party that holds power during a war . As a result , the election was close . The factor that gave Taylor a 163 to 127 win in the electoral college was the impressivevote polled by a new third party , the Free Soilers ( an anti-slavery coalition ) , with former Democratic President Martin Van Buren as their candidate . This defection cost the Democrats New York State . The Whigs never won again . They were torn asunder in the great struggle over slavery and the party was dead before the Civil War began . Lincoln 's election in 1860 brought a new party to power . The Republicans , after the war was won , became associated in the public mind with the fantastic industrial progress of the last half of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of living that resulted . The party won every election in a 72-year period save two to Cleveland and two to Wilson . Of Republican losses to the Out Party , it is easy to dispose of the Wilson Administration quickly . Theodore Roosevelt , in leaving the Presidency in 1908 , personally chose William Howard Taft as his successor , but a feud arose between the two after Roosevelt came back from Europe in 1910 . The arguments were in part over whether Taft had carried out TR 's " progressive " policies or had become a conservative , and were in part personal in nature . The ensuing rift brought Taft into the election of 1912 as the Republican candidate with Roose ? velt running as a " Bull Moose " Progressive . Wilson could not have won if the In Party had not become so powerful that it could afford the luxury of internal dis ? sension . The Cleveland wins were a bit more complicated . In 1884 , when it appeared that the Republicans had a patent on the Presidency , they were rather unexpectedly dumped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ G. Blaine , lost to Grover Cleveland . There were three principal factors that led to this turn of events . In the first place , a Protestant clergyman near the end of the campaign referred to the Democrats as the party of " Rum , Romanism and Rebellion . " It was a stupid political blunder that was given wide publicity and solidified the potentially Republican Irish vote behind the Democratic standard . In the second place , no less an historian than Charles A. Beard has suggested that Cleveland may have carried New York and the election only because of the diligent stuffing of Manhattan ballot boxes by Tammany Hall . In the third place , a third-party defection ? this time by the Prohibitionists ? again damaged the In Party , definitely depriving Blaine of New York . The popular vote ended in a virtual tie , but Cleveland took the electoral college , 219 to 182 . Four years later , the In Party returned to power when the Republicans won with one of the least personable candidates in history ? Benjamin Harrison . Actually Cleveland . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have won on incumbental advantage , but the accident of the distribution gave the electoral college majority to Harrison . In 1892 , Cleveland tried again against the incumbent . In this campaign , a nascent factor began to show itself : organized labor had become important enough to exercise a noticeable effect upon the election and it worked hard to defeat one of its particular enemies , the Republican Vice-Presidential candidate , Whitelaw Reid . A higher cost of living as the result of the McKinley tariff also caused resentment , but there were two much more important factors . First , there were danger signals indicating the approach of the great Panic of 1893 . Secondly , Populism was rampant in the West . Its candidate , James B. Weaver of Iowa , polled more than one million votes , most of them from Harri ? son , who was defeated . It should be noted that Cleve ? land was a conservative who departed from Republican practices only in desiring a lower tariff . Except for the tariff , Me-Tooism ? was implicit in his campaigns . Our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority party suffers from third-party defection , or when there has been a depression . With other things rather favorable , it sometimes helps if the Outs nominate a military hero . But the power of the Ins is ordinarily such that they can overcome even very great obstacles . Not ' all military heroes haVe won , and none at all have succeeded for the Outs in the last century . Winfield Scott , a hero of the Mexicin War , was beaten by a very weak Democrat , Franklin Pierce , in 1852 . The spank ? ing new Republican Party unsuccessfully tried a glamor ? ous , widely known adventurer , Gen. John C. Fremont in 1856 . In 1880 , the Democrats ran Winfield Scott Hancock , a Civil War hero who had never before been in politics and who had no known political convictions . Garfield defeated him on a " prosperity " platform and by the fact that he , too , had been a General . Depressions and " panics " have not all brought de ? feat . The Ins survived the Panics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1873. - Defections have meant defeat for ' the Ins on several occasions , yet Grant survived the efforts of the Liberal Republicans in 1872 ; the Repub ? licans were undisturbed by nearly , one million Socialist votes in 1920 , or by the nearly five million votes that went ' to the LaFollette Progressives in 1924 . Truman survived not one , ' but two , defections in 1948 . Corruption has often ? more or less regularly since 1832 ? been raised as an issue in American Presidential . campaigns , perhaps because Americans traditionally have believed that all politicians are crooked . Yet this very belief defeats the effectiveness of the argument . If all politicians are crooked , what value is there in throwing out the batch in office ? Wo n't their successors be crooked , too ? No political party in the past has ever lost the Presidency as the result of alleged corruption ( although it should be noted that part of the successful attack of the Democrats in 1884 did levy charges of graft against Blaine ) . There have been perhaps four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a result of the widespread application of the spoils system in Jackson 's Administration , charges of corrup ? tion were unsuccessfully raised against first Jackson and then Van Buren in the campaigns of 1832 and 1836 . After the almost unbelievable graft and irregularities of the Grant Administration , the worst in our history , the DemtiCrats made this the issue of 1876 , running Samuel J. Tilden , a man of unquestioned honesty who had fought corruption in New York State . In this , the famed Hayes-Tilden election , we have an historical ques ? tion that will probably never be settled . Did the Republicans steal the election ? Or did the Democrats steal the ? election ( by disenfranchising Southern Negroes ) only to have the Republicans steal it back ? In any event , its closeness was in all likelihood prin ? cipally the result not of the corruption issue , , but of the Panic of .1873 , for the nation was still in depression . Another disgraceful blot upon American history took place during Harding 's Administration : The corrup ? tion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even the worst allegations that have been brought , so fat at least , against the Truman Administra ? tion .. The Democrats tried to make the most of it in the 1924 campaign , but fortunately for the Republicans , an easy answer was available . They simply allowed the blame to be assessed against the essentially innocent , if incompetent , Harding , who was then dead . Coolidge ran on a prosperity ticket and hinted darkly at the latent dangers of radicalism . He walked off with a thumping majority . Corruption has simply not been a highly salable issue on the American political market . The life of the Out Party is not an easy one . It does not win often and when it does , it is not because of the policies it advocates ? for its arguments are almost from necessity Me-Tooism and negative in character . Outside of such rarities as a ghastly political mistake ( such as the Rum , Romanism and Rebellion crack ) , the Outs must wait for a depression ( and there has been none in the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has appeared in 1952 ) . While the Republicans were intensely optimistic in 1948 and were nearly as much so early in 1952 , history gives them little cause for such a viewpoint . The odds against them are enormous . With Taft as their ' nominee they would not have had a prayer . With Ike , they do . But the going will be rough . 