@@266366

The lure of a peep into the White House 's own files made an overnight bestseller last week of New York Herald Tribune Reporter Robert J. Donovan 's new book , Eisenhower : The Inside Story ( TIME , July 2 ) . Many a newspaper reader rushed to get it because most of the U.S. press , apparently confused over the release date , lagged in reporting Donovan 's fresh material . Among the most avid : Democratic Congressmen , who promptly began to cry " foul . " <P> From both Houses came the angry charge that the Administration had turned Donovan loose on hush-hush papers that it has steadfastly denied to Congress . Illinois ' Democrat William Dawson , chairman of the House Government Operations Committee , gave examples in a letter to the President demanding the same privilege as Donovan . In the Senate , Arkansas ' Democrat John McClellan , chairman of the Permanent Investigating Subcommittee , twice sent telegrams asking Cabinet Secretary Maxwell Rabb to testify on how the reporter 's information was supplied . Twice Rabb pleaded ignorance and refused to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Joe McCarthy , who was also rankled by the " scurrilous statements " that Donovan attributes to Ike ( sample : " I will not get in the gutter with that guy " ) . <P> Columnists and pundits , even those syndicated by the Herald Tribune , began wrangling over the book . David Lawrence charged the White House with blundering ineptitude in letting Donovan in . The volume , he wrote , " contains much ammunition useful to the Democrats . " But Columnist Roscoe Drummond thought that the White House 's " calculated risk ' ' had produced " an honest , balanced , faithful , narrative record " of the Administration . Drummond also dismissed the Congressmen 's objections . He wrote : " Presidents have always affirmed that it is the executive 's responsibility to determine how , when , what , to whom and under what circumstances it will make available material from its private files . "                     