@@476857

While both parties are still squabbling over the battles of the last generation , a new set of issues is emerging .... They probably will fix the shape of American politics for the next two decades . THE PAST twelve months should long be remembered as a watershed in American politics . This was the year , as the 1954 election showed , in which the New Deal finally passed into history ? codified , consolidated , and accepted . It was also the year in which the economic and social problems which will dominate the next two decades first took shape . Their appearance was foreshadowed by President Eisenhower 's State of the Union message of last January and by the many Presidential proposals on major policies ? transportation , water use , medical care , tariff policy , and so on ? which followed during winter and spring , a steady stream of legislative requests unprecedented since Franklin D. Roosevelt 's " First Hundred Days . " The lack of surprise which greeted these proposals ? almost all of which would have seemed revolutionary a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Era of public policy . The preceding three installments in this series have addressed themselves mainly to the demands the future will make on the management ofbusiness , on union leadership , and on higher education . This concluding article is concerned with the political meaning of these developments . Again , as in the series so far , the theme will be " the future that has already happened . " The starting point of this analysis , and its central fact , is , of course , the growth of our population and the changes in its structure . Equally important is its shift in geographic distribution . Twenty years ago , when it was commonly believed that America 's population had ceased to grow , it was also widely held that our people had . lost their traditional mobility . " The days of the frontier are forever gone , " and so on . The past ten or fifteen years have proved this false . The largest migration in our history began during World War II ; and it has continued ever since with undiminished momentum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry . Three areas in particular have grown as fast as any on this Continent ever did in the past : the Far West , the Southwest , and ? just north of the border but intimately linked with the United States ? Southern Ontario . To he sure , the spectacular growth of California ? from fifth in size of population in 1940 to second in size in 1950 ? shows signs of slowing down . But even so , California will be the most populous state by 1965 , if not by 1960 . And Texas , New Mexico , Nevada , Oregon , and Florida are now growing at boom speed . Just across the border , southern Ontario since the end of the war haS become one of the major industrial areas of the world ; and the opening of the St. Lawrence Seaway should bring another tremendous expansion to Canada 's industrial center . The new migration is an urban one . California is already one of the most highly urbanized states in the Union ; and southern Ontario is hardly less urban , despite all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " New Canadians " from Europe . Internal migration from the farm to the city is also changing the character of the Old South . Fifteen years ago the states that once formed the Confederacy were predominantly agricultural ; only one out of every four people employed held . a non-farm job . Today half the Southern population makes its living away from the farm . And , significantly , the Southern Negro seems to have become urbanized even faster than the Southern white . Already , in other words , the Americans are a metropolitan people . Almost two-thirds of us live and work in the our hundred anti sixty-eight areas the Census recognizes as metropolitan . The country can in fact be best envisaged as a galaxy of urban solar systems . And while , within itself , every one of the metropolitan systems tends to decentralize ? as people move to the suburbs ? the country as a whole tends steadily to centralize . It is the push of people toward the metropolis that causes it to expand into the semi-urban countryside .. The basic issues of domestic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a densely populated , industrial country in which the metropolitan area is the basic unit . There will no longer be major regional differences in basic population patterns . Even in Colorado , Utah , and Arizona , well over half the population is already metropolitan . Above all , the basic difference between the agrarian South and the industrial or commercial North ? which has shaped so much of American history and culture ? will tend to disappear . Concretely , eleven issues will be in the foreground ? all difficult , all controversial , all requiring broad national as well as local or regional resolution . NEW ISSUE : WATER T HE GEOGRAPHY textbooks have it that the United States is favored above all nations with natural resources . it is certainly true that our food-producing capacity is so great that we will be able to feed even the very much larger population of 1975 out of domestic resources ? and at a higher standard of nutrition . And while , twenty years hence , the United States will be a net importer of most industrial raw materials on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ larger share of its basic needs than other Western countries . But there is one natural resource in which the United States , compared to Western Europe , has always been badly supplied . It is a basic one : water . Not only is rainfall over large parts of the country deficient , and abundant rainfall limited to small areas in the northwest and southeast ; but because of geography , geology , or soil structure far too much of the rainfall we get seems to be lost in run-off rather than stored up in the subterranean water table for future use . During the past fifteen years the signs have multiplied that we are living off our water capital ? running the risk of repeating with our water resources the orgy of destruction we indulged in with our soil . Water tables , once depleted , are even more difficult to restore than eroded and depleted soil . Yet we continuously pour new population and new industries into areas of marginal water supply , inviting disasters that we should have experience enough to forestall . During the next twenty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of population growth , but mainly because the new and growing industries typically need water at an ever-increasing rate . A mad scramble for water resources among metropolitan areas , states , and regions is already going full tilt ? between New York and Philadelphia in the East , for example ; between California , Oregon , Nevada , Arizona , New Mexico , and Colorado in the West . There will be so many of these fights For a larger share of an inadequate water supply ? and they will be so bitter ? that federal water allocation is certain to be demanded and heatedly discussed . The conservation of water will be a more novel ? and certainly a hotter ? political issue . Twenty years hence , in many parts of the United States , the users of water ( especially industrial ones ) will have to re-use it and to return it , cleaned and cooled , to the underground water table ? an expensive process . Stale laws or local ordinances on water conservation should therefore be the hottest of political hot potatoes nearly everywhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apply to conservation of all kinds : soil and forests ; grazing lands and petroleum : clean , unpolluted air and clean , unpolluted water ; scenic beauty and open spaces ? all will be more desirable , more expensive , and mote difficult to secure ? and hence they will become even more prominent as political issues for national and local governments alike . THE POPULATION pattern will also push into the foreground our national policies on all three of these basic facilities : power , transportation , and housing . Our power needs will grow even faster than our water needs . Broadly speaking , technology is now moving from the age of mechanical industry into that of chemicals ( where , for instance , atomic energy belongs ) . Electric power is the basic raw material of most chemical industries ; and our present power supply , despite the tremendous building of new stations in the past ten years , is already inadequate . Not only will need continue to grow faster than supply , but most of the accessible sources of water-generated power have been used up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on thermal generation . Already this issue has arisen over the large governmental power systems like TVA or Bonneville . They can only keep up with demand if they add thermal generating facilities . And , whether they do this by building their own generating stations or by going into " partnership " with private companies , they are bound to arouse antagonism and debate . That much , at least , the Dixon-Yates contract can be said to prove . At the same time , however , as atomic power reactors are being developed , the basic technology of thermal power generation is changing . This will raise an even touchier political issue . The Atomic Energy Act of 1954 , a major landmark in the relationship of government to private business , decided for the private development of the new resource . It did so , however , not merely by applying to atomic power the traditional and uniquely American principle of close regulation of private industry by public authority . It also ? for the first time ? established " partnership " between public bodies and private industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be wholly divorced from atomic-war material . Even if the 1954 act were a clearer and less ambiguous document than it is , these twin features ( regulation and partnership ) would by themselves insure that the status of the powerindustry in relation to government will for years remain a source of contention . Transportation needs , too , are fast outgrowing their facilities ? the present state of our highways is only the most glaring result of an outmoded transportation policy . Railroad regulation still assumes a transportation monopoly of the railroads , for instance , where the actual conditions of monopoly have long since disappeared . And there is no co-ordination of policy ? even less , of regulating agencies ? between rail , highway , and airway transportation . It has been obvious since the mid-thirties that the creation of a unified Department of Transportation at cabinet level would make good sense . Even more necessary ? and more controversial ? are national programs for building and maintaining a transport system adequate to our population and industry . Finally , housing will be a major political issue ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ building in the new industrial areas some of the worst slums this country has ever seen ? in and around Los Angeles , for example , and in the new industrial cities of the South . These new slums are expensive , but the fact that a tar-paper shack costs 514.000 does not make it any less of a shack . The housing need , moreover , will grow mightily before it lessens . As every suburban home owner knows , we live today off the housing inheritance of our grandparents . Few middle-class families could afford to build the kind of house they are now able to live in , thanks to the lower building costs of thirty years ago . But these houses arc rapidly deteriorating . Within the next twenty years most of them will have to be replaced . Together , these older houses constitute the hulk of our available , and practically all our good , housing . But they are rarely to be found , unfortunately , in the areas of maximum population growth , where we will need large numbers of new houses . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and reasonably well-built houses ? and we will want to get them without state or federal entry , except for slum-clearance , into the housing business . PRESSURE ON THE SCHOOLS AN HER area of constant concern , at all levels of government , will be education . Today we are at least seventy-five thousand classrooms short of the minimum needs of our children in primary and secondary school . This means that a million and a half children can not be properly educated ? half of them are on double or triple sessions ; half go to school in temporary barracks , unused garages , or church basements . Of the school buildings now in existence , one-fifth are fire traps long past their maximum life span . We are building fifty thousand new classrooms a year . but that is less than we need to take care of the yearly growth in school population . The deficit is not being reduced ; it grows by ten or twenty thousand classrooms a year . And in the mid-sixties , barely ten years away , another huge increase in school population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desperate . In this country today there are colleges with five times the enrollment for which their plants were originally built . And yet , within the next twenty years , enrollment may increase three- or four-fold . Again , we are doing nothing to anticipate the future ; we arc not even keeping pace with the past . Within the next ten years we will need more new college plants than we built in the three hundred years since the founding of Harvard . We should build college facilities for an additional five hundred thousand students a year for at least the next ten years . Instead , we are building for about fifty to a hundred thousand more each year . I have space only to mention , with a kind of horrified fascination , the further question of teachers . We will need more ? many , many more ? on all levels : kindergarten , elementary school , junior and senior high school , undergraduate and graduate colleges . Yet , instead of training more teachers , we are training fewer than we did fifteen or twenty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that every young American with the capacity for college education should be able to have it . But who is going to pay for this , and in what form ? How can we maintain the freedom of the colleges if government foots the bill ? Nor will the question be confined to money . Educational policy and curriculum ? especially in the colleges ? promise to become hot issues . At present there is little left of the fervent interest in education that characterized the thirties ; but now is the very moment when the pressure of numbers on the colleges should force them into experiments with new methods , new subjects , and new educational policies . The more going to college becomes the normal thing for the young American to do , moreover , the more crucial becomes the question of harmonizing academic freedom with education for citizenship ? a problem by no means as easy to solve as it appears to either liberal or reactionary . DECLINE OF TILE UNIONS ? D U R I N G the next two decades we will also have to decide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Already we have begun to tackle this problem through voluntary community co-operation ; Blue Cross and Blue Shield are the obvious examples . We have yet to extend this system to the self-employed , the farmers , the very poor , and the aged . Above all , we have to extend it to cover " major medical expenses " or " catastrophic illness " expenses ? the most serious medical costs for all but the very rich . The proposal of the Eisenhower Administration to re-insure " catastrophic illness " insurance by co-operatives and private companies ? and thus make it available to those who can not be covered today ? is thus a major step in the right direction . There is also the question of providing formedical education . We do not even train enough doctors today to take care of an expanding population at our present standard . Any extension of medical-cost insurance , to make adequate medical care more easily available , would create a real doctor shortage . Yet , medical education is so expensive that it puts medical-school expansion beyond the reach of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be made out for considering the cost of medical education as a long-term capital investment , which the doctor 's higher earning power should enable him to repay over the years . Even such self-financing of medical education , however , might require some form of public reinsurance of the risk ; and though the amounts would be fairly small , they are not going to be easy to find . Nor are the next twenty years likely to be years of industrial peace . On the contrary , all signs point to labor ferment : the rapid rise of total population without an accompanying rise of working population ; the major technological shifts which will change large numbers of jobs from unskilled work to highly skilled ; the resulting need for radical change in concepts of seniority and training ; and the rapid growth of industry in sparsely unionized areas . Unrest may not arise merely between management and labor but fully as much , perhaps even more , between labor and the public , and within labor itself . There is today a large area of agreement on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far larger than the shrill battle cries of small minorities on either side would lead you to suspect . But there are four unresolved issues ? each a basic one . There is the strike that imperils national welfare . There is the conflict between union security and the " right to work . " There are the union restrictions of access to a craft . And finally there is the fight over the unionization of employees who are not industrial workers ? salaried employees , clerks , engineers , and so on . Since the work population will before long be dominated by white-collar employees , their acceptance or rejection of unionization will determine whether the labor union will continue to be a power in industrial society , or become just another pressure group ? and a rather insulated and rapidly aging one , at that . DEMAND FOR EQUALITY W EC A N expect the status of the Negro minority , during the next two decades , to change fairly drastically . Twenty years hence , the rapid industrialization of the South ? combined with the continuous emigration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Southern pattern of rural and small-town segregation , except for a few isolated areas , will be a thing of the past . Instead , the problems of race relations will be those of industrial centers , and especially of northern industrial centers . Within the next twenty years , we can also expect the Negro 's fight for equal opportunity and fair treatment to shift from a demand for equal employment opportunities to a demand for equal opportunities for advancement . While this would represent a tremendous achievement ? nothing less than the attainment of economic equality for the American Negro ? it would also encounter more resistance . Certainly a national policy , focused on the steady and courageous pursuit of Negro equality ? and based upon a firm insistence on the Negroes ' civil and economic rights ? will be badly needed during this period . The economic forces which determine the employment of older workers ? that is , over sixty-five ? will pull in the opposite direction . Wherever industry shifts to Automation , they will he under pressure to get out . This is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employ-ment , it will he more " efficient " ; the old worker will have the greatest difficulty in " re-learning " and acquiring new skills . But elsewhere , in the absence of Automation , the shortage of labor will tend to force business to employ old people as long as they are able and willing to work . We will see pressure , therefore , toward better provisions and legislation to prevent " discrimination " against the older worker . Since the older people will steadily grow in numbers and proportion ? at least 12 if not 15 per cent of the population will be over sixty-five by 1975 ? they may well achieve highly organized and powerful pressure . It would certainly be no more than prudent for both management and union leaders to prepare immediately to determine which of the older people are capable of work , how to place them in jobs they can carry , and how to treat them with respect to lay-offs and promotion . In several states , unions are already clamoring for a " Fair Employment Practices Act " to forbid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . NEW IDEAS ABOUT MONEY T H E S E are certainly not going to be years of low government spending ? even if armaments expenditures , God willing , should become less necessary . There will he no " withering-away of the state , " whether Republicans or Democrats control the federal and state governments . Yet our notions of fiscal policy are still based largely on the assumption that high expenditure belongs only in an " emergency . " How , therefore , are we to combine the needs of the government for large revenue with the needs of an expanding economy for investment capital ? Perhaps we may even have to give up the oldest principle of business taxation : the legal distinction between income on fixed capital ? which is considered a " cost , " and thus deductible from business profits ? and the income on venture capital , which is " profit " and taxed . For under the present high corporation tax rates one dollar paid out in interest costs a company only fifty cents , while a dollar dividend to the stockholder actually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disproportion is an increased dependence on fixed capital , a decreasing supply of venture capital and a decreasing revenue therefrom ? that is , both economic and fiscal decay . Another unresolved conflict in fiscal policy lies between the realities of modern governmental life , which require planned long-term capital expenditures , and the constitutional requirement that Congress appropriate money on an annual basis . That any one Congress can not commit a future Congress is sound doctrine . But much of the expenditure of modern government is meaningless unless it is considered in long-range terms . Actually , by refusing to accept the reality of a " capital budget , " Congress may well be sacrificing its control over its expenditures . But how such problems as these should be resolved , let alone how they can be resolved , we are clearly not going to know for some time to come . FOOTNOTE ON INFLATION 0 N ONE issue of fiscal policy , public opinion rather than government action may make the greatest difference . That is inflation . Public opinion in economic matters is still deeply influenced by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threat and in full employment the earthly paradise . As a result , we have created defenses in depth against the last depression . We are committed to immediate governmental action the moment there is significant unemployment . And we have such a tremendous backlog of public works ? not to mention armaments ? that we could immediately mobilize the entire economy should the real threat of unemployment appear . But the next depression is most unlikely to be an unemployment-depression . One of our greatest economists , the late Joseph Schumpeter of Harvard , pointed out in his last paper ? read to the American Economic Association in December 1949 , only a few days before his death ? that it is inflation rather than unemployment that destroys stability in the twentieth century . Schumpeter based his pessimistic appraisal of America 's chances to survive as a free society on his belief that American public opinion did not understand the danger of inflation , and would not permit adequate safeguards against it . Inflation is not only an impersonal and general danger to society ? the breeder of class hatred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy where the great mass of people have become longterm creditors ( through their insurance and pension holdings ) and where as much as half of the employed population is on fixed salaries whichdo not readily adjust to changes in money values , inflation may cause more individual suffering than even widespread unemployment . This statement ? obvious to any German , Frenchman , Italian , or Austrian ( not to mention the people behind the Iron Curtain ) ? is still totally incomprehensible to most Americans . While we will not ? and should not ? forget the danger of an unemployment-depression , we will have to learn that it is a major duty of government in our economy to safeguard monetary stability . And this requires , above all , a vigilant public opinion . Whatever policies we adopt in these eleven basic policy areas , their total impact on our national life will be enormous ? greater even than that of the New Deal . Certainly ? and deservedly ? we will debate each one of them , will disagree about them , will engage in bitter partisan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the least , whether the answers adequate to our needs can be developed entirely through the give and take of political battle . What we should have are fundamental state papers on the economic and social policies of an industrial society ? papers comparable , perhaps , to Jefferson 's " Notes on the State of Virginia , " Hamilton 's " Report on Manufacturers , " Henry Clay 's " American System , " or John Wesley Powell 's papers on the management of the Western lands . President Truman made a start in this task by appointing Commissions on Water Policy and on Raw Material Resources . The present Administration has tackled the job of highway modernization , of government reinsurance against catastrophic illness , and of a national transportation policy . But these are only beginnings . ' REDRAWING THE MAP T HE FEDERAL government is the proper agency to develop broad policies in most of these eleven areas . But the federal government simply can not do the detailed job in any one of them . - Much of the actual work will have to be done by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most areas it will have to be done in close co-operation with private industry . It will have to take account of local or regional needs and circumstances , and the administration will have to be local . Yet existing local and state governments are patently unequal to the task . The national population no longer corresponds to the traditional distinctions between local and state government . A metropolitan people cut across the boundary lines of cities , counties , and states . The truly admirable system of parkways built by New Jersey , for instance , has only added to the traffic problems of New York , Pennsylvania , and Maryland . The best planning New Jersey can do has been largely nullified , in turn , by the lack of co-ordination with neighboring states . Similarly , Westchester County shows that schools can no longer be planned within the historical unit of the school district . One of the few communities in Westchester that planned ahead for tomorrow 's school needs is Pleasantville . But the main effect of Pleasantville 's foresight has been an influx of people from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ careful plans inadequate . Local and state governments , our oldest civic institutions , have remained basically unchanged since the Northwest Ordnance of 1787 . But some -- how we are going to have to invent and develop new ones that cut across existing jurisdictions . Leonard D. White of the University of Chicago has recently shown ( in his three books The Federalists , The Jeffersonians , and The Jackson ions ) how important the administrative foundations laid in the early years of the Republic were for the survival and growth of the United States , and how much courage and imagination went into their design . The creative skill required to build the regional institutions needed now will hardly he of a lesser order . OUR GEOGRAPHIC ideas also need revision in the matter of atomic dispersal ? a subject that has occasioned more confused talk than action . We now know , at last , that the largest theoretically possible bomb is limited both in its area of immediate danger and of total destruction . We know , too , that there is no " defense " against atomic attack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is problematical with guided intercontinental missiles . Finally we know ? though it is highly secret information ? what are the critical products and processes on which our ability to maintain an industrial economy really depends . We know what we need to know , in other words , to escape paralysis from the first all-out attack . It should be emphasized that dispersal is not " defense . " It is only a safeguard against being knocked out in the first round . And it is not something we have actually done . In fact we may be more vulnerable today than we wereten years ago . Forty per cent of the American population and 56 per cent of all manufacturing are concentrated in forty metropolitan areas . The remaining 120 sizable cities contain only 16 per cent of the population and 19 per cent of the manufacturing facilities . In other words , we are so highly concentrated as to invite attack . if we had a national dispersal policy , we could use the internal migration of population and industry ( which goes on anyway ) to change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and dislocation . If we had only had such a policy during the past ten years we might by now be in a position to survive even a massive attack . The next ten years offer an equal opportunity . But we will have to do more about dispersal than we have done so far ? which is chiefly to discuss it . A HAVE-NOT COUNTRY IN INTERNATIONAL economics Amer- ica has almost adjusted to the unfamiliar role of richest nation . During the past ten years we have successfully made the shift from debtor to creditor policies . But now we have to make an even greater one ? from having enjoyed in all our history a raw-materials surplus , we will come to the new experience of a raw-materials shortage , becoming for the first time a " have-not " nation . The much-publicized " dollar gap , " the chronic and apparently incurable shortage of dollars in the outside world , may well be replaced by a shortage of foreign currency in American hands to cover the purchases we want to make abroad . This , at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Truman appointed five years ago to study United States raw-materials requirements . The American economy and the world economy will in any event become more interdependent than they are today . " When America sneezes , the world catches pneumonia . " The past two years proved this European saying of the 1940s to be false ; Europe experienced its biggest boom while America went through the recession of 1953-54 . Yet it will certainly he true that the outside world 's economic health will increasingly depend on America 's purchases of raw materials . And America 's economic health will increasingly depend on our ability to export enough manufactured goods to pay for our import needs . Two conclusions follow that at first sight may appear both paradoxical and mutually exclusive . The first is that low American tariffs on manufactured goods are rapidly becoming obligatory . We are in a very exposed position , precisely because of our high productivity . Every other country with a similar lead ? France in the eighteenth century , Britain in the nineteenth ? eventually became complacent ; it is always harder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberal tariff policy is the best ? perhaps the only ? safeguard of high productivity . Low tariffs are not primarily the means to live up to our obligations as world creditor and world leader . They are a domestic necessity , and increasingly so recognized by many ( though by no means by all ) of our manufacturing industries . The fact that the low-tariff fight is no longer led by Southern agrarians and Ncw York bankers ( the traditional free-trade groups ) but by manufacturing leaders like Ford , Burroughs Adding Machine , and IBM is an indication of how drastically we have changed . The second conclusion to be drawn from our becoming a " have-not " country is that we must urge on the rapid industrialization of the " underdeveloped " areas . Only industrial countries are good markets for industrial goods ? that is , for America 's exports . All the 360 million people of India buy from the United States only as much as the five million Swiss ? and they would buy less but for American aid . But our future world productivity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or be based on money at all . In the first place , continuous handouts are just about equally intolerable to the giver and the recipient . Secondly , what is really needed is neither money nor equipment . It is social innovation , the concepts and tools of an industrial society , which must be encouraged on a permanent and purposeful basis . The policy that would stimulate innovation can not wait until the situation has become desperate , and depend each year on laws rushed through Congress like a last-minute rescue in the " Perils of Pauline . " It can not afford to confuse military with economic and social objectives , nor can its success be measured by the number of votes the Communists of a country we momentarily notice get in this year 's election of union stewards . It roust primarily depend on finding , developing , and inspiring people who can lead ? as public servants , managers , farmers , workers , technicians ? and helping them to help themselves . It will require vision and endless patience . AV E MUST therefore conclude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with which we began ? that events beyond this country 's borders may play , whether we like it or not , the determining part . Not only does the shadow of atomic warfare darken all prediction , but even if we assume a relative amount of luck ? immediate postponement of major conflict by fighting an indefinite number of little ones ? we will have to recognize how many of our internal rewards depend on our international wisdom and leadership . In politics , as elsewhere , the two entwine ? and offer the major parties a double opportunity to capture national leadership . The demands an expanding economy will make on public policy are clearly so great ? and so new ? that they will force drastic changes in political alignments , organizational structure , and voting patterns . Yet , at the moment , neither party seems adequate to the issues of tomorrow . The Republicans , with their vulnerability to futile nostalgia for a past that never was , and the Democrats , with their almost obsessive fear of depression unemployment , seem equally impervious to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so evenly balanced in popular appeal suggests that the first to produce imaginative , hold , and realistic economic leadership might thereby gain a twenty-year ascendancy . But the same is true many times over of the demands ? in fact , the absolute prerequisites ? of our international position . Unless they are satisfied , none of the opportunities these four articles have sketched out will ever see reality . And they can only be satisfied by a firm , determined , and long-sighted foreign policy ? dedicated to the economic and social development , rapidly and peacefully , of the Free World . For the first time since the Louisiana Purchase and the War of 1812 , that is , foreign affairs have returned to primacy in the national scene . This seems likely to be the most enduring fact ? as it is certainly the most revolutionary one ? of America 's Next Twenty Years .                     