@@241016

Gunning along at 21,000 feet through the overcast skies above the Grand Can yon , a T.W.A. Constellation collided with a United Airlines DC-7 one morning last summer , sending 128 people plunging to their deaths in the worst commercialairline disaster in U.S. aviation history ( TIME , July 9 ) . To ensure greater safety in the nation 's crowded skies , the Civil Aeronautics Administration this week ordered 23 long-range radars designed to give controllers a picture of aircraft from 15,000 to 70,000 feet in virtually all the U.S. air space . <P> Although CAA 's radar network plan was announced early last spring , it was given top priority only after the Grand Canyon disaster shocked Congress into appropriating an additional $35 million toward its completion . Currently , CAA controllers outside of New York City and Washington , D.C. must form their pictures of air traffic conditions from position reports radioed in by pilots . The new installations will enable controllers to scan the skies for 200 miles around 23 of the nation 's major cities , spotting everything from highflying , supersonic military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <P> On densely traveled routes , the radars will also pick up small aircraft flying at altitudes lower than 15,000 feet . Designed and built by the Raytheon Manufacturing Co. , the new installations will each use a mammoth 40-ft. antenna and will be able to feed up to 15 monitor screens simultaneously . Among their other refinements : an appreciable decrease in the " clutter " which plagues much radar during rainy weather ; a filtering system which cuts out reflections from fixed objects , thus registering only moving objects ; electronically generated maps , which can be superimposed on the radarscope for immediate identification of the territory over which a plane is flying . <P> CAA expects to have its new equipment in operation by next summer . Within three years , CAA figures , the nation will have a network of more than 70 civil and military radar installations , enough to handle four times the current volume of U.S. air traffic .                     