@@487555

REINHARD BENDIX is associate professor of sociology and social institutions at the University of California . He is the author of " Social Science and the Distrust of Reason . " BY REINHARD BENDIX i  --  on . By and large the public seems to approve of big business , though it has a critical attitude toward the abuse of power by the large corporations . In any case , the way- in which this knowledge of public opinion is used by the powers that be will help us to assess the role of the social sciences in the development of democratic institutions . The public 's image of big business has many facets . The report examines a number of them , but it reminds us that various opinions which can be related statistically are not necessarily related in the awareness of , the individual . Hence when we speak of the public image of big business , we refer to some extent to a statistical fiction . The first point to be noted is the remarkable agreement among the respondents . While fine distinctions are drawn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparent than real . Approximately 90 per cent of the persons interviewed could identify " big business " in terms indicating an understanding of the question . Some 76 per cent thought that the good features of big business outweighed the bad , though this response probably reflected the basic optimism characteristic of the American people . Almost none of those who in the main took a favorable view were uncritical of the effect of business bigness . And none who were very critical of it denied its important productive functions . Further analysis of opinions concerning the beneficial or adverse effects of business bigness revealed only minor variations between the many ( 76 icier cent ) who emphasized the positive aspects and the few ( 10 per cent ) who emphasized the negative . The judgments of the persons questioned depended in part on their knowledge ; on the whole one can say that knowledge about big business is widespread . Although the issues did not seem to arouse people 's emotions , their awareness and concern . were evident . Six hundred people were asked their view of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , labor unions , businesses that are not big , and the national government . About 37 per cent ranked big business first or second in this list , and 68 per cent ranked it first , second , or third . The judgments involved in such ranking are difficult to evaluate , and to ask those interviewed what power position they desired for big business  --  and what power position they expected it to occupy in twenty years  --  merely compounded the difficulty . It should be noted , however , that a majority saw the power-position of the labor unions as higher than that of big business : View of present posi- Desired position Lion of the two of the two institutions institutions - Big business above Percentages labor unions ..... 41 54 Two institutions equal 4 7 Labor unions above big business 55 39 Although a majority wanted big business to be more powerful than labor unions , they did not want to see it become the first power in the country . About 34 per cent wanted it to retain the power it now has , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ranks third or . fourth in power compared with the other Organizations mentioned . A total of 42 per cent desired a decrease in the power which big business holds in their estimate at the present time ; 16 per cent desired an increase . Fully 44 per cent of the persons interviewed believed that " smart management " was responsible for the spectacular growth of modern large-scale industry . Another 32 per cent thought that the workers ' efficiency and the production of satisfactory articles accounted for this development  --  there was some duplication between these two groups . The optimistic majority ( 76 per cent ) and the pessimistic minority ( 10 per cent ) differed among themselves . Reasons given for industrial growth Optimists Pessimists Productive qualities and activities 80 per cent 67 per cent Extrinsic factors ( like luck , financial backing , war economy , etc. ) 30 per cent 47 per cent That is to say , the optimists are more likely to credit industrial managers with personal responsibility for their business success than are the pessimists ; the latter attribute success more to extrinsic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ credit . But it is apparent that this is a matter of emphasis , not a hard and fast distinction . Big business was not seen as the first " power " in this country , 68 per cent of the respondents believing that the national government controls business , at least in some respects . This belief corresponded to the explicit preference for government control shown by 71 per cent of the respondents , though this Preference varied somewhat with the conception of the power position of big business . Among other questions explored were the amount of readily available information concerning business concentration ( fairly large ) , the proportion of people emotionally involved with these questions ( about 25 per cent ) ; whether an individual 's opinion on them affected his preference for large or small retail stores . A NOTHER set of questions dealt with the perceived - effects of business bigness on wages , job security , managerial attitudes toward employees , rate of profit , quality of production . The answers can only be summarized here . The over-all approval of big business was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were believed to compare favorably with small ones . To be sure , there was no lack of criticism : job security in-big business is not what it should be , management is " impersonal and distant , " products could be sold for less than they are , big business exercises too much power over small business . Yet big business ' has helped to create jobs ( so 78 per cent declared ) , its plants are efficient , it has helped to develop new products by maintaining research facilities ( 80 per cent ) . The most significant of these favorable reactions to big business was perhaps the belief that it had been a major stimulus to employment . Of 308 persons who were asked , 236 indicated that there should be some group or agency responsible for providing employment . Though both the question and the answers to it were vague , people seemed to favor big business because it provides jobs , but would look to the government to provide jobs if business failed . It is noteworthy that more than 50 per cent of every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a depression ; the idea was even more strongly supported by low-income groups . One is tempted to speculate about the implications of these data , and I believe that the study would have profited by doing so . There is , for example , a close similarity between these popular beliefs and Joseph Schismpeter 's theory of monopoly . Schumpeter asserts that business concentration has led to a vast increase in productivity . Monopolistic devices are simply temporary buttresses to secure large capital investments against precipitous market fluctuations . And the large monopolistic enterprises are primarily responsible for the process The NATION of technical innovation , a process of " creative destruction " which hastens the obsolescence of previous capital investments to the advantage of the new product . Though stated in much more sophisticated terms , this theory is not too different from the popular belief that big business is good because it creates employment and fosters technical innovation . Some of the people interviewed seemed to realize that the ' belief in the innovating function of big business is not compatible with the expectation that it can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many seemed to remember enough of the depression to question the ability of big business to provide job security , even though it has created many jobs . One question of which we get only a glimpse in the report is the relation between the popular quest for security and the despair . of the individual who feels oppressed by the impersonality of large organizations . A significant minority held that some agency should guarantee employment ; another group found managers " impersonal and distant " in dealing with their employees . This glimpse is not enough . How much do a sense ofinsecurity and a feeling that the boss is indifferent really disturb people , and how much do the intellectuals impute these concerns to employees for reasons of their own ? Taking a negative approach to business and the-mentality of the business man is so much a matter of course in intellectual circles that it came as something of a surprise to find a majority of the people interviewed in favor of big business , not because it is " big , " but because it is " business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerning its power is presumably dife to an appreciation of the services and goods which big business has created . At any rate , when one sees housewives working sixty hours a week in fruit canneries during the summer at exhausting and disagreeable jobs  --  all for the sake of buying a television set  --  one develops a rationale for a positive view of big business , which Veblen perceived more clearly than Marx . It is hard to quarrel with a study for not answering questions which it did not raise , but it is pertinent to suggest such questions for further investigation .                     