@@488251

THE United States does not have a " labor movement , " at least not in the full sense of the term . A tale labor movement consists , as in Britain , of trade unions , political party , and cooperatives . Lacking a party the American labor movement emphasizes collective bargaining rather than political action . American trade unions have to win almost all their benefits through negotiations with the employees . The British obtain them through legislation . PAUL L. PHILLIPS is president of the International . Brotherhood of Paper Makers , A. F. of L. T his article is based on his recent address to the British Trade Union Congress , Coordinated political action by labor groups in the United States has been extremely hard to achieve . There , are scarcely any ties , for example , binding together factory , white-collar , and agricultural workers . Industry in America , moreover , is on the threshold of a second " industrial revolution " brought on by the development of what is called " automation . " As a result of the spread @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manual workers will in all likelihood decrease in proportion to the total labor force in the next few years and white-collar workers will increase As for consumers , this group has no effective voice in the United States . There are some cooperatives , but very few compared with the number in England , and these few are widely scattered geographically and representative of disparate groups . They have not yet developed any political or economic ties with the trade unions . But the greatest obstacle to the building of a true labor movement in the United-States has been the lack of unity and cooperation among the trade unions themselves Every union has complete autonomy and exercises the democratic right to make its own decisions , political and economic . This democracy does not come cheap : the price is a certain amount of confusion and disunity . Being divided , labor in the United States is politically weak . This is not to say it is impotent . On occasion , when thoroughly aroused , the workers have effectively united for a political purpose . But such action is unfortunately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all political elections workers must have a. score card to distinguish their friends from their enemies . No candidates belong to a party or polibcal organization around whose banner and principles labor rallies as a matter of course . This situation is largely the result of a widespread and deep-seated prejudice against direct-political action . And the prejudice in turn is a legacy of Samuel Gompers 's admonitions to workers to rely on delayed timing in political action , to gain their ends by rewarding their friends and defeating their enemies impractical method today . For these reasons American labor can usually bring no concerted pressure to bear when important issues are at stake . Whereas British labor accepts as self-evident the benefits derived from the na.r. tionalizarion of the power industry , in the United States we are finding it difficult to hold on to the 20 per cent of our power industry which is publicly owned . Even the Conservatives in England appear to embrace national health insurance Here the idea is under constant attack , and Congress has refused to permit the government to go so far as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decided to retain full control of atomic energy , but the United States government is handing over this control to private monopolies . On all these questions as on many others the American trade unions are divided , the extent of the division varying of course from issue to issue . Handicapped further by the absence of any effective working arrangement with other groups , American labor is constrained to measure political success by negative instead of positive results . We consider it a victory today when we are able to prevent the passage of a bad law . ON THE economic front progress has been considerably faster , though by no means at express-train speed , and it was almost stopped by a business recession early this year . In June , 1954 , unemployment had reached serious proportions : three and a third million persons were without a job , more than double the ' October 30 , 1954 number unemployed in 1953 , and these figures do not include persons working seduced hours per week . Farm income also decline in 1953 and has continued to decline so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for basic crops may mean still greater income loss . Employment in construction , finance , and government has increased over 1953 , but in mining a continuing decline now amounts to more than 12 per cent . Despite the slump in the economy , . the w unions have continued to negotiate age increases- and higher fringe benefits ; only in a few scattered instances , mostly in textiles , have there been wage reductions . Construction workers have , obtained substantial increases , but smaller ones than a year ago . The same is true of the durable-goods industries : In the paper industry increases have averaged roughly .5 cents an hour . Since the cost of living haso remained - practically unchanged during this time , the gain in teal wages is encouraging . American labor has not been able to use tax legislation to correct inequities - in the distribution of national income . On the contrary , in terms of purchasing power , labor is not sure it can hold on to the increases won in collective bargaining . , The people of the United States are faced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and hence political power . The big companies are getting bigger , and the small companies are being merged in the big companies . Already 1954 is spoken of as the Year of the Big Merger , A case in point is automobiles . The recent merger of Studebaker and Packard eliminated the last of the independents . In most other industries economic difficulties- are forcing numerous mergers . THE trade unions have had only nominal success in devising counter-measures to protect the people as a whole against this accumulating wealth and power . But the full picture is not so discouraging as some may think . Unions which have long been bitter rivals are gradually moving toward united effort in dealing with employers . Two recent examples of this are the joint negotiations in- the Meatpacking industry and a joint strike against the West Coast lumber industry . The trend toward cooperation is in accord with the general understanding that the signing of the no-raid pact was really the first step toward the organic unity of the two national federations . If solidarity can be achieved , we can expect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States . On the politiCal front , when the Pal-are of the issue has made a united effort possible , it has been successful . Thus social-security benefits were increased and the so-called " millionaires ' amendment " to the tax program was defeated . The political arm of the A. F. of L. , Labor 's League for Political Education , has been expanded by the setting up of permanent regional offices with a full-time staff . Its activities have not been the deciding factor in national elections , but its success in scattered areas has amply demonstrated its potential effectiveness . The political-education program has developed a growing worker consciousness that government can render aid in an economic crisis and help cure economic ills , such as unemployment , unfair taxa-383 tion , and so on . The next serious depression can be expected to produce a vigorous political organization . The worker is becoming aware that his failure to take an active interest in politics can affect the welfare of himself and his union . He has seen Jaws enacted which take money out of his pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He has seen states put severe restrictions upon his union . Broadly speaking , the unions are gaining ground : the American worker today enjoys a higher standard of living than did his father or his grandfather , and itshould be higher tomorrow . On the record the American economy has grown at the rate of 31/2 per cent a year over a long period . It must continue to go forward ; and the workers can not relax their efforts to share in the benefits of that growth .                     