@@476177

THE past , we think , was slower . The United States from 1940 to 1950 is a disc spinning so fast that we can barely cling to it or stay on our feet . But a century seems in retrospect to have moved at a measured , tranquil pace . Change in earlier days was not our master but our servant ; season grew to season and the crop came to harvest . This is the visual illusion that makes a body seem to move the more slowly as we get farther away from it . History needs some such device as that by which the movies show a plant growing from slip to leaf to flower in fifty feet of film . It would correct the parallax and show that in all ten decades the motions of American society have been close to cataclysmic . We could then see for ourselves that all but one of them have been contained .... East of Lake Ontario , there may have been debatable ground : which area was truly Canada , which truly the United States ? But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the boundary a few miles north of the49th Parallel or a few miles south of it without encountering much difference . But only a few miles : geography , climate , the flow of rivers , the architecture of mountain ranges divided one nation from the other as if by blueprint . Along the southern edge , as three hundred years of Spain in North America demonstrated , the margin was even narrower : one area was the United States and the other Mexico by natural fiat . Earth 's creation had surveyed and staked a continental domain between the Atlantic and the Pacific , ' between Canada and . Mexico , for a single people , a single economic system , a single political organization . One determinant of our society is that the United States is a nation which occupies a continental unit . Another one is this : the United States is an empire whose imperial and national boundaries are the same . A minor but clear-seeing prophet said , " Disunion and Civil War are synonymous terms . The Mississippi , source and mouth , must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1860 . In December of 1862 a major prophet repeated what he had said at his inauguration : " Physically speaking we can not separate . We can not remove our respective sections from each other nor build an impassable wall between them , " - and added that the people of the American heartland must forever " find their way to Europe by New York , to South America and Africa by New Orleans , and to Asia by San Francisco . " These men were proclaiming the necessity of economic and political unity in a unified geographical system . Thomas Jefferson had anticipated them in 1803 , but so had Robert Cavalier , Sieur de la Salle , in 1682 . With an explosive heightening of energy the nation completed the occupation of its continent in a two-year period , 1846-1848 . Mexico and Great Britain ceased to he illogical and irrelevant sovereignties in the American geographical system . The event brought to an end the imperial contention for the Great Valley and the Far West that had begun in the seventeenth century , if not indeed in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peripheral forces in this struggle but there had been a full century of conflict between the French and British Empires to possess and politically unify the American continent . By the time this struggle ended in victory for the British it had created the American empire . For the people whose representatives met in Philadelphia in 1775 and again in 1787 to make a nation were already an imperial people . As they made the nation they entered a half-century of conflict with Great Britain fur the same great stake , the richest area in the world . That conflict settled itself along the lines laid down , leaving only the two illogicalities in the West that vanished before mid-century . T HE attainment of our continental boundaries precipitated the crisis which gave the nation its final shape and pattern , and which made the nation and the empire the same thing . The United States into which Volume I , Number 1 , of Harper 's New Monthly Magazine issued in June of 1850 was already committed to the final testing . A self-governing people had created a democratic republic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintain itself in a whole continent ? Could the conflicting interests , feelings , and beliefs of irrational man in society adapt themselves to the rationality of natural conditions ? Was there a self-limiting contradiction within the democratic forms ? Could American society govern itself in the single system that the continent demanded , or was that demand too strong for government , admittedly man 's weakest capacity ? Must that weakness falsify the American experience and mock the continental unity by a process of Balkanization that would produce societies smaller and illogical but within man 's capacity for government ? In that same June of 1850 delegates from nine Southern states met in convention at Nashville to set up an experimental test . By November , convinced that they could predict the outcome , they were proposing to declare the American experience a failure and to dissolve the United States . The proposal was both too early and too late . Between June and November the resources of the political system proved it able , through the compromise of 1850 , to preserve the nation and the empire for an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years . Just long enough . It was a decade of steadily growing tension , passion , and turbulence . The surface was chaotic but realities beneath the surface were shaping a demand that evasions , ambiguities . and contradictions in the society be faced and resolved . The acquisition of the West revealed the inexorable fact that the Southern political hegemony would now be extinguished . Political dictation by the minority must end and government must pass to the majority . The Southern hegemony had never had financial dominance ; Southern economists were aware that their section was in fact bankrupt and the new territory confirmed their diagnosis . The section 's obsolete labor system had managed to keep its economy alive by a process of exhausting soils and then abandoning them for virgin land , but the labor system could not possibly be applied to the virgin land now acquired . Finally , the unresolved contradiction and untreated disease at the core of our social system , Negro slavery , had reached the stage of fatality . Outside the South , an intense moral horror no more to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor or genocide was now demanding that the spread of slavery be stopped short and some process of eliminating it be invented . The Southern minority responded in the tradition of dying oligarchies , by demanding absolute immunity from control and by convincing itself that financial bankruptcy , political fallacy , and embedded social evil manifested the will of God . Both sections moved toward Lincoln 's conclusion that the nation could not exist half slave and half free . One great American said that God was sifting out the hearts of men before his judgment seat , another that one volume of our history had closed and a new one had opened of which no man could foresee the end , a third that irresistible if unnamable influences had begun to unfold a new destiny . The spinning disc was performing its function of constantly remaking the nation . We see easily enough , today , that the political system was hardening and the cleavage in the social system deepening . But in order to get these motions in focus we need the movies ' device to throw on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the shaded area on the population map moving constantly westward across the blank area . Another would show a web of railroads being spun cast of the Mississippi ; others would show the steady multiplication of factory chimneys , the increase of emigration from Europe , the increase of wealth , the increase of mechanical power . Such images reveal why , in the event , ten years were enough . H 0 UR generation has twice had proved to it that sometimes final decisions have to be reached and that if they can not be reached in any other way then they must be fought out . " Both parties deprecated war , but one of them would make war rather than let the nation survive , and the other would accept war rather than let it perish , and the war came . " The last four words have the greatest solemnity of our history . Bernard Shaw has said that it " was more clearly than any other war of our timea war for an idea , " but it was tragedy to the uttermost . In all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secession belied and repudiated the entire experience of the American people , that the South which forced the war never had a chance to win it , that the Confederacy was an anachronism as society and an unworkable fallacy as government , that if the American system had been broken the European system would have been restored . The war effected the political decision , " teaching men that what they can not take by an election , neither can they take by war . " It ended the fatal disease of slavery , though the sequelae , some of them only less evil , have not yet been cured . And it freed the nation forever to develop its empire as a single people in a continental unit . Now there would never be the Balkan States of North America . No war ends as the same war it was when it began . The lightning of the terrible swift sword revealed again the deepest meaning and the highest aspiration of American life ? perhaps they are to be glimpsed only in a lightning flash ? and they found their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But if the fires of civil war purified much and forged much into its permanent form , they also destroyed much we should not have lost and they left scars that have proved permanent . But gigantic energies had been loosed . The United States came out of the war with a productive system more diverse , more integrated , and enormously more powerful than it had been in 1860 ? and politically entrenched . The expansion of that system , which was without parallel in human experience , was the focus of American history for the next generation . The continental nation had been freed to develop the resources , natural and human , of the richest geographical entity on earth . The advance of knowledge had provided the necessary instruments , commercial , financial , technological , and scientific . As the disc spins , the energies at work seem to share the impersonality and irresistibility of sidereal forces , and the striking conceit of Henry Adams that they accelerate according to the law of falling bodies almost seems true . Again , we need the condensed motions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war , the diagrammatic railroad track reaches the . Pacific . Thereafter it is the weaver 's shuttle crossing and crisscrossing the map till the United States has a transportation system previously inconceivable and equaled nowhere else . ( To be duplicated by similar lines which show telegraph and telephone systems , roads for automobile transport , and charted flightways for airplane traffic . ) The line that measures horsepower per capita shoots steeply upward ; it means work done , wealth increased , a constantly accelerating production . The crosshatching- on the population map spirals across the West till the only blank spaces left are those which can not be populated at all . The curve of emigration from Europe is almost as vertical as Jack 's beanstalk . There is a jagged oscillation as the areas where great staple crops are grown shift their locations , another one as centers of manufacture do something similar , a third as cities become metropolitan aggregates and the population of rural areas , relatively to them , declines . Retrospectively , these energies seem uncontrollable and for a time they were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they seem impersonal and in fact such personality as they found in either individuals or corporations was solely by chance , by the fall of the dice . We misjudge them when we are appalled by such waste as it had been possible for no other people to afford and by the wealth and power that came by accident , luck , ruthlessness , or corruption into hands that were irresponsible and today seem anti-social . For the Cro-Magnon Age of American capitalism was both accidental and implicit . We came into it precisely as late fifteenth-century navigators bound for Cathay ran without premonition into the American continent : and for us as for them there was no passage to India except straight on and across . OWADAYS we pronounce derisively such phrases as Empire Builder , Robber Baron , and Captain of Industry ; the derision is a judgment of social righteousness on their waste , injustice , and anarchic use of power . Yet they were chance entities in a historical context , points of contact where energies found application or transmission ; and if one anonymity had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of necessity another one must have done so . That an individual acquired fifty million dollars from the public estate , or a corporation collected two hundred million , is in 1950 of no importance considering that both converted the uncapitalized public heritage into public wealth of which their take in profits was an inconsiderable decimal . Most of the Barons ' wealth has by now , in one way or another , been returned to the public , and we have spent half a century canalizing the corporate wealth for public usage . Moreover , it is better that there are half a million family houses in Iowa than that the forests of northern Wisconsin should still stand . What was the value of the land granted to the Union Pacific in Nebraska or to the Santa Fe in Kansas ? On the books five dollars per section : in fact , zero dollars and zero cents per hundred square miles . It is better that in 1950 these are mature commonwealths , that human society is productive there , that their farms are feeding us and others , than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the way through the frontier stage of an American region . though with no speculative profit in the records . Include all that can be assessed historically against steel corporations , still it is better that Pittsburgh , Cleveland , Gary , and Youngstown are metropolises , that there are skyscrapers in New York and locks in the Panama canal , and that there have been American battleships in two world wars , than that the Mesabi should be only today coming to the awareness of a nation prepared to manage it more equitably but less rich , less populous , less powerful than the Mesabi has made it . " Fellow countrymen , we can not escape history . " We can not escape its processes , nor remodel those of the past to accord with changed values . Given the continent of 1850 and given the energies of 1850.1900 , it was either a Malefactor of Great Wealth named Smith or one named Jones , it was either Standard Oil or Alias and Otherwise Oil , nor all your tears wash out a word of it . All this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ angle of view . . . . The dynamic equilibrium of a society is unstable . It is forever moving from one phase to another . Its internal forces are always altering in relation to one another and so threatening to destroy it . The genius of the American people ... no , start that one over . The vigor of our democratic system and the size and richness of our continental empire have enabled American society to contain the internal stresses and , always belatedly but always in time too , to master and redirect their alignment . From where we stand the surface 1865-1900 looks anarchic but the condensed images show something different . T HE industrial system was politically entrenched ; for most of a generation the government of the United States was an instrument exquisitely machined to effect the system 's will and purpose . A conquered and ruined South dropped into its palm . It came to hold the Middle West under mortgage and to own the West in fee . Nor would our word in 1950 that a man 's anguish might be to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dispossessed Mississippi cotton-grower , or a steel-worker shot by Pennsylvania militiamen for stating that he could not live like a human being on two dollars earned in a twelve-hour day , or an Iowa farmer robbed by a manufacturers ' tariff , a railroad 's freight rates , a bank 's crop-note , an elevator-combine 's downgrading , and a systematically depressed market for grain . Moreover , a fungus of slums spread over the metropolises and production centers . Mostly they were industrial slums and mostly they were filled with the immigrants , from southern and eastern Europe in the main , whom industry welcomed to keep the labor market overcrowded , now that speculative finance had little free farmland left to hold under mortgage for north Europeans . At least these city slums were better than the rural slums that by now had contaminated parts of nearly every state . For if the Negro remained a peon , there were widely distributed poor-white populations ? living ( in this paradise of agriculture ) on exhausted farms , sick with ( in this best-fed nation ) malnutrition and ( in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this democracy of self-respecting men ) mob superstitions and mob hysterias . So new figures appeared on the screen , long disregarded , long misunderstood , caricatured , at last feared as bomb-throwing anarchists or atheists of the American faith . One might be a soft-spoken scholar looking up from his table of statistics to voice an idea new to Americans , that the continental resourcescould be exhausted unless more social intelligence were brought to bear on them . Another had many names , individual and collective , Henry George , say , or the Knights of Labor . A third was gaunt , desperate , and terrible , the product of two-cent cotton and ten-cent corn . Their common testimony was that the United States had got out of plumb . They burned their valueless crops to keep their kitchens warm in winter . They derailed Pullmans or floated in barges past locked-out mills to shoot at Pinkertons hired to break their feeble unions . They declaimed in Congress and the state legislatures about a revolution which they knew was under way and were answered with boredom and guffaws . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protected and cared for " by the Christian men to whom God in His infinite wisdom has given the ' control of the property interests of the country . " He spoke from the system 's most powerful battlement , the industrial trust , but he had been a relic for six years when he spoke . Six years earlier the sonorous , fraudulent voice of an eater of wild honey in the hills had quieted a Chicago convention hall . It is easy to grin at him , his drama , and his rhetoric , but not at what the rhetoric meant , " You shall not press down upon the brow of labor this crown of thorns . You shall not crucify mankind upon a cross of gold . " That year or another , Bryan or someone else , it must be proclaimed that a turn had been rounded . T N OUR society a popular reaction eventu- ally asserts itself against concentrations of power that have grown disruptive . Since 1896 one main strand in our history has been our resistance to concentrations of financial power . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how steadily it has grown stronger one need only contrast Gene Debs ' switchmen with Waiter Reuther 's automobile workers , or the corn-burning Kansas farmers of 1890 with their inheritors in 1950 . The democratic society that occupies the vast , rich continent has contained the inner stresses . It has braked the disruptive forces well short of the cleavage line . It has kept going . In their way , both Baer and Bryan signified the same tremendous fact , that , whatever its imbalances might be , our continental economy had come of age . The attainment of all majorities is marked by just such confusion as the United States showed at the turn of the century . Our venture in extra-territorial imperialism was impulsive , costly , soon repented , eventually repudiated . Industrial trusts became financial trusts and the collapse of speculative inflations concentrated their power . They presented a mammoth and imperative paradox .. They so rationalized the productive system that perhaps gigantic profits were an inconsiderable charge against the economies they effected in the distribution and the price of goods ; but they were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which it was their nature to defy . Three out of four national administrations labored to get some kind of harness on them , backed by maturing labor organizations , by sectional revolts , and by a groundswell of public awareness which was the ripening of seeds planted by the Grangerites and the Populists long before . The popular historian , forced to compress the first fifteen years of the twentieth century into a single word , at whatever violence to other considerations , had usually ended with the word " reform . " And certainly , amid frustrations and Failures , the lines were laid down . In those prewar years another fact was manifest , though but slowly understood : an imperial culture had also come of age . Even the Captains of Industry had helped , for they had pillaged Europe for symbols of what VebIen called conspicuous waste ; and now as they died San Francisco had one of the best medieval libraries in the world and no one could ever again study the history of European art completely without visiting New York . But institutions that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had ripened unobserved . The land-grant college was developing a test for butter-fat or strains of rust-resistant wheat or an anti-abortion serum , or it was devising such political facilities as the initiative and referendum , or it was spreading skepticism and political enlightenment among a state 's electorate . Meanwhile it quietly became a great state university and assumed an additional function as a member of the international community of knowledge , joining the Smithsonian Institution , the Johns Hopkins , President Eliot 's Harvard . An old cliche collapsed , the one that held the American scholar to be rare , lonely , inferior , anddespised . A westward traffic of European students had begun . They came to a place outlandishly named Flagstaff , say , to study under a scholar who had measured aberrations and found a planet , or to one named Berkeley where , surprisingly enough , there was a geneticist or a bacteriologist or a physicist who was the best the world had in his field . While our attention was focused on other matters , libraries , museums of natural and applied science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could he seen now that the most various institutions were advancing the frontiers of knowledge : the Bureau of American Ethnology , which had almost unassisted organized a new science ; or an astonishing miscellany of learned journals ; or the network of historical societies . American hospitals , American medical schools , American research laboratories were dominating twentieth-century medicine . Perhaps grain elevators and steel-frame office buildings were not without cultural significance , and with an understandable wariness explorers began to tolerate the hypothesis that the native arts might express something of the native experience . Rationalizing the productive system raised the index of horsepower per capita , which had been rising steadily for more than a century ; so did the steady development of technology . Now it skyrocketed with an increase in mechanical power from new sources , electricity and internal combustion . Both changed the map , changed industry , changed society , and are still doing so . The interurban railroad has joined the watering trough for horses but there are tractors on the farms and incandescent lights in the farmhouses . Automobiles , hard roads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to hayseed America , closing the gap that had opened between the culture of cities and that of the countryside . III ow an overmastering fact far outran our comprehension of it : we had financed a world war and turned its military stalemate into victory before we real-ized that our power potentials could be ap-plied internationally . That the United States was a principal member in such a world order as might be said to exist was no news to Europe , though the thunderclap that demonstrated it was not readily taken in . It was much less readily understood by the United States , which repudiated its political power at the moment when it had become decisive , turned back to the domestic market at the moment when the world market had become a necessity to it , and erected the highest tariff-wall in its history at the moment when it became a creditor nation and New York displaced London as the financial capital of the world . This was the eighth world war in which the American people had been engaged ? it still seemed to them by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ belonged to a global system and ignorant that there is no way of not using power . And who were the American people ? They were the product of the American continent : a new people in a new world . No one understands them who does not understand that the words mean what they say : this is the New World . They were , for instance , the first people in history who had ever had enough to eat . The first people who were able to build a government and a society from the ground up ? and on unencumbered ground . The first people whose society had the dynamics of political freedom and political equality , a class system so flexible that it could not stratify into a caste system , and a common wealth so great that it made economic opportunity a birthright . All this makes a difference . It makes so great a difference that the pattern of their neural paths is radically different from any developed in response to the Old World . They are hopeful and empirical . In their spring morning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was the hope of the world . Mankind , they thought , must necessarily come to recognize the superiority of American institutions and , insofar as it could , must adopt or imitate them . They were neither visionaries nor utopians . They were realistic , hard-headed men who understood the dynamics of freedom and saw that if they were loosed in an empty continent an augmentation would follow for which nothing in the past could be an adequate gauge . From then on , not the past but the future has counted in the United States . If it does n't work , try something else ; tomorrow is another day ; do n't sell America short ; the sky is the limit ; rags to riches ; canalboat boy to President . That is what has denied the town dump decisive importance . No one has ever set up Utopia here , our utopian literature has always been clearly understood as promotional , and the dump is hideous with brutality , exploitation , failure , and human wreckage . The actual line where men meet in society is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perfectly feasible to write American history in terms of blood and struggle , injustice , fraud , desperation . They are on a scale appropriate to the map ; they are monstrous . But the difference is that tomorrow is another day . It has always proved to be . No estimate of what the United States could achieve in population , power , comfort , wealth , or living standard has ever proved adequate . When tomorrow came , the expectation proved to have been too moderate , the achievement invariably outran the prophecy . The United States and the American people are the greatest success story in history . vF UROPEANS came here by the million for a hundred and twenty years . Their expectation was simple and concrete . They expected a better life than had been open to them at home . More food , more comfort , a job , a farm . Citizenship , a stake in society , acknowledged individual integrity , development according to their capacities , a chance to better themselves , a chance to give their children a still better chance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but as somewhat more favorable odds . The majority vote is that on the whole they got it . They kept on coming . What kept happening is what made the neural paths different . It is a different consciousness , a different cast of thought . And it is very misleading to Europe . American bumptiousness has always been offensive but the abasement that goes with it is worse , for it has been deceptive . The instinctive generosity of the Americans is curiously linked with rapacity , their kindliness with cruelty , their violence with fear of disorder . They are warm-hearted and cold-blooded , their assertive self-confidence is mingled with self-criticism , and their conservatism is the other lobe of an unparalleled recklessness . Yet the most serious mistake of Europe has always been to misunderstand their romanticism , which is the consequence of having lived a Cinderella story . It has been repeatedly mistaken for softness , gullibility , decadence . Their smile is childlike and bland ; they affect an innocence and credulity which the European mind has accepted as real . Yet from Franklin and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only with all that the adept cynicism of their opponents undertook to take from them with a cold deck , but with the scarf pins , cuff links , and pocket watches of the cynical as well . For the romanticism is the thinnest possible veneer . There have been no such realists since the Romans and they are the hardest empiricists of the modern world . The national experience , that is , has justified the national optimism . The premises on which the hardheaded fathers established the American order were , philosophically , optimistic to the verge of fantasy ; but the experience of the nation has been that the fantastic premises pay off . That the rights proclaimed in the Declaration , enacted in the Constitution , and buttressed by the Bill of Rights make a system which works more efficiently and has a higher potential than any other . That freedom is power , liberates power , generates power . That individual , social , and political freedom are the health of society . That protection of the individual human being 's dignity , his freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and participation in government have pragamatically proved their social strength . They enable the organism to resist infections , they give it the equilibrium to develop resistance against destructive pressures ? and this , the empiricists have found , gets work done , increases power , and can be trusted . They understand their history as proving that the fantastic system works . IV W HEN the nation came to its second testing , the terms had changed but it it was the same test . Again the United States was out of plumb , but now the world we were enmeshed with was out of plumb too . Again evasions , ambiguities , contradictions , social imbalances , and concentrations of disproportionate power had to be resolved . The illusion of nearness makes the nineteen-thirties seem more desperate than the eighteen-fifties ; they would not have seemed so to Lincoln or his electorate . The foreground of our memory is the collapse of values , the spread of panic , the fearful loss of wealth and hope , the millions of unemployed , the Bonus march , farmers wrecking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and arming vigilance committees against forced sales as their grandfathers had forbidden the repossession of fugitive slaves . But the foreground obscures the decisive fact : that the disruptive forces were contained . While other societies splintered , the empirical people held to their experience . John Adams had said that our first revolution was over when the war which ratified it began ; the saying holds for all our revolutions . We were indeed rounding another decisive turn , closing one volume of our history and opening another one of which no man could forsee the end . But the self-correcting forces of our society were already focused on the reduction of chaos when they found a voice . " We have nothing to fear but fear itself , " it said , speaking into the microphone that symbolized so many of the changed conditions of life . Events proved the President right . The continental system was flexible enough as self-government , and rich and powerful enough as a commonwealth , to restore the national health . The empirical faith was justified . Otherwise there would have been a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the last argument as well of republics as of kings . " The nineteen-thirties had forced us to make final decisions ; those we could evade no longer as the nineteen-forties came on must also be final . The necessity stemmed from the fact that we had evaded them . In 1920 the nation had turned away from the oceans that bind the earth 's land masses together . It now had learned that the world was not big enough to be withdrawn from . At the midnight of the Civil War Lincoln had speculated about the judgment of God , which seemed to require that every drop of blood drawn with the lash should be paid by another drawn with the sword . Now it seemed that refusal to accept the responsibilities of peace , power , and plenty must be paid a hundredfold , perhaps by our extinction . But it was more ominous than those words say . The United States had been a dynamic revolution from the beginning . Its history meant just what the fathers had said it must : it had been the spearhead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social institutions for a century and a half through two-thirds of the world . But our withdrawal from the larger system toward which our whole impetus had carried us was reversing the current of history . As the postwar chaos of Europe became a prewar chaos , old and supposedly dead despotisms were reanimated in new forms : history 's basic axiom , that the clock can not be set back , was on the way to being overturned . There were differences between the two totalitarianisms but both necessarily based their systems on a denial of the dignity of the individual , which we had found to be the pivot on which all else turns ; and both destroyed the freedoms which we had proved to be the source of most abundant energy .. But that we had moved faster than we supposed was manifested by . the swiftness with which we came to understand that we were involved in a ninth world war , though we called it our second one . The clock was not turned back . And as before , the United States came out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and more vigorous too . The productive system had accomplished an expansion whose indexes would seem fantastic if they were not hard Tact , and the index of horsepower per capita , always the best gauge of our vitality , had risen enormously . It is on the verge of a quantum jump . As a war measure we developed a new kind of mechanical energy . It has given us , and anyone else who will , the facilities for destroying civilization . It has also put at our disposal power for the enrichment of a peaceful society so great that no previous ways of measuring power can be applied to it . T HE fact that dwarfs all others , however , is this : the United States now knows that there is no way of not using power . It is true that no nation ever came so reluctantly to be the foremost nation of the world , but it is also true that none ever accepted the implications so quickly . Our traditional , no longer humorous quirk makes us present ourselves as bumpkins easily to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Still it was not na ? vet ? that , with the nonchalance of a man who holds four aces , tossed the Marshall Plan into a struggle which seemed more than half lost , or with a calculation of risks superbly vindicated by the outcome , launched the first flight of the Berlin airlift , let the chips fall where they might . The illusion of nearness presents us to ourselves as divided , irresolute , vacillating , and at random ? which is the close-up image of any democratic system feeling its way . From the perspective of the eastern shore of the Atlantic we look otherwise . The image of the United States there has always been ogreish , anarchic , or revolutionary , and foolish if not mad ; but something new has come into it . The Europeans waste no love on us , we give them adequate reason to resent and distrust us , and only the Russians keep the rest of Europe from feeling about us in the twentieth century as it felt about Spain in the sixteenth century or France in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quite literally what was laid down : the revolution has gone on and in the awareness of Western Europe we are , however fumbling , however resented , the last , best hope of earth . There can be no disposition to understate the turbulence , horror , and alarm of the world in which the centennial number of Harper 's issues . At the moment when man 's greatest scientific achievement has unlocked a basic secret of matter , there is no word but Banquo 's : fears and scruples shake us , in the beat hand of God we stand . It will not be tragedy , it will not even be irony but only farce , if man , mastering nature , fails to govern himself . If he does fail , then the destruction of mankind will cleanse the earth for the convenience of organisms which may learn to create peaceful societies . But to those who have decided that the American people do not understand how desperate their estate is , the answer may be that with death hanging in the balance they trust their experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They believe that history is on their side and that they are on the side of the future . No one has ever known what the next hour might bring forth but we have always made our bet . There came a moment when Mr. Lincoln quoted Scripture : a house divided against itself can not stand . He went on to say , " I believe this government can not endure permanently half slave and half free . " Either our experience has meaning , as we believe , or else it has n't . If it has , the world can not exist permanently half slave and half free . And mark Lincoln 's next words : " I do not expect the Union to be dissolved , I do not expect the house to fall , but I do expect it will cease to be divided . " He stood at the height of land between two eras and declared what he understood to be the meaning of history . The empirical people know that , as it turned out , he was right .    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        