@@487590

EVEN persons acutely conscious of the importance of civil liberties are usually but dimly aware of the existence of the Subversive Activities Control Board . Most Americans have probably never heard of it . The:newspapers have largely ignored it . Yet this tribunal may have a more disastrous impact on traditional . American liberties than all the sedition legislation , spy scares , " loyalty " tests and oaths ; and investigations of opinion that have preceded it . It is sixteen years since Martin Dies , the premature McCarthyite ; made the seminal discovery that Communists support most of the short-range objectives ' of progressives , liberals , New Dealers , and trade unionists , and that that fact may profitably be confused with support by the latter - groups for the long-range objectives of the Communists . American reaction in the intervening years has been chiefly- engaged in exploring the- political potentialities of this false equation . A governmental board empowered to decide what activities are ' subversive " and to control them was the natural outcome . Yet while there has been no dramatic break in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represents a significant change of pace . As Franklin Roosevelt once noted , " the judicial process requires to be supplemented by the administrative tribunal wherever there is a necessity for deciding ' issues on a quantity-production basis . " We are moving from political trials of individuals to politiCal trials of groups and movements . Repression is tooling up for mass production . The board derives its existence and powers from the McCarran Act , more formally known as the Internal Security Act of 1950 . This was an omnibus measure , produced when the Eighty-first Congress , puzzled by the relative LAURENT B. FRANTZ was co-author with Norman Redlich of the widely read article Does Silence Mean Guilt ? in The Nation of June 6. merits of several rival schenies for the curtailment of liberty , resolved the mat- , ter by combining them all into one . The - part of the act which creates the board and defines its functions is a revision of the Mundt-Nixon bill-which the House Committee on Un-American Activities proposed to Congress in 1948 . The committee offered its original bill as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A possible element In its - caku , lation was the fact that its only previous legislative effort had been held unconstitutional as a- " bill S of attainder , " which means that it imposed punishment based on a legislative finding- of guilt . Representative ( now Vice-President ) Richard- M. Nixon , a member of the committee and co-author of the original bill , testifying later in favor of the measure finally adopted , stated : " . . we came to the conclusion that naming the Communist Party by name and attempting to build the entire reg , istration provisions around such a definition was an unconstitutional approach , and consequently the committee attempted to find a legilative device for meeting the problem in a constitutional , manner . " - This bit of official history is revealing , but it evidently does not tell the whole story One does not create and staff a permanent governmental body for the trial of a single case . The Com- , munist Party , after all , can be tried only once and then the board must devote itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and have at least some non-Communist support . Thus its long-range function must necessarily be the application of Mr. Dies 's principle that anything froth civil liberties to rent control is sub- , versive if the Communists are for it . The " legislative device " invented by the House Committee on Un-American Activities begins with a series of CongreSsional findings on the evil inten-tions of " the world Communist ment in the United States . " The fact that this eloquent denunciation does not refer to the Communist Party by name is supposed to insulate it from constitutional objeCtions to legislative findings of guilt . EQUIPPED WITH these prefabricated opinions on the significance of , the matters to be adjudicated , the board sits in judgment onany organization which the Attorney General sees fit to hale before it . If it finds an association to be a " Communist action . , organization " ( a term apparently intended to refer only to the Communist Party ) or a " Communist front , " it does not formally proscribe it . It merely orders the organization to register . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In view of the descriptions embodied . in the act and the legal and practical consequences of such a registration , the order is , in effect , that the organization plead guilty to being a public enemy and extend its chin to receive the consequences . " Fronts " , must list officer 's and sources of - funds . " Action " - organizations must list these , plus members and all who have been members during the preceding twelve months . It seems probable , though the act does not make this wholly clear , that " fronts " must also give what amounts to a list of members by itemizing the source of all dues payments All lists must be renewed an-nually . In connection with other parts of the act , these lists may be of sinister significance . Thus , Section 4(a) makes it a felony , subject to ten years ' imprisonment and a $10,000 fine , " for any person knowingly to combine , conspire , or agree with any other person to perform any act which would substantially contribute to the establishment within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign control . This is by far the vaguest and most sweeping sedition statute ever enacted in the construed - to apply to such- acts as selling the Daily Worker , campaigning for a Communist candidate , contributing to the legal defense of an accused Communist , or petitioning for the repeal of I the Internal Security Act of 1950 . The prosecutor , moreover , need not restrict himself to past acts . He can select any organizational objective , however remote , as an " act " which all members have " combined , conspired , or agreed " to perform . Fearful that this section might cause the registration provisions to be held unconstitutional as involving compulsory self-incrimination , the drafters have provided that registration of any person under ? the act shall not be received in evidence against him in a Section 4(a) prosecution , Nothing , however , prevents the prosecutor from using the registration list as a source of leads and of possible defendants . Any such list would also have significance in ctJanectionwith Title II of the act , which provides that in case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid of a foreign enemy the President may proclaim an " internal-security emergency . " When such proclamation is in effect , the Attorney General is " authorized to apprehend and by order detain " for the duration of the emergency " each person as to whom there is reasonable ground to believe that such person probably will engage in , or probably will conspire with others to engage in , acts of espionage or of sabotage . " Although six camps have already been placed in readiness , this provision seems to be little known as yet , even to lawyers . A report on it produced a major sensation at a recent conference of the California state bar . Members or supporters of any organization which complied with a registration order would clearly form a handy check list of candidates for the concentration camp . Members of registered organizations would be under automatic disabilities with respect to the use of passports and eligibility for government or defense employment . But the most pervasive and coercive effect of registration would be to supply a government-sponsored black list of persons who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denied an opportunity to earn a living . If the organization survived at all after being compelled to subject its December 12 , 1953 members and supporters to such reprisals , it would lead a branded existence , somewhat reminiscent of the time when Jews were compelled to wear , the Star of David for easy identification . For example , anything sent through the mail and intended for two or more persons would have to be stamped " Disseminated by , a Communist organization . " Since this must appear both on the document and on the outside wrapper , it clearly is intended not only to warn the recipient of threatened ideological contamination but also , if possible , to frighten him into requesting that his name be removed from the mailing list . A " front " organization which existed for some limited objective like rent control , civil liberties , or aid to refugees from Franco could func- : lion only by constantly red-baiting its own program . It would thus lose whatever effectiveness it might have had , either to Communists or to non-Communists , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not important in themselves , since there are unlikely to be any registrations . They are important because their total impact makes it a fairly safe bet that no organization will ever prefer registration to going out of existence  --  the drafters of the bill must have known this and taken it into account . If this - is true , arguments that the act will " force Communist activities into the open " are either naive or dishonest . Efforts to justify the measure by reference to compulsory registration of lobbyists and reporting of political-campaign contributions rest on a false analogy . The registration provisions are merely a " legislative device " for accomplishing one thing while pretending to do another . Non-compliance with a ' registration order , however , brings into view the act 's real teeth , as distinguished from its numerous false ones . Failure to ' register makes the organization and each officer under a duty to register it subject to a $10,000 fine , plus five years ' imprisonment . Members can be ordered to register personally and upon failure to do so are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failure to register is a separate offense , fines sufficient to convert all the organization 's assets into government property  --  and prison terms sufficient to keep the individuals behind=-bars for life  --  can be accumulated in ' a few weeks . This last step in the " legislative device " is the application of an approach new in our law but being resorted to with increasing frequency . It may , until a better name is found , be called the go-hang-yourself technique . It consists in ordering someone , on the ground that he is an undesirable character , to take some action highly injurious to himself . You then punish him , not for being an undesirable character , but for disobeying the order . Another example , ' found elsewhere in this same McCarran Act , is a provision making - it a felony for an alien ' under final order of deportation to fail to make timely and good-faith efforts to deport himself . The use of economic sanctions to punish persons unwilling to testify against themselves is an instance of the same tendency . Its , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a voluntary association may be hounded out of existence , not for anything it , has been or done , but for its refusal to commit suicide when so ordered THE administration of - this remarkable piece of legislation is in the hands , not of the Subversive Activities Control Board , but of the Attorney General . As the hearing tribunal and fact-finder ; however , the board has important authority to determine the shape and limits of what the Attorney General will do . After its creation in October , 1950 , the board spent more than two years on the petition of the AttOrney General that the Communist Party be ordered to register as a " Communist action organization " The stenographic record of this proceeding , ran 14,413 pages and there ' were 507 exhibits , many of them full-length books To date the Communist Party is the only organization against which the board has issued an order , but the Attorney General has filed- petitions to proceed with- hearings and findings against twelve " front " organizations The first year was devoted not so much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the systematic McCarranization of the board , under personal supervision of the Democratic McCarthy from Nevada Senator McCarran was in the peculiar position of being the sponsor and nominal author of legislation finding " the Communist movement in the United States " to be an agency of -a foreign power and at the same time the chairman of the committee passing on the names of board members appointed by the President to make an impartial determination as to whether the Senator 's findings were correct . He took full advantage of this position . Senate con- ' firmation of the board was withheld for nearly a year --  -- during most of which time the Conimunist Party case was on trial before persons uncomfortably awaiting confirmation  --  before McCarran was finally satisfied . THE FIRST chairman- of the board  --  and Senator McCarran 's first target  --  was Seth W. Richardson , a highly respected and very conservative Republican . The main charge against him was that as chairman of the government 's Loyalty Review Board he had shown " softness " toward " Communists " by permitting clearance of too high a proportion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Was also suspected of soft- ' ness toward New Dealers , since he had ' been counsel-to the investigating committee headed by Owen J Roberts , Republican former Supreme Court Justice , which failed to find the Roosevelt Administration guilty of culpable negligence in connection with the Pearl Harbor disaster . Like many of the government employees whose cases he had reviewed , Mr. Richardson was also up against a " sympathetic association " charge : he was a former law partner of Joseph E. Davies , author of " Mission to Moscow , " an un-McCarranite book . There were- ho hearings . - After eight months in office Mr. Richardson resigned unconfirmed , for reasons of health . Charles M. LaFollette , one of the original and still unconfirmed board members , was appointed acting chairman after he had served as chairman of the panel hearing the Communist Party case . Mr. LaFollette , however , was also a " sympathetic association " case , having been an officer of Americans for Demo- , cratic Action , - an organization which is anti-CommUnist but not anti-Communist enough to suit Senator McCarran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actually voted to request the F. B files on each of President Truman 's appointees . The Communist Party , contending that a board exposed to such pressures could not be expected to show " the imp.artiality formally required of it ,  - -  tried to set the hearings delayed pending Senate confirmation of the nominees , but the board denied the motion . The Communist Party was not alone in finding an inconsistency between the board 's uncomfortable situation ' and its responsibilities . The Washington Port " commented editorially : Although/the'board uniformly denied all motions made in behalf of the Communist Party , the ultra-rightists in Congress remained dissatisfied There was an attempt in the House to eliminate the board 's budget from the appropriations bill on the ground that its members were not " interested in fighting communism " This move failed , but the $620,000 requested for the board by President Truman was cut to $235,000 . Mr. LaFollette at one point withdrew as chairman of the hearing panel , charging that government counsel treated him with " disdain " and communicated this attitude to government witnesses , so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearing . Ultimately , the four members of the board who remained after the Richardson resignation were summoned to the Capitol for a " get acquainted " meeting with the members of the Senate Internal Security subcommittee . After this interesting but unfortunately unrecorded session , three of the four were at last confirmed , but no action was taken on the nomination of LaFollette . When the three were confirmed , the board had been in existence more than nine months , the Communist Party case had been before it more than eight months , and the actual hearing of testimony had gone on more than three months . On withdrawing from the panel , Mr. LaFollette remarked of his fellow-member , Peter Campbe.11-Brown , formerly of the staff ofthe Department of Justice : " We will have speedier hearings , I am sure , because the , panel member , Mr Brown , whom I have asked to preside from now on , has already evidenced the remarkable capacity to make speedy rulings upon all objections . . . . The fact that they almost uniformly amount to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General and a rejection of any position taken by the respondent Communist Party is purely coincidental , I am sure . " When LaFollette 's recess appointment expired without Senate action , Brown became chairman of both the board and the panel . At the conclusion of the Communist Party case Brown resigned and was succeeded by Thomas J. Herbert , Ohio Republican appointed by President Eisenhower ; Herbert is presiding over the fate of the organizations accused of being " fronts . " NO ONE was much surprised when the board , in April of this year , found the Communist Party to be a " Communist-action organization " as defined in the act and ordered it to register . Though the result was foreordained , some of the . methods by which it was reached are of interest . It is instructive to remember that for some years before the McCarran Act we had laws on the books requiring the registration of any agent of a foreign principal and of any organization which aims to control by force or to overthrow the government . The present registration provisions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Party , are inspired in part by the testimony of Attorney General , now Supreme Court Justice , Tom Clark that he had been unable to obtain evidence sufficient to prosecute Communists for failure to register under these acts The-purpose of the new act , therefore , , was not to create registration requirements aimed at the CoMmunist Party but rather ( 1 ) to transfer the fact determination from the regular courts to a specially created board , ( 2 ) to authorize this board to draw inferences of foreign control from ideological evidence , and ( 3 ) to extend the registration requirements to organizations deemed to be " Communist fronts . " In dealing with the Communist Party the difficulties of proving foreign " control " or " domination " become immediately apparent despite the fact that many persons might assume That this matter could be easily determined The difficulties stem from the question of what is meant by control . It can not mean actual- physical control , in the sense , for example , that the Red Army could enforce Soviet decisions on the CoMmunist Party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important element , but there seems to be little evidence , if any , of the use of " Moscow gold " Inevitably , therefore , the exploration gets back to some ideological measure or standard of control . A group of people , it is argued , have agreed to believe rigidly in certain concepts promulgated by a foreign power and to urge others to accept these concepts . As part of their indoctrination , they have agreed in advance to change their views , from time to time , at the behest of the same foreign power . But merely to state this standard of proof should be sufficient to indicate its dangers . Many organizations  --  nationality groups , for example  --  steadily support the " line " of a foreign power . Apart from this , our government has never insisted on its right to promulgate a fixed , official line of its own . Yet this is exactly what is involved in the insistence that all those who believe our policy should be changed- to conform to the programs of another government are " agents " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ significant debate on vital issues of foreign policy . Hence the attempt to prove foreign domination by reference to an ideological standard leads back to the basic proposition that only overt acts should be punished , not beliefs , not even the agreement in advance to adhere to a - particular belief , for such an agreement is , after all , still a belief . IN APPLYING the ideological test in this first case the board found it to be quite unimportant whether the Russian or the American expression was the earlier . It also refused , on the ground of irrelevance , to permit the Communist Party to show that many of the views used as tests of non-deviation had been shared by a considerable portion of the non-Communist world . The test would thus be equally valid to show that the Soviet Union is controlled and dominated by the Communist Party of the United States if that were the desired result . It would also , if sound , go far to show that the board is controlled and dominated by the Department of Justice , since its report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ department 's contentions on all the numerous and complex issues presented for determination . The Communist Party , of course , argued that there was nothing inherently improbable about two organization 's applying the same theory to given facts and arriving independently at the same result . In answer to this the board cut many Gordian knots by deciding that the theory is itself the organ of control . Thus the board finds that Marxism-Leninism " has been promulgated and issued by the Soviet Union as the overall philosophy , authoritative rules , directives , and instructions governing the world Communist movement " and that " the Marxist-Leninist classics are one of the chief means by which the C. P. S. U. directs , dominates , and controls the C. P. U. S. A. " The board does not hesitate , either , to plunge into obscure doctrinal disputes , deciding which of the possible interpretations is true Marxism-Leninism and then - pinning that interpretation on . the protesting CoMmunist Party . Thus the board remarks : " In view of the divergence of testimony of witnesses for Petitioner and those of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the proletariat ) , we have taken particular pains to ascertain its real character . It is best understood from the volume . . Lenin 's postulates on this question make clear . . . . " And again : " Adherence to Marxism-Leninism , as its principles and precepts are stated in the Classics , is completely incompatible with Respondent 's contention . . . . " THE BOARD 'S permanent function , however , for which the Communist case is merely a legal opening gambit , ? is the control of the principle of voluntary association . This is indeed an awesome power . Tocqueville , more than a century ago , found this principle to be a basic characteristic of American institutions . " Americans of all ages , all conditions , and all dispositions , " he said , " constantly form associations . They have not only commercial and manufacturing companies in , which all take part , but associations of a thousand other kinds , religious , moral , serious , futile , extensive or - restricted , enormous or diminutive . If it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some feeling by the encouragement of a great example , they form a society . " It may be seriously contended that these associations have played an even greater part in making change possible by democratiC methods than the amorphous political parties , which have often tried to-be all things to all men and have seldom been willing to embrace any new idea until it had first been thoroughly popularized by associations . Certainly a new idea will have little impact on a society subjected to radio , television , movies , and the daily press unless it has some organized backing . Consequently , the traditional freedoms of which we are more acutely conscious , those of speech , press , and religion , are of little practical value without freedom of association . It is thus an event of no slight importance that we now have a board of five persons empowered to sit in judgment on any organization and to issue orders capable of destroying it . Since organizations be judged in large part by the causes they promote , this is. also a power over-.the fate of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Attorney General give some hint as to the type of accusation the board will be called upon to try . Space does not permit a detailed analysis of the petitions , but an examination of five of them  --  those against the National Council of American-Soviet Friendship , the Civil Rights Congress , the Veterans of - the Abraham Lincoln Brigade , the Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee , and the American Committee for Protectioh of the Foreign-Born --  -- reveals the following significant facts : Each of the organizations is accused of having persons in its leadership who are also Communists . It is not stated who these persons are , what positions they hold , whether they were democratically elected , whether they are known as ' Communists to the other members . It is not alleged  --  and the Attorney General , therefore , presumably considers it unnecessary to prove  --  that these persons used the organization for any ( unlawful or immoral purpose , for any purpose inconsistent with the maintenance of democratic capitalism , for any purpose outside the scope of the organization 's professed objectives- , or even for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Each is accused of having " received favorable publicity and support through the Communist - Party press . " Each is accused of " non-deviation " from the Communist Party line on the basis of taking positions which might be approved by a substantial number of non-Communists , such as " urging the recognition of and- trade ' with the Chinese People 's Republic . " - Several of the organizations are accused of " non-deviation " for taking positions- which seem implicit in the organization 's professed purposes . For example , the Civil Rights Congress is accused , among other things , of having defended Communist leaders prosecuted under the Smith Act , of having " supported the position- of the Communist Party with respect to the ' Hollywood ten , ' " and of having " supported the position of the Communist Party in its protest against the trial and conviction of Harry Bridges . " It is not mentioned , of course , that the conviction of Harry Bridges was reversed by the -nondeviationist majority of the Supreme Court . Both the Veterans of the Abraham Lincoln @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have " supported and folloWed the pOsition and actions of the Communist Party in its opposition to and campaign against - the Franco government of Spain . " The American Committee for the Protection of the Foreign Born showed non-deviation by " opposing the deportation of aliens who Were members of the party , " although there is no allegation that the committee failed to give similar aid to aliens who were not members , which they have done in many cases . Apparently it is characteristic of organizations which are not " Communist fronts " that they will jettison the very purposes for which they were founded rather than do something which Communists might applaud . Three Of the organizations are charged with opposition to the Internal Security Act of 1950 , under which they are currently on trial , and three with opposing its predecessor , the Mundt , Nixon bill Three showed Communist domination by disliking the Hobbs bill , the Smith Act , or the government , loyalty program . Four are charged with - opposing the House Committee on UflAmerican Activities , which puts them in a class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be carried ? Justice Holmes long ago noted the tendency of any principle to expand to the limits of its logic . Any estimate of the potentialities of- this logic must take account of the fact that , as has happened with individuals in the government loyalty program , an organization may , suffer virtual ruin just for having been cited before the board , even if it ultimately wins its case . It must also take into account the invisible pressure on organizations which may never be cited but will hesitate to take any stand which might involve the slightest risk . The threat , even if unspoken , to complain to the Attorney General may give right-wing minorities in many organizations a virtual power of veto over the majority 's program . Power to tame and control voluntary associations necessarily includes power to tame and control unions  --  the act says " any organizations . " Indeed , for many reasons ? Communist enthusiasm for labor militancy , a corresponding lack of enthusiasm in reactionary groups , the ease with which strike action can be decried as tending to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially susceptible to this type of attack . Although the Subversive Activities Control Board could probably order a union to register as a " Communist front " under the present act , bills to ' give it even more , drastic and lethal powers over unions are waiting in the Congressional hopper . ( See my discussion of the Butler bill in The Nation of November 28 . ) That the expansive possibilities of the principle were not entirely unintended was suggested by Representative Allen of Illinois speaking in the House in defense of the original Mundt-Nixon bill , which differed from the present provision in that the determination of facts would have been made by the Attorney General rather than by a special board : Another criticism offered to the bill is that it vests in the Attorney General the arbitrary power to prosecute , try , and judge persons violating the provisions of the bill When I heard this objection- to the bill , I was not only surprised but also mildly amused Here are the people who have long- advocated the persecution and harassment of businZss men through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continue forever the control measures under which government bureaus would prosecute , try , convict , and punish business men . These people who wanted to see the free-enterprise system crushed and our nation 's business men bankrupted through a systematic persecution under the New Deal  --  these people say this bill puts too much power of discretion in the Attorney General . To this objection I would say that the New Dealers who built the present administrative guillotine for business men should have remembered the fate that befell Dr. Guillotine . He learned that a knife cuts both ways  --  and now the New Dealers are being taught the same lesson . Attorney General Brownell has sole power to determine what organizations shall be charged before the board The length to which he may be expected to push Mr. Dies 's formula is shown not only by the charges incorporated in his first " front " petitions but also by his recent announcement of intention to put the National Lawyers Guild on his own " subversive " list . With control of the American Bar Association in very conservative hands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the views of liberal lawyers cin be given organized expression . Mr. Brownell says that " on every major issue " in recent years the guild " has steadfastly followed the party line , and its programs and actions have been consistent with it , excepting only those issues so notorious that their espousal would too clearly demonstrate the Communist control " Mr. Brownell seems to have learned from Senator McCarthy that the accuser can rely on deviation and non-deviation simultaneously , the latter to show Communist control and the former to show efforts to conceal Communist control . Or , as a last resort , instances of deviation may be shrugged off as not involving a " major issue . " The Lawyers Guild 's membership and activities have always been open to the public , and it is not accused of promoting its ideas otherwise than by the methods of a bar association  --  public debate and participation in litigation . Mr. Brownell , essentially , is attacking the idea of a free and independent bar . There seems to be nothing in the Attorney General 's record @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be expanded to the limits of its logic unless the courts or public opinion call a halt . ( In what seems likely to be the key test of the act , the guild has brought suit to enjoin the hearing of the petition ) . If each accused organization is left to fight its solitary battle , effective resistance will become increasingly difficult . The board will be progressively strengthened by the accumulation of precedent , and the opposition will be progressively weakened by the spreading paralysis of fear . It is of the nature of this type of attack that it tends to isolate each current victim by making people afraid they may incur some associative guilt if they come to his defense . Still , it ought not to be necessary for Americans to relearn the hard way the lesson that liberty is indivisible .                     