@@201357

The Grace Kelly Story , as Hollywood might have called it , was the stuff that celluloid dreams are made of , but the reality kept threatening to get in the way of the romance . With lovely Grace herself to play the part of the screen-star daughter of an American bricklayer turned millionaire , and Monaco 's own Serene Highness , Prince Rainier III . as her handsome betrothed , the plot was the kind that producers understand and fans love . But Hollywood , Philadelphia and Ruritania are far easier to mix on film than they are in fact : so pat a plot raised the question whether two hearts were meeting or merely two dazzling luminaries being drawn to each other . The gala celebrations at Monaco last week began to sound like a Graustark script cynically brought up to date by Ben Hecht . Or so it seemed in the beginning . <P> The Crowd Descends . Prince Rainier 's tiny , near-bankrupt gambling principality was suddenly swelled by an invasion of wildly ill-assorted guests , invited and uninvited : friends and members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kellys from Philadelphia , the Grimaldis and Polignacs from divers corners of Europe , a kaleidoscopic assortment of celebrities from both sides of the Atlantic , ballet troupes from London and Paris , sailors from visiting warships , a scattering of second-class princelings , an unidentified covey of international thieves ( who got away with a whopping $150,000 during the festivities ) , and some 1,600 accredited representatives of the world 's press , mostly self-centered and angry . <P> Fighting bravely to retain their franchise , the moviemakers-in the person of a top M-G-M costume designer-had provided suitable wedding costumes , but everywhere the actors in the play were forgetting their lines and ad-libbing with dire results . Europe 's reigning royalty , to a man , refused to show up at all . Hordes of jostled press photographers , miffed at having to wait for hours in the rain while luckier invited guests danced away the night at the famed International Sporting Club , openly booed and hissed the bridal pair when they at last appeared . <P> Somewhere in the ruckus . Britain 's Randolph Churchill picked a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ screamed aloud : " I did n't come here to meet vulgar people like the Kellys . " A learned representative of the French Academy , Europe 's high temple of culture , launched a formal complaint when Monaco 's Prince refused to permit the reading of an ode especially written for the occasion by Academician Jean Cocteau , on the grounds that it was too effusive . Highballing away the nights and days in their hotel suites just as though they were in the good old Bellevue-Stratford , Jack Kelly 's pals from Philly sent him practical jokes in the form of telegrams . " Report back to the Palace , Kelly , " said one . " Your furlough is up . " President Eisenhower 's personal representative , Hotelman Conrad Hilton , on arrival brushed aside the suggestion that he might want to build a Monaco Hilton : " We never build in resorts or small towns . "                     