@@476616

A ROCKET shoot at White Sands Proving Ground is more than interesting , more than beautiful , more than exciting . It is inspiring in a way that is equaled by few sights on earth . Behind the austere buildings of the military post rise the spectacular Organ Mountains of New Mexico , with a fringe of dark pine trees climbing to their highest ridges . An uninhabited wilderness presses from all sides upon this isolated outpost of technological man . Jack rabbits bounce among the cactus and yucca . Deer dance down from the mountains at night to browse on the post 's garbage , and sometimes mountain lions follow to browse on the deer . In front , for forty miles , sweeps the graygreen desert of the Tularosa Basin . Dust devils swirl across it like yellow tornadoes , and sometimes great sand storms blot out the sun . But much of the time the air is as clear as a vacuum , showing a rim of distant mountains around the flat desert floor . A person standing in the center beyond where the rockets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's great craters with the jagged rampart circling the horizon . The works of man seen from a distance look small in this setting , but some of them are startling when seen from close by . On a steep mountain slope perches a massive concrete structure that has the soaring aloofness of a Tibetan monastery . This is a test-stand where the biggest rocket motors are put throughthis modern donjon keep gather strange auxiliaries : tomblike underground storage places for violent chemical fuels ; lacy steelwork towers ; a forest of poles and a spiderweb of wires . The desert for miles around is dotted with grotesque instruments . Radars sweep the sky with their pulsed electronic beams . The wide glassy eyes of cameras and theodolites stare at the launching site . Far off on the mountain rim great telescopes with forty-inch mirrors wait to follow the rockets on their flights into space . There arc ghosts in this desert too . The hollows between the mesquite hummocks close to the launching site are sprinkled with fragments of brilliantly painted pottery . Long ago , when the Tularosa Basin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population of Indians , whose burial grounds and building foundations can still be traced among the thorny scrub . No one knows what happened to these ancient people . Perhaps the climate grew drier ; perhaps some river changed its course or sank into the ? sand . At any rate they are gone . They lacked the knowledge and resourcefulness to deal with such changes of environment . They left their dead and their pottery shards and the flint fragments of their poor , weak weapons . Amateur archaeologists from the Proving Ground sometimes dig in the sand close by the launching site and find their crouched skeletons , each with a painted pot inverted over its skull . SPACE enthusiasts who speak lightly about flights to the Moon or Mars should be privileged to see what happens at White Sands . It would give them a sobering glimpse of difficulties ahead . The rockets that roar into the sky above the New Mexico desert are primitive things compared with what real space vehicles must be . They rise only a few hundred miles at most , and their speed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to blast them free of the earth . They carry no human crews , and they all crash to utter ruin . But these crude " beasts " ( some rocket-men call them " beasts " ; others call them " birds " ) are the best that space-striving man has to offer at present . To White Sands come the highest products of technological achievement : strange metals with treated surfaces to resist the white-hot scour of racing gases ; electronic brains packed with transistors or tiny vacuum tubes and finished as precisely as microscope lenses ; pumps no bigger than coffee cups that can push corrosive fuels as fast as the massive flow of irrigation canals . Marching into White Sands comes a continuous parade of new and incredible instruments ? those thousands of specialized senses with which man must augment the senses built into his body . They take their stations in the central laboratories , in the blockhouse , or in solid little huts clotted over the desert . There they get busily . to work flashing their impressions on fast-flowing strips of photographic film or scribbling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writing a strange shorthand . The men who govern the instruments are as skilled as they . To White Sands come top experts on electronics , optics , solid statephysics , chemistry , metallurgy , mathematics , and astronomy . Some of them stay for years ; others stay only long enough to make specific contributions to this remote deposit of technical virtuosity . What these experts do is mostly secret . White Sands , officially , is an Army Ordnance center for the development and testing of new weapons ? intelligent and terrible weapons . Some of them are mechanical falcons that scream into the - air at a human command and run down and destroy anything flying there . Others are avenging angels designed to fly over continents , steering by the stars , and strike down offending cities in the flash of a nuclear explosion . The men of White Sands do not talk lightly about these fearful projects . They know that they are necessary and will always be . necsary so long as mankind is committed to a course of mutual destruction . But when the quiet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , many-colored stars flash in the clear sky , the men of White Sands like to turn their thoughts , half apologetically , toward a more peaceful project ? the conquest and occupation of the vacuum above their heads . Even the enlisted men ? some of them learned GIs who play hot chess in the crowded barracks and chat in the chow lines about quantum mechanics ? realize that they are working at the closest place on earth to space . They appreciate both the accomplishments of man on his march toward space and the enormous difficulties that still lie in his path . They know , for instance , that rockets are as temperamental as the graceful . smoothflanked dancers that they so strangely resemble . I N THE early days when Americans were first learning to fly captured German V-2 rockets , one of these flaming-monsters rose from the launching site with a mutinous plot in its gyroscopic brain . Instead of rising vertically , as a good rocket should , it veered toward the south . Its launchers ? both Americans and Germans ? stared after it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Across the Rio Grande fifty miles away , the city of Juarez , Mexico , was having a fiesta . Its wide garish main street at the end of the bridge from El Paso was packed with a gay crowd . Bands were playing , and fireworks cracked overhead . Slanting down from the north at three thousand miles per hour came the rebellious V-2 . It shot across the crowd and buried itself with a vast concussion in a hillside cemetery just outside the celebrating city . The Mexicans rather enjoyed this superfirework ; they are friends of death when it comes in heroic form . But the authorities at White Sands are still acutely conscious of what that V-2 might have done if its rebellious brain had chosen a slightly different course . One result of this international incident , which almost produced a catastrophe , was an elaborate safety system . Another was the construction of the massive blockhouse . Not long after it was completed , a second V-2 rebelled , made a great loop in the air and screamed within six hundred feet of it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tamed at last , but all rockets , especially the new ones , contain within them the seeds of possible disaster . To make sure that they will perform as expected , they are sometimes given static tests while held securely to the ground . Even this sort of test , intended to forestall disaster , may go wrong in spectacular ways . Not long ago , one of the biggest rockets was being tested statically . It stood on its tail , screaming , while floods of flame and smoke shot out of its shackled motor . Then it began to struggle fiercely like a captive wild animal suddenly conscious of its bonds . The hold-downs broke . The rocket soared upward and hid behind the blue sky . A panicky pulse of alarm swept across White Sands . The many-eyed net of instruments had not been watching , but the radars sprang to attention in seconds and swept the echoing sky . Telescopes groped for the fugitive rocket . Radio beams raced after it like lariats flung into space . No one knew where it had gone , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ north as Santa Fe or as far south as Chihuahua in Mexico . The men of White Sands will give few details about the rocket that got away . They will not tell ? or perhaps they do not know ? whether their electronic lariats caught it and controlled it before it climbed out of the atmosphere . At any rate it fell in an uninhabited spot and did not dig its great crater in the plaza of Santa Fe . There have been lesser disasters too , a multitude of them , and there will be more . White Sands is an outpost on the lawless frontier of technology . Each new rocket is acrawl with vindictive " bugs " that conspire to destroy it and its creators too . To eliminate these bugs every rocket part , even the tiniest of them , must be rigorously tested over and over . The first of . the testing is done in factories where the parts are made . They are strained and twisted , heated and cooled ? even such inconsequential trifles as bolts and sealing rings . Then they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The rockets ' electronic brains are put through intelligence tests . The aerodynamic performance of their fins and control surfaces is studied minutely in wind tunnels . Most spectacular are the tests of the motors , which are done in desolate well-fenced places far from protesting neighbors . Even well away from the test-stands , these sites have an oppressive feeling of tense , pessimistic caution . Danger signs scream their warnings in loud colors . Visitors are searched for matches and cigarette lighters . Walls of buildings are apt to he many feet thick . If liquid oxygen is one of the chemicals used in the motors , it bubbles coldly and silently in gigantic Thermos bottles buried in concrete . Pipes carry upward the oxygen vapor , which drifts away from their tips in thin violet plumes . The rocket motors themselves are surprisingly small . One type , which has power enough to drive several ocean liners , is a graceless pinch-waisted thing made of sheet metal and about as big as two bushel baskets . Massive steel work holds it to a frame , and a tangle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The men who run the test sit at a control panel behind many feet of concrete , and ranks of instruments stand at attention to record the motor 's performance . Spectators , if any have been admitted , are kept at a good distance . If wise , they have wads of cotton stuffed into their ears . Crouching close to the motor 's tailpipe are television cameras which serve as expendable spectators , flashing their impressions to screens in the control room . If something goes wrong with the test , these non-human observers may die . Often they do . At one of the test sites the crumpled remains of the camera-casualties are buried in a special graveyard where little white crosses comemorate their uncomplaining self-sacrifice . T o WATCH the test of a rocket motor is a shattering experience . Without the slightest warning , an enormous flame juts out of the tail pipe . The eyes cringe from its light , and a wave of heat heats against the skin . An indescribable bellowing sound pokes like an ice pick into cotton-stuffed ears . Even worse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the faintly audible edge of the motor 's ultrasonic sound . It tears at the heart and groin and raises knife-edged vibrations echoing inside the skull . But the screaming , bellowing flame is a beautiful thing . When certain fuels are used it is so bright that it sears the eyes through filters that shut out the sunlight . With other fuels the flame is a delicate , transparent violet with a line of diamond-shaped plates that look like gold leaf trembling in its center . These burnished " leaves " are caused by shock waves zigzagging through the flame . When the fuel is shut off , they chase one another into the motor like rabbits running down a hole . The flame of one experimental fuel , a boron hydride , is brilliant green , and it fades into billows of purplish smoke . No Chinese dragon flying through the air was ever arrayed in colors as gay as these . In some test set-ups the flame points horizontally ; its gases scour the ground , leaving hot charred rocks where their tongue has licked . Sometimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from above and below by floods of cold water . It the plate were made of concrete , as in some earlier tests , it would be destroyed by the flame , many inches of its substance clawed into gravel and dust . , The men who know about guided missiles will not say how many tests have been successful , certifying a rocket motor for future use in the sky . This is one of those dull statistics that have great military value . But they admit that in most cases the tests are still necessary , even at the risk of damaging a motor . The art of making rocket motors has not reached a point where all the pinch-waisted monsters can be expected to perform without practice . Another kind of testing is done in quiet rooms . One of these simulated proving grounds is on Manhattan Island in a building which looks , except for the watchful guards outside its door , like a small factory making toys or dresses . Another is in the dry hills behind Pasadena , California . There are no screaming motors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rocket . Instead , ranged around the walls , arc panels of gleaming black plastic with row upon row of switches and dials and little winking red lights . These are the stolid impersonal faces of electronic computers whose brains of metal and glass can solve in fractions of a second problems that would employ for a lifetime a task force of mathematicians . Only skilled mathematicians can get much of a thrill out of these flights-by-computer , but men with the necessary knowledge watch their outcome as tensely as if they were at White Sands . In preparation for the flight they have given the computer all the necessary data about the imaginary rocket that its brain contains . Dials are set to represent external factors such as gravitation and air resistance . When the machine is fully briefed , it knows what to expect from every part of the imaginary rocket , except a single crucial part that has not been tested yet . The mathematicians know that this new part ? perhaps a control surface ? can have only a certain range of effects on the rocket 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one extreme of this range . Then they set the machine to thinking . A blizzard of electronic impulses crisscrosses through its brain , and out come figures that tell how the simulated rocket has performed in its imaginary flight . Sometimes the flight is a failure . Sometimes it is a disaster . The simulated rocket that exists only in the computer 's electronic mind may shake itself to pieces or turn back in the air to crash upon a nonexistent desert . Then comes another flight with the part to be tested set in a slightly different way . The success of this test , too , is written down in the books . At last after many mathematical flights , the behavior of the new component is as well understood as if twenty or thirty great rockets , each costing a quarter of a million dollars , had been flown into space to crash on the real wasteland of New Mexico . ON THE day of a major shoot at White Sands the whole great apparatus spreading over the desert for hundreds of miles springs into tense activity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slow throbbing sound . This is a half-second heat that binds all activities to the grid of time . Jeeps and trucks scurry across the desert , raising feathers of dust . The non-human eyes of the radars swing toward the launching site , where men swarm over the steel framework that surrounds the beautiful shape of the readied rocket . Some of the rocket 's attendants are muffled from head to foot , like Arabian women , in enveloping plastic garments to protect their skins from corrosive chemicals . Others wear earphones or carry walkie-talkie radios . They pump the rocket full of fuel , quiz its electronic brains , probe its valves and pumps with sensitive instruments . They are like midget masseurs grooming a tall and graceful ballerina for her first and last appearance on the stage of a great auditorium . Inside the massive blockhouse , which feels . part like a mine , part like a radio station , part like the bridge of a battleship going into action , is a hum of tense activity and purposeful running-around . Each man has a special duty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of instruments spread over the desert . Squawking voices speak tersely with metallic tongues ; vivid green lines zigzag across the faces of oscilloscopes . On a long control panel under a slit window glows a line of little red lights . When one of them goes out , it means that some circuit is completed , some instrument far away has declared itself alert and ready . The halfsecond beat throbs on like a steady pulse . Then a solemn , echoing voice comes over the loud-speaker . It says , " Zero minus thirty minutes . " This . means that thirty minutes remain before the hour , the minute , and the second when the rocket will fly . The men in the blockhouse , climbing over the rocket or watching across the desert become a little more tense . Their blood runs a little faster . The moment is coming . The little red lights on the control panel wink out one by one . Voices report trouble , then trouble overcome . " Zero minus twenty minutes , " chants the loud-speaker . Trucks and jeeps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gates are being closed ; chains are being drawn taut across distant highways . The men on the framework around the rocket arc administering to it a kind of extreme unction . They check its intricate instruments for the last time and close the flush-fitting doors that cover access ports . They climb down reluctantly , and the steel framework is wheeled away , revealing the graceful shape of the doomed rocket . At this moment of unveiling , it looks like the most beautiful thing that has ever been built by man . " Zero minus ten minutes , " chants the loudspeaker . Now a solemn hush spreads across the desert . No men are in sight . They have all fled away or gone inside the blockhouse like ants going underground ahead of an approaching shower . Only a few red lights still show on the control panel . Scientists who have worked for years on the rocket 's burden of instruments are muttering over and over ' their profane technological prayers . Some of them finger incongruous rabbits ' feet ; some keep their fingers crossed like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " chants the loudspeaker . Now the impersonal voice at the unseen microphone shares the growing excitement . " Zero minus forty-five seconds , " it chants in a higher key . Then , " Zero minus thirty seconds . " The last of the little red lights is gone from the control panel , leaving nothing between the rocket and its moment of glory . It stands naked and alone like a human sacrifice watched by a thousand priests . A plume of brilliant red smoke spurts from the ground beside it and drifts across the desert . This is a final visual warning to men , instruments , and airplanes with no electronic ears . " Zero minus five seconds , " chants the loudspeaker . Now its words come faster . " Fourthree ? two ? one ? ZERO I " I N THE tense , hushed blockhouse , the firing officer throws a switch . A stab of yellow flame and a dense white cloud of smoke burst from the tail of the rocket , and a screaming roar rolls across the desert . The rocket @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drawing it upward . It wobbles a little , standing on its tail of flame . Then it gains confidence , gathers speed , and shoots up toward space like a bellowing arrow . In a few seconds it is gone , leaving only a trail of smoke like a chalk mark against the blue sky . For human eyes the flight is over , but instrument eyes arc watching . The dish antennas of distant radars turn upward after the rocket . Cameras and theodolites crane upward their jointed necks . Down filam the rocket , over a sheaf Of radio channels , comes a flood of information for instruments below to gather and cherish . The nose of the rocket is packed with delicate , specialized senses . They feel the air as it rushes past , measuring its temperature , its density , its motion . Spectrographs analyze the sunlight , which grows brighter as altitude increases . Geiger-tubes count the cosmic-ray particles striking fiercely out of space , and photon-counters feel for X-rays flooding out of the sun . Some of their findings are recorded on photographic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to survive the final crash of the rocket . Other findings are radioed to earth , where skilled instrumentstenographers take them down on paper as swiftly waving lines . Sometimes the information comes in the form of audible notes that sound for all the world like a small child playing a piano . The pitch of each note varies with the instruments ' readings and can he analyzed by appropriate devices . This eerie music , which is to be inscribed on magnetic tape , tells the whole tale of the rocket 's effort , of its triumph above the atmosphere , and of its ultimate death . While the rocket is waiting on its launching platform , the singing instruments in its nose play a gentle , monotonous tune . Some of the tones are continuous , like the drones of a bagpipe . Others are " sampled " periodically so that they sound like piano notes . As therocket rises , some of the tones remain steady ; others vary in pitch in a strange modernistic way . The tinkling tune continues , but it becomes irregular , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tired or frightened . As the rocket roars up toward space , it sends down groaning , quavering sounds . These record vibration , its struggle with the atmosphere . Long , low wails mean that the rocket is yawing or rolling . The tinkling music of the sampled tones plays on bravely above this background of discord , but the child at the piano sounds desperate now . The rocket is close to the peak of its speeds and struggling fiercely against the buffeting air . As the rocket soars out of the atmosphere , the discords gradually die away . It is moving through space now , serene as an asteroid cruising around the sun , and the child at the piano plays his tinkling tune with confidence and skill . His moment of peace in space does not last for long . The rocket reaches the top of its flight and then turns downward , tumbling over and over , toward the fringe of the atmosphere . When the air strikes it , the rocket straightens out , nose down , and points toward the spot on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ build up again , and discordant sounds obscure the tinkling tune . Louder and louder they grow as the rocket darts toward earth . Radars and telescopes miles below slant downward gradually as the rocket falls . They are judging coldly just where its death will occur . The child at the piano continues his tinkling tune , now almost blotted out by warning screams from the instruments . The hard , unyielding earth rushes upward at three thousand miles per hour . Then , without warning , the music stops . The rocket has come to its death on the desert , digging a great hole . Nothing is left but crumpled metal and a few photographic films inscribed with precious information . The child at the piano will never play another tune .                     