@@487601

WHAT positive measurescan be taken to meer the present danger ? We suggest that President Eisenhowei still has a chance to regain control of his Administration and defeat McCarthy 's frenetic drive for power . First , he must muster the support- of Republicans and Democrats in Congress to defeat the program of his own Attorney General In any event , as a minimum , he must prevent passage of legislation at the next session of Congress which would suspend the privilege against self-incrimination and permit the introduction of evidence acquired from wire-tapping . If Brownell and J. Edgar Hoover are successful in forcing this legislation through Congress , they will have acquired the essential techniques for the establishment of a police state And to reassure the people that he means to oppose Mc-Carthy , let him remove Brownell as Attorney General . Secondly , the President must make it clear  --  and above all to McCarthy  --  that the executive power is his and that he does not intend to share it , much less , surrender it , to the chairman of a Congressional committee By @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ firm against McCarthy 's efforts to dictate policy , program , and personnel . This means that the President must plainly and decisively reject the concept of guilt by accusation . Resolute action by him could check the spread of this pernicious chictrine .. The President commands unrivaled access to all the media of mass communication ; let him use them The responsibility will be his if he fails to act while there is time . - Let thoSe who want the . President to take these steps make it known to him . Let those who write editorials and compose sermons denouncing McCarthyism join in demanding that he act . Let every organization that has passed a resolution denouncing McCarthyism do the same . And people who want the President to act should act themselves : let them do-locally and individually what they urge him to do officially and nationally There is no dearth of issues . In the third place , Mr Eisenhower should call upon a group of outstanding citizens to help him realize his expressed hope that communism and espionage will not be political issues in 1954 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ non-partisan commissions " tn study and report . " The task of evaluating the nature , extent , and form of the internal-security problem needs this kind of attention . BUT THE APPOINTMENT of a corn ; mission would mean little unless the members were thoroughly pledged to the basic values of a democratic society ; Such a commission should include- men of the caliber of Judge Charles E. Clark , Judge Learned Hand , former Supreme Court Justice Owen ' J. Roberts , Admiral Chester W. Nimitz , William T. Evjue , Delbert E. Metzger , Robert M. Hutchins , Monroe Deutsch , Paul Hoffman , William T. Gossett , Telford Taylor , Charles P. Curtis , John Lord O'Brian , Monsignor John O'Grady , Dr. John McKay , Dean Griswold of the Harvard Law School . Until this commission has rendered a complete evaluation of the whole area of internal security and its reconciliation with the values of a political democracy , the President should attempt to prevail upon responsible Republican and Democratic leaders in the House and Senate to declare a moratorium on Congressional investigations of ' subversive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of such a commission would be of vital importance , the chief counsel and staff should be recruited with great care ; the ablest young men in our law schools should be utilized and such experts ' drawn from academic life as Harvard 's Zechariah Chafee , Jr. , Robert K. Carr of Dartmouth , and Robert E. Cushman of Cornell . The Federal Bureau of Investigation-must not be permitted to wield any veto power or even influence the selection of members of ' the commission or its staff , since it would be assumed that one of the subjects to be investigated would be the role of the F. B. I. in internal security . If the President can not induce Congress to grant an appropriation adequate to finance such a commission , then let him ask the Ford Foundation to divert some of the $15,000,000 ' allocated to the Fund for the Republic for this purpose . Better that the commission operate without power of subpoena than that Congress should dominate its investigation . For one thing , the , Congressional power of investigation should be scrutinized by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report of such a commission would go far toward , relieving the suspicions and unreasoned fear that the demagogues have inculcated . . AND WHAT about the loyal opposition ? The Democrats can not afford to play ' possum with the issue of McCarthy- , ism , hoping that it , will embarrass and divide the Republicans They can not hope to win by proving that they are more " anti-Communist " than McCarthy  --  but nicer about it . Nor will pious protestations of patriotism and loyalty ward off his phony accusations . They can not - afford to be placed on the defensive , for they will discover , if they have not already done so , the difficulties of proving that they are not witches . The opposition to McCarthyism must be a prinCipled opposition . It must reject categorically the notion that communism can be fought as a heresy ; it must scotch the myth of the omnipotence of ' communism . It must not permit McCarthy to exploit his version of the " Communist menace . " It must expose his demagoguery by pointing up the real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on these issues . It must-formulate a foreign policy consistent with its domestic program and One that does not breed McCarthyism at home . It must vigorously defend civil liberties . Let ? Mr. Stevenson , following the example of Wendell Willkie , volunteer to ' defend some government employee called up for a loyalty hearing or let him argue the legality of the " listing " of " subversive " organizations by the ex pal to action of the Attorney General . The Democrats must recover their nerve They must learn to stand erect in the presence of J. Edgar Hoover . They The NATION must steel themselves to risk his displeasure by cross-examining him when he testifies against them . They must realize that the Democratic Party is directly in the line of McCarthy 's fire . They must , finally , expose the real conspiracy which today threatens the nation 's internal security : namely , the conspiracy of McCarthy and his cohorts to subvert the Bill of Rights . The Democrats have leaders  --  one need only mention Senator Lehman  --  who have consistently opposed McCarthyism . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope to win  --  indeed , it may not survive  --  if it flinches on this issue . If the Democratic Party is to resist McCarthyism , then the labor movement must encourage it to act in ' this fashion . To this end , the unions must quickly step up the tempo and scale of their political-action programs . Politically they have tended to lean on the Democrats ; now the relationship is likely to be reversed . If labor has enjoyed a degree of immunity from the witch hunt these last few years , it has been because its allies , the Democrats , were in power ; the situation has now changed . FINALLY , the President should draw upon that backlog of respect and admiration which led many independent voters to select him as their choice to provide solid , constructive leadership in a time of trouble . He must reject the advice of the smooth manipulators and the cynical power-grabbers . He must now act for himself and for the millions who elected him and for his country . He must mobilize all Americans of goodwill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Senator McCarthy has now clarified the fundamental issue . He has made it plain that he is driving- for the Presidency , for total power , fot the ultimate destruction of democratic procedures . On this issue there should be no disagreement between conservatives and liberals . Men of good-will may disagree on domestic policy ; they must agree on the basic issue of fair play and respect for constitutional freedoms . Has the President the courage , the imagination , the intellectual grasp of the principle at stake to lead the way , saving both his Administration and vital contribution which American leadership can make to a world in trouble ? 