@@487655

A NON-SCIENTIFIC visitor to the Third International Automation Exhibit was likely to leave with two things in his head : a low , insistent buzzing sound and an urgent desire to ride Paul Revere-style from village to farm and rouse the good folk to the challenge of an imminent , automatic future . Ladies and gentlemen , the robots are coming  --  and no one seems to care but the robot-makers . There are probably as few people aware that the last of November was officially proclaimed " Automation Week " in New York City as there are those who know that this January will be national " Super Market Month . " The doors of the Trade Show Building on Eighth Avenue , where nearly 200 companies put their automatic wares on exhibit , were open only to visiting professionals from here and abroad . To be sure , the show was highly technical , but the most electronically ignorant layman could have learned a good deal merely walking in and out of the booths , listening to demonstrators , and generally absorbing the atmosphere . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and whirrs without understanding that the nature of tomorrow 's life was cranking ahead unobserved by most of the men who are going to live it . Most of us non-scientific humans vaguely accept the presence and increasing importance of " automation " and hope for the best , much in the spirit of Mayor Wagner 's proclamation of Automation Week , which ends with his urging . . . my fellow citizens and the visitors who came to the Automation Exhibit to take heed so that maximum advantages will accrue to us all and that there will be greater security and comfort in the world of the future . Hear , hear . But the creators of automation are not necessarily corn-mitted to seeking security and comfort  --  and this does not mean that they are monsters with test-tubes , plotting against us . It merely means that they are scientists , not sociologists , and that their job is to create what will satisfy the market that consumes their production . The particular market in this case is big business in contemporary capitalism , and it is not necessarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example , it can find use for a new product known as an " operations recorder , " which was put on exhibit at the Automation show . A spectator paused to stare at this device  --  a glass-enclosed instrument with a metal arm making lines on graph-paper that suggested a weather meter  --  and asked information of the proud , smiling man who stood by it . " What does this do exactly ? " " Well , " said the demonstrator , " You see that gentleman who just walked by ? This instrument has recorded that . It has , in fact , recorded that you have just walked up here , and it will record how long you stay and when you walk away . This eye ' , " he pointed , " catches the movements and they are then recorded on the machine . " " But why ? " asked the visitor . " Who cares ? " " Companies use these for ' efficiency ' purposes , " the man explained . " You can put it by a person 's desk , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and know about comings and goings at the end of the day . " " You mean  --  it 's a sort of a spy ? " The demonstrator smiled . " Let 's call it a Tattle-Tale , " he said . " And companies buy large quantities of these and set them all around the place ? " " We hope so  --  it 's only been on the market four months now . " The spectator walked away with a pamphlet on the " operations recorder , " and learned that it could be'had for a mere $59.50 . The literature noted that the gadget could be " important for piece-work , production and cost-studies . " To add to its rather super-human aura , it reportedly does its job with " no ink , no lead , no electricity . " Just sits there and keeps an eye on you  --  which seems unlikely to add to the " greater security and comfort of the world of the future . " BUT THIS is singling out an untypical example of what is being done by automation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elimination of tasks that have dulled and dried human beings since the last great industrial revolution . The new revolution of automation can display such wonders as a " slave typewriter " which records instrument readings and scientific and business data at the rate of - eleven characters per second by electrical-magnetic means . And who can not welcome a " slave typewriter " to take the place of a " slave typist X ? " One corporation exhibited a model of " The first completely automatic electronic savings bank system , " which is now being prepared for installation in three different banks . It replaces file cards with magnetic storage units of ledgers , and cuts out the bleak business of looking up information in a ledger file . ONE OF THE new presentations at the exhibit in fact went farther in the same direction . The " Random Access Memory " machine , according to its makers , " has been designed to replace the file cabinet  --  and file clerk . " The handling of great masses of data in business requires the storage of up to hundreds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been possible up to now , the major problem in effective use of such storage machines has always been quick access to a particular piece of the information . The new " Random Access Memory " machine can not only store 500 million " bits " December 15 , 1956 of information , but bring out any specific item in an average time of half a second . Instruments and AUtomation , a magazine of the trade , commented that the quick access was " a major technological advance . " And who can argue that it is not a major social advance to eliminate the career of file clerk from society ? Milling machines were to be seen in several places around the Exhibit , grinding away without any guidance from human hands . This is done by " magnetic tape control " which is coming into vogue in aircraft plants in the West . By this method , any office worker can read decimal dimensions straight off of a blueprint , record them on an ordinary adding machine keyboard which translates them onto magnetic tape , which in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the operations of cutting some particular part . THE MAN who once guided the cutting tools themselves now acts as " overseer " to tend the machine that does his old job . This pattern of the worker as an overseer of mechanical creators is the dominant trend of the whole automatic revolution . The mechanization has , in a sense , come full circle from the time of the first mechanization in the industrial revolution . The original worker who created the whole object  --  the whole shoe , for instance  --  became a man on the assembly line who merely did the stitching , or nailed on the heel , or inserted the shoestrings . Now he has moved on from that role to become a guardian of the process which does the whole job mechanically . This worker is released from specialized duty and watches the complete process  --  though removed from it by the iron curtain of the new machinery . This of course is not the same as the self-creation of the whole product , done directly as it was before mechanization . Perhaps it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of creating one part on the assembly line ; or perhaps it is worse because it removes the worker even farther from the reality of participation in the making of the product . The point , however , is academic  --  the new process , for better or worse , is here to stay and in more places every day . It is not only the giant of industry who is moving into automation . The smaller factories have learned already that to automate is to survive , and all sorts of plans are developing to give the less-than-giants a chance for automation . Whether or not such schemes are really answers to the new threat of monopoly by means of the automation available to giant plants remains to be seen , but they a6gnaking a current bid fp prac- manufagurei of tape-control tools at , , t1se- Automation ex-hibit predicted ' that not only the big plants but " the shop around the corner " would soon be using automatic tape-run machines . Its system , says this manufacturer , . . . Provides great flexibility , economy of operation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system has been designed to satisfy the mass market for automatic controlled machine tools . It fits the small and medium-sized shop as well as the large manufacturer . It simultaneously satisfies the economic , technical and psychological requirements that industry is facing today and will be demanding tomorrow . A large order for a piece of tape . WHAT seemed to be the most practical plan for giving that little shop around the corner a chance to automate itself was offered by a company that used its booth at the exhibit for an explanation of " Pay-AsYou-Go Automation . " Under this plan a small shop calls in the " PayAs-You-Go " people , who figure out its needs and possibilities for automation and then proceed to lease it the automatic equipment . The leasing presents the smaller plant with the " opportunity to modernize with-. out large capital outlays . " Equipment is leased for periods of from one to fifteen years , with options for renewal and options for eventual purchase of the equipment . The fellow in command at the pay-as-you-go booth was quite enthusiastic , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uninitiated visitor . He pulled out a leaflet with a picture of a large machine which was ( like bears we used to see on exhibit in Michigan ) reaching out an arm and opening itself a Coca Cola . " For all practical purposes , " the pay-as-you-go man said , " This is a robot . Its arms can reach out and take an object from one machine and put it into another , as well as a man could . The difference is , you pay $10,000 for one of these ' robots ' instead of just hiring it and giving it the first weekly salary check . But once you have it , you can work it twenty-four hours a day , seven days a week . And after that first big investment , you 're through paying it to do the job . It pays for itself in the first year , and the second year , you do n't have to pay it a salary again as you would a man . What we 're trying to do is make these things available for smaller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ company like GM of course can buy them right off , but a new company , just starting up , has n't got the capital . What we do is go to those companies , and , if they have good credit  --  they have to have real good credit  --  lease them machines like this which they can pay for by the month . " THAT " robot " opening the Coca Colas was apt to make a liberal-arts visitor a bit nostalgic . The fellow 's explanation of its twenty-four-hour efficiency was pretty conclusive of its work-superiority over mere man workers ( or for that matter , bears ) . This fact of machine supremacy over the flesh was inescapable to any stroller at the Automation exhibit . One electronics company , pressing the point home , had brought in a complex computer which was set up for the show purpose of " juggling " a steel rod for the entertainment of the visitors , and for any who missed the point of the demonstration a handy leaflet explained that The Electronic Juggler , unlike the human juggler or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tion serving industry and commerce , never wearies of his task , never falters , but is able to continue his performance repetitively and endlessly until his human creators again ordain interment in the packing case . Rather than dwell on the weird sensation that lengthy contemplation of the untiring juggler can bring , the non-scientist can better devote his thought to the consequences . Last March the director of economic research for IBM was reported in the New York Times as predicting a 20 per cent increase in the national average income and a four-day work week by the 1970s . The four-day work week , which already flitted across the political scene in the recent campaign , and the nature of the work that the bulk of men will be doing in those four days , means a qualitative change in our way of life . Yet few outside the scientific and business world have given real thought to the prospects of automation . SURPRISINGLY enough , one of the few non-scientific bodies to express the tremendous need for creative thinking along these lines has been the Christian Church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , The Christian Century magazine . In an editorial this fall the Christian Century declared that " it is time to ask what automation means to the churches . " It perceptively stated that In the age of automation . . . the problem of means is so interesting and absorbing , we are all caught up in trying to solve it . An increasingly important function of the churches is therefore to help Christians ask " Why ? To what end ? " These are questions that we all must ask of automation . It is too bad the Third International Automation Exhibit could not have stayed open another week for exploration by the general public . The most complacent could hardly leave without the sense of how fast auto-matron is coming on , and how slowly we are rising to meet it . Robot-machines are opening Coke bottles , science is reaching for the moon , and the rest of us are doing crossword puzzles , watching Ed Sullivan , and hoping for the best . The NATION 