@@477036

By " keeping military strategy out of politics , " both parties are covering up a life-and-death issue ... with the result that we may be offering a major victory to the Russians . H IS spring , for the first time in three years , defense policies burst into the political arena . Air Force generals were haled , not unwillingly , before Congressional committees to testify to their convictions that three years of economy have left us unprepared . One of them , Chief of Staff General Nathan F. Twining , traveled to Russia on a good will trip which everyone knew was less likely to harvest good will than to plant fresh arguments for stepping up the air-atomic arms race . Democrats in Congress joyfully ended their long frustration of saying yessir to General Ike . In their exuberance they flung at Secretary of Defense Wilson $900,000,000 more than he requested for the 1957 Air Force budget and dared him not to spend it for more super weapons for the super war that everyone solemnly said must never happen . Mr. Wilson , who can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , called the Democratic maneuver " a phony , " then ran for cover , where he politely thanked his enemies for their generosity but insisted that he did n't need the money . It is too bad that , if he could not stand his ground , others did not elect to hold it for him . He was right . The cry for more B-52s to stay ahead of the Russians was , and is , a phony . It is worse than that . It is an appeal to hysteria at the expense of thoughtful discussion of the real problem of national defense . With it the Democrats completed their abdication of responsibility as an opposition party . Instead of demanding that the Administration justify its three-year course , they began to prod us faster in directions which neither party has yet . seriously examined . The tragedy is not that politics note intrudes into defense , but rather that politics has too long been banished on the specious ground that ? as Representative Clarence Cannon recently remarked ? defense " is too serious a question for partisanship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for trial with our enemies is precisely such a serious matter that both parties need to give to it their best thinking and their most eloquent talents in debate . Partisanship is the democratic method of organizing and expressing opposing points of view , providing the people with instructions in the issues and a meaningful choice between candidates for office . In the balmy air of moderation , presided over by a President who ( we are repeatedly reminded ) is " above politics , " the suspension of political debate on vital issues has already spread a stifling hush over the central concerns of government . But partisanship never has been , and never can be , excluded from democratic government . Nowhere has this Administration struck out more strongly and self-consciously to mark a break with the Truman years and develop a national program consonant with Republican convictions than in its reorganization of the military establishment . Even before his inauguration President-elect Eisenhower began the re-examination of what armed forces we needed and what we could best support . This New Look , begun in December 1952 , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meet three assumed requirements of national policy : to balance the budget , to stabilize military planning and spending in expectation of a prolonged period of international tension , and to shift emphasis from manpower ; in which we were deemed hopelessly inferior , to air-atomic power , in which we seemed to have an unbeatable advantage . Although these , of course , were not uniquely Republican assumptions , they fitted particularly well with the party 's interests and outlook . To carry out the New Look President Eisenhower appointed a new set of Joint Chiefs of Staff , after Republicans ? Senator Taft in particular ? had objected that the military leaders who served under President Truman were too deeply committed to Truman polides . The objection was valid at least to the extent that the Generals and admirals , for all their remoteness from domestic politics , had worked directly for civilian chiefs dedicated to the success of the Administration . The same was true of the New Look . A Republican Secretary of Defense set the problem and presided over its solution . A Republican Secretary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to serve . A Republican Secretary of the Treasury determined what the nation would pay . Republican leaders in Congress shepherded the program over the legislative course . Finally Republicans everywhere have run , and will run , for election on the Peace and Prosperity slogan which has both ends rooted like a wild raspberry in the 35-billion-dollar defense program . In all this there is not a tittle to which a reasonable person could take exception . But what is made by party , endorsed by party , and used by party in its bid for public favor can not be billed as nonpartisan . Nor should it be . The only thing wrong with politics in defense is the hypocrisy of concealing it . WHEN THE NEW LOOK WAS NEW I ) EL:I BE RA T ELY a new departure , the New Look repudiated in part what the Administration believed was a prodigal and mistaken Democratic past while heralding a safe and orthodox Republican future . At the time it was conceived , the President was working to make good his implied campaign pledge to end the Korean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Korean truce had been signed . Springing thus out of the liquidation of " Truman 's war , " the New Look set nut to exploit and consolidate that success . Immediately it became possible to cut ground forces ? even without reducing effective strength ? by eliminating battle losses and men in the pipeline ( that is. troops constantly in training and rotation between camp and battlefield ) . Army cuts , begun in this way , proceeded slowly and undramatically to pare the establishment far below what both past and present Army Chiefs of Staff ? General Matthew B. Ridgway and General Maxwell Taylor ? believe essential to meet the commitments of our various alliances and mutual-assistance pacts . We are now down to nineteen divisions , of which five are training organizations filled with recruits and unfit for combat . General Ridgway protested that this force was clearly inadequate ? at least 300,000 men under what we should have . General Taylor has accepted it reluctantly , preferring to try to hold this much intact rather than waste his prestige in continuing the battle that Ridgway could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cost only about 52 billion or S3 billion more , his view is particularly difficult to defend in Washington today . The most evident , convincing need for ground troops is to stand guard over other Koreas . But the face of this Administration is stubbornly set against any more limited wars . The unpopularity of the costly " police action " and the sigh of relief at its conclusion turned Republicans generally to search out ways of avoiding such involvement in the future . That quest underlay the doctrine of massive retaliation ? the one foreign policy doctrine that perfectly litted ( 1 ) the military New Look ; ( 2 ) the Republican pre-occupation with balancing the budget ; ( 3 ) the postwar revision of traditional isolationism which Hoover and Taft had expounded in their concept of Fortress America ; ( 4 ) a verbal reversal of the containment policy ? thus permitting us for a time to talk tough to appease those at home who loudly protested appeasement abroad . Still more subtly it fitted America 's favorite image of itself : a nation of brilliant scientists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peoples are delightfully quaint , others retarded , but all hopelessly inferior in the ways of material progress that really count . That image still so dominates Secretary Wilson 's mind that he ca n't help patronizing the Russians , no matter what intelligence he may receive of their scientific and industrial progress . Congress last January pressed him hard to explain or deny reports that the Russian air force was already ahead of ours in its capacity for nuclear war ? reports , incidentally , which had even then been publicly accepted as fact by General Twining and the chief of Strategic Air Command , General Curtis LeMay . Secretary Wilson said this : " The Communist world is making some progress undoubtedly , in what 1 called the industrial revolution . " But this gain is partly illusion . " 1 have every confidence , " he continued , " that our system is superior to theirs . 1 think they will finally make a lot of mistakes , handling everything from the top . " But if they do n't ? Can we count on the inevitable failure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has outstripped us in war preparations is completely wrongheaded ? Secretary Wilson admits no doubts . Such Russian progress as has been made , he implies , has only come about through the theft of American secrets . " You know , " he told the Congressmen , " we can not get very far out ahead of them , because we talk so much in this country and write so many articles and publish so many pictures and magazine articles that they are always bound to be able to do it . Most of their weapons , of course , really came out of the Western World . " The other half of the stereotype is that America , supreme in know-how , is no match for the barbarians in numbers . The fact , however , is that the total population of the NATO countries of about 436,000,000 compares with a population in the Soviet Union and European satellites of 285,000,000 . Though we hold human life more dear , we could , if we chose , build far bigger and more effective armies on a more solid economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China provide no true picture of a military potential , as Korea demonstrated . ) The point is simply that the kind of military force we have depends far less on objective appraisal of our resources than it does on our national state of mind . The key military decisions are political , shaped more by what we want to believe than by the tools we have to work with . Massive retaliation was thus Emily grounded on domestic political fact . Unfortunately it had far more tenuous connections with international reality . RATTLING THE A- , BON113 F .. 4 A R L Y in 1953 , the Pentagon , in an effort to break Communist stalling in the truce negotiations , made certain warlike gestures , including the alerting of the Strategic Air Command . Newspaper stories of " secret " war plans were published . " We were not too careful about whether that leaked out or not , " Secretary Wilson said later , " and we got the armistice . " The occasion provided the first of Secretary Dulles ' " brinks of war ' ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a victory . The lesson drawn was the effectiveness of a tough policy in general and of the threat of nuclear bombing in particular . The first success , however , was not to be repeated . In April 1954 , the Administration for the second time rattled its arsenal of A-bombs . But now the situation was different . Instead of a military stalemate as in Korea , we faced the problem of rescuing the French from imminent military defeat in Indochina . A series of statements by the President , the Vice President , and Admiral Radford , Chairman of the joint Chiefs of Staff , publicly declared our vital interest in keeping Indochina out of Communist hands . But threats alone were clearly not enough . The Communist Viet Minh forces ? with a stranglehold around the city of Dienbienphu , which the French had elected to make a ia-itical trial of strength ? had victory in their grasp . To break that grip would require at least a taste of American might . So behind the scenes Secretary Dulles and Admiral Radford sounded out Congressional leaders on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dienbienphu . The Washington Post reporter , Chalmers M. Roberts , who later pieced together the story of these critical days , believes that when the Administration approached Congress , the National Security Council had already approved intervention in Indochina at least in principle . This is not certain . It is possible that Dulles and Radford ( with or without full Presidential hacking ) were still feeling their way along the brink and that even in calling members of Congress to the White House they were repeating the technique that apparently succeeded in Korea of being " not too careful " who got wind of their plans . That interpretation receives some confirmation from the fact that Radford , in talks with General Paul Ely , French Chief of Staff , had strongly suggested in March that the United States might be willing to intervene even though neither then nor later were we formally asked to . Such gratuitous forehandedness makes less sense as a preliminary to action than as a piece of stagecraft to stiffen our allies and frighten our enemies . In any case , whether the proposal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or talking policy , it still had to confront some hard diplomatic and military facts . When Admiral Radford talked to members of Congress he confessed he was not supported by the Joint Chiefs of Staff . General Ridgway , Army Chief of Staff , was in fact then preparing a report on the probable cost of intervention , assuming ? as he believed we must ? that our involvement could not be limited to air and naval forces . When the report , based on on-the-spot studies by Army experts , was complete , General Ridgway made certain that it was passed up to the White House . He has written in his memoirs his belief that the analysis of the tremendous cost of the proposed adventure " played a considerable , perhaps a decisive , part " in dissuading the President . But , as Mr. Roberts points out , the real crusher was more probably the attitude of our allies . Secretary Dulles , in London on April 10 , found Prime Minister Eden dead set against any action , at least until the Geneva Conference net two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? when Dolles again suggested that it was not too late for the proposed bombing ? Eden gave his final no . The conference met . The President talked about finding a way to live and let live . If the shadow of a bomb ? or the blufflay over the meeting no one was rude enough to notice it . On the heels of the Indochina truce came the third crisis and the third attempt to use air-atomic power as an instrument of diplomacy . Red China was developing a threat against the Nationalist islands of Quemoy and Matsu . Most military experts at the time believed the threat was greatly exaggerated , that Red China had no real use for the islands ? which were not logical stepping stones to an invasion of Formosa ? and that the risk of attacking them without superior naval power would have been out of all , proportion to the possible political gain . Therefore they argued , Chinese military preparations on the mainland were more plausibly explained as defense combined with a bluff to feel out foreign reaction . In the early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with vigor . Three of the Joint Chiefs and Secretary Dulles were in favor of notifying Chiang Kai-shek that he might bomb the mainland in defense of his position and call for air support if needed . General Ridgway opposed the plan . Congress , in the meantime , discussed the possibility of formally resolving that the offshore islands were included in American treaty guarantees of Nationalist China 's integrity . In the end the question was left open for the President to decide , and the President overruled his Council . The issue faded and the remnants of the massive retaliation theory seem to have been buried in ambiguity . Whether our curiously mixed but lively response to the crisis helped to resolve it or notdepends largely on whether this was in fact a " brink of war or just shadowboxing . The answer is not yet in and may never be . It does seem clear , however , that massive retaliation had by this time taken such a mauling from its critics and from the fears it had aroused in the public that only a pretty spectacular success @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quite the opposite . As Russia 's ability to deliver H-bombs on America grew , retaliation became two-edged . Control over the threat of the big war passed from our hands ? if , indeed , we ever effectively had it . With air fleets and atomic stockpiles approaching a balance , the military right arm of diplomacy became paralyzed , We dared not even cock it for a bluff . Indeed , we are now beginning to worry much more about whether the paralysis is mutual than whether we have any freedom of action left . IRONICALLY it is only at this point that the Democrats have roused themselves to challenge the Administration on defense . In so doing , they accept all the shaky premises and dubious results of the New Look ? demanding only that it be carried further . The New Look was vulnerable from the beginning , on the grounds that it either misinterpreted the kind of force needed for effective diplomacy . or that it made a political compromise between what was needed and what could be supported with minimum disruption of a peacetime economy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces with nuclear weapons to keep the peace by making war too destructive to be considered by any nation as an instrument of policy . To do that much , and still balance the budget , required a cm-responding reduction in conventional forces capable of fighting limited wars . " I do not think we would have another Korea , " said Secretary Wilson , " and not use all the resources necessary to win the war . . . . 1 do not think the American people would be in favor of another one like that . " What this means is that he rejects the notion of police action merely to check aggression and is prepared for only such wars as can be pushed to a total victory . A Republican Senator I talked to expressed the same view . He said : " We can not afford to fight any more limited wars . " Thus far is revulsion at the Korean experience still controlling- the Republican thinking . When I quoted the Senator 's remark to a Democratic Congressman , he replied : " Maybe we ca @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alternative is surrender or annihilation . " Here surely was a legitimate and vital difference of opinion for interparty debate . As the Republicans were pursuing a military and diplomatic policy aimed at avoiding what they felt were the tragic consequences of President Truman 's intervention in Korea , so the Democrats might have defended their record while pointing out the perils of the Republican reaction . They did not , for what seemed to them unanswerable political reasons . There was little popular appeal in championing the Army when most people longed for Jess painful ways to security . They saw no votes to be picked up by advocating increased costs , taxes , and draft calls . When nearly everybody was saying that Ike was our greatest military expert and why not leave it to him , Democrats had little but uneasiness and a modicum of logic with which to argue his fallibility . Finally they dragged behind them their own record of unpreparedness and were naturally reluctant to call attention to its dismal clank . Even so , Representative Carl Vinson of Georgia , Chairman of the House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's pleas for a balanced force to become convinced and almost to take the plunge . He had a full-dress speech attacking the New Look ready for delivery on the floor , as well as plans apparently for a critical report by his own committee . But at the last minute he accepted Defense Department assurances that no further reductions in the Army would be made and that the existing force was good enough . This left only two Congressmen ? Representative Daniel J. Flood of Pennsylvania and Representative Melvin Price of Illinois ? to criticize consistently the Pentagon 's new philosophy . In the Senate , Missouri 's Senator Stuart Symington and Washington 's Senator Henry M. Jackson had long carried on back-bench sniping , but mostly at the inadequacies of the Air Force . Until early spring party leaders considered even that much dissent such bad politics that those friendly to Symington 's candidacy for the Presidential nomination were urging him to talk about something else . What suddenly changed the political complexion of the issue , of course , was the publicizing of Soviet progress in overcoming our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ missiles . The Administration hadlong argued that American security was guaranteed primarily by superior retaliatory striking power . In the public mind this meant quite simply that we had so much the best air force that no nation could hope to challenge us to an intercontinental duel . That comforting illusion , supported as it was by national pride , fled before the revelation that the Communists were catching up and might even be ahead . if we were not supreme in the air , then patently we were not supreme . The idea , furthermore , that the Russians might be beating us at our own game , outthinking and out-producing us , was perhaps even more intolerable than the fear that their wonderful inventions might fall among us . Here , undeniably , was a potent political issue against which even the prestige of a military President might not be proof . But it is , regrettably , the wrong issue . BECAUSE the Russians may have 500 intercontinental jet bombers , does it follow that we must have 500 ? It could he that we do n't need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Our Air Force may he dangerously understrength in men and machines for its assigned tasks , but the evidence is not to be found in an itemized comparison of U.S. and Russian bombers and bombs . To make such comparisons the basis for political attack is to compound the major folly of the past three years : the almost total failure to relate force to strategy . As we approach the state of mutual deterrence when neither side can directly attack the other without risking its own annihilation , the world must take one of two paths : ( 1 ) settle its differences peacefully ; or ( 2 ) settle them by application of less than total force . Everything we know about history and human nature argues the folly of supposing that arms can he eliminated as a tool of diplomacy . In no foreseeable future , will negotiations between the Communists and the democratic world be based on a spirit of accommodation . Instead , each side will face a series of crises , in which the value of what is haggled over will be weighed against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position to enforce its will in the cheaper way will have an unbeatable advantage until the last compromise is reached . We need , of course , the capacity for massive retaliation to deter Communist attack . But we also need the power to deter Communist aggression and subversion in the gray areas ? or we shall risk a steady withdrawal that will finally leave us no alternatives but to fight or surrender . As General Taylor said : " We have made a great deal of progress in developing an atomic air deterrent . I think now that our program needs to be bent a little ? perhaps more than a little ? in order to focus attention on the danger of the small war - which seems to me to be coming to the forefront all the time as the greatest danger we are facing . " The Administration has talked about a small , centrally-located , highly mobile , bard-hitting , combined force capable of being committed at any trouble spot on need . We do not have such a force , and the chances of getting one in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has two airborne divisions and is experimenting with another organized for battle with nuclear weapons . But the Air Force lacks the transport planes to move even one division with its equipment . Now spending sixteen and a hall billion dollars of the defense budget , the Air Force has told Congress that it will need billions more next year to maintain its authorized strength of 137 wings . There is no cash to meet the Army 's transport and air support needs . Still worse , it seems highly unlikely , on the basis of the record , that Secretary Humphrey will forgo the temptation to meet a part of the Air Force'srising need by trimming the Army a little more . Even if the Administration rejects the proposals attributed to Admiral Radford for an immediate manpower slash so drastic that we would be unable to fight anything but an atomic war , we appear to be moving toward the same end by yearly tinkering with the budget . At the pace of the past three years , the point of no return when we will be committed to appeasement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one most hopeful way of resisting this trend ? at least long enough to examine where it is taking us ? is to make strategy a political issue . On the other hand , the one sure way to bury all rational criticism of both military and foreign policy is to raise a bipartisan clamor to keep up with the Russians . Hard as it admittedly is for the Democrats to talk sense about defense and still hold their audience , they can not escape their essential responsibility to do so . It is true that the case against present policy can not easily be proved . It is true that strategy is a difficult stump subject and that the apathy of the people is large . But somewhere , sometime the vicious circle of public indifference and political silence must be broken ? if national unity is not to be used as a fatal cover-up for national drift .                     