@@476056

FIFTEEN years ago I knew a nice revolutionist named Peter . He was an attrac-tive specimen of the British upper dle class ? blond , diffident , carefully tweeded , well drilled in Latin and cricket , and endowed with a modest inheritance . Like many similar young men in England about that time , he had dedicated his life to smashing capitalism ( he called it capitalism ) and building a chrome-bright socialist society on the ruins . Peter was , of course , an idealist . He had taken up revolution from the same religious impulse which might have sen , him , fifty years earlier , into the clergy or off to India to civilize the barbarous Hindoo . Since we then lived in neighboring rooms in an Oxford college , he spent a good many evenings preaching his lofty and indignant gospel to me . It sounded pretty plausible . In those days of depression , capitalism obviously was n't working too well ? or , as Peter saw it , " the System is destroying itself with its own cruel and absurd contradictions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had no doubts about what would follow . A horse-doctor 's dose of state ownership would cure everything . Once the Workers ' Government had taken over farms and factories , all the hard problems would evaporate out of hand . England would become a plump and shining realm , cleansed of parasites , peopled by happy laborers , andruled by the wise and just ? including , naturally , Peter himself . The last part of his vision , at least , eventually came true . Peter had inherited many of the traditional governing-class talents , and as soon as the Labor party came to power after the war he was given an inconspicuous but responsible job in Whitehall . When I looked him up there recently , I was surprised to find that he did n't look a bit like a successful revolutionist . He was slumped behind a mountainous deskload of papers , bound ( literally ) in red tape . His face was tense and his shirt collar was frayed . The evangelical high spirits with which he had started his rebel 's career had been shed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any of that triumphant assurance which one might expect in a minor prophet busily constructing the New Jerusalem . Instead he looked worried , uncertain , and pitifully tired . In the following weeks I saw a good deal of Peter , and of other old acquaintances in the same faith ? minor bureaucrats , Labor journalists , and back-bench members of Parliament . Together they made up a fairly wide sample of the Labor party 's junior officer class . I have no way of guessing at the temper of the high command ? the Cabinet and the lords of the trade unions ? but in these middle ranks , morale was curiously frazzled . All these were still devout socialists , but nearly every one exhibited the same hesitant lack of confidence . Peter himself finally summed it up . " We are just beginning to suspect , " he said , " that socialism has some built-in contradictions of its own . " T HE things that worried him turned out to be quite unexpected ? to me , anyhow ? and they are , I believe , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them , however , it may be worth noting two items which were not causing much concern among the thirty-second degree socialists . For one thing , they were n't especially worried about the election coming this spring . Most of them were reasonably confident that Labor would get back in ? if only because the Tories have not yet shown the public any alternative line of political drygoods . All the Conservatives are offering is a kind of diluted we-can-do-it-better socialism , plus their venerable war relic , Winston Churchill . Now , almost everybody in England seems to feel that Old Winnie is the best possible man to run a war , but that in peacetime he is about as useful as a beat-up Sherman tank . Even the younger members of his own party speak of him as an embarrassment , long overdue for glorious retirement . Neither were the Labor people I met much bothered about those features of their welfare state which have set so many journalistic shirts afire in America . The National Health Service , to cite only one example , actually appeared to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Plenty of bugs still infest it , of course . It got under way with too few doctors , dentists , and hospitals , so that the professional staff is brutally overworked and patients often get second-rate treatment . In the beginning , too , a good many clients took advantage of the " free " service to wangle menstrual pain-killers , wigs , and lumbago plasters that they did n't strictly need , but the new charge of one shilling for each prescription presumably will curb some of that . Eventually , too , the shortage of physicians can be mended . Meanwhile , even second-rate medical care is a great comfort to many thousands of families that once could n't afford any treatment for a ? serious illness . Mass Observation ? arough equivalent in Britain of the Gallup Poll ? reported last summer that three-fifths of the people who had used the National Health Service spoke of it with approval . Only 26 per cent regarded it as an inconvenience , while 16 per cent thought it had n't made much difference to them personally . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English babies ) the shrillest keening of the Scripps-Howard papers and the American Medical Association can hardly support an indictment of complete failure . It is scarcely necessary to add that nobody I talked to ? Labor , Liberal , or Conservative ? was sprouting gooseflesh over certain bugaboos which are occasionally paraded in the American press . They were n't afraid that free speech might be muffled , or scientists dragooned into a party line , or the London bobbies turned overnight into a Gestapo . II W HAT really worries a good many socialists is a failure of theory . They have run into a series of problems which they did not foresee , and their traditional doctrine provides no answers . In describing them as " contradictions , " Peter was being . quite precise , for they have usually cropped up in just that form . Perhaps the most pressing is Full Employment vs . Inflation . Of course all good socialists ( like practically everybody else ) believe in full employment . They also dread inflation , which is now the most dangerous threat confronting both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ island hopes to escape starvation , it must keep the prices of its manufactured goods low enough to compete in the world markets . Otherwise England can never pay for its indispensable imports of food and raw materials once the Marshall Plan spigot is turned off . Yet nobody has so far discovered any way to keep full employment in present-day Britain and to smother inflation at the same time . Remember that some 80 per cent of the economy is still run by private enterprisers . This means that thousands of individual business men are constantly bidding against each other for workmen and machinery and raw materials . They can bid handsomely , because ? for reasons noted a little further on ? most firms are raking in such whopping profits that they seldom have to think twice about costs . Well , in an economy where money is plentiful but manpower and all other resources are scarce , there can be only one result : a steady bidding-up of the prices of nearly everything , from stenographers and carbon paper to machine tools . This is what has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partial controls on many items . This is why England was forced to devalue the pound , in a convulsive effort to lower prices for her customers overseas . This also is why there is grave danger that the benefits of that devaluation may be eroded away within a few months , as prices keep crawling upward . The old-fashioned remedy in any economy ? from wide-open laissez-faire to communist ? would be to tighten up the whole machine : put the screws on credit , throttle down construction and other capital investment , and trim public spending right to the quick . In short , deflation ? an ugly word . It would mean a delay in many of Labor 's pet projects , such as housing ( which undeniably is badly needed ) . It would draw some blood from the sacred social services , because there 's not much room in the budget for really big cuts anywhere else . Food subsidies might have to go ; people might have to pay a little more for their medical care and public housing . Worst of all , such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depression scale , but just enough to put a brake on rising wages and to squeeze some of the surplus manpower out of over-staffed industries . ( There are a number ? railroads , mining , building trades , ship repairing , for example ? whose payrolls are stuffed way beyond the limits of efficiency . ) Any unemployment is heresy to the Labor party , however ? especially with an election in sight . Consequently , when the cabinet did announce a new economy program in late October , after weeks of agonized debate , it was not surprising that the London Economist had to describe it as " a catalogue of fleabites . " The orthodox socialist simply can not bring himself to tackle inflation by such means . I NSTEAD his thoughts turn to more and tighter controls . If he ca n't drain off the steam behind inflation , maybe he can sit harder on the safety valve . This answer is theologically acceptable , but it runs squarely into another contradiction Stability vs . Rigor Mortis . In theory , enough controls ? with enough inspectors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same time achieve Stability , one of the socialist 's dearest idols . ( One of his favorite pleasures is delivering a rousing lecture on " the chronic instability of the American economy . " ) To him , stability means something more than an end to the great tidal waves of boom and depression . It also means the ironing-out of those little dips and surges which make Rational Planning ( another cherished idol ) almost impossible . But the socialists are now discovering that when they " stabilize " prices , wages , profits , and markets , they also freeze up all the moving parts in the economic engine . This freeze-up already had gone pretty far before the Laborites came to power , for few English business men really believe in competition . Unhampered by anti-trust laws , they started long before the war to spin a web of cartels , price agreements , divided markets , and " trade customs , " with the happy purpose of eliminating most of the risk and discomfort from their operations . They also eliminated most of the hustle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to keep on selling the good old product , made on the old machines and displayed in the old packages , to the old customers at the old price ( or a little higher ) until the crack of doom . This is known as A Proud Tradition . One machine-tool manufacturer told me he is still using some equipment his grandfather installed seventy-five years ago . He has plenty of capital to retool , because the firm " has been paying at least a 25 per cent dividend ever since I was a lad , and still is . " But his idea of the right moment to buy a new lathe is when grandpa 's finally caves in like the one-hoss shay ? not when somebody invents a better one . This attitude may have something to do with the fact that our tool and die shops are " twenty years ahead " of comparable British plants , as the head of Slater 8 : : ' Wakefield , a leading British concern in this industry , recently told a convention of his American colleagues . It certainly had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English productivity team which investigated American steel foundries last fall . The team reported that efficiency in American factories was 50 to 90 per cent higher than in their British counterparts -- primarily because " productivity consciousness is to be found among all grades of employees , from executives to shop level . " THE Labor government 's policies have n't done much to encourage this kind of " productivity consciousness " in Eng-land , After all , why should the average British manufacturer sprain his brain cells to find new ways to do it cheaper , faster , and better ? He already can sell everything he turns out at a highly comforting profit , because he has two guaranteed markets of solid plush : ( 1 ) The home market , floating high on the tide of inflation and dammed-up wartime demand . Here he is saved from any prod of competition by that cozy armor of " trade custom , " plus rigid controls on imports from abroad . Similar controls ? on raw materials , plant construction , and even on paper for advertising ? make it difficult for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to expand . ( 2 ) The " sterling market , " which means India , the Middle East , and all the other areas where England piled up huge debts during the war . These countries can collect only by taking payment in British goods ? which they are now permitted to swallow at the rate of some two hundred million pounds a year . Since England gets nothing in return , this draining away of scarce goods increases the pressure of inflation very considerably . Because these sterling customers have , in effect , paid in advance , the British manufacturer does n't have to worry about shaving his prices . Moreover , so long as this ready-made market is wide open , it is almost impossible for England to redirect her exports toward America , to earn those dollars she needs so desperately . When the government exhorts a bicycle maker , for example , to forget about his old and eager customers in Pakistan and fight for a toehold in the strange , highly competitive American market , he behaves like any sensible business man . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade accounts , therefore , she will have to choke down on this flood of " free " exports to her sterling customers . Naturally her creditors'will howl when their payments are slowed down , and some unemployment is bound to follow until the stream of trade can be diverted to new channels . So far , the government has found the task too painful to face . - Meanwhile , the industrialist not only finds " the earning of profits as easy as falling off a stool , " as the Economist recently put it . He also sees no point in risking a backache to earn more . After all , the tax collector would grab most of it-191/2 shillings out of every 20 , in the top brackets ; 39 per cent of the entire national income . By the Treasury 's own estimate , only 250 people in all Britain now enjoy an income , after taxes , above $14,000 a year . So why should n't everybody slide along in the same old grooves ? There is no penalty if they do , no substantial reward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , deep-cutting change ? is the only thing that can save Britain . The brutal needs of survival demand shifts throughout the whole economy ? shifts from the easy sterling customers to the tough dollar market , shifts from high-cost producers to the more efficient , shifts to meet the new pattern of demand caused by a massive redistribution of income , shifts to new products and new methods . The socialists know this , for most of them are intelligent men . They also realize that the controls they yearn for in the name of stability are certain to make any such shifts more difficult . At this writing , they are still wringing their hands in indecision ; the dilemma remains unsolved . THEIR problem has been made tougher still by a third contradiction , which might be labelled ? Socialism vs . Trade Unionism . In theory , it ought to be possible to make all the needed shifts in the British economy by means of Socialist Planning . The wise men in Whitehall presumably could decide the proper level of wages in each industry and announce : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be yanked out of the building trades , and send them packing to the undermanned textile mills . They could close down an exhausted coal pit in Scotland and ship both machinery and miners to a better site in Wales . Right now , in fact , the government has authority to do all these things . Unfortunately for theory , the Labor party is mostly made up of trade unionists . Their stubborn habit is to behave like good union men rather than socialist planners . For example , the British working man does n't like to move . The footloose tradition of America , which can funnel thousands of families across the continent overnight , is simply unthinkable to him . In his mind , " full employment " means a permanent stranglehold on his present job . if the cabinet hints that it might actually use its power to direct labor , he cuts loose a bellow that even John L. Lewis would admire . Besides , the bitter years of unemployment are sharp in his memory . He ca n't quite believe that jobs-for-all will last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worker who sets a pace faster than a leisurely plod is a traitor to his class . ( Penalty : nobody will drink a pint of ale with him , come evenings , at the Bricklayer 's Arms . ) Nor is he much tempted by higher pay for higher output . He no longer has to save up for sickness , unemployment , or the education of his children ? social services take care of that . And taxes would get a big bite of the extra earnings anyhow . Finally , he believes that the purpose of his union is to get him better wages and shorter hours , and that the duty of " his " government is to back up the union . Have n't Labor politicians been telling him for twenty years that once they got in power every laboring man would get more money for less work ? Now , in office at last , they start to mutter about austerity , harder work , speedups , and tightened belts . Naturally the laboring man does n't take them seriously . The union leaders ca @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the government against their own members , the Communists are always waiting to scream " Betrayal ! " The result has been a long series of wildcat strikes , many of them led by the Communists , who loathe socialists even more than they hate Churchill . Although these Communists are not very powerful at the moment , their persistent efforts to kidnap the unions away from the established leadership give nightmares to both the government and the trade union hierarchy . There is real danger that the workers might eventually look to the Communists as their only real spokesmen against their boss , the State . Indeed , the whole position of trade unions under a socialist regime has turned out to be a maze of contradictions . When the laborer 's government becomes his employer as well , collective bargaining obviously does n't make sense . And so long as it is attempted , Socialist Planning must remain a wistful fantasy . In the meantime , imagine what happens to the spirit of a revolution when its banner reads ; " Come on boys , let 's build a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forty-five hours a week , insist on time-and-a-half for overtime , and never under any circumstances lay more than thirty bricks an hour . " AMONG all the curious puzzles which lie strewn about England 's political scenery , perhaps the most baffling to an American is the conflict of Internationalism vs . Isolation . As everybody knows , the Socialists have been internationalists from way back . The Brotherhood of Man has always been their goal , national . ism their enemy . This article of faith , one might assume , would have been powerfully reinforced by the events of the past ten years . That decade surely has made it plain that Britain no longer can stand alone . By herself she can neither feed her people nor defend her shores . Since 1940 she has been kept alive only by repeated blood transfusions from the United States ? lend-lease , Marshall aid , and loans which will never be repaid . Today she seems little more fit to stand on her own feet than she was when the treatment started . Even if all the problems noted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little evidence that England will ever again be able to support forty million people at their accustomed living standard on her crowded little island . The reasons have been set forth in these pages from time to time by Barbara Ward , Kenneth Galbraith , and others , so there is no need to repeat them here . The conclusion has been underlined many times in the past few months by Paul Hoffman of ECA . Britain can not survive unless she integrates her economy into some larger unit ? a United States of Europe , or an English-Speaking Union , or perhaps a still broader Atlantic Community . Does this mean , then , that the socialists are hot and panting after some such federation ? Not at all . On the contrary , they have made England the most isolationist country in the Western world . Every suggestion that they snuggle up a little closer has been repulsed with shudders of distaste . Their usual explanation is that England already belongs to one club ? the British Commonwealth ? and the Dominions might feel terribly upset if she joined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is n't the whole story . The Labor people have stronger reasons , which they are usually too tactful to mention in public , for shrinking from any kind of economic union . They hold a different set of objections against each of the three kinds of merger commonly proposed . T HE most widely discussed of these is an " integration " of Western Europe . It has become an official aim of American policy , and several European governments at least pay it lip-service . So do Mr. Churchill and a number of his Conservative colleagues . The British socialists , however , want no part of it . They can foresee nothing but chaos if their economy ? so austere , so delicately poised , so rigidly corseted ? were linked to the disheveled and undisciplined societies of the continent . The wild men of France , for instance , ca n't even collect taxes , run a rationing system , or keep a cabinet in office for more than a few months . Switzerland and Belgium are crawling with unrepentant capitalists . Conservative Catholics rule Italy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany . If rational planning is hard for England by herself , it would become quite impossible in harness with such diverse and unpredictable teammates . Worse yet , British living standards might be pulled down to the level of the Continent . At the very least , a score of British industries would be disrupted by the competition of more efficient producers across the channel . In the long run , a more sensible , large-scale , productive pattern of industry might result . But meanwhile the shock of the operation might kill the patient . Almost certainly it would kill British socialism . Well , then , why not an English-SpeakingMAGAZINE Union ? an economic merger of Britain , Canada , the other Dominions , and the United States ? This arrangement would have certain obvious advantages over a European federation . It would solve England 's dollar shortage once and for all , it would link her to areas producing food surpluses , and it would give her a dunce to decant some of her excess population into relatively uncrowded countries . The customary argument against it ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ step would split off Britain and America from the Continent . The Western Europeans might then conclude that they had been deserted , and sidle into the waiting arms of Moscow . Moreover , Englishmen of all shades of political opinion feel an understandable nervousness that they might be engulfed by their bigger partner . They have no desire to become a forty-ninth state . But the socialists ? at least of the left-wing variety ? are more than nervous : they shake with horror at the very thought . Many of these left-wingers are totally ignorant of America . Others ? such learned metaphysicians of the True Church as Harold Laski , Tom Driberg , and Kingsley Martin ? are merely blinded by their own dogma . They see the United States as the stronghold of capitalism , and therefore the nest of all evil . In their eyes , it is a barbaric wilderness , addicted to bubble gum , lynching , and juke boxes , and ruled by bloated plutocrats who rejoice in stomping on the faces of the poor . They accept each dollar of American aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bottle . Some even argue that America is turning imperialist and " proto-fascist " ( because that is always supposed to happen to capitalism in its last stages ) . They expect our long overdue depression to overwhelm us any week now . They also fear that we may get " hysterical " ? a favorite adjective for Americans ? and start dropping atom bombs all over the lot . Marriage to such a monster clearly would be a fate worse than death . For a long while the sages of the left advocated a closer relationship with Russia , rather than the United States . Now even they are coming to realize that the Soviets would be interested only in the sense that a coyote is interested in closer relationships with a jackrabbit . At the moment , therefore , they have no coherent foreign policy . Yet they have a following , and their repugnance for the Beelzebubs of Wall Street must be taken into account by the more realistic leaders of the Labor party . The third alternative ? a gradual welding of the Western Europeans and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open to many of the objections brought against the two less ambitious schemes . Certainly the political difficulties are enormous . The economic strain and dislocation would be most painful , and Britain 's socialism might get seriously diluted in the final mixture . Hence most Laborites are inclined to dismiss the idea as utopian and impractical . Of course it is equally utopian to expect the American taxpayer to go on subsidizing England indefinitely . Nevertheless , nobody in England , so far as I could discover , is drafting specific plans against the day when ECA money stops flowing . The Labor people are too busy , too tired , too harassed with their many cross-grained problems . They seem to be able to plan only from one crisis to the next , like Eliza crossing the ice . Much like their counterparts in our old-fashioned capitalist parties , in fact . IT WOULD be a great mistake to imagine that all these skull-popping dilemmas are causing much distress to ordinary Englishmen . Aside from those like Peter , who are actively interested in politics , hardly anyone seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the people I met in London took the whole affair with aplomb , not to say indifference . And why not ? These people have been living through one crisis after another ever since 1939 . Dunkirk , the blitz , V-bombs , imminent bankruptcy ? they all sounded terrible , but somehow the country has always muddled through ( up to now , anyway ) . In spite of near-insolvency , moreover , the conditions of ordinary living have been improving at an astonishing rate since the Labor government came to power . London , which I had last seen in 1946 , has been rebuilt and repainted in a short three years more than I would have thought possible within an entire generation . Nearly a million families have moved into new homes since the war ; several million other houses have been refurbished with government aid . ( Because they are heavily subsidized , rents average only about $2 a week . ) Where the bomb craters still gap , they have often been turned into tidy parking lots . What rubble is still left has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along the sidewalks . The people , too , look surprisingly better off . The gray , drawn , slightly shabby look is gone . Crowds in the midtown streets ? largely made up of working people , naturally ? seemed better dressed , better fed , and somehow gayer than I had remembered them even before the war . Rationing is still a genuine hardship ; fats and proteins , in particular , are probably too scarce to keep the country 's vigor up to the proper notch . Still there is plenty of evidence that the ordinary laboring-class family is eating better than ever before . Especially the children . The prostitutes who patrol Picadilly and Glass House Street are gaudier than they used to be , and far fewer . One common theory is that most of them retired on their wartime earnings , bought stately mansions in the country , and now pour tea for the vicar every Thursday . A more prosaic , and more likely , explanation is that any girl can now take her pick of respectable daytime jobs . Although the upper classes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marching to their doom with a certain style . Most Savile Row tailors are booked up for months in advance . Theaters do an SRO business , and swank caf ? s like the Caprice are crowded every night . In a single week I saw more champagne on restaurant tables than I have seen in five years in New York ? and I did n't eat in fancy places , either . One reason is that Scotch is scarce , since practically all of it is shipped abroad ; but another is that business men entertain each other generously . Sir William takes his solicitor to lunch today , and the solicitor returns the courtesy tomorrow ; both bills can be deducted , wine and all , from their firms ' income tax as business expense . Rolls Royces can be hired on the same basis , thus circumventing gasoline rationing . One evening I counted seven parked outside a modest home where a party evidently was under way . The pub around the corner was pretty gay , too . The truck drivers and char-women who made up most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closing hour ? and a surprising number seemed able to afford gin-and-orange in lieu of the traditional pint of bitter . What most people really got excited about last fall was the radiant weather : the warmest , sunniest autumn within living memory . it made the worries of bureaucrats and socialist pundits seem curiously unreal and far away . God obviously was in His heaven , looking after His chosen island just as He always has . The problems and contradictions of British socialism are real enough . Very possibly they are unsolvable . So far , however , I suspect that they have not even touched the great mass of Labor voters ? and that these millions will not nourish any serious doubts about socialism so long as vague disasters merely darken the horizon . When the storm actually hits , when jobs get scarce and living standards begin to pinch , the story may change . Right now the barometer seems to be falling fast .                     