@@493848

NOVEMBER 19 , 1931 WASHINGTON WIRE IS HARD to read " A Foreign Policy For Americans " by Taft without feeling that the man is a menace . The book is coolly nationalistic . It omits most of the great imponderables that move men . Shining through all its careful qualifications is the anachronistic belief that America can still have " peace and security " while much of the rest of the world goes hang . The author of this book , Bob Taft , may win the GOP nomination . Scandals in the Truman Administration ( that have nothing to do with foreign affairs ) might even make Taft President . Such an event would mark a sorry day for America and the world . There is always an element of tragedy in seeing a national hero turning into a partisan leader . First he is up on a pedestal , beloved by all alike ; then he is down in politics , the leader of one faction . Warrior Eisenhower is now turning into Politician Ike before our eyes , and , despite his own honorable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his uniform is off . Ike 's final press conference before he flew off for Paris convinced this writer , and every other political correspondent with whom we talked afterwards , that the General is now a receptive candidate . We had not seen Ike , up close , since the war days in London . He seems hardly any older in appearance than we remember him then , and he is the same attractive , pink-cheeked , inspiring figure . Yes , we like Ike . We noted again the light-blue bulgy eyes without any perceptible eyelashes , the fluffy eyebrows , balding head , deceptively mild , mobile face , and the big mouth which stretches right across his head in a sudden laugh . An able and disarming figure , surely ! This column has previously recorded the belief that Eisenhower is a Republican , that he is well to the right of the New Deal on social legislation , but that he is , simultaneously , stoutly against Taft on international matters . New York Times columnist Arthur Krock published a startling story the day after Ike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democratic Presidential nomination . It is true that Truman could almost certainly give Ike the nomination if Ike would agree , and this would probably assure his election . The story said Ike would not , however , agree ; he was a Republican and did n't like Truman 's opposition to the " Taft-Hartley Act " among other things . That was Krock 's story . Arthur Krock , on Nov. 13 , 1938 , published a story attributing to Harry Hopkins the intention to " tax and tax , spend and spend , elect and elect . " Hopkins repeatedly denied the embarrassing charge , and Krock never gave his source . Again on . July 25 , 1944 , in the heat of the Presidential campaign , Krock attributed to Roosevelt the famous direction to Democratic chairman Hannegan to " clear everything with Sidney Hillman " the CIO-PAC head . Again this was denied and the source not revealed . It came at a time to cause maximum embarrassment to FDR . Truman denies the latest Krock story with a startled bewilderment that carries conviction to some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in one sense the accuracy or inaccuracy of the particular Krock story is unimportant . It does dramatize the basic ambiguity of Ike 's position and booby-traps him with its inferences . It alienates independent liberals with the discovery ( probably inevitable anyway ) that Ike is not a flaming New Dealer . It alienates hard-shell Republicans with the suggestion that Truman thought Ike a proper White House replacement . The story may not be a Taft " plant , " but it operates that way . Down to date , Taft forces have played circles around Ike 's forces . Some Republican independents are looking hopefully to Governor Earl Warren as a possible liberal alternative to a General or an isolationist as candidate . Korean truce talks drag along with just enough progress from step to step to give the feeling that the Chinese Communists are about equally torn between a reluctance to resume hostilities and a reluctance to admit defeat by signing an agreement . Over in Paris , meanwhile , the Big-Three 's disarmament proposal makes good " peace propaganda " for our side but never entered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerned . No sophisticated person really believes a single proposal will cut the deadly armament race spiral . Nobody knows if it can be cut . But if it is , it will be by a slow process of gradually relaxed tensions . In last week 's municipal elections , ADA leader Joseph Clark gave Democrats the first victory in Philadelphia in 68 years , while the New York Rudolph Halley captured the City Council presidency backed by the Liberal Party against Tammany , with the GOP in third place . Even the White House is now beginning to see the big oncoming voter revolt against loose political morals . It is rather funny to see the efforts of Chairman Cecil King ( D , Cal. ) of the special House committee probing tax scandals to shut off his own investigation , which has got quite beyond him . There is a lot more dirt to be uncovered ? enough possibly to beat Truman . Truman 's difficulty , we have finally decided , is in not having an Eleanor Roosevelt to scout the country for him and come back to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the mediocre group around Truman sensitive enough to tell him what is going on . Notes : It now looks as though Churchill would go directly to Moscow if he can not persuade Truman to join a face-to-face conference ; this visit wo n't come , probably , until after a Churchill trip to the USA . . . . Harvard Professor Maass in his book Muddy Waters shows how the Army Engineers ( 215 officers ) play politics with pork-barrel- Congressmen against the national interest .                     