@@476887

ROUGHLY one out of every five Presidents has died in office. * If Mr. Eisenhower should be re-elected , he would become before the end of his second term the oldest man who ever served in the White House . The subject is an unpleasant one ? so unpleasant . that no politician of either party has yet ventured to discuss it above a whisper . Yet it has to be discussed , sooner or later , because the future of the country hinges on it . In fact , the main issue in 1956 may be , quite simply , this : Is Richard M. Nixon the kind of man we want in the White House ? The question is unavoidable , whether Mr. Eisenhower runs or not . If he does , Mr. Nixon is virtually certain to be his running-mate . If he does not , Mr. Nixon is quite likely to lead the Republican ticket . For Ike has made it plain that Mr. Nixon is his favorite Republican ? and Ike 's voice obviously will carry a long way in the nominating convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the country 's soundest political reporters ? attempts to point the way toward an answer . His assignment is not a simple one , because Mr. Nixon has not yet given us any very clear idea what kind of President he would make . For the reasons Mr. Rovere notes , he is a curiously ambiguous man , hard to bring into sharp focus . If you run your eye down the list of American Presidents , you will find only one who seems roughly comparable . Martin Van Buren was similarly skilled in the arts of political maneuver , and was equally hard to identify with any firm line of policy or principle . Like Mr. Nixon , he served as Vice President under a *Thirty-three men have held that office . The seven who died while serving were Harrison , Taylor . Lincoln , Garfield , McKinley , Harding , and F. D. Roosevelt . famous general : he canoed his chief 's gratitude for his deftness as a fixer and tactician ; and the aging warrior chose him to take over leadership of the party . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who ? as John Randolph once said ? " rowed to his object with muffled oars . " And one of the leading historians of his period reports that " Van Buren enjoyed a name for noncommittalism that survived when most other things about him were forgotten . " Mercifully , nearly everything about him has been forgotten . He did not make a memorable President . TIME IS ON WHOSE SIDE ? S I N C E. Mr. Nixon climbed to notional fame as a fair-minded and effective investigator of Communists , it is odd that he has been so noncommittal ? or at least ambidextrous ? about the one issue which until recently split the Republican party more deeply than any other . At bottom , this question is : Does time fight for us or for the Communists ? One wing of the party ? which once looked Iike the dominant wing ? argued that time was on the side of the Soviets . Its spokesmen were Knowland , Jenner , McCarthy , and their journalistic following . Their allies included a few psuedo-Democrats , such as McCarron @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ MacArthur and Van Fleet . ( Admiral Radford occasionally is mentioned as a fellow-traveler , although in fact he does not appear to share all their views . ) These men drew their basic ideas ? though often at second or third hand ? from the geopolitical theories of Mackinder , Spykman , and Herr Doktor Haushofer , the eminent metastrategist . Consequently , they were convinced that if the great Eurasian land mass ? Mackinder 's Heartland ? should ever be united under a single power , that power would eventually dominate the world . It would possess the manpower , the resources , and the This group has never accepted the notion that we have only two alternatives ? fight now , or lose the globe eventually . They suspected that Haushofer 's strategic theory ? like so many other things ? may have been made obsolete by nuclear weapons . They refuse to believe that Communism is the Wave of the Future . They hold that a wary co-existence is possible ; that negotiations are always worth a try ; and that brute force is nut the only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it became clear that the moderates had gained firm control of the Republican party . ( Mr. Nixon 's shift probably foreshadowed the turn ; he is a remarkably sensitive political weathervane . ) The usual explanations are the moral influence of Mr. Eisenhower himself , the losses of the extremists in the last election , the collapse of McCarthyism , and the more reasonable manners of the Russians . But perhaps more important than any of these is the military stalemate . Either it already has arrived , or it is still a few years in the future ? depending on your taste in intelligence estimates . In any case , the balance of destructive power is now so close that no sane man can think seriously of preventive war . Know-land himself is crawling gingerly back toward the President 's camp . It now seems likely that we are entering a tong period of peaceful ( though uneasy ) competition between the Communist empire and the free world . In these circumstances , the moderate Republicans are quite confident that time is on our side . They are sure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better , over the long pull , than the Soviets ' . ( Some of the reasons for this faith were set forth in W. W. Rostow 's " Why Communism May Fail " in the February issue of Harpers , and in the more recent series on " America 's Next Twenty years , " by Peter F. Drucker . ) Like George Kerman , they believe that the Communist regime is inherently unstable , and that the pressures of time and its own internal contradictions will someday result in its collapse ? or , more likely , its slow transformation into something entirely different and less menacing . If this view proves correct , 1955 may turn out to be the biggest historical milestone since the end of World War II . It could mark the point at which the initiative shifted to the free world ? and , as an almost incidental footnote , it may be remembered as the year when the power of the Old Guard in the Republican party was broken for good . The extent to which the initiative already is shifting into our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who has been writing on public affairs for Harper 's , Fortune , Barron 's Weekly , and other magazines for the past fifteen years . He is the kind of man whom Walter Lippmann might describe as a public philosopher ; during the war he worked for various government agencies as a thinker , rather than an administrator , and some of his memoranda are still remembered as analytic gems . He is an economist , a sociologist , and a mathematician , now engaged in work on transportation problems . His home is in New York . ? ? ? Everybody knows that our schools are in bad trouble , and for the last few years nearly everybody has been criticizing teachers , administrators , and teaching methods with enthusiasm ? if not always with much accuracy . Consequently , Sloan Wilson 's defense of our school system on page 29 may shock a good many readers . Especially since he puts the blame for its undeniable shortcomings in an uncomfortable place . Mr. Wilson is the author of The Man in the Gray Flannel Suit , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Books in Brief " last month . He also is assistant director of the White House Conference on Education , its technical director , and its representative from New England . The Conference 's report , expected this winter , probably will set the course of national educational policy for a long time to come . Much of the information in Mr. Wilson 's article was collected in the course of his earlier work as an executive of the National Citizens Commission for the Public Schools , He also served briefly as a school-board member in New Canaan , Connecticut ; he is now on leave from the University of Buffalo , where he is an assistant professor of English .                     