@@491248

0NE of the great handicaps in the light against juvenile delinquency in America is a popular belief that the problem today is the same as it was when grandfather was a boy . During our sixteen-month investigation of delinquency with the United States Senate Subcommittee on Juvenile Delinquency we have frequently been advised not to worry about the current frightening increase in crimes committed by children because every generation of young people has had the same problems and it has somehow always worked itself out in time to save civilization . This is pure bunk . On the basis of evidence presented to the Senate subcommittee during an unprecedented inquiry in cities and towns all over the United States , we are convinced that the don't-worry attitude is the result of a dangerous refusal to face the facts . To try to compare today 's delinquency problems to those of the past is like comparing the problems of a fourteenth-century commander at the battle of Crecy  --  when the long bow revolutionized warfare ? to the problems of our General Staff in an age of jet airplanes and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there is no comparison between the starving , homeless boys in England who stole a loaf of bread  --  and were sometimes hanged for it  --  during the social upheaval of the Industrial Revolution , and the 150,000 American youngsters who in 1953 stole automobiles valued at more than one hundred million dollars . In terms of damage both to children and to society , the boys who hid behind the barn to experiment with smoking tobacco before the first World War can not be placed in the same category with an estimated 25,000 teen-agers , including many twelve year-olds , who experiment with marijuana today and who may end up as narcotic addicts . In degree of opportunity and temptation , our fast automobiles and " no-questions-asked " motels constitute an open invitation to youthful sexual misconduct that was unheard of in grandfather 's day . The saloon that had a room where women could get a glass of beer in the Gay Nineties did not cater to the crowds of teen-age girls who are illegally served today when they flock into beer joints with boy friends or to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tough guys who killed a rival in a street battle defending their own territory and he young boys in New York who last year wantonly killed drunken hums for a thrill . Again and again , evidence before the subcommittee emphasized the mounting intensity of the problem of juvenile delinquency and posed the all-important question : Why ? There are , of course , a multitude of reasons why ? ranging from a child 's difficulties in learning arithmetic to broken homes , corrupt public officials and the far-reaching changes that have taken place in our way of life during the last fifty years . In other words , there are basic , nation-wide causes of juvenile delinquency that require patient , long-term solutions , and there also are more immediate , local conditions that can be corrected if communities will act vigorously . Before discussing the long-range causes of delinquency , let 's take a quick look at one local disaster that need never have happened . In Oklahoma City , the subcommittee was told , several drugstores were illegally selling " bennies " ? benzedrine tablets  --  to high-school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one drugstore sold 100,000 pennies illegally in a year , and several others sold almost as many to children , who dissolved them in a soft drink or a beer and went on a " jag . " From pennies the children often graduated to the use of barbiturates , also obtained illegally , and in many cases to the use of narcotics . " There were approximately two hundred and fifty boys and girls in I he Oklahoma City metropolitan area who were using harbiturittes and narcotics , " Chairman Rol i.ert O. Cto ninglitini , of a date legislative inquiry , told the subcommittee , " Seventy-live boys and girls . . were almost beyond repair . I made seventy-six raids with our crime-bureau men . I made it my business to see what was going on . " There would be sex parties ; the girls and boys would be in the nude . We found homosexuals , ranging all the way from thirteen up to eighteen . Some of these kids were hopped up on ' goof balls ' ? barbiturates and beer . They would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ' or apartment , usually in a nice part of town . They would rent it for a month or two . They were from good families . They had money  --  allowances from their parents . We had one boy testify who had gone to the narcotics stage , morphine and codeine . He started out using bennies at the age of fourteen . He would use his lunch money . Then he got to the stage that if the berries did not do any good , he went to ' yellow jackets ' ? a barbiturate  --  or redbirds ' ? phenobarbitals . Gradually he went to morphine , and he 's been in trouble continuously with the police . " One drugstore was kept very busy by these kids from one high school . Another druggist would sell to anybody who signed his name ' Doctor . ' We subpoenaed his records  --  a carload of them  --  and issued a subpoena to everybody who did not have a license , those who were not doctors We had a roman-fill . We have a whole tile of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Oklahoma City an abortion mill . The so-called ' doctor ' ( who ran its listed seven hundred and fifty-two patients in eighteen months . Some of these girls we talked to admitted using barbiturates when they were teen-agers , and then , when they got up where the barbiturates would not give them a kick , they started in to use narcotics . To support their habit they went to prostitution . The boys who use narcotics . break into drugstores and engage in rohhery and procure women . It happened I hat way many times . Our chief investigator was shot and killed in front of patrol headquarters picking up two teen-agers . We had a teen-ager kill another at a dance at the same school where we had all the narcotic and barbiturate trouble . " The community conditions leading to this particular juvenile problem in Oklahoma City were obvious and , once the situation was exposed , public indignation led to a quick cleanup and the enactment of a law authorizing life imprisonment for sale of barbiturates to minors on the second offense . The basic long-range @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her so obvious nor so easily attacked . One such cause highlighted during the subcommittee 's investigation was directly linked to the great change that has occurred in family and community life in the last fifty years . II is perfectly true , as is so often pointed out , that our kids of 1955 are different from American kick at the I urn of the century . Rut let 's face it : so are our homes , our communities and the world in which we live . Youngsters today are better educated than those of five decades ago . They are better informed , and right ly SO , on everything from sex to the politienl situation in Indochina . They are inure sophisticated at a younger age . hut , unfurl Ulliliely , t hat deea not mean that t heir judgment is better at fifteen hall in past general ions or I hat they lire liet ler prepared In exercise restraint , in the face of increased templet ions . They have Iota certain controls and supports which were part and parcel of an earlier American era @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which are neceasary to compensate for these lost controls . This , you any say at first glance , sounds like academic gobbledygook that does n't Mean much to ordinary parents who struggle daily to earn a Living , run a household and bring up children . But the fact is that this problem of adjustment of society to change is as much a part of your everyday life as the kitchen stove or the family automobile , and more important to you . Let 's take , for example , the change in the people'smobility.Our increased mobility today results primarily from the invention of the automobile and from the demands of our economy for a working population which can migrate easily from place to place . We are a na- tion en the move , but we still apply horse-and-buggy treatment to the problem of juvenile delinquency . Take a look , for example , at what has happened to community and family life since the automobile put the nation on wheels . Take a look at it from the viewpoint of Terry , the only son of a carpenter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ record shows that until he was twelve years old Terry lived in a community where he had many relatives , where everybody knew him and he knew everybody . If he misbehaved , the town marshal was pretty sure to hear about it and mention it to his fat her . If his school work was poor , his teacher talked it over with Terry 's mother the next time they met on the street . A generation or two ago , Terry probably would have grown up as his father did in the same town . But today our economic structure demands that the workingman he mobile , and almost every family has an automobile of some kind . When Terry 's father heard , in 1951 , that there was a big demand and high pay for construction workers in the booming city of Houston , he bundled his family into t heir secondhand automobile and headed for Texas . Terry hated lu leave his friends , but he made new ones in a trailer camp near Houston and he was just getting adjusted to his new school when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on to of her work in Arizona , in 1952 . Still later , the family migrated to Los Angeles , where aircraft companies were appealing for workers at good pay . By this time Terry was getting a hit confused . His parents did 1 he best they could for him , but he had lost the friends he had grown up with as well es his new friends in Texas and Arizona and he had found nothing to replace them . He had lost the freedom uf having a whole town back in Alabama to Flay in , and a lion a -- even Li decrepit one  --  in which lo entertain his friends . He 'd lost , the security of adult . neighbors who knew him and would help him out of n jam . The fnmily 's smell apartment in Los Angeles did n't provide room for play , so Terry was on the pavement most . of I he time and his mother knew nothing about his playmates . Terry 's education was getting a bit confused too . He went to school only in the mornings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the classrooms . In Los Angeles . for example , the influx was so great that a witness before the sub-commit tee said the city would have to dedicate a new 1300-student school each Monday morning just to keep pace , without any thought of eliminating the overcrowding . It is n't difficult under such conditions to understand bow Terry linked up with truants and wayward boys or how easily they began pilfering . Nor should it be much of a surprise that Terry and another boy finally stole an automobile and headed east with some vague idea of paying a visit to Terry 's home town in Alabama . They were picked up 100 miles from Los Angeles , turned over to the city probation department , and sent to a camp for delinquent boys . Terry 's case is n't recited in an attempt to absolve his family or the community , but to make clear that Terry is a victim of a basic change in our society , We must , and we will , learn to adjust to that change because there is not much prospect that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ t hat other Terries may remain in the towns where they were horn . But adjust merit requires a definite effort on the part of the community and the family , as was demonstrated by testimony before the subcommittee regarding two towns which were suddenly overcrowded with workers during the war . For a period during 1913 , a critical situation developed in Mobile , Alabama , es a result of the failure of the city to make adequate preparations for an influx of war workers , the subcommittee was told by Mrs. Agnes Meyer , an experienced newspaperwoman and a prominent figure in the tight against juvenile delinquency . Mobile knew that plants would he expanded ; that thousands of new families would pour into the city . It also knew that existing schools were mostly antiquated and teachers were underpaid , yet nothing was dune in advance to prepare for the war workers . As a result , there was not room in the schools for some 2000 new students , who roamed the streets and committed offenses that included burglary and arson . Drunkenness and sex offenses were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years of age , - Mrs. Meyer testified . " The parents behaved worse than the children . I may say they usually do , " The logical consequence was a horror story , about which Mrs. Meyer wrote in detail at the time . Eventually , remedial measures were taken and , with Federal assistance , the school system was rehabilitated , salaries were raised and the situation improved , but the damage had already been done to the children , many of whom may be appearing in courts in many cities for years to come . The Mobile experience was due to war emergency , it is true , but the story of another town demonstrates that an even more radical adjustment can he made smoothly if the commu pity will only recognize the need and plan to meet it . The town of Orange , Texas , had only 7500 population in 1940 , but during the war it shot spectacularly upward to 35,01 ) 0 within a single year . Virtually all of the newcomers were from primitive rural areas and were described as " violent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of life . " In other words , the vast changes that have taken place with such rapidity in the United States in the last fifty years were , to a certain extent , being enacted suddenly and in an extreme form in Orange . It was perhaps because the danger was so great that it was clearly seen in advance and handled energetically by the community under the leadership of .1 . W. Edgar , who is now state Commissioner of Education . A child-welfare committee was formed with participation of the Parent-Teacher Association , the jun iorcham ber of commerce , the churches and service clubs and other public and private agencies . It kept in touch with the needs of the schools and promoted proper recreation facilities , study and work programa and counseling services . Instead of permitting children to get into serious trouble , the committee moved in at the first sign of truancy or misbehavior , studying the child 's problems and especially looking into conditions in his home . Counselors and teachers visited the homes  --  many of them automobile trailers  --  and encouraged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sure that the potentially wayward child was placed in the proper study group and joined children of the proper age on the playgrounds . They organized training and recreation programs for older boys and girls who otherwise would have left school to take well-paying war jobs . There was very little juvenile delinquency in Orange during the period of inflated population , and the parents as well as the children were given a new concept of orderly living and family responsibility . The importance of the automobile in the problem of juvenile delinquency is not limited to its role in increasing the mobility of the working population . It also vitally affects the attitudes and actions of modern youngsters . Experts of the National Auto Theft Bureau estimated to the subcommittee that in 1950 around 36,000 automobiles were stolen by youngsters under eighteen out of a total of 171,000 car thefts that year . In 1953 these figures had soared to approximately 125,000 cars taken by children out of a total of 225,000 thefts of automobiles valued at $225 , - 000,000 . Why , the subcommittee netted , has the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delinquency ? Experts suggested a number of reasons . Just to begin with , automobiles are more available than in the past . The number of motor vehicles in the nation increased 29 per cent , from 41,000,000 to 53,000,000 between 1948 and 1952 . But the important factors are psychological and social , they agreed . The automobile has become a symbol to American kids ; it means power , sophistication , prestige . Behind the wheel of a car , the teen-age boy feels grown up , adventurous and as important as anybody else on the road . This , of course , is perfectly natural . It is no different from the adult attitude toward an automobile . It is adults who have made the automobile important ? so important that today we can seldom get as far as the corner grocery store ) without altiontolive ' lower . Nobody should regard it as surprising t het children develop an early urge to get behind the wheel . The catch is that whereas iiilidle usually con satisfy this desire by legal means , the juvenile , for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside the law . One result is I hat the whole country has suffered , especially since World War II , from the effects of a phenomenon known as joy riding , which covers a multitude of youthful sins , but is basically a tendency on the part , of adolescents to " borrow " a parked automobile , which is later returned or abandoned  --  if it is n't wrecked . " From the standpoint of long-range seriousness , " William J. Davis , secretary-manager of the National Auto Theft Bureau , told the subcommittee , " we view these youthful offenders with alarm . A child or a youngster may be killed just as dead in a joy-ride cm- as in a car that is stolen in a bona-fide larceny . " There are volumes of statistical proof of the dangers of joy riding in the police records of every city in America , and many of these examples begin with boys who have a couple of beers and start looking for excitement . They are tempted to borrow an automobile in which the keys have been carelessly left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an accident in which they kill themselves or somebody else . Such tragedies are common in our daily history , but it is highly uncommon for the community to ask or explore the really important question : Who is to blame ? Is it all the fault of boys who do n't have anything to do evenings ? Are the parents to blame he-cause the boys Jack the proper respect for the law ? Do their schools fail to teach them to be good citizens ? Is it the fault of the tavern owner who sells beer to youngsters ? Or is it the fault of the adult who carelessly leaves his keys in the ignition lock ? It is almost unbelievable that no fewer than 87,000 automobiles stolen by juveniles during 1953 were left unlocked by their owners . A total of 35 , - 000 were left by owners on the public highways with the keys in the ignition locks and 26,000 were left in parking lots with keys in place . Such negligence is difficult to understand , because it results in mounting rates for automobile insurance and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But it is still more difficult to comprehend when you see the cost to American youngsters who are haled into court or confined to a hospital or carried into the funeral parlor . Other vital factors behind juvenile delinquency include the breakdown of neighborhoods in the sense of close ties between neighbors and the fact that children 's normal activities today extend far from their homes and beyond the once-well-established range of close parental supervision . You might be interested in knowing , " a visiting Turkish official told us , " that before the modernization of Turkish towns we did not even have a word for the juvenile delinquent . in our language . In the past , the child was protected and guided by the pattern of village life , which was also a kind of family society . A boy walking down the street might meet a dozen relatives or adult friends who would ask where he was going . They tried to keep him out of trouble . Everybody knew everybody else and felt a responsibility for what any child did . With modernise tTt 1111SV lion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ceased to act . as guardian . We have now had to invent a word for the juvenile delinquent and we have plenty of kids to lit it . " Something along the same line has happened gradually in America . The neighborly character of our society has hrolten clown as people have more time and greater ability to travel long distances for : social activities , recreation and entert ninment which t hey formerly found , for the most part , near or in their homes . As a result , when we see misbehavior in children today we seldom feel any personal responsibility to do something about it . We seldom know the children , even if they live nearby . They regard us not as neighbors but as strangers who can not or will not . report them to their parents , and we are inclined to assume that their parents would probably resent any interference on our part . Even the cop on the beat , who was once an integral part of the neighborhood system , has been replaced by a police cruise car as impersonal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could have been found behind the first appearance in juvenile court in San Francisco last spring of a fifteen-year-old girl named Guinn . A sophomore in high school , Guinn lived with her parents in a row of attached houses in a good neighborhood and had dates with Mark , a sixteenyear-old boy who lived in a distant and legs pleasant . pall of the city . Murk was well known to I he police and juvenile-court officials and had spent some time in local and state institutions , but neither his family nor his background EVENING POST was known 1.0 Guinn 's parents . One evening Mark persuaded a couple of older boys who had a car to drive him to his date with Guinn , and the four youngsters then decided to go for an evening of recreation which San Francisco school children generally describe as a - beer bust . " The secret of staging a beer bust is mobility  --  that . is. a car in which you can get away from your own neighborhood . It was n't possible for youngsters to buy beer near Guinn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ store in another part of the city where his friends had been illegally served . They drove there and picked up a case of cold beer . Again , in Guinn 's neighborhood there would have been no place to drink the beer without being seen . But with the car they drove to Golden Gate Park , where  --  like a lot of other school children  --  they could pull off the road into a heavily wooded clearing and drink beer with Little danger of being interrupted by the occasional police cars that patrol the 1000-acre park . Along toward midnight . having consumed all but a few cans of the beer , the four drove hack into town to a large bowling alley and lunch counter where they intended to buy sandwiches . But as they putted into the parking lot a police cruise car drove past I hem , and both Guinn and Mark  --  now on the streets in violation of the city 's eleven Km. curfew for children under eighteen  --  ducked down out of sight just an instant too late . The police , seeing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . Guinn , wearing a girlish brown 1455 sweater and white skirt , was obviously a juvenile and a little tipsy . The beer cans were then found in the car , and the boys told where they made their purchase . The older boys were permitted to go home after promising they would identify the grocer who sold the beer , but Guinn and Mark were taken home in the cruise car and given notices to appear the following week in juvenile court , Mark 's past record gave his case a more serious aspect . " Jima. my luck ! " he exclaimed several times in disgust . " Of all the kids on beer busts tonight , I was the one who had to meet the cops . " Mark 's immediate difficulties arose from the ease with which young people today can roam far and wide , but in his case and in the cases of tens of thousands of other children there are many other contributing factors . One such factor is the troubled state of world affairs . We would be foolish beyond words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the fear of new wars or on the necessity of military service . But our investigations left no doubt that world tensions , which have impaired our feeling of national security , have significantly affected child behavior by adding to the anxiety of both children and parents . As subcommittee member Senator Thomas C. Hennings put it , " The Korean War and the general instability of our postwar world have not been conducive to developing a secure , neighborly , and stable pattern of life . Our children in too many instances reflect our own instability . That is frequently why they get into trouble . " Recently a member of the subcommittee staff who had spoken to a Parent-Teacher Association meeting was approached by an anxious couple seeking advice about their eldest son . " Do you think it is fair to deprive a boy of an automobile when we know that he is going to have to go into the Army later and wo n't have a chance to enjoy a car ? " t he mother asked . " And we 've been worried whether it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as soon as he gets out of high school or to spend a year at . college before he is subject to the draft . What do you think ? " " Well , how old is the boy now ' ? " " He celebrated his twelfth birthday last week , " the mother replied . Here was a boy who had at least six years to go before he could be drafted  --  and by then the world situation might be so changed that there would be no draft  --  yet nobody who talked to his parents could doubt the great anxiety that lay behind their questions . This is not a normal attitude toward a boy in elementary school ; you kuow that when they looked at their son they saw a soldier on some distant battlefield . They felt guilty about depriving their son of anything because military service might eventually rob him of the normal experiences of young manhood or even of his life . Such extreme parental concern is no help to adolescents , but merely increases the intensity of their reaction to the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precision by military service . The result often is an effort by children , both boys and girls , I o crowd an abnormal amount of adventure into a short period , with a subsequent increase in recklessness and a breakdown of moral standards . One of the commonest tragedies growing out of this attitude revolves around the adolescent girl who has sexual relations with her steady boy friend because he is leaving for military service and , with undue imegination , she fears he will never return . More often than not , such a romance turns out to be childish infatuation , hut having lowered her own sexual standards , it becomes easier for t he girl to cross the line again with another boy and to end up in juvenile court . All of these changes of the last half century  --  our increased mobility , the breakdown of the neighborhood and the increased world tensions  --  have intensified the strain of life for both children and adults . The weakening of former sources of security has increased our drive for material possessions . We are constantly exposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not always an improvement . The disrespect for law and order which has always characterized certain groups within our society has spread out and found wider acceptance . This is evident every day in the kind of example that is set for children by adults . A typical case is driving beyond the legal speed limit . Not many children fail to notice when the speedometer on the family automobile climbs to fifty or sixty miles an hour when roadside signs clearly indicate a forty-mile-anhour speed zone . And the effect is compounded when the parent suggests that the child keep an eye on the rear window , just in case a motorcycle policeman appears on the horizon . Such scoff-law acts often have a far greater effect on adolescents than adults realise . Subcommittee investigators recently came upon the case of a sixteenyear-old boy who had twice been arrested for speeding in Virginia and whose beginner 's permit had been lifted . Nevertheless , he continued to drive and was arrested a third time and taken into court . -I do n't see why all the fuss , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than my uncle drives on the same road . Not only that , but when my uncle was arrested a couple of times , all he had to do was pay a fine . But me  --  jimmy ! I lost my permit and the best I can hope for is probation . If the judge is tough , they could send me away to the training school until I 'm twenty-one ! Is that justice ' ' ' . Most adults are completely unaware of the unfortunate examples they may set for children day after day in small and large things . The man who jokingly boasts about chiseling on his income-tax returns contributes to the adverse moral climate in which impressionable young children are forming their ideas of right and wrong . The mother who instructs her teen-age daughter to answer the telephone by saying , " Mamma is n't at home now , " should not be surprised when daughter later reports that she has been at the movies with a girl friend , although actually she was on a beer bust at the beach with a boy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we tend to he a nation that preaches one set of moral standards to our children , but upholds another set of standards as perfectly all right for adults . Cocktails and highballs are considered indispensable to almost every adult social gathering , particularly among the well-to-do . Yet we are shocked by disclosure of widespread drinking of intoxicants among imitative teen-agers . We are even more shocked by the revelation of sexual promiscuity among high-school students , despite the fact that adults make a big business of glamorizing sex . It is dill's-till for children to live up to high morel standards in a society that constantly impresses on them the great importance of meterialisticetandards . We often criticize the churches for failing to instill moral values in children , but we forget that we send our youngsters to Sunday school for one hour a week to learn about honesty and clean living , and then permit them to spend six days and twenty-three hours a week in a society that too often puts more emphasis on getting ahead than on how you got there . Adults create the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a key role , Parenle are often : singled out for Fame for the fact that children today have leas security and less protection than in the past . But , even parents able to give their children all the love they need can not also give them the sheltered lives that their grandparents may have enjoyed . There are no longer any sheltered lives . Today 's children are exposed to man-made temptations that are new developments in our society or that only recently became blatantly open i0 children of every economic stratum . These facts were made obvious in the course of the subcommittee 's investigation . The illegal sale of liquor to minors , the activities of narcotics pushers who prey on children , and of the peddlers of pornography who operate near our school yards will be discussed next week in this series of reports .                     