@@491299

The Hole in the Iron Curtain By RICHARD THRUELSEN We still have one direct channel of communication into the Soviet world  --  the 46-language Voice of America . Only part of its daily barrage of truth gets through to Red countries , but the Voice sometimes hits where it hurts . Else why does it make Moscow so mad ? N the stinking radio kitchen of the Voice of America there is a continual swarm , like wasps , of inveterate liars , arrant humbugs , archintriguers , hardened spies and other riffraff , including emigrant rabble . " Though this comment  --  quoted by Radio Moscow from Pravda during a recent international broadcast ? could hardly be classed as shameless flattery , the staff of the Voice of America generally agreed that Moscow could n't have said anything nicer . When your enemy starts calling you names , you know you are hitting him where it hurts . And , to date , the Voice is the only official American force striking directly at the source and the homeland of communist aggression . Having survived three years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Voice is now broadcasting fifty international program hours a day in forty-six language services , including Swatow and Azerbaijani . This output , on a sheer volume basis , equals the combined product of our three largest domestic broadcasting chains and suggests that the International Broadcasting Division of the State Department 's International Information and Educational Exchange Program has at last grown big enough to fit its official name . And when the Voice completes its current and planned projects for expansion  --  known as Baker , Ring and Vagabond ? the United States and the free world in general will find itself with a pervading bellow that will ring around the globe . What happens then may change history  --  if words and ideas can ever parry the sword . Moscow propaganda officials , who like to tell the big lie in a big way ? they broadcast in more than fifty languages over ninety-five program hours every day ? would probably be both startled and disillusioned if they ever visited " the stinking radio kitchen " from which the Voice emanates . Most of the Voice 's staff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and eighty-six overseas ) is crowded uncomfortably into rented space in six office buildings in New York 's Columbus Circle area . All but a handful of the Voice staff are American citizens . All work for civil-service wages  --  which would be peanuts for a hardened spy or an archintriguer . Every member of the Voice organization must pass a rigid personal and loyalty check by the FBI . Finding qualified personnel to man each of the forty-six different language services which cover the various target areas into which the Voice has divided both the free and the sovietized world has presented some sticky problems , for in many cases the person who voices a script at the microphone must prepare it , in the appropriate language , as well . Such a dual role demands not only an agreeable radio voice and personality but also considerable editorial ability and a basic knowledge of the psychology of the potential audience in the target area . When a noncitizen is hired by the Voice , the choice is usually dictated by the improbability of finding an American citizen who , let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knows the Uzbekistani and the way they think , who has a good radio voice and who is willing to work for Government wages . Congressional sharpshooters  --  apparently convinced that anyone who can sell the American public soap and washing machines over the air can sell an ideological package to a Slovenian peasant , a Tartar tribesman or a Hindu householder with equal facility ? have repeatedly suggested that the Voice should acquire some of the brighter commercial radio talent to aid its operations . These suggestions , for the most part , ignore both the economic and the linguistic realities . The chances of finding an American news analyst , commentator or entertainer who could get convincingly folksy with the Latvian or the Thailand home front over the short-wave radio  --  and who would do it for civil-service pay  --  are something less than rosy . On its extensive English-language programs , where the language barrier is not a factor , the Voice has on several occasions employed big-name commentators and news analysts who have offered to voice broadcasts at a nominal fee . This arrangement ran into an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a kind word for the Voice or its program he became the target of partisan critics who accused the volunteer voicer of selling his reportorial objectivity for a mesa of State Department gold . Since the gold in question usually represented just about enough to buy a good hat , the volunteers decided their contribution was n't worth the calumny . The Voice is still pondering the question of what to do about disinterested patriots who want to help their country without losing their reputations . In solving their peculiar staff problem , the administrative officers of the Voice have collected some rare and interesting characters in the disjointed Columbus Circle headquarters . Some of the programming workers are dissident high brass from behind the Iron Curtain  --  such as ex-Soviet Gen. Alexander Barmine , who heads the Russian desk , and a former Czechoslovakian cabinet minister who works on the Czech broadcasts . Others are from the ranks of the so-called little people  --  students , teachers , journalists and businessmen . One of the smallest and most appealing of these is a tiny VietNamese miss named Le-Thi-Bai . Miss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ripe wheat , was working as a librarian in our legation in Saigon , French Indo-China , when the Voice sent out a distress call for a translator-announcer who could make friends and influence people in both Viet-Namese and English . Le-Thi-Bai , who adds a fluent French to these two languages , won an audition held among the Saigon-legation employees and came to this country with her mother last spring . Miss Bai , who wears the sheathlike robe split to the hips and the white silk trousers of her country , opens each of her daily broadcasts to that shadowland of communist guerrilla warfare which borders South China , with the words : " Day La Tieng Noi Hoa Ky Keu Goi Viet-Nam " ? which is the VietNamese way of saying , " This is the Voice of America calling Viet-Nam . " Some languages employed by the Voice , particularly those covered by the Soviet East and Transcaucasian desks , are so alien to this part of the world that the State Department , with all its contacts , has difficulty in finding anyone who can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was held up for months while the Voice tried vainly to find a reliable announcer with an acceptable grasp of the tongue used in that remote Soviet republic . State Department personnel officers finally located , in one of our Eastern universities , a premedical student who had been born in Turkey of Armenian parents and taken to Transcaucasia as a child . The family later moved to Persia , and the young man entered this country as an Iranian . Though he speaks Persian , Russian , Armenian , Turkish and English , this multilingual Voicer has no intention of returning to the Middle East . The Voice wishes he were twins . Medical Doctor Becomes a Country Bumpkin ORDINARILY the Voice has little trouble finding experienced and capable personnel to staff the desks which handle the Middle and Western European target areas . When the problem arose , however , of finding a droll fellow who could take the part of a doubting peasant in an anticommunist skit intended for Czechoslovakia , the Czech desk ran into difficulty . The regular staff all tried the role , but none @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down-to-earth , you-show-me country bumpkin . The desk finally found its man in the person of a Czech doctor doing medical research in this country . The doctor , the son of a peasant family living not far from Prague , left Czechoslovakia during the German occupation of that country , served in the Czech exile army and came to this country to continue his scientific work after the war . He has a real gift for voicing the canny , skeptical peasant 's lines . Though it had no way of knowing it , Radio Moscow hit near the mark when it described the Voice staff as a swarm . That just about describes the orderly confusion of alien faces and foreign tongues which swirl and chatter in and about the Voice 's Columbus Circle offices and studios for twenty-four hours of each day . With barely enough room for desk space , an office the size of a generous living room may serve a dozen translators , announcers , directors and news analysts simultaneously preparing scripts for news broadcasts in four Chinese dialects  --  Mandarin , Cantonese , Swatow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Though the American head of the Northeast Asia unit  --  a veteran of eighteen years in China  --  carries on through this babel with admirable calm , the auditory backdrop is a little disconcerting to the average Western ear . Some desks , such as the Soviet East and Transcaucasian service , speak such an esoteric collection of languages that they ca n't even understand each other . When this happens they usually retreat to a third , neutral , tongue ; the Soviet East and Transcaucasian staff uses German as its medium of conversational exchange . As might be expected , even the typewriters come in various alphabets at the Voice . Because it talks to both the free peoples and the captives of the Soviet , the Voice must perform a double mission . In Western Europe , South America and other independent areas , the Voice must interpret the United States and its policies with all the urbanity and friendliness it can muster . In sovietized countries and the peripheral areas of conflict , the Voice must counter Stalin 's propaganda machine , jam through the facts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis for hope of eventual liberation . In filling this role behind the Iron Curtain , the Voice has found that subjugated peoples prefer to hear news during their stolen moments of ( Cont cd on Page 97 ) qwq clandestine listening . And the more local content the news has , the better they like it . Only a fool would be willing to risk jail and torture for a few minutes of entertainment . Such a schismatic program calls for more than the singing commercial , the quiz-happy clown or the soap-opera bathos which has characterized much of our domestic radio merchandising  --  in fact , the job has often called for more than the Voice has been able to give it up to the present . In what respect the Voice has failed and how it has succeeded offer some interesting speculations . The operational framework of the Voice is based on the fact that some 37 per cent of its over-all program material is news , 51 per cent features and commentary , and 12 per cent music . No identifiable musical theme , by the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or its satellites  --  this would immeasurably increase the risk to listeners who might be bothered with the wrong ears at their keyholes . A program which opened with The Star-Spangled Banner would probably lose half of its Iron Curtain listeners during the first few bars of the music . To prepare its news programs , the Voice runs what is essentially a newspaper city room around the clock . A staff of eighty , under three veteran newspapermen , works in three shifts to collate and edit the news of the day as it comes in over half a dozen foreign and domestic wire services and in the daily editions of the New York papers . Once the news is processed  --  cut and edited and correlated for brevity and accuracy ? it is sent to the various language desks in the adjoining buildings . At present the newsroom turns out about 50,000 words of basic copy in English every day . A microphone count of the words spoken daily by the Voice , in all its tongues , would increase this total eightfold  --  enough copy to fill five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question of what accent and interpretation should be placed on events of current interest in Voice programs are discussed for the newsroom and the language desks at a morning editorial meeting attended by all department and desk heads . Here some sixty or so staff members gather to hear Voice chief Foy Kohler or his assistant , Ed Kretzmann , give them the official attitudes of the State Department on the news of the day and discuss the beat way of handling the current news breaks . Inasmuch as the Voice speaks for the State Department , and the State Department , at least in theory , speaks for the country , this is a justifiable and logical arrangement to insure co-ordination between purpose and action in our foreign policy . The news collation in English , as prepared by the Voice newsroom , is used as a basis for news broadcasts and commentaries by the forty-six language desks . Understandably , the content of the programs beamed to Iron Curtain areas varies considerably from that broadcast to audiences with access to their own free press and radio . Listeners in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent straight news and 49 per cent analysis and features . It is considered axiomatic among the language desks working the satellite countries that audiences in a state where travel is restricted and the press and radio strictly controlled are hungry for news items concerning the home front . When the Voice broadcasted a report to Hungary that a currency devaluation was due on a certain date , a buying panic resulted . The devaluation ? until that moment a well-kept secret  --  did not take place on the date suggested by the Voice . When the new currency did come out six months later , however , it was found to carry the date of change , as originally given by the Voice . This kind of back-yard reporting wins an audience . Though the Voice news broadcasts cleave strictly to the truth , there are occasions when objective reporting is blandly stretched just far enough to give Stalin and Company an extra poke in the ribs . Not long ago the Polish desk included in a news broadcast beamed to that country ( where listening to the Voice is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the cathedral in Lublin had been seen to weep bloody tears over the plight of the Polish people . The Voice did not comment on the report , which had been received from a source within Poland . Such is the power of the grapevine that within a matter of a few days 200,000 country people had converged upon Lublin to witness the scene of the miracle . The state militia was called out to control the crowd , the cathedral doors were closed and the Polish press bitterly attacked the Voice for creating religious hysteria . For features and commentaries  --  anything other than straight news broadcasts  --  the Voice has a Program Operations Branch which supplementsoriginal material prepared by the various language desks . This group of writers prepares documentaries and ideological talks in English and passes them on to the language desks , where they are adapted , as the need arises , for the various target areas . The section also tape-records special events for inclusion in the Voice 's programs . As the cutting edge of the sword of psychological warfare , the Program Operations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ project . The quality of the material the group produces at present varies from good to indifferent . A commentary on the completion of the Stalin Canal between Lake Onega and the White Sea  --  a 141-mile ship canal built without machinery and entirely by conscript and slave labor  --  on the seventy-second anniversary of the emancipation of the Russian serfs by Czar Alexander II is probably hard-hitting propaganda to many satellite-country wall sitters . Other scripts  --  notably some of those selling the virtues of the American way of life to various audiences of free people who may envy us our possessions , but not our culture  --  seem like uninspired fare . It is easy to accuse the Voice of occasional dullness ; suggesting remedies is another matter indeed . Hope and truth often need the touch of genius to make them come alive . And , unfortunately , we have yet to learn how to sell America 's expensive form of democracy to a mortgaged and weary world . Though the problem of what to tell the world ( that is , the estimated 100 , - 000,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ received a lot of public and congressional attention , the problem of how to reach the population of the world 's critical areas has been generally ignored . Unfortunately , the world is not the radio engineer 's oyster . The shortest radio path between the United States and the Central European-Eurasian land mass  --  the critical areas in the cold war  --  is over the north-polar area . But the high-frequency radio waves used for long-distance transmission do not have a clear path across the top of the world . Just beyond our northern border the radio waves meet the southern edge of a hollow ring of perpetual storm area which blocks or distorts most of the signals trying to pass through it . This ring of electromagnetic disturbance is called the north-auroral zone , and if you could place yourself above the North Pole , with the world below you , this auroral zone would look like a wreath or a doughnut hanging on the pole , with its greatest area on our side of the globe . For purposes of radio transmission , this displacement effectively shades a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earth . And inside this cone lie Central Europe , Russia and most of Asia . Conversely , of course , we are in an occluded area as far as the Russian transmitters are concerned . Confronted with this constantly expanding and contracting area of disturbance ( during periodic sunspot activity the auroral zones spread ) , the Voice of America engineers have had to construct relay stations outside the affected cone to insure constant , successful transmission of broadcasts into the " shadow area " blocked off in whole or in part by the auroral zone . For an analogous situation you can imagine a tall man blocking the base pa. th between home plate and third base . If the catcher wanted to be sure of getting the ball to third , he could throw it to the pitcher , who would then whip it to the third baseman . The pitcher , in this case , is the relay station . At this writing , the Voice is using four relay stations in Manila , two in Honolulu , six in Tangier , one in Salonika , nine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in England . These relay stations ? enable us to bend our radio beams around the auroral zone and deflect them into the shadow area . With one exception , all Voice programs originate in the project 's New York studios , where they are funneled through the largest master-control room in the country . This master control , which can send out twenty programs at one time , dispatches the broadcasts over land lines to one or more of the thirty-eight short-wave transmitters the Voice uses in this country . These transmitters are located on the East , Coast , for programs beamed at Europe , in the Cincinnati area for broadcasts directed at Central and South America , and on the West Coast for coverage of the Far East . The relay stations in Honolulu , Ceylon , Manila , England , Tangier , Munich and Salonika receive the short waves emanating from these home stations and automatically rebroadcast them over both the short and medium vr.ve bands . The one Voice program whi ti is not home-grown is a fifteen-minute daily Polish program recently inaugurated in Munich . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European news not likely to be obtained by Polish listeners ( and including , as well , interviews with Polish defectors and refugees ) is the first of a series planned in Eastern European languages and is designed to bring the Voice 's programing operations closer to the target areas . Because the antennas used on both the short and medium wave stations are directional and thus aim the broad-casts at certain areas , the physical distribution of its transmitting stations gives the Voice , in theory , a fairly com-plete coverage of the globe . The qual-ification that the Voice just about covers the globe " in theory " is an im-portant one . Actually , due to both man-made and natural hindrances , the falls far short of this neers must , remember to play only in their own spatial back yard . There are something like seventy nations now engaged in international broadcasting , and each one is allotted its own particular slice of the atmosphere . This means that , when everyone is behaving himself , there are only certain frequencies or areas of the radio dial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by no means the biggest customer in line when these wave bands are passed out by international arbitration . The Soviet is currently broadcasting internationally for 670 hours a week , in fifty-two languages . The British Broadcasting Corporation follows , with approximately 550 hours a week of international broadcasts , and the Voice is a poor third with 350 hours a week . Now that open warfare between the Soviet bloc and the West has broken out over the air waves , the frequency rights of the two camps are more often than not honored in the breach , so that the Voice and B.B.C. have more elbowroom on the air  --  if they are willing to battle Slavic interference . The biggest single difficulty the broadcasters of the West face in reaching the conquered and captive people of the East is the barricade of noise established by the Russians . " Jamming " is man-made interference ( artificial static , if you want ) broadcast over a frequency to block other transmissions on that same frequency . The Russians , having taken a leaf from the Nazi book on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over which Western broadcasters try to pierce the Iron Curtain . Monitors and technicians calculate that the Soviet is now operating some 1000 jamming units day and night to drown out the West 's broadcasts in U.S.S.R. home languages . The jammers make like buzz saws , variable whistles , bagpipes , sea gulls , sirens and other unpleasant distractions . If the experts ' figures as to the number of these installations are right , the Russians have more of an investment of manpower and money in their jammers than the West has in its whole international transmitting project . With Slavic realism , the Russians have no hesitancy in jamming their own propaganda broadcasts when we try to use the same frequency . The Voice , Radio Free Europe , B.B.C. and the other systems beamed toward the Iron Curtain try to outwit the Soviet jammers by changing frequency whenever it is practicable , though this sort of dodge is also liable to outwit the potential audience  --  which , often , does n't follow you around the dial . Jamming is best countered by a superpower operation which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Voice has plans on that score . Meanwhile , the free nations ' best effort comes when the United States , Britain , Greece , Italy , Canada and Belgium sometimes act in concert and all broadcast in Russian at the same time over seventy transmitters beamed toward the Curtain . This is called saturation transmission and it must , together with the jamming , make the Red air waves ring . Does the Voice get through to the people who should hear what it has to say ? This is the $22,000,000 question . This appropriation , the current operational budget for the Voice ( about the cost of one medium-sized naval vessel ) does n't loom large against the shadow of our present hot-war kitty of more than $57,000,000,000 , but it is money thrown away unless the Voice of America is helping us win the battle of ideas . 100 TILE SATURDAY EVENING POST January 26 , 1952 In order to judge itself , the Voice has established a Program Evaluation Branch which , with the help of commercial and academic research organizations , measures program coverage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broadcasts . In countries where it is possible ? such as France , Western Germany , Italy , the Middle East and the Latin American republics  --  the Voice 's evaluation group makes use of the regular commercial poll organizations to get an objective picture of listener coverage and reactions . In some friendly nations a number of recorded Voice programs are carried on the regular domestic-broadcast schedules , and so the Voice knows it has a readily calculable audience for so many hours every week . The general consensus by the research agencies and by disinterested observers is that , in friendly countries , the Voice is doing a fairly good job of interesting a growing audience and that it is looked upon as more entertaining but less objective than B.B.C. 's competing foreign service . These same observers have pointed out that in many of these same countries , such as Italy and the Middle East , there is little chance of reaching any sort of mass audience , because the majority of the population is so poor it never has access to a radio . These poverty-stricken , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of millions are beyond the reach of sweet reason , are the nightmares of the psychological soldier . The biggest job facing the Voice , however , since its reincarnation under the State Department in 1947 ( an infant Voice first squeaked in 1942 ) has been to help fight Soviet moves toward a world conquest . This means that the Voice 's most vital target areas are the nations within the Iron Curtain and those on its periphery , which may be gobbled up next . What the Voice is doing in these areas is the real test of its value as a weapon in America 's present fight for survival . The value of propaganda of any sort , whether written or spoken , can never be measured by its immediate audience . There is always a word-of-mouth chain reaction  --  a sort of gossip grapevine which helps spread the word . Thus , it would seem the height of folly to broadcast to the masses of China , most of whom have probably never even seen a radio set . But China is speckled with small newspapers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he gets most of his news . The editor , by turning a dial , can hear what the Voice has to say . And though he would not dare to print Voice news under the Red regime , he will probably tell his trusted cronies , who will tell their wives , who will tell their cooks and wash ladies , and so on . With this in mind ( and also remembering the undeniable fact that some people with radios just do n't bother to use them ) it is manifestly impossible to judge the total effectiveness of the Voice in any given area of sovietized Europe and Asia . The State Department has estimated that there are some 4,000,000 receiving sets in Russia and that three-quarters of them can receive the short-wave broadcasting of the Western nations . This same source hazards that there was a potential Russian audience of 10,000,000 listeners for Western broadcasts before the Soviets introduced their intensified home-front jamming effort in 1949 . It is known that some 25 per cent of the Voice 's broadcasts currently get through to the Moscow area , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Voice 's infiltration sometimes runs as high as 90 per cent of the total broadcasts . How many Russians either want or dare to Eaten to the forbidden programs is another question . To date , not one Russian has written from Russia to thank the Voice for its services . In the satellite nations there is more direct evidence ( from refugees , escapees and intelligence reports ) that there is a considerable audience of listeners who regularly hazard their freedom by listening to the Voice and its working partners . Poland , with 1,600,000 receiving sets , is supposed to provide a daily listening group of nearly 1,000,000 . This surmise is bolstered by the report of the twelve Polish seamen who , encouraged by Voice broadcasts , recently captured a minesweeper on which they were working and fled to an asylum in Sweden . One of the sailors is quoted as saying , with reference to the Voice broadcasts , " Listening was forbidden . But everyone did it , despite the threat of heavy punishment . I know of some people who got four years in jail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " In little Czechoslovakia , with some 2,000,000 receiving sets , about 80 per cent of the population is thought to listen in on Western broadcasts daily . This relative saturation of the possible Czech audience was amusingly borne out by an incident manufactured by the Voice . A group of the SNB  --  the Red-controlled Czech security police ? used used to sit on some narrow benches opposite the United States embassy in Prague in order to follow and interrogate Czech visitors to the embassy . The Voice made fun of this group during a Czech-language program , twitting them for being drones who spent their days sitting on benches . Passersby thereupon began to snicker at the bench-sitters , who finally escaped public derision by moving into cars parked along the curb opposite the embassy . The Voice further invaded the gentle- men 's privacy by suggesting that the people of Prague resented the scraps of food which were continually being thrown out of the cars . The SNB men immediately found some other way of disposing of the remains of their lunch boxes . Some of the incidents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everyday life of the satellites have become a part of the joke lore of the country . A current Rumanian parlor joke ( if told in the right parlor ) tells of the old peasant woman who went to the police of a country district with the complaint that her goat had strayed away . The police were sympathetic with the old lady , but pointed out that they lacked the facilities for tracking down lost goats . The old peasant sniffed . Why , of course they could locate the goat ! Why did n't the police have her loss announced over that radio , the Voice of America ? Trying to catch the pulse of the Voice in the satellite countries , where a considerable segment of the population is invariably antagonistic to the Soviet masters and their native stooges , and where there are occasional breaks in the security barrier , is a relatively easy task . Russia proper , enclosed in an almost impenetrable wall of silence , is another matter . Aside from certain intelligence channels , which are carefully guarded , the West 's best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russian home front is the counteractivity of Moscow itself . The frantic and expensive jamming operation is , of course , excellent evi dence that the Kremlin does n't slough off the sting of Western broadcasts . There is also , with Russia and the satellites , a growing tendency to establish " wired-radio " hookups in certain areas . This Orwellian device consists of connecting all the radio receivers in a section to a central receiver which alone can select the programs . No one , has yet figured out a counter to this move which , if carried to its extreme , might take a whole nation off the international air . Another new wrinkle in both Russia and the satellites relies upon close supervision of all radio-repair shops . The shops , when they receive a set for repairs , remove the shortwave band from the receivers . To meet some of this obstructionism , both Stalinist and meteorological , the Voice has some grandiose plans which will cost approximately $100,000,000 , but , presumably , not one drop of blood . This project for the future , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known as Baker , Ring and Vagabond . Baker , which will be in operation within a year , is the Voice 's answer to the north-auroral zone . Already under construction in this country is a 1000-kilowatt short-wave transmitting station which , American engineers confidently expect , will be able to blast its way through the polar area of ' turbulence and give us constant , direct transmission to the other side of the earth . The only yardstick the layman has for gauging the effective power of this fantastic station ( which will utilize new-type directional antennas ) is the fact that it will he approximately 4000 times as powerful as our most powerful domestic broadcasting transmitter . Baker station might be the answer to the loss of our foreign relay transmitters if they are ever overrun by the Soviet hordes . Ring is a more sedate project which anticipates a necklace of fourteen short- , medium- and long-wave relay stations spotted around the periphery of the Soviet land mass . While there is a radio receiver of any type and a willing listener left in the Soviet orbit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truth . And , perhaps , hope . Vagabond is a dream in the making which should transport the young in heart back to the days of Drake and the early sea rovers . Sometime this winter the first of several fast freighters will take to the high seas to add suppleness to the long arm of the Voice of America . Each vessel will be a floating radio station capable of both relaying and originating beamed broadcasts to the curtained areas of the world . In the Mediterranean , in the Arctic seas , in the Indian Ocean or off the China coast , the Vagabond vessels will be able to find whatever chinks there are in the wall of silence the Soviets are building around their half of the earth . If this represents the ultimate implausibility of the strange , worldly melodrama in which we live  --  lonely men on a homeless vessel shifting over the trackless seas to find a theoretical spot from which they can reach the deaf millions far over the horizon  --  it should be remembered that we are fighting a strange war for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most popular play in Moscow was a heavy-handed satire titled Voice of America . In the introduction to the play was a line which brought great joy to Columbus Circle . " The Voice of America , " it went , " known to millions of Russians . . . . " May be we 're getting someplace , after all . 