@@487558

Dear Sirs : When I first saw the Collier'i cover for October 27 , 1951 , with the United Nations flag stuck on a pin at Moscow " Occupation Headquarters " I immediately thought of the summer of 1941 when I was in Tokyo . My attention was often attracted by a poster then displayed on station platforms and elsewhere . It showed a Japanese schoolboy holding a pin flag of Japan which he was in the act of sticking into a large map of the Philippines . Daily the wisdom of the ancient saying becomes more evident : " Whom the gods would destroy , they first make mad . " This comment , of course , is inspired by D. F. Fleming 's courageous article in the November 10 Nation . Washington DAVID T. RAY Puerto Rican Smith Act Dear Sirs : Your readers might be interested to learn that Ruth M. Reynolds , an American citizen , native of South Dakota , was recently convicted in Puerto Rico under Insular Law No. 53 , the counterpart of the Smith act , and sentenced ro Iwo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several years in Puerto Rico to gather material for a book , and as a passionate believer in Puerto Rican independence at times associated with members of the Nationalist Party . However , she denies membership in the party and declares that she can not condone or indorse violence on the part of any movement or cause . The basis for her conviction , on the charge of advocating the overthrow of the Puerto Rican government was the flimsy allegation that in December , 1949 , she was one of several hundred persons at a meeting to whom an oath to support the Nationalist Party was read and who rose in token of agreement : Miss Reynolds denies that she took the oath , pointing out that she is not a Puerto Rican . No one else at the meeting , not even the person who read the oath , has even been indicted on this ground , and no evidence whatever was introduced by the prosecution to establish any connection between Miss Reynolds 's attendance at this meeting in Arecibo and the revolt in San Juan in November , 1950 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nor was there any evidence that she had any pact in the revolt except as a spectator . More detailed information on the case can be obtained from Julius Eichel , of the Ruth Reynolds Defense Committee , 769 St. Marks Avenue , Brooklyn 13 , N. Y. The committee , largely composed of persons who knew Ruth Reynolds when she was engaged in anti-imperialist and pacifist activities in the United States , is desperately in need of several thousand dollars to pay the cost of her recent defense and of an appeal . Hastening the appeal is the more urgent because bail is set at the outrageous figure of $25,000 and very likely can not be raised . The committee is solely concerned with the defense of this one case , and contributing to it does not involve taking any position with respect to controversial political issues affecting Puerto Rico . A. J. MUSTE , Secretary , Fellowship of Reconciliation New York Continue the Battle ! Dear Sirs : I wish to compliment you , Morris Mitchell , and Dr. Theodore Brameld for the outstanding article entitled Fever Spots in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of courageous , factual treatment of an important subject is much needed today . As art educator in one of the difficult areas mentioned in the article , I am fully aware of the dangers of the type of criticism which your fine article exposes . We are tremendously concerned in San Diego about such attacks on American freedoms . I sincerely hope that more of our leading magazines will continue the battle for free schools . WAYNE C. FRY San Diego , Cal . Tribal Attorney Controversy Dear Sirs : Contrary to the impression created by your editorial paragraph published in your October 13 issue , these are the facts regarding the proposed regulations covering contracts between private attorneys and Indian tribes ; 1 . No denial of due process is involved . 2 . The proposed regulations do not place tribal attorneys under the super-                     