@@491372

AMONG the major questions being debated with well-bred asperity at Harvard University and its feminine counterpart , Radcliffe College , in Cambridge , Massachusetts , are two which inspire brisk discussions among educators nearly everywhere . One is whether girls are shy in a classroom containing a majority of males and so fail to speak up brightly in English 10 , Humanities 4 or Philosophy 1 . The second is based on the converse theory that any number of boys are stricken relatively dumb , or otherwise distracted , in the presence of even a few pretty girls who also have brains . It is well , first , to state a fact which still causes grief to some venerable alumni of the nation 's oldest institution of higher learning , sacred to men for more than 300 years . Virtually all lectures and classes at Harvard are now attended by Radcliffe women . The girls flit under the elms of the hallowed Harvard Yard , read beside Harvard students in their main library , go to mixed tutorial sessions in the Harvard residential houses . For a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and most of their graduate students , too , have been drinking together at common fountains of knowledge . But this is not , please , coeducation . It is joint , or co-ordinated , education . " Harvard is not coeducational in theory , only in practice , " former Pres. James B. Conant , a Harvard man himself , once quoted as the prevailing view , liars ant 's A idener Library . The Lamont Library for Crimson iiiidergrads remains a male refuge . The existing state of affairs in Cambridge is sometimes a shock to lads who matriculate under the impression that Harvard is a place where men are men without any feminine nonsense to complicate life . Their reactions were gleefully reported last fall by the editors of the weekly Radcliffe News . " Why do n't they tell us before we come that this is a coed school ? " mourned a yearling whose male forebears had attended Harvard for a couple of centuries . " And it is coed , no matter what they say . " The basic controversy relates , of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one sex or the other as against the coeducational hybrids , such as the universities of Kansas , Ohio State , Michigan , Wisconsin and California , which are the general American pattern . The adherents of separate colleges , like Yale and Princeton or Vassar and Wellesley , argue that since men are preparing for lifetime careers and women for a probable future mainly of wifehood , motherhood and widowhood , it is illogical to educate them along exactly the same lines . There are , besides , stanch traditionalists who insist that male and female minds just do n't work the same way ? the male being , obviously , superior . The eminent Harvard historian , Samuel Eliot Morison , belongs to a small but vociferous wing who claim that men come to grips with ideas while their literal sisters simply memorize facts . For example , Harvard students jot down the salient points of a lecture while the Radcliffe girls , according to Doctor Morison , are so many little tape recorders , faithfully noting every word . Doctor Morison 's views should be discounted perhaps . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out against sending daughters to college . But a legend at Harvard , which he declines to confirm or deny , says that he once proved his contention . He was lecturing on the discovery of the Americas . " In 1492 , " Doctor Morison began , " Captain John Smith sailed across the ocean and set foot on the coast of Massachusetts . " The girls are alleged to have taken it all down solemnly while the boys , recognizing a professorial trap , kept their pencils poised . The most eloquent advocate of separate education for the distaff side may also be a special pleader . He is Pres. Lynn Townsend White , Jr. , of Mills College , a leading women 's school near San Francisco . President White pulls no punches . Of coeducation he says that " it is not co- . As it is practiced today , so-called coeducation is not only a fraud so far as women are concerned ; it is one of the chief means by which the masculine dominance is maintained . " Moat college courses are designed primarily for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up largely of men ; their extracurricular activities are controlled by men . Then Mr. White savings a haymaker at Radcliffe . " That Radcliffe .. . should be regarded - as anything but a piteous example of female docility , " he has written , " indicates how rudimentary our thinking in these matters remains . " A visitor to Cambridge soon learns that the ladies of Radcliffe walk unruffled amid the flying dead cats . So does their liberal , scholarly president , Wilbur Kitchener Jordan , who is also professor of English history at Harvard . In " joint instruction , " he thinks , lies a solution which combines the advantages of separation with those of coeducation . The seventy-five-year-old women 's college across Harvard Square remains an independent corporation , distinct from the university except for sharing its faculty and curriculum . Radcliffe has its own administration , its own buildings , endowment and budget . Its 1000 undergraduates have their separate student government and activities ; they leave Hasty Pudding and Porcellian strictly alone . True , the Radcliffe Choral Society often sings with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their independence gives them a strategic position . " We do n't have to be floor moppers for the men , " a senior remarked with spirit when Radio Radcliffe PHOTOGRAPHY Iii HANS K NON. ; broke off relations with Harvard 's Crimson Network because the lads wanted to run things their way . Harvard and Radcliffe are not the sole exponents of co-ordinated education . Brown University , in Providence , Rhode Island , and Pembroke College for women have a somewhat similar affiliation , as have Hobart College , at Geneva , New York , and William Smith College  --  the latter feminine despite its name . So also have Pomona and Scripps colleges , in Claremont , California . The idea seems to be spreading , particularly among the smaller institutions , which find it more and more difficult . to offer , by themselves , the full curriculum and the large and distinguished faculties of bigger seats of learning . As Robert Yoder wrote in The Saturday Evening Post of October 8 , 1949 , Haverford , Bryn Mawr and Swarthmore have for some time been sharing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wagon . Several groups of colleges in the South and elsewhere do some pooling of their academic resources . Where the students of the co-operating institutions are of different sexes , this is bound to result in a degree of coeducation ? or , if you will , joint education . There are plenty of holdouts against it . A recent report of Wellesley College ardently defends its still unshaken femininity. - " We believe , " Wellesley affirms , " that more academic work of a valuable Continued ea on Page 80 ) THEY 'RE USING LIPSTICK AT HARVARD NOW ( Conlinitud iron , Page 33 sort can be accomplished by a majority of the students in such a college than in a coeducational college , and without loss of association with h men ? that is , if the location is right . " The proponents of coeducation disagree . " If you want an old pedagogue 's opinion , " a former English instructor at the University of Illinois said recently , " I think the girls generally are spurred to greater Schola8lic competition by having males in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is true , he admitted reminiecently , that a particular man might distract a particular girl  --  and vice versa. " . . . and if they both happened to he in the same class , it was murder . But I doubt that the situat ion is any better in a man 's college , where in the same chemical state the guy mooned about someone over at Smith or Holyoke . " Doctor Morison to the contrary . most of the Harvard faculty share this view . And they are convinced that the girls ' greater conscientiousness challenges the men to work harder than they might otherwise . They agree , on the whole . that the average female student may not speak up as freely as the average male , but the really bright girl volunteers more in class than her masculine opposite . Indeed , it may he hard to keep her quiet . At least one Radcliffe lass has suggested . out of her experience  --  if not out of a slight prejudice  --  that the Clitfit es do n't speak up unless they have something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Socially , both faculty and students at Cambridge insist , mixed education , he it joint or co-. is far better than separate . It 's more normal , they point out ; more like the everyday world they will graduate into . Radcliffe women would not , of course , go as far as the Cornell alumna , class of 1953 , who said philosophically , " It is a man 's world , after all , and better let the girls realize they have a tough row to hoe . " But , like her , they favor a situation in which the sexes work together , and men are not just a week-end date . The joining of Radcliffe and Harvard has had , apparently , a civilizing influence on both . " No jeans in class ; we 're neatly dressed , " says a popular Radcliffe song , implying quite accurately that their sisters at Mt . Holyoke and Smith do n't always bother with skirts or lipstick . The ' Cliffites do not hesitate to offer evidence that mixing the sexes also booms the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At the time of last fall 's Dartmouth game they cornered a visitor from that strictly masculine college in the New Hampshire hills and quoted his views in their newspaper . Their quarry may have been a figment of journalistic imagination , but he is declared to have said that one certain result would follow if the impossible occurred and Dartmouth opened its doors to women . The boys . " he conceded , " would tend to dress better . " Some of his fellow Dartmouthe countered with a description of the Radcliffe girl as they claim to see her : " flat-chested , wearing horn-rimmed spectacles , overintellectual . " And they went on tauntingly ; " If you want a good date , Smith ; if you want to get married , Holyoke . " The ' Clitlites , secure in their knowledge that invitations for a " Jolly-up , " or informal dance , in a Radcliffe dormitory , will produce fifteen men to one girl , can afford to shrug off their onetime bluestocking reputation . But it was not always so . In 1879 most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ higher education , although for nearly half a century the pioneering women of the Middle and Far West had been going to college with their men . In that year a Cambridge historian and educator , Arthur Gilman , arranged to have some Harvard faculty members teach his daughter and a few other young girls privately . He interested several prominent Cambridge ladies in his scheme , of which the original object ? as he put it quite frankly  --  was " not to build up a college For women ... but simply to repeal . for women the collegiate instruction already provided for men by Harvard College . " The youthful president of Harvard , Charles W. Eliot , seems to have been sympathetic to the idea that the university could do something for intelligent girls . He was doubtless reassured by a sentence in Gilman 's circular outlining the plans of the Society for the Collegiate Instruction of Women . The proposal , Gilman wrote , " in no way savors or tends to coeducation . " The society 's young ladies , in steadily increasing numbers , worked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not invade its precincts . They studied decorously in houses across the square , while a messenger earned hooks twice a day from the Harvard library to their reading room . If they came from a distance , they boarded with carefully selected Cambridge families . By 1894 Mr. Gilman and his fellow trustees of thesociety had to acknowledge that they had a college on their hands . They named it after the first woman to make a gift to an American educational institution . She was Ann Radcliffe , Lady Mowlson , a shrewd London widow who in 1643 sent 100 pounds to Harvard for a scholarship . Harvard students were not unaware that there was a female colleges stone 's throw away . They enjoyed twitting the young women of the " Annex " as much in the 1890 's as they do now . When Radcliffe announced the opening of a swimming pool to encourage healthful exercise in its studious girls , the Harvard daily thought it worth reporting . " 50,000 gals in tank , " quipped the Crimson , which today still opens only a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no Radcliffe woman went into the Harvard Yard without a hat and gloves , if she went there at all . It was equally understood that no Harvard man knew a Radcliffe woman socially . This tradition persisted for decades . A member of as recent a class as 1938 could protest , " But . I never met a Radcliffe girl ! " To which the Radcliffe wife of a Harvard graduate , circa 1900 , retorted , " They did n't know us , but they married us . " The conclusion can not be escaped that some of the anti-Radcliffe feeling was caused by a ' Cliffite tendency to avoid being fashion plates . They all knew the story of how the college 's famous dean , Miss Agnes Irwin . had stopped a modishly dressed student to ask severely about her scholastic standing . The lass replied that she was getting very good grades indeed . " I 'm glad to hear it , " commented the dean . " You give so much attention to your dress , I wondered if you were devoting enough time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given over chiefly to earnest discussion , and early dramatic entertainments were limited to strictly female casts . Since it could not he admitted that women were bifurcated , the voluminous pleated bloomers required for gymnasium served also to costume the nether halves of players in male roles . Brothers and friends , a graduate of 1903 has recalled , " furnished immaculate dress coats , waistcoats , shirts , collars and ties . " But Dean Irwin insisted that lower limbs he always decently concealed by those baggy bloomers . The good dean saw " insuperable objections " to housing her students in a dormitory , which she considered " a great barrack full of young women . " In 1901 , however , the college reluctantly erected the first unit in what was to be-come a chastely austere brick reeiden-titreeui al quadrangle , af cam Cambridge . in theMeanwhile , e leek a , across the common from Harvard , a gymnasium , a library and classroomd tuamllyategrrieawl acquisition , Rbuaidldeinliffges , agrfiarad the graceful old Fay House , until the Annex had its own modest yard . Miss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Radcliffe to learn from the Harvard faculty . A handful of men taught at Smith College , founded a few years earlier ; the Wellesley faculty was wholly feminine from the start . Where , except at Radcliffe , could a young woman find " courses of instruction , " as Mr. Gilman described them , " upon which the wisdom of men has for generations been working " ? Where else could they study philosophy with William James or George Santayana , drama with George Pierce Baker or English composition with LeBaron Russell Briggs ' ? It is true that Briggs , who became Radcliffe 's second president . regretted a growing tendency " to copy the judgment of men when the judgment of women would be better . " It is likewise true that not all the Harvard faculty  --  though they were paid welcome extra stipends for their services to the Annex  --  were reconciled to educating girls on the same level with their brothers . The university 's celebrated professor of rhetoric , Charles Townsend Copeland , declined to give a course in argument at Radcliffe . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women to become apt in argument .. We can not obliterate a natural tendency , but why cultivate it ? " He had his supporters . That fine old Bostonian , Barrett Wendell , Harvard ' 77 , lectured on English literature to Radcliffe classes with an air of ill-disguised disapproval . He introduced his sons to a friend one day , remarking that they were , of course , at Harvard . " And your daughters , I suppose , are at Radcliffe , or will be ? " " My daughters , sir , " replied Wendell coldly , " I hope are ladies . " As the years passed . Doctor Wendell watched with growing dismay the gradual lowering of the harriers to women . The process of attrition began in the Harvard graduate schools . Courses open to the female invasion were marked in the catalogue with double daggers . They are daggers pointing at the heart of Harvard College ! " Wendell used to exclaim bitterly . If Barrett Wendell took a dim view expurgated version of ancient scandals . If he had to mention any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of women . The university 's usually irrepressible anthropologist , Earnest A. Hooton , confessed recently that " mixed classes do make me curb my Rabelaisian tendency . " A rumor ( Continued on Page 82 ) EVENING POST ( Continued from Page Fill ) has it that one of Doctor Hooton 's most eminent anthropological confreres feels no such constraint , and that " the ' Cliffe contingent has been known to walk out at displays of his more pungent information . ' Inevitably there were omissions more serious than illicit historical romances from the Radcliffe list of courses . Although the president of the university countersigned Radcliffe 's diplomas , the Harvard faculty were under no obligation to teach there if they did not want to . If a professor fell ill or was unduly burdened with research , he was likely to drop his Radcliffe course . Miss Ada Louise Comstock , who presided with energy and distinction over the women 's college from 1923 to 1943 , must have found herself increasingly weary of negotiating each year for the services of each instructor . And the instructor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuisance to deliver the some lecture at ten o'clock which he had given at nine o'clock ? " with the same jokes , " as one of them remembers  --  after a quarter mile dash through the traffic whirling dangerously around the Cambridge Common . With the years , it seemed easier to invite the ladies over to Harvard for he smaller advanced classes and seminars . There were , of course , die-hards who preferred to march grimly across to Radcliffe , even if it . meant repeating I he work for a solitary student . One determined antifeminist was impaled on he dilemma of a young woman Ph.D . candidate who could not win her degree without his required course in Icelandic , Old Saxon or Beowulf . He would not go to Radcliffe , nett her would he tolerate a female in his Harvard classroom . Finally old frozen-fare told her that she could sit in the doorway to take notes . There the poor girl sat , absorbing knowledge , but shivering on wintry mornings in the cold blast from the corridors . Fortunately she escaped pneumonia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with its shortages both of faculty and of male students , finally forced Harvard to concede that the women were there to stay . The university agreed to take on full official responsibility for the Radcliffe curriculum , in exchange for about 85 per cent of the college 's tuition fees . First , junior and senior courses , then the less advanced classes , were combined with the men 's , until every course at Harvard ? with some exceptions in the graduate schools  --  was open to the ' Cliiilites . The Annex could at last claim with full truth that it offered what its founders intended : " a course of instruction which shall he a counterpart of that pursued by the men . " It is this unabashed admission of male superiority which so outrages Mills ' Pres. Lynn White . This is what he calls , in his lively and deliberately provocative hook , Educating Our Daughters , Radcliffe 's " curricular bondage to Harvard . " " If we are to rear our daughters to he proud that they are women , " White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present peculiar habit of educating them as though they were men . " President White would , of course , give the girls much of the same basic liberal-arts education which is offered to boys . But he would stress the more feminine preoccupations with family and community problems . Let them not he ashamed , he urges , of using their hands as well as their heads in applied rather than line arts ? food and nutrition , textiles and clothing , health and nursing , house planning and interior 3nnunry 34 , 1954 decoration , garden design and child de-v Nome economics as it is taught in the beligoIlcoem coeducational institutions is something for which White has nothing but scorn . There , he charges , the future wife is trained to " run the kitchens of an insane asylum " instead of to cook for her family . According to President White , cookery should be presented in college for what it is , an art , and an esoteric one at that . " Why not , " he asks , " study the theory and preparation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , .. an authoritative curry , the use of herbs . .. ? " The Radcliffe administration has from time to time prodded the authorities at Harvard into introducing courses of special interest to women . The Har- vard-Radcliffe catalogue now lists such items as Family Relations , Development of the Child and Behavior Problems in Childhood and Adolescence  --  these last two being known to the ' Cliffites as " Babies " and " Bobbysoxers . " But the student reaction to these offerings raises a question which the head of Mills has not yet seen fit to resolve . They are elected by a larger proportion of Harvard men than of Radcliffe women . As for teaching the use of herbs or the marinating of shish-kebab , it is Radcliffe 's contention that any intelligent girl who can read a recipe can cook , - if sufficiently motivated . " This thesis was challenged last fall by four Harvard graduate students . An alumna of a Western coeducational college had asserted to them that " a Radcliffe education does more harm than good , that only a practical course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In an advertisement in the Crimson , the young men asked the ' Cliffites : " Are you ready for matrimony ? " and offered twenty-five dollars to the girl who could prove it by turning out the prize-winning meal in a contest to be held at their apartment . The response from the ' Clines was immediate . Twenty signed up the day the contest . was announced . At last reports , the winner had not yet been picked . The judges had enjoyed thirty or forty mouth-watering dinners and were asking for more . They let it he known that they still yearned for " a good Irish stew " and that any girl " wish a suckling pig " would be welcomed with open arms . It must not he supposed that Radcliffe leaves all aspects of practical preparation for life to clever Harvard graduate students . Present-day college girls intend to get married and raise children . But most of them will take jobs before starting domestic life , and many will continue to hold them except . perhaps , when their sons and daughters are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stimulating intellectual experience , they are very likely to be lost in an office . Radcliffe has evolved one unique solution to this problem in its Management Training Program . This is a year 's graduate course for which no degree is given . it is designed to equip women with the skills and attitudes necessary for the business world through alternating classroom discussion with periods of actual work in offices and factories . Twice during I lie year the students take paid positions with such companies as the Abraham and Straus department store in Brooklyn , New York . the American Telephone &; Telegraph Company and the General Electric Company . In the program 's sixteen years of operation , more than 400 young women have enrolled and have moved on to good jobs in banks , stores , industrial plants and Government . agencies . The program is sponsored by one of the few remaining masculine strongholds in Cambridge , the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration . The business school will not admit women to its own three-year course for future executives , on the ground 1 hat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lifetime career and much of the work would he wasted on them . But it does provide the funds and a large number of the teachers who acquaint Radcliffe 's trainees with the mysteries of the commercial world . A few other male refuges persist at Harvard . One , the Lamont Library for undergraduate men , is something of a mystery . Women can use the treasures in the great Widener Library if they are qualified . Men are admitted to the library in the Radcliffe Yard . The sole explanation for Lamont 's exclusiveness is , apparently , that somebody neglected to put in adequate washroom facilities when it was built . But this excuse is somewhat lame ; during summer sessions Lamont is coeducational . Organization charters and deans ' rulings still protect Harvard extracurricular activities from being swamped by the ' Cliffites , who may not have a vote on the Crimson or Advocate hoard or belong officially to the dramatic club , though the club would have a hard time without their participation . The annual Christmas plays staged in the various residential houses , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alone . By tradition they are rowdy Restoration comedies , and no Harvard gentleman could possibly speak such lines if ladies were present . Final examinations are still given separately at Harvard and Radcliffe , for the reason that the ' Cliffites have long had an honor system , while the men are still supervised by hawk-eyed proctors . Graduation exercises are also rigidly separate . The two commencements are held on succeeding days , and though the university now awards higher degrees to women in law , medicine , education and public administration , the feminine recipients have not yet , been allowed to enter the Old Yard , where the alumni stage a mild jollification after the formal proceedings . It is l he only time of t be entire year that I hey are barred . Harvard still does not grant the M.A. or Ph . D. to women in the arts and sciences . The university cheerfully gives them graduate instruction in I these fields , but the ladies must he content with a Radcliffe degree . They must also accept the fact that . although they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or lecturer on the Harvard faculty , they are not likely to go higher if they stay in Cambridge . So far , only five women have achieved full professorial rank . Meanwhile President Jordan and Dean Cronkhite are doing their best to boost the egos and enlarge the opportunities of their 300 graduate students . Last November they launched a drive for $2,000,000 to build a graduate quadrangle on the Radcliffe campus . Here the young scholars  --  now living in what quarters they can find around Cambridge ? will have attractive rooms and a common dining hall and will be able to invite graduate students of the opposite sex to discuss abstract theorems in an atmosphere of low lights and plenty of coffee . Like it or not , this is a far cry train the conventional seclusion in which Radcliffe started . And what . of the Harvard undergraduates ' reaction to the new order ? If they are not delighted , which many of them are , they are at least reconciled . A superior youth was queried in the Yard shortly after the war . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ News , may he spotted by the Harvard accent , and who wear " an air of habitual Welt - schrnerz and alternating seersucker and corduroy jackets . " " I approve of the presence of the girls , " he said aloofly . " I like to see all these little peasants taking notes so industriously . " An alumnus or faculty member returning to the Harvard Yard after the change in 1943 may have been faintly shocked by the amount of hand-holding discernible in that once strictly masculine enclosure . He may even have thought that he had wandered inadvertently onto a Midwestern campus . But if he stayed around he discovered that the shades of the late presidents Eliot and Lowell , who made Harvard a great institution of learning , still have their influence . No one would deny that . joint education has something to do with t he fourfold increase in applications to Radcliffe since 1943 , nor with the unmistakably higher level of pulchritude . But scholastic standards are stiffer than ever . The ' Cliffit es , like the Harvard men , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courses . They still come , as in the 1880 's and ' 90 's , to sit at the feet of the Harvard faculty . It is still respectable , they will assure you , and even desirable , to get an " A. " There is not the frenzied absorption in making a sorority or in being " pinned " by a big fraternity man that is found on some coed campuses . The atmosphere is not that described by the former University of Illinois instructor as he came out strongly in favor of full coeducation ' ' even though many classes I attended or taught , , " he admitted , " did hear a rather strong resemblance to a Broadway chorus line and even though it is true that young females between seventeen and twenty-one show an awful lot . of leg from the front . " 