@@476939

One of the architects of American policy in Southeast Asia brings back a heartening report on our chances of saving Indochina a key area which seemed almost sure to fall to the Communists only a year ago . AT GENEVA in 1954 , France , Great Britain , the Soviet Union , and Communist China ? with the United States looking on ? agreed that the war in Indochina should be brought to a close . One element in the formula they devised for this purpose was an election in Viet Nam to be held in July 1956 . The election was expected to determine whether or not the largest of the three Indochinese states should go in its entirety to the Communist Viet Minh . In contrast to their reticence in Germany , Korea , and the Eastern European satellites , the Communists have sought this election ? sought it with a desperate urgency , with a suggestion that it is now or never for them in Viet Nam . They believe they have a- winner in Ho Chih Minh , who heads the Communist dictatorship in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how long . Formerly Ho had to contend only with a disreputable ex-Emperor and a French colonial administration in vying for the loyalties and affection of the Vietnamese people . He now faces a formidable opponent in Ngo Dinh Diem , Chief of State of the free government in south Viet Nam . If there is to be a peaceful unification of Viet Nam , elections are essential . The all-important questions are : What kind , and when ? Elections tend to degenerate into mere ritual when the conditions for a free choice are lacking or when preparations are inadequate . Countries like India and Indonesia spent years laying the groundwork for their first elections as free nations . Diem is not the kind of man who can be pressured into any action . He has ignored Corn-munist exhortations 10 meet with them on the election question . This does not mean he is opposed to elections . He favors , and will in all probability advocate them ? if and when the ironclad Communist dictatorship in north Viet Nam has been modified . Meanwhile he does not regard the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his government . He was not consulted on the agreement , and he denounced it as soon as its terms were revealed . Diem can afford to wait ; Ho can not . In calling for an election , the Geneva conferees were attempting to deal with one bit of the geographic schizophrenia which the worldwide conflict between totalitarian communism and freedom has produced in the Far East . On the fringes of Communist power in Asia lie not only a partitioned Viet Nam but a split Korea and two Chinas . In each case the division is regarded on both sides as temporary . Mao Tse-tung vows that he will take Formosa ; and Chiang Kai-shek insists that the Nationalists will return to the Asian mainland . Syngman Rhee grows impatient to join the northern half of his country to the Republic of Korea ; the Communists in turn insist that sooner or later the Korean peninsula will be unified by them . Ho Chih Minh longs to take over Viet Nam south of the seventeenth parallel ; Diem is confident that eventually the country will be reunited under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the possible exception of the Formosa-China split , it is reasonable to assume that these divisions are temporary . The partitions have occurred in nations which are contiguous ( again , excepting Formosa ) and otherwise quite similar in race , culture , language , and outlook . Although Korea , Viet Nam , and China have been divided several times before in history , invariably these centripetal forces have drawn them together again . American policy ? at least toward Korea and Viet Nam ? has generally supported the concept of unification . It has also been a policy of negative preference , since our principal concern is that these countries should not be unified by the Chinese Communists , or their puppets . To save Korea from Communist unification we remobilized our armed forces , engaged a large part of them on distant battlefields , and spent billions of dollars to maintain the Republic under Syngman Rhee . To preserve Formosa we have allocated enormous sums to the Chinese Nationalists , stationed a fleet between the island and the mainland , and even threatened to go to war ourselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the non-Communist Vietnamese allied with them with billions of dollars in aid . While we ( lid not actually commit ourselves to war to prevent Communist unification of Viet Nam , it was not for want of official voices advocating such a course . Since the defeat of the French Expeditionary Force in the great battle of Dien Bien Phu in 1954 , our policy in Viet Nam has supported not merely anti-communism but also Ngo Dinh Diem . But while in this sense our policy has become more positive , our activity in the area has become more modest , and so have our words . It is somewhat ironic , therefore , that where we are doing the least , the prospects for success are the best . Not only is there a good chance of preventing the Communist unification of Viet Nam , there is even the possibility of a positive advance of freedom . A MAN WITH A MISSION KEY to this anomaly , I believe , is to be found in the character of Diem . Leadership is a revealing index to the situation in any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces within a society , or as giving them expression . There is a difference in a United Kingdom headed by a Churchill and by an Eden . A subtle change has taken place in the United States since leadership passed to The Team after the unfortunate illness of the President . It is difficult to envision the direction in which India might have gone in the past quarter-century without first a Gandhi and then a Nehru . In some respects , leadership as a molder rather than an expresser of the social forces in a country is more significant in Asia than in the West . The shock of independence has left these countries in a very amorphous state . They are nations turning on a kind of giant potter 's wheel . The fingers which shape them before the clay hardens will have much to do with their ultimate forms . It is not accident that elections in many Asian countries are being conducted with ballots whichshow the portraits of contesting candidates side by side . More than a technique of voting is involved ; there is a certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his preference carefully in the box , and casts the other candidate into the dust . If Viet Nam has not set in the Communist mold ? as was almost universally expected a year ago ? it is due in large part to Diem . I met him for the first time in the United States in early 1953 . Although he was then in one of his frequent self-imposed exiles , he possessed a deep conviction and almost buoyant confidence that he would some day steer his country between colonialism and communism toward freedom . He had a unique training for the mission which he had set for himself . Reared in the classical atmosphere of an Oriental court ( his father was a Mandarin ) , he had nevertheless been educated in the democratic and humanistic precepts of the West . He understood the pitfalls of both colonialism and communism . He had attempted to work for the freedom of the Vietnamese people under the urewar government and had become one of its few respected administrators . But when it became clear to him that his talents were being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all connections with Rao Dai , incurring the deep-seated enmity of the ex-Emperor . He endeared himself as little to the Communists when he spurned Ho Chih Minh 's offer to appoint him to the key post of Minister of Interior in the Viet Minh government . When I talked with Ngo Dinh Diem three years ago at a luncheon given by Justice William 0 . Douglas , there seemed little likelihood that this man ? outlawed by both sides in the Indochina conflict ? would ever have an opportunity to put his nationalist idealism into practice . But only a few months later , when Viet Nam had been all but abandoned to the Communists , Diem was chosen by a reluctant Bao Dai , as a last resort , to head the government of free Viet Nam . The Communists greeted the selection with derision . When I visited Indochina in the fall of 1954 , Diem was a lonely figure in Saigon . He had inherited a government in chaos , run by a coalition whose only claims to authority were guns and influence with the ex-Emperor Bao @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pirates of the Binh Xuyen semi-secret organization , the mystical quasi-religious sects of the countryside known as the Hoa Hao and the Cao Dai , and by colonial hangers-on . The demoralized Vietnamese army was a separate force , with a chief of staff nourishing expectations of establishing a military satrapy in south Viet Nam . This weird conglomeration was held grimly together by the French Ministry for the Associated States in Paris and the French Expeditionary Corps based in Saigon . Bao Dai , who bore the title of Chief of State and served as the instrument of cohesion , issued orders and edicts from Cannes on the French Riviera . While the various elements of power alternately vied and co-operated with each other in the struggle for control in Saigon , the Communist Viet Minh under Ho Chill Minh strengthened their grip on the country . The Geneva truce had consigned the northern half to the Viet Minh . They promptly fastened on it an authoritarian regime modeled after Communist China . Below the seventeenth parallel , underground Communist cadres and organizers were the real power in much of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their penetration by bringing a brush down on a map of south Viet Nam . " Wherever the bristles touch , " he said , " there are Viet Minh . " They were the government even where officials nominally responsive to Saigon sat in the provincial and local offices . The people accepted Communist leadership partly in terror , but mostly because there was no real Vietnamese alternative . In the jungle of colonial decay , corruption , and military defeat which characterized Saigon in 1954 , Diem assumed the Presidency with few assets other than his nationalism , his personal incorruptibility and courage , and his idealistic determination . In addition , he had some cautious support from the American Embassy , the gratitude of several hundred thousand poverty-stricken refugees whom he had insisted upon evacuating from the Communist north , and the sympathy of a few small Vietnamese nationalist organizations . Diem found few allies among the French and Vietnamese officials and military officers who crowded into Saigon in the wake of the defeat at Dien Bien Phu . The army leaders ignored his directives and constantly threatened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Binh Xuyen tossed warning bombs into his residence . Colonial hacks , with straight faces , found him " unpopular , " and French colons complained of his " stubbornness " and " inexperience . " When Diem indicated an intention of extending the authority of the government into the south Vietnamese countryside , the Hoa Han and Can Da ist sects brandished their independent armed bands at the upstart in Saigon who threatened their " rights . " The rights , it might he noted , were government subsidies and autonomous control of large areas of the countryside . In these areas the sects had the unchallenged privilege of exploiting the inhabitants in return for " protection , " mystical quasi-religious services , and anti-communism . THE SPECIAL INTERESTS D I E M constituted a threat to all these special interests ? the army , the sects and racketeers , the colonial bureaucracy , and the politicians allied with Bao Dai . They undermined Diem 's constructive program by inertia , outright opposition , and conspiracy to bring about his removal . The not-very-remote danger of the Viet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ danger of Diem . Some even appeared to believe that life with the Communists would be easier than with the new President . In Saigon , in the fall of 1954 , the teacup gossip measured Diem 's political career , if not his life , in days and even hours . Diem , however , acted as though it would last forever . Outside the Palace of Independence , in which lie sat with Eastern passivity , the clamor of opposition rose . The more Diem ignored it , the more furious it became . He was criticized abroad for doing nothing and at home for doing too much . Actually he was doing the only thing he could do . He was maneuvering to free himself from the web of corruption and decadence and the vestiges of colonial control in which he had been enmeshed from the moment he assumed the Presidency . He was attempting to separate and dissolve the strands of this web which stretched from Paris and Cannes to Saigon and into the Vietnamese provinces . And he used his meager resources . with great political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a part of the bankrupt legacy which he inherited . Put together , they revealed why half of Viet Nam had fallen to the Communist leader Ho Chili Minh and the balance was threatened , despite the presence of a French Expeditionary Force of 300,000 men and the lavish expenditures of billions in American aid . The case of the Vietnamese army was symptomatic of the whole . Trained by the French and equipped and supported by the United States , it was initially designed not as an instrument of a free Vietnamese government but as a supplement to the French Expeditionary Corps . Despite modern training and copious supply , it failed to perform even this limited function . And after the fighting was over , it became a serious divisive force in south Viet Nam . When Diem attempted to convert it into an element of national strength , the chief of staff ? a Vietnamese of French citizenship ? openly defied his orders . He ignored and vilified the President and would listen only to the French Expeditionary Corps or to Bao Dai in Cannes . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rebellious chief of staff in November 1954 , he had taken the first step in unraveling the strands of the web which had held him a virtual prisoner . He had in effect shifted the Vietnamese army from an independent and obstructive position into a subordinate one . If he had not done so , there would have been no opportunity to push a constructive program in Wet Nam . The gulf which already separated the army from the Vietnamese people could only have grown . In the end , the army would probably have degenerated into an oppressive warlordism , and by further alienating the people have paved the way for a Communist triumph . DIEM 'S next challenge came from the Binh Xuven and the sects , particularly the Hoa Hao . The Binh Xuyen was literally a government within the government : the organized brotherhood of the corrupt and the lawless in and around Saigon-Cholon . Backed by regular armed bands , it had grown powerful on extortion , the drug traffic , gambling , and other questionable activities . By breaking its ties with the Communists who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ risen to a position of quasi-respectability , at least in official colonial circles . Although the organization continued to tap the revenues of illicit occupations , it became a pillar of strength in the Saigon government . When Diem came to power , Ban Dai took the precaution of placing control of the police and the national gendarmerie in the hands of the Binh Xuyen . It became , therefore , at once the principal enforcer and the principal breaker of the law in Saigon-Cholon . What the Binh Xuyen was to the metropolis of south Viet Nam , the Hoa Hao and , to some extent , the Cao Dai were to the countryside . Their armed bands , supported by subsidies from Saigon and by exactions from the peasants , held the villages in a state of terror . Previous governments in Saigon had made their peace with these groups by buying them off , by doing nothing to curb their predatory activities , or by entering into open alliance with them . With little support among the people , the succession of ineffective governments had to rely increasingly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fiction of ruling . And the more they relied on them , the more they separated themselves from the people . When Diem began to call a halt to the patronizing of the Binh Xuyen and the sects , he was called " inexperienced " and " uncompromising . " When he closed the gambling casinos in SaigonCholon on which the Binh Xuyen relied for a large part of its revenue , he was called a " madman . " When he cut off the subsidies to the sects , it was " the end . " Diem ignored these criticisms and the repeated exhortations to compromise . In the meantime , he was strengthening his control over the Vietnamese army command and persuading leading generals of the Cao Dai sect to join the nationalist cause . With the Hoa Hao and the Binh Xuyen , however , there could be no compromise . They would accept no arrangement which impaired their privileged position of autonomous power . Diem could not concede that and still expect to lead the Vietnamese people . Sensing their power slipping , the Binh Xuyen and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1955 . Bao Dai ? who had not dared to remove the President because of his growing influence in Viet Nam and his support from the United States ? made a circuitous attempt to aid the rebels . As soon as the revolution had broken out . he switched the army 's chiefs of staff in order to prevent the government from dealing with the outbreak . For twenty-four hours Diem 's fate hung in balance . In the end , however , Ban Dai 's action was ignored . The army remained loyal to Diem , and after a brief and bloody struggle in the streets of Saigon-Cholon and the surrounding countryside the revolt was crushed . Both the Binh Xuyen and the Hoa Hao were driven from the capital . The remnants of the Binh Xuyen fled to the swamps along the river some miles south of Saigon . ( It was from this area that they had originally emerged as river pirates to develop the demimonde organization that eventually held all Saigon-Cholon in its grasp . ) The Hoa Hao retreated to the west , broke into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Cambodian borders . The power of both of these dissident groups has been broken . While they may still retain a capacity for harassing the government , it is on the level of piracy and banditry . Both organizations are reported to be negotiating with the Viet Minh in an effort to recoup their shattered fortunes . " If the Viet Minh take them , " a Vietnamese nationalist explained to me , " it will be a measure of the weakness of the Communists , not of their strength . I can think of nothing which will do more to discredit them in the eyes of the Vietnamese people . " By accepting the " war of the sects , " rather than permitting a continuance of their power , Diem lost the prop of several thousand armed mercenaries in the conflict with the Communists . However , in giving tangible evidence of a leadership that would act for and not against the people , lie gained far more . He gained the loyalty of the national army . He gained the confidence of numerous Vietnamese who had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and their accomplices among the French colons . He gained the respect of free foreign nations ? and even of the Communists who recognized that a dangerous opponent had appeared in Saigon . GOVERNMENT BY THE PEOPLE I N A recent plebescite in south Viet Nam , Diem 's picture was placed in the ballot box and Bao Dai 's discarded by almost all of the six million people who voted . Before the election it was apparent that this would be the result . Bao Dai had long since lust any significant following ? if , in fact , he ever had one in Viet Nam . His key role in the conspiracy to overthrow Diem was the last straw . What the election implied however , was more important than the actual confirmation of the ex-Emperor 's unpopularity . The elevation of Diem to chief of state was an indication that the , people wanted a government which would derive its power primarily from them . It was a reflection of their search for a leader who would respond to their needs , rather than to those of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They sensed that Diem could provide that kind of leadership . It is significant that not only Bao Dai but the Viet Minh as well opposed the plebiscite . Diem has come an incredible distance in less than two years . When last I saw him in September 1955 , he exuded an air of self-confidence and authority . And with good reason , for he had taken what was a lost cause of freedom and breathed new life into it . The principal challenge which had confronted him had been to sweep away the accumulated debris of a halfeentury of colonial inertia . He had met that challenge . He was ready for the Viet Minh . The road ahead for Diem , however , is in some ways more difficult than the one he has already negotiated . At the present time , he wields great personal power in south Viet Nani , comparable to that of Ho Chih ' Minh in the north . His principal task now is to translate this power into a people 's power . He must lead in the construction of a free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the constant pressure of the Viet Minh . The task involves , first , the development of new political institutions which will provide adequate channels of representation from the people to the government . Deposing Bao Dai has cleared the way , and Diem has indicated that he will act promptly to establish a constitutional government . The old opera house in Saigon is even now being refitted to house an elected constituent assembly when it is convened . Diem has also shown an awareness of the need to tackle promptly south Viet Nam 's vast problems of economic and social reconstruction . These affect primarily the people of the rural areas who constitute the great bulk of the population . Edicts have already been issued to alleviate the conditions of the farmers ? and now that the dissidents have been brought under control , it should he possible to carry them out with increasing effectiveness . The armed forces , too , must be improved . The " war of the sects " indicated that there had been a vast improvement in the morale and leadership of the army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , recently head of the United States military mission at Saigon , has commented very favorably on the national army . But , in Viet Nam , as in most Asian countries where inert with weapons have long been associated with oppression , there is a deep need to root the army in the populace . These are Diem 's principal challenges . There are also others , including the development of a whole new set of attitudes and relationships with respect to foreign nations . It is not easy for Asians to pass quickly from the bitternesses engendered by colonial dependency into new ties based upon national equality and mutual benefit . Yet the necessity to do so in a world of sharp ideological conflict is very great . But happily , in dealing with these problems , Diem is no longer alone . He has a growing following among young articulate Vietnamese and increasing mass support . He also has the assistance of the United States and some other free nations . Before the Diem government came to power , American aid was probably more ineffective in Viet Nam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a positive asset- It should be noted , however , that large-scale aid can be at best only a stopgap ? not only in Viet Nam but in any country where it is employed . The efforts of the people themselves must ultimately provide the key to freedom . American aid is not a panacea. it is helpful if it stimulates the constructive energies of the recipients . It can be wasteful and harmful if it serves to stifle those energies by building unnecessary reliance on this country . Diem is not the kind of man who has removed his country 's dependency on one foreign country only to shift it to another . He is nobody 's puppet . Viet Nam is also fortunate in having the resources which can supply the basis for an independent national existence , if they are effectively utilized . The economy of the country , however , is now in a difficult transition from a colonial to an independent base . Assistance from the United States , therefore , can be of particular importance at this time . But it must be designed consciously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ independence if it is to be useful . The free south is potentially in a better position to unify Viet Nam than the Communist north . Its advantage lies not only in a superiority of resources but in its orientation toward freedom rather than totalitarianism . While the north is likely to come increasingly under the domination of Communist China , the south can grow steadily more independent . In short , Diem 's star is likely to remain in the ascendancy and that of Ho Chili Minh to fade ? because Diem is following a course which more closely meets the needs and aspirations of the Vietnamese people . This likelihood may well explain the sense of urgency which the Communists have exhibited on the question of unifying the country . It may even lead them to attempt a military coup before it is too late . If Diem continues to pursue the building of a free nation in south Viet Nam with the same perceptiveness , courage , and sure-handedness which he has so far displayed , he will be ready for elections on unification when the conditions for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Viet Minh be willing to accept them at that time ? It is doubtful , but if they do , it is likely to be Ngo Dinh Diem 's picture that will go in the ballot box and Ho Chih Minh 's that will be cast into the dust . 