@@487591

WHAT limits does the Constitution of the United States set to the authority , the junsdiction , of Congress ? The reflections which I here offer are drawn chiefly from a dissatisfied reading of a concurring opinion in the Dennis case , written by my life-long friend , Justice Felix Frankfurter . The question before us rests on the assumption that the three subordinate ' branches of our government have only limited powers . What , then , are the restrictions- which we , the Sovereign People of the United States , speaking through our Constitution , have placed upon the federal law-making body ? And , more specifically , in these days of bitter and dreadful crisis , is Congress authorized to destroy , or even to abridge , the political freedom of the people whom it serves ? That question , it would seem , is definitely answered in the negative by the - First Amendment . Its political clauses declare in well-known words that " Congress shall make no law . . . abridging the freedom of speech , or of the press , or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the government for redress of grievances . " Now these words , it should be noted , are radically different in reference from other provisions of the Bill of Rights . Those other provisions do- not " deny ' ALEXANDER MEIKLEJOHN , formerly president of Amherst College , is the author of " Free Speech and Its Relation to Self-Government " and " What Does America Mean ? " - powers to Congress , do not limit its jurisdiction . On the contrary , they require only that powers clearly delegated shall be used reasonably and with proper procedure . For example , our private property may , by law , be taken for public use ; our persons , houses , papers , and effects are subject to searches and seizures ; we may be punished on conviction of crime ; our life , liberty , or property may be taken from us . At these and other specific points Congress has authority , in the interest of the general welfare , to do with us and our possessions " what it deems necessary and wise . And , at these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just , shall be administered reasonably , shall not violate what we call " due process of law , " shall not inflict cruel and unusual punishments , etc . But the First Amendment has a meaning and intention widely different from this . It denies certain powers to Con- congress . It specifies a field of action into which the legislature is forbidden to enter . It does not say to the lawthakers , " You must be reasonable in your destruction of the freedom of political advocacy . " What it says is that neither unreasonably - nor reasonably may they enact laws which abridge that - freedom . In a word , the political freedom of the people of the United States is not subject to Congressional control . What I have just said tries to express what , on its face , the First Amendment ' seems to say . But current majority decisions of the Supreme Court , justifying , as they do=- legislative suppression of political freedom , have declared , over and over again that that is not what the amendment does say . Congress , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the sovereign people . That is the thesis defended by Justice Frankfurter in his Dennis opinion . To challenge it and , if possible , to refute it is the purpose of this paper . THE ARGUMENT by which , ' in general , the court majority justifies its contention rests upon a supposed conflict between the national interest in political freedom and the equally insistent demand for national self-preservation , for the , safety and security of the people and their government . These two interests , it is argued , are both legitimate . But the problem at-issue arises from the supposed fact that they may , and at times do , come into conflict Decision must therefore be made between them . By whom , then , shall the decision be made ? And to this crucial question the court majority has answered . " By the legislature . " Whenever , then , in the judgment of Congress conflicting intetests of security outweigh the values of political freedom , our independence may , by legislative action , be denied or abridged . That judicial verdict may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ First , in a self-governing society it is never true that the security of a nation is actually endangered by the freedom of the people . Whatever may be the immediate gains and losses in this situation or that , the dangers to our security arising from political suppression are always , in my opinion , greater thanthe dangers . to that security arising from the practice of political freedom . In the long run , repression is always foolish . Freedom is always wise . That is the faith , the experimental faith , by which we Americans have undertaken to live . For the present argument , however , let us waive this first point . Let us suppose that the enslavement of our minds may promote our safety . Is Congress authorized , then , to practice it ? In many diverse forms , the court has asserted that doctrine . One of these , quoted by Justice Frankfurter , reads as follows : To preserve its independence , and give security against foreign aggression and encroachment , is the highest duty of every nation , and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subordinated . It matters not in what form such aggression comes . . . . The government , possessing the powers which are to be exercised for protection and security , is clothed with authority to determine the occasion on which the powers shall - be brought forth . That statement says that the government of the United States has authority to destroy freedom . And , since it is a sovereign government , the statement is obviously true . The First Amendment , which might seem to stand in the way of such action , exists only by the will of the government Its authority is only political . It may , therefore , be swept aside , be annulled or superseded in whatever way , for whatever , reason , the government may find sufficient . But what bearing has that statement on the powers of Con-gress ? CONGRESS is not the government . It is only one of the four branches  --  the electoral , the legislative , the executive , the judicial  --  of which the government consists . The fact , then , ' that the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that power . Under the Constitution the original powers of the sovereign people - are " reserved " as well as " delegated . " And , further , the power to suppress political freedom is specifically " reserved . " . In a word , the question at issue is not : Has the government authority to destroy our freedom ? Of course it has . But our very different question is : Has Congress that authority ? And the assertion that it has finds no support whatever in the principle on which the court majority rests its case . December 12 , 1953 But the error thus far considered is , I think , merely a superficial form of a deeper judicial error which is sapping the foundations of our freedom . This deeper judicial error is at work in that Dennis opinion of Justice Frankfurter to which I have already referred . He there quotes as authoritative the majority Robertson v. Baldwin decision , rendered in 1897 , which says : The law is perfectly well settled that the first ten amendments to the Constitution , commonly kriC3wn as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down any novel principles of government but simply to embody certain guaranties and immunities which we had inherited from our- English ancestors , and which had from time immemorial been subject to certain well-recognized exceptions arising from the necessities of the case . In incorporating these principles into the fundamental law there was no intent of disregarding the exceptions which continued to be recognized as if they had been formally expressed . In comment on this , Justice Frankfurter adds . That this represents the authentic view of the Bill of Rights and the spirit in which it must be construed has been recognized again and again in cases that have come here within the last fifty years Is it true that our Bill of Rights " laid down no novel principles of government " ? Are we ? to believe that the American Revolution had no revolutionary political significance ? Was the dictum , " Congress shall , make no law respecting an establishment of religion , " etc , inherited from our English ancestors " ? With respect to certain items in the Bill of Rights , the denial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rights as habeas corpiis , due process , fair trial , security from unreasonable searches and seizures , and so on had long been fought for and , in some measure , won in Britain and the colonies . It could fairly be said of them that no " novel principles " had been laid down . But to say that the relation between the people and the legislature was now , in principle , as it had been before is to miss the meaning not only of the First Amendment but of the Constitution as a whole , Before we accept a doctrine so monstrous in its destruction of our freedom let us proceed to examine two sets of opinions held by men of high repute in political theory which sharply reject this " authentic " doctrine . The first is taken from the writings of James Madison and Alexander Hamilton in the Federalist . The second is found in a dissent by Justice Harlan attacking the decision in which the " authentic view " was formulated . FIRST , THEN , let us listen to Madison and Hamilton in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powerful insistence on the need of limiting legislative pow er . And the unfailing purpose of their inquiry is to find ways of guarding the political freedom of the people from invasion by the lawmakers . It is , of course , recognized that Congress has authority to enact laws which the people must obey . In this legal sense , the people are dependent on , are subject to , the legislature . But with respect to political authority , thA relation is reversed . If men are to be self-governing , as the Constitution intends , they must - exercise an effective control over those legislators who make the laws which they are called upon to obey . Politically , they must govern those who , legally , govern them . This double relationship Hamilton brilliantly describes in the words : It is one thing to be subject to the laws , and another to be dependent on the legislative body The first comports with , the last violates , the fundamental principles of good government and , whatever may be the form of the Constitution , unites all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ logic Hamilton demonstrates the necessity that the legislature be kept subject to the will of a free people . It is chiefly the legislature , he tells.us , which threatens to usuip the authority of the people . And again , he says , " it is against the enterprising ambition of this department that the people ought to indulge all their jealousy and exhaust all their precautions . " And the Constitution , he assures us , has carefully taken those precautions . By direct vote , the people will elect their representatives . Elections will be for terms brief enough - to insure active and continuous popular control Representatives will have no powers other than those specifically delegated to them . A general legislative power Would contravene the basic principles of the system . Politically , the lawmakers are , and must be , the servants of the people . HAMILTON 'S argument to this effect reaches its culmination when , in Number 84 , he deals with the accusation that the new Constitution , as drafted by the convention , does not provide a Bill of Rights . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Bill:of Rights . It does far more to protect the freedom of the people from legislative usurpation than could possibly be done by appending a Bill of Rights to a constitution which , having neglected those rights , would have need of  - -  such an appendage The defenses of our freedom , he declares , are imbedded in the very structure of the Constitution itself . Whoever attacks freedom-is attacking , not an addendum to the Constitu-tion , but the living spirit of the whole . Over and over again he reiterates that assertion . I can give here only one of his statements : The truth is , after all the declamations we have heard , that the Constitution is itself , in every rational sense , and to every useful purpose , a Bill of Rights . . . . Is it one purpose of a bill of rights to declare and specify the political privileges of the citizens in the structure and administration of the government ? This is done in the most ample and precise manner in the , plan of the convention , comprehending various precautions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found in any of the state constitutions . Is it another object of a bill of rights to define certain immunities and modes of proceeding which are relative to personal and private concerns ? This we have seen has also been attended to , in a variety of cases , in the same plan . Adverting , therefore , to the substantial meaning of a bill of rights it is absurd toallege that it is not to be found in the work of the convention . If Hamilton is right , as I think he is , the assertion that the American Constitution established no " novel principles of government " is a patent and disastrous absurdity , an absurdity in which our current suppressions of political freedom find their source . Over and over again Madison and Hamilton proclaim the faith which that heresy denies In Number 14 , Madison writes : Had no important step been taken by the leaders of the Revolution for which a precedent could not be discovered , no government established of which an exact model did not present itself , the peopfe of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numbered among , the melancholy victims of misguided councils , must at best have been laboring under the weight of those forms which have crushed the liberties of the rest of mankind . Happily for America , happily , we trust , for the whole human race , they pursued - a new and more noble course They accomplished a revolution which has no parallel in the annals of human society . They reared the fabrics of government - which has no model on the face of the globe . ? THE SAME unequivocal rejection of the " authentic view " of the contempordry court is strongly urged by Justice Harlan in his dissent from the decision from which that view is now - quoted . He discards as wholly invalid the inference that because the British Parliament could . make exceptions to a principle , the Longress of the United States could do the same . Nor , I submit he says , is any light thrown upon the present question by- the - history of legislation in Great Britain The powers of the British Parliament furnish no test for the powers that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In support of that opinion he calls upon James Bryce , who in his " American Commonwealth " tells how fundamentally the principles of the Constitution have departed from the principles of the British system Parliament , according to Bryce , had unlimited power . It could , he says , " abolish when it pleases every institution in the country , the Crown ; the House of Lords , the Established Chufch , the House of Commons , Parliament itself . " By contrast with this original and unlimited authority of the British legisla- ture , ? Justice Harlan insists that the powers of the American Congress are derivative and suliaMinate , as well as limited ' and specific . The distinctive feature of our Constitution is that it is established , not by the legislature , but by the people . No such powers he says have been given to of can be exercised by any legislative body under the American system . . . The authority for the exercise of power by the Congress must be found in the Constitution . Whatever it does in excess of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the supreme law of the land , is a nullity , and may be so treated by any person . He-therefore deplores a decision in which " the clear reading of a constitutional provision relating to the liberty of man is departed from in deference to what is called usage which has existed , fot the most part , in monarchical and despotic governments . " Here , then , is the principle on which we may take our stand with Madison and Hamilton and Harlan . In- so far as we are true to the Constitution we Americans are not living under " monarchical or despotic governments . " Our legislature has no'authority to exercise control over our political freedom . The intent of the Constitution is that , politically , we shall be governed by no one but ourselves . We are not , then , a subject people begging or fighting for such limited privileges and powers as may be grudgingly granted to us by a sovereign legislature . We are the sovereign , and the legislature is our agent . And when we play our sovereign role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the government " that agent has no authority whatever to interfere with the freedom of our governing . As we go about that work neither Congress nor any committee of Congress may , use force upon us to drive us toward this public policy or that or away from this public policy or that A legislative committee which asks the question , " Are you a Republican ? " or " Are you a Communist ? " accompanying the question with the threat of harm or disrepute if the answer is this rather than that , stands in contempt of the sovereign people to whom it owes submission . In the Words of Justice Harlan , such action " is a nullity , and may be so treated by any person . " We Americans , acting as free citizens , may make mistakes , we may be selfish or stupid or negligent . But in the field of political opinion or expression or affiliation , we can not commit punishable crime for the reason that , in that field , the lawmakers have no authority to legislate a crime into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I know , say to me , " Do n't you know the law is what the Supreme Court says it is ? " And to that I answer in closing , " Yes , I know that the law today is what today the court says it is . But you see , I am hoping that tomorrow the members of the court will read again from Madison and Hamilton and Harlan . Perhaps tomorrow they will change their minds . " But today I would say to them that the Supreme Court , more than any other agency or person in our society , must be held responsible for the destruction of those constitutional principles which that court is commissioned to interpret and to defend .                     