@@477429

The guest in the Easy Chair this month lived abroad for some twelve years ( in the United Kingdom , Europe , and the Mideast ) as a newspaperman and businessman , and as a U. S. official , chiefly with ECA . He is now in Washington on the staff of the Committee for International Economic Growth and is editor of its monthly newspaper called Economic World . OFFHAND , The Ugly American looks like a natural for the screen . It has at least four big assets . First of all , the story is pre-sold . It was a Book-of-the-Month-Club selection ; it has been on the best-seller lists for months ; and it was serialized by the Saturday Evening Post . So almost everyone knows that The Ugly American deals mainly with the shenanigans of delinquent Americans who represent the U. S. government overseas . Second , there is a carload of colorful characters to work with ? good and bad . The principal Bad Guys include the oaf who is the American Ambassador to Sarkhan ; the ignoramus who is Counselor of Embassy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the numskulls who run the economic-aid missions ; the Chinese servants who spy for the Communists ; and the ever-so-clever Russians who make fools out of the Americans bumbling about in Asia and elsewhere . The Good Guys include a Catholic priest who conquers both dysentery and the local Communists ; a poultryman who does good work in the hinterlands ? at least for a while ; an Air Force colonel who plays a mouth organ and works out horoscopes ; a hard-working American Ambassador who seriously tries to serve his country ; a tough-minded labor negotiator who for some unaccountable reason conducts a conference on atomic weapon installations ; and the Ugly American whose uncouth physiognomy and dirty fingernails suggested a title fortuitously reminiscent of Graham Greene 's The Quiet American . Third , there is plenty of dramatic conflict in the story because everybody who tries to do any good has to beat his brains out against the stupidity , arrogance , trickery , indolence , bureaucracy , rascality , or other flaws of American officials in the field or at home . And finally , the story @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exotic background stuff like temple dancers , golden pagodas , jungle scenes , and other grist for Technicolor . The only obvious deficiency in the story is that there is n't much of a sex angle , but it should n't be too hard to put some pizzazz into that insipid secretary to the Ambassador . With all these assets , The Ugly American might appear to be a cinch for adaptation to the screen . But it 's not that easy . The screen writers may have trouble developing a story line and picking a hero . The difficulty is that the book is a collection of episodes which are only loosely related to each other and would tend to clutter up the continuity . Besides , most of the Good Guys do n't quite add up as heroes . The Catholic priest is around for only one chapter and then is abandoned by both the authors and the American Embassy ; the Air Force colonel never gets to influence policy by reading the King 's horoscope because the Counselor of Embassy goofs off ; the good Ambassador gives up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and throws in the towel ; the labor leader 's good work gets him nowhere because a Navy captain on his negotiating team falls for a local Communist girl to the detriment of his daytime reflexes ; and the poultryman is bought off by a wily French Ambassador with an expense-free junket through the fleshpots of Asia and Europe . By a process of elimination scenarists probably will have to settle for the Ugly American himself as the hero , because he is the only character who succeeds in doing any good for the U. S. A. ? and then only by insubordination . The Ugly American , of course , is the earthy engineer who disappears into the sticks of an Asian country with his equally earthy wife and ? despite the disapproval of his American superiors ? makes a hit with the natives by inventing a bamboo pump operated by a bicycle pedal to raise irrigation water . Right here I want to make a minor suggestion to the screen writers . It is this : Try to figure out something else for the Ugly American to invent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about ten centuries ago , though there is some historical evidence to suggest that they stole the idea from the ancient Egyptians . As for the use of bamboo , a Filipino tried to sell that idea a few years ago to both his own government and to the Indian government , but it was turned down because it does n't work very well and only works at all on shallow wells . And all the bright engineersAsians and Americans alike ? are trying to help the villagers out there to put down deep wells in place of shallow wells which are unsanitary and have other drawbacks . As alternative ideas for the Ugly American , you might consider the invention of a coffee roaster made from a gasoline drum ; or an improved stove that burns less fuel and does n't smoke up the hut ; or a manual washing machine made out of wood ; or a ten-dollar water filter for village wells ; or even an inexpensive gasoline pump . All these things have been cooked up by Americans in the field and they work fine . STAY @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The first big suggestion I want to make to the Script Department is this : Do n't do any research on this story . There is plenty of material available and it 's easy to come by . But it spoils the whole theme of The Ugly American . Take the bit about the poultryman , for example . In the book he quits in disgust because his chief has a fixation about big projects like dams and irrigation works and ca n't be , bothered with unglamorous , picayune stuff like improving barnyard stock . If you made the mistake of poking around into the facts , you would find that there are fifty-eight Americans currently overseas in forty-three countries helping farmers to improve their poultry and , livestock . In Iran , for example , the U. S.-sponsored poultry program has benefited the farmers of some thirty thousand villages and produced some tell million crossbred chickens which weigh twice as much as the old Iranian stock and lay three times as many eggs . And in Lebanon the poultry program is so well known that large eggs on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This kind of information would spoil the whole story , so it is much better just to go along with the authors of the book and ignore it . This advice is essential because one of the main points of the book is that our foreign-aid program does n't do any of the little things that touch the plain people . And if you started messing around with research you would find all kinds of little projects ? like the substitution of steel plow tips for wooden plow tips . Or instructions on how to de-worm pigs . Or lessons on the prevention of childhood diseases . Or training schools for rural nurses . Or village programs to teach people how to read and write . Or self-help housing projects which are now under way in Guatemala , Costa Rica , Nicaragua , British Honduras . Surinam , Trinidad , British Guiana , Turkey , Korea , and Taiwan . Or the work-while-learning agricultural school for young farmers in the Philippines . Or the distribution of foods that have eased the twinges of hunger in at least sixty million bellies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does n't add up to a best-selling story . Another reason why it 's important not to do any research is that a second major point of The Ugly American is to show what jerks we arc , compared to the Russians . While the U. S. is represented in Sarkhan by an insensitive political hack , the Russian Ambassador is so dedicated that he not only dieted forty pounds off his middle in deference to local predilections for slim-waisted diplomats , but he learned to play the native nose flute as well . While American supplies , labeled as gifts from the U. S. A. , never seem to spark any gratitude , the Russians become heroes by furtively stenciling the hammer and sickle on a few bags of our rice . But even more important is the evidence presented in the book that the Communists not only beat us hands down but they do it with far less money and never , never make a mistake . The screen writers of The Ugly American would do well to take all this on faith . Otherwise , they might find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $2.5 billion worth of economic aid and are putting more money and technicians into some countries than we are . What 's more , they might stumble across some disturbing stories of booboos by the Communist master minds ? like how they offended the Burmese by buying their rice and then selling it in competition to Burma 's own customers ; or how they overcharged the Indonesians for inferior jeeps ; or how they sent a beet-sugar mill to Java instead of the cane-sugar milt that was ordered ; or how a team of technicians from Indonesia spent nine months in Czechoslovakia without learning anything because their Communist instructors could n't speak the language . How would the audience get the word that the Russians are taking the shirts off the Americans if you show the Russians making mistakes like that ? So this is my first line of advice to the screen writers : Stick with the episodes in the book and leave the facts alone . They muck up the story . PUNCHERS AND QUITTERS THE second helpful hint is this : Do n't be confused by a lot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the book says that Americans working overseas should get out and live and work in the villages where the people are ; but it also says that Americans should cuddle up to students , intellectuals , labor leaders , opinion-makers , and the kind of folks who obstinately prefer to live in the cities . Then the book keeps preaching about how we should concentrate on the simple , inexpensive things that the people Understand ; but it also says that we should do things that will have a big dramatic impact , like the Russian offers to build a hospital and a sports stadium . The book says that we should send out only Americans who are steeped in knowledge of the language , history . religion , politics , economics , culture , and folkways of the country to which they are assigned ; but it also suggests that our envoys should be down-to-earth folks ready to work with their hands in the fields and repair shops . The book suggests that our representatives should be disciplined professionals in the service of our cause ; but the authors ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they ca n't have their way , give the old heave-ho to visiting American Senators , and punch other Americans on the nose ? the kind of colorful individualist with a very low survival value in any organization , public or private . But , as I say , do n't be confused by such minor contradictions . Chances are the movie audiences will never notice a thing . T H E third ? and most important ? bit of advice to the screen writers is this : Do n't go trying to make any sense out of the Big Message of the book . The Big Message is that the United States is consistently losing to Communism all over the world and that there is an easy solution to this problem . The solution is set down as plain as day in the final chapter of the book ? rather curiously entitled " A Factual Epilogue . " It says this : We do not need the horde of 1,500,000 Americans ? mostly amateurs ? who are now working for the United States overseas . What we need is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ professionals . They must be willing to risk their comforts and ? in some lands ? their health . They must go equipped to apply a positive policy promulgated by a clear-thinking government . They must speak the language of the land of their assignment , and they must be more expert in its problems than are the natives . " This is the kind of statement that is impregnable to everything but analysis . For one thing , the " horde of 1,500,000 Americans ? mostly amateurs " includes well over one million members of the U. S. armed services . The authors do not recommend anyreduction in armed forces , so presumably the desired reductions would be made from the professional-level people who man the Embassies and aid missions in the sixty-odd nations in which we are represented . Certainly some of these would have to mind the store in the capitals which remain the political , economic , financial , and cultural centers of the world and where official business between representatives of governments still is conducted . And given the fact that there are somewhere between three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how the remaining Americans would manage to get out and live with the plain people as they are urged to do . Of course , no reasonable person would quarrel with the authors ' edict that the refurbished American teams must " go equipped to apply a positive policy promulgated by a dear-thinking government . " But it does imply that overseas representatives ? no matter how rigorously trained ? can not be much better than the policies of the government they represent . Again , none can object to the plea for language qualification , which experts agree is one of the four or five most important assets of representatives serving abroad . In fact it is so unassailable that even the government had sense enough to expand its language training programs several years ago . As for the suggestion that Americans should be more expert than native experts in the problems of their own countries , it just would n't pay to think about the likelihood of this ever happening . SOME " NATIVE " ALLERGIES B U T it is n't what is said in the Big Message @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . For example , it is n't pointed out anywhere in the book that Communist parties everywhere are manned ? not by Russians or other foreigners ? but by bona fide nationals of the country in which they live . Nor is it recognized anywhere in the book that Americans do not and can not have representatives in the cabinets or parliaments of other nations or even run elections in foreign countries ; that Americans do not and can not publish newspapers or control other means of public persuasion ; that Americans can not have and do not have decisive influence over any of the centers of political power in any society outside of the United States . Nowhere does the book mention that in almost every nation in Asia , the Middle East , Africa , and Latin America the dominant political force is nationalism rather than Communism ; and that the trademark of nationalism is a sensitive allergy to the exercise of any influence by any foreigner over any aspect of national life ? least of all by foreigners who happen to be white and Western . Nowhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concept of relations with friendly nations precludes our representatives from throwing their weight around ? even if they could ; and prevents them from going behind the hacks of host governments to deal directly with the people : and requires them to work out aid programs on the basis of agreed projects and mutual co-operation ? with the result that , rightly or wrongly , Americans just do n't wander around in the barrios and boondocks cooking up spot projects with the head men of the villages . Nowhere does the book point up the fact that the major enemies of social and economic reform are not so much the Communists as the conservative and reactionary elements in most societies . Nowhere does the book hint at the responsibility of foreign governments to lead in the conduct of their own affairs ? nor at the existence of national leaders capable of doing so . Speaking more generally , all that is left out of the book is a recognition lat societies in the less developed areas of the world are caught up in : he whirlwinds of concurrent revoluions ? social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instituions are crumbling right and left without new ones to take their daces ; that populations in many daces are growing faster than reourccs ; that Communism ? for all its ins ? waits alertly to capitalize on urmoll not of its own making ; and hat there is a desperate lack of capiat , of know-how , of management , nd of the institutions needed to vide pre-industrial and pre-democratic societies through the agonies of violent change ? quickly enough to meet aspirations and smoothly enough to avoid political retrogression . And people who worry about such things tend to suspect that this may be just about the toughest , most complicated , subtle , and sophisticated problem that anyone has ever faced . But the screen writers of the Ugly American should not boggle at this kind of thing . Stick with the Big Message . Stick with that small band of elite Americans ? concocted of one part scholar , one part paratrooper , and one part handyman. in the book , the reader is Left to imagine just how they would go about making Asia , Africa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be well to leave it to the imagination of the movie audience as well . T H E whole point underlying all my advice is that the Big Message in The Ugly American is absolutely foolproof just the way it is . There are at least three reasons for this . ( 1 ) As the authors assure us , the episodes in the book are only fictionalized versions of events that actually took place , and the characters in the book are based on people who actually exist . Thus the stories are essentially true ? just as true as the fact that the U. S. Congress includes a handful of rascals and free-loaders , or that American business has its quota of incompetents and fools , or that American youth includes delinquents and Beatniks. ( 2 ) The authors of The Ugly American have the impressive credentials of the **45;1400;TOOLONG . As they put it : " We have shared in the events of Southeast Asia . " And as the book itself makes clear in the incident involving Senator Brown , the manwho-was-there is infallible , even when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of The Ugly American is foolproof because it offers a simple . easy cure-all for violent . complex , intangible problems . Any nostrum is hound to he popular because it offers a substitute for thinking . People love easy answers . So I just suggest that the screen writers dish up The Ugly American the way it was written in the book . You ca n't miss .                     