@@493830

CHURCHILL 'S MODEST PLANS ? THE FIRST Parliament of the first Conservative Government in Britain since the war is moving quietly and undramatically toward the traditional Christmas recess . On the face of things the change of government has made very little difference , and after the excitement of another closely fought election the British public is clearly inclined to take a rest from politics . It has received every encouragement from the government , which shows no signs yet of making any radical policy changes . It is true that Churchill has declared his intention of " unscrambling " the socialized steel industry ? but in view of Labour 's decision to turn on the heat again directly as it regains power , private enterprise is naturally shy of jumping back into the broiling pan . Some sort of compromise between private and state ownership is now being worked out , and the Liberals are finding consolation for their shattering defeat at the polls in the knowledge that the Conservatives are compelled at almost every point to adopt Liberal solutions . Socialists have vastly enjoyed the spectacle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctrines of economy and restraint which were so lately attributed to the follies of Attlee 's administration . They have proved , to their own satisfaction at least , that the Conservative election program ? with its carefree promises ? was a frame-up . Yet the glib Conservative retort , which insists that the Socialists left the country in such a mess that only Draconian methods could save the day , is adequate for the average middle-of-the-road voter ? at least for the time being . that there were some agonizing moments as Churchill slowly filled the government posts . The team appears strongest on the foreign side . Anthony Eden , Selwyn Lloyd and Lord Reading are all men of first-class calibre . It is weakest at the economic level . R. A. Butler , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , lacks financial and business experience , though this may be more than compensated for by his undoubted integrity and high intellectual attainments . Nevertheless , he is unlikely to get a great deal of support from those of his colleagues who now occupy such key posts as the ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Trade and the Financial Secretary to the . Treasury . The biggest surprise of all was the omission of David Eccles who has long been regarded ( even before Time -- Life discovered him ) as a sort of Tory one-man economic brain trust . Eventually Eccles was offered the post of Minister of Works where his duties are those of a combined head gardener and glorified caretaker of the government offices and royal parks . This may not be exactly Eccles ' cup of tea , but since he is reputed to be somewhat over-ambitious it will probably serve as an admirable aperitif to stronger drink later on . The only real row in the new Parliament developed over the Tories ' refusal to allow an extra ration bonus for Christmas . This decision is attributed to Lord Woolton , the wartime Food Minister , later Conservative campaign leader and now " co-ordinator " of the two Food and Agriculture ministries . British rations today are at a pretty low ebb . The dollar shortage and the increasingly tight export situation in Australia and New Zealand have been making things steadily more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the balance-of-payments situation and Butler 's decision to make drastic cuts in food imports from Europe . The effect of these cuts has not yet reached the grocery stores , but before long , no doubt , many a British housewife will be sighing for the " good old days " of Sir Stafford Cripps . The decision not to permit any Christmas ration bonus for the first time since rationing was introduced in 1940 , had little immediate economic justification and for this very reason it has caused political feeling to run high. , Lord Woolton and the Cabinet were , no doubt , determined to show the public ( and perhaps the US Congress as well ) that they meant business : " Look after the pennies and the pounds will look after themselves " should be a popular motto for a nation of shopkeepers , but after six years of the Welfare State it has a strangely harsh and unfamiliar ring to most people . There is certainly a case to be made for the old-age pensioners and for single folk living on their own . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handed out at Christmastime made all the difference . In their exuberance and enthusiasm for good housekeeping , the Conservatives may forget that , despite the economists ' talk about " too much money chasing too few goods , " there are millions in Britain whose living standards leave very little margin for the exercise of " sound finance . " Certainly , no single political issue could more vividly illustrate the different approaches of the two major parties to domestic and economic policy . Among the Labourites it has brought out the Charles Dickens ' humanitarianism of the movement ( which has always been a far greater source of strength to British Socialism than the dialectics of Karl Marx ) . Among the Conservatives it has emphasized the party 's historic insistence that welfare should take second place to prudent national bookkeeping . In the foreign field , there has been little disposition to quarrel with Eden 's admirably lucid exposition of British policy . The Foreign Secretary now enjoys the respect and support of both sides ? of the House . The only dissenting note has come from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It would be wrong to overestimate the influence of this group in foreign affairs . The arguments ' which they are advancing will gain no substantial support in the country so long as Eden and the State Department are prepared to show a sincere readiness to negotiate with the Russians whenever an opportunity presents itself . Only a suspicion that American policy is losing patience , or is not genuinely seeking a settlement , would set a spark to the fuel which the Bevanites are so , industriously accumulating . Eden is well aware of the danger , and has not made the mistake of ignoring his opponents . He listens to their arguments patiently and replies with studied care and moderation . It is not over foreign policy but on the industrial front that the Bevanites are likely to increase their support .. In almost every respect Conservative foreign policy is following the same line as that adopted by Labour since 1945 . Eden has stated that he is anxious to bring United Europe into a close working relationship with the Atlantic Pact and has argued that the Atlantic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purely military and defensive purpose . Ernest Bevin and Herbert Morrison both took the same line . The difference is largely a question of clarity ' and emphasis . The voice of Britain will be heard more attentively now that Eden is incharge , but the message will be much as before . It is not a particularly inspiring message because it takes into account all those limiting factors with which British policy is at present circumscribed . If any Americans are expecting a really vigorous British lead in the creation of a United Europe or of an Atlantic Union they are likely to be disappointed . No British Government has the power or the inclination at present to achieve these things . Without a much more practical initiative by the United States the national barriers which divide and befuddle the political , economic and military strategy of the Western democracies will remain exactly as they are today . All this , of course , does not mean that Churchill 's well-known desire for high-level talks with Stalin is likely to be set aside . The Prime Minister is believed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insoluble so long as the Cold War exists . He is , therefore , determined to use every opportunity to press for a " live and let live " agreement with the Soviet Union and for this purpose he has the heartfelt backing of the entire country . These points will certainly be on the agenda wher . Churchill meets the President in , January . In addition , Churchill is bound to appeal for an extension of economic aid because without it the British rearmament effort ( now as great as all the rest of Western Europe put together ) can not be sustained . Meanwhile his lieutenants will be ' busy working out during the Parliamentary vacation a policy for the months ahead . It is fairly safe , therefore , to suppose that British politics will not catch fire again until early spring . By that time the government is likely to be brought face to face with its most formidable task ? the handling of the trade unions and the ' solution of the wages and manpower problems . The increase in the cost of living over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of wage claims by nearly all the big unions . The railwaymen and the miners have already been allocated substantial pay increases , and since the line of applicants shows no sign of dwindling , the financial experts are talking ominously of " wage inflation . " Meanwhile , Britain 's manpower resources are stretched to the limit . There is a chronic shortage of labor in the manufacturing towns ; industrialists are outbidding each other for the skilled operatives needed to speed the export drive and rearmament . The trade unions are in a strong position , and they know it . How the Conservatives hope to increase production and avoid inflation and strike 's without retaining , and even extending , the very controls which they have so bitterly criticized is far from clear . But the testing time can not be postponed much longer . The unions have promised to co-operate with their new masters , but the pressure from the left-wing extremists in the rank-and-file is bound to be considerable . It will be much more difficult for the union leaders to hold them in check now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Labour Government no longer applies .                     