@@487536

THE point of view from which this article is written can be stated in two short paragraphs : If the present crisis in Korea can be surmounted , peace is still attainable , without appeasement , and without increasing the clear and present ' danger to the free world and to the survival of the human race . The World 's hope of peace rests , at this moment , upon the rapid emergence of a new , affirmative American leadership . While it is true that we alone can not do the job , the job can not be done at all without a drastic change in American foreign policy . Contrary to our intentions , we are at present leading , or dragging , the free world along a road which leads either to an atomic war , in which there can be nd victory and after which there can be no enduring peace , or else to losing the struggle against totalitarianism Without a Russian soldier having fired a shot . This is because our present foreign policy is negative , fear-inspired ; and based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crisis . , The present crisis is the product of a number of major forces which have been in train throughout the first half of our century- To mention only a few the center of gravity in the Western world has been shifting from Europe to America , leaving a power vacuum in those parts of the world formerly controlled by the nations of Western Europe ; Asia has been and is in a state of revolution against foreign rule and indigenous semi-feudal tyranny ; the progress of science and technology have made men everywhere conscious that the - means exist by which hunger , poverty , disease , and ignorance may be lessened if not eliminated altogether ; at the same time the peoples of the world " are aware that obsolete social , political , and economic methods still prevent the majority of mankind from participating in the benefits of what we proudly call the age of science and technology . Finally , our world of so-called sovereign nation-states has come to the end of the long road of international anarchy , in which physical , force his supplied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to realize that nations can no longer commit murder without simultaneously committing suicide . , Faced with a world-wide social revolution stirring within the outworn world political system , faced with ! AMES-P . WARBURG was deputy director of the Over sear Division of the OWI during the war . He is the author of " Germany : Bridge or Battleground , " " Last Call for Common Sense , " and other books . ? the power vacuum left by the decline of Western Europe , our government sees only the ruthless , power-hungry Russian regime seeking to exploit these conditions for its own ends . We have adopted the easy theory that all would be well were it not  --  in the words of the President  --  that " one nation , and one nation alone , has obstructed the making of a just and honorable peace : It is not surprising that the policy Which derives from such a theory should be primarily negative  --  aimed less at doing something ourselves than at stopping Russia from doing what it wants to do . A policy which seeks to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means nothing more than digging trenches and rearing barricades to contain the expansive drive of the Kremlin . We have lost both our sense of direction and our landmarks in the fog generated by our fears . We are frittering away our power and the power of our friends in a series of panic-inspired improvisations all over the face of the globe . Moreover , we have been pursuing this negative policy with means neither suitable nor adequate to the accomplishment of our purpose . We have sought to effect " containment " primarily by physical force , and in so doing we have undertaken ill-considered commitments beyond our power to fulfil , assumed a military posture without military strength , and stultified our own efforts by entertaining delusions of grandeur paradoxically accompanied by penny-pinching timidity . We have reversed the wise maxim of Theodore Roosevelt : " Speak softly and carry a Big Stick . " We have shouted our intentions from the housetops and carried around only a rather expensive photograph of a Big Stick . Last summer the chickens came home to roost in Korea . Overnight we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on which we had- spent some fifty billion dollars since the war ended , waa wholly unsuited to the global policeman 's job to which we had elected ourselves under the containment doctrine . We are now in the process of trying to build up military power commensurate with our far-flung guaranties in Europe , Asia , the Middle East , and Latin America . In so doing , we have embarked upon four dangerous ? courses of action : 1 . We have taken the first timid steps toward becoming a garrison state . We have not undertaken a full mobilization of our power . We do not even plan to double our present puny combat strength of ten ' divisions . Nevertheless , we have initiated enough military expansion to endanger our domestic economy unless far stricter controls are instituted than now seem con templated . On the other hand , the institution of con. trols adequate to protect our economy might well lead Many Americans to feel  --  no matter how irrationally  --  that even war would be preferable to the protracted pressures and privations of living in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ send to Western Europe a large part of the increased combat force we propose to create . In making this decision we have given up our freedom of strategic action in a possible war with Russia by committing ourselves to a pre-announced strategy of holding a position in central Germany . Unless this commitment is backed up with sufficient power to make the position tenable against something like 175 , Russian divisions , we run the risk of being driven into the sea if war comes  --  of reenacting Dunkirk on a gigantic scale . In Asia we have pledged ourselves to defend the Philippines , Okinawa , and Japan  --  which could mean , among other things , feeding eighty million Japanese across five thousand miles of ocean while fighting a two-front war ! 3 . Having decided that we can have guns as well as butter here at home , we are engaged in the process of trying to persuade our friends in Western Europe that they can do the same  --  rearm without arresting their hard-won recovery . This course involves a twofold danger : in trying to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; on the other hand , by rearming at all , they may reopen the door to Communist exploitation of economic distress and political instability . 4 . Having realized that the guns-and-butter policy can not in fact- produce enough guns , we have decided to do something which , until a short time ago , we assured the world we would never contemplate  --  namely , rearm the Germans and the Japanese : Not only will this procedure fail to produce a defense force capable of holding off Russian invasion , but it will actually weaken the position of the non-Communist world , stultify its cause , and destroy all hope of the eventual emergence of peaceful , democratic societies in Germany and Japan . Moreover , rearming Germany will probably convert the nations of Eastern Europe from reluctant Russian satellites into enthusiastic allies , Whereas rearming Japan may well alienate our few remaining friends in Asia . Taken together , these four post-Korea decisions raise the very serious question whether the course upon which we have now embarked may not actually provoke the very war we seek to prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completed , would - constitute so great a menace - to Russia itself that it must attack and overrun Western Europe before our defense force can be recruited , trained , equipped , and stationed on the line of the Elbe River . Granted that we can not accept permanent impotence out of fear lest strength provoke aggression , our present course , unless supplemented by affirmative policies , seems more than likely to lead either to war or to Russia 's gradual absorption of Europe and Asia without war . It seems clear that , while we might lose the present struggle through physical weakness , we can not win it by physical strength alone . Mere power , no matter how great , will remain an illusion until it is harnessed to positive purpose and faith in the attainability of that purpose . T HE change in American foreign policy which must rapidly come about if the last best hope of peace is not to be squandered consists primarily in a reorientation toward two objectives which will command the allegiance of the majority of mankind . In the realm of politics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development of a new order in which universal disarm-ament becomes a practical possibility and war becomes a practical impossibility . We are at present in a situation in which our commitments and our power are hopelessly out of balance . We can not increase our power  --  even by becoming a full garrison state  --  to the point where we could defend both Europe and Asia , once war with Russia breaks out . We can not withdraw from our existing commitments without inviting aggression by our withdrawal , as we did in Korea . The only way out of this dilemma is to disengage ourselves from our self-appointed job as global police- man just as rapidly as we can effectively transfer the responsibility for maintaining peace either to a strengthened United Nations or to the free world-effectively organized within the United Nations . At present we are doing neither . We persist in he notion that the existing structure of the United Nations would be adequate to preserve the peace if only the Russians would allow a just peace to be made . We have not yet been willing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russians in the world , lasting peace would be unattainable so long as the only assurance against aggression lay in a multilateral treaty among fully sovereign nation-states . We have not yet been willing to recognize that no effective disarmament or limitation of armaments will be possible until the United Nations is transformed into an organization capable of enacting , administering , and enforcing world law . Oddly enough , we did recognize this fact with regard to atomic weapons . Our proposal for the supra-national control of atomic- energy was in effect a proposal for world government in the limited field of atomic development . But we are still in the anomalous position of understanding what is required with regard to A-and H-bombs , while clinging to outworn and useless concepts with regard to TNT bombs and those other 562 means of mass destruction which are politely called conventional armaments . Here , then , is one of the two major changes needed in American policy . Unless our negative efforts to prevent aggression are quickly supplemented by an affirmative policy designed to remove the means of aggression from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to fail . Unless our efforts to outlaw certain weapons of war are transformed into an effort to ' outlaw war itself , by creating world law and world law enforcement , there can be no reasonable hope of peace . To say that such a transformation of the ' United Nations would be vetoed by Russia is no answer:to the challenge which confronts us . The probability of Russian resistance merely makes the task more difficult . It means that we must not only determine to accomplish the objective but must invent ways of accomplishing it by a step-wise procedure . The recently adopted proposal of our Secretary of State to strengthen the powerof the General Assembly might prove a useful . begin- ning had it been put forward as a first step toward the avowed goal of making the United Nations into a world government of defined and limited powers . PUt forward , as it was , merely to circumvent the Russian - veto , the Acheson proposal seems to this writer as barren as our whole negative policy of containment . THIS brings us to the second major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to create the kind of political structure in which mankind could live at peace can succeed only if it is accompanied by an equally determined effort to ameliorate those social and economic evils which arouse men to a sense of injustice and to acts of violence . We have , it is true , made certain laudable beginnings in this direction . The Marshall Plan was launched with a sentence that might have foreshadowed a truly affirmative approach to the world 's problems : its author stated , on June 5 , 1947 , " Our policy is not directed against ' any country or doctrine but against hunger , poverty , desperation , and Chaos . " More recently , President Truman , in announcing the principles of his so-called Point Four program , sounded a similar note of high purpose and statesman-like vision . But the Marshall Plan was never conceived as a worldwide program of reconstruction and development . It was conceived in the shadow of the Truman Doctrine , as a plan for Europe , and became  --  owing to Russian obstruction  --  a plan for only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an instrument in the cold war . The Point Four program has so far developed into little more than a minimal and niggardly gesture in the direction indicated by the President . moment The affirmative policy required at this crucial oment demands a wholly new approach to the world economic The NATION problem . In such an approach the following three factors ate essential : 1 . We must recognize that it is no longer possible to deal with isolated segments of the world economy . Whatever political divisions exist in the world , its economy is one economy . For example , we have been struggling to " integrate " Western Europe ; but parts of Western Europe are more closely integrated with parts of Asia , Africa , and the Middle East than they are with one another . It makes no sense to deal with Western Europe as if it were a little world in itself . It makes even less sense to attempt to deal with Asia in terms of the exigencies of West European economy . Europe can grow strong only in the context of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colonial dependency , grows strong in its newly won freedom . Asia can grow strong only if its problems are met in Asian terms , yet in the context of world economy as a whale . The same is true of every other part of the globe . 2 . A world-wide program of economic reconstruction and development must be cooperatively planned by all the nations , channeled through a central agency , and carried out through decentralized but coordinated operations . Our efforts to date have been circumscribed and rendered largely ineffective by the notion that the United States , as the world 's richest nation , must do this job  --  or as much of the job as it can  --  single-handed . There are two fallacies in this notion . The first is a misconception as to the world 's available resources . Actually we have less than we think , and the world has more than we think . We have enough surplus resources at present to help get the world 's far greater resources mobilized  --  but the United States itself needs a " Point Four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the benefit of the world . If living standards in the earth 's depressed areas are to be raised , then living standards in the developed areas must be maintained and enabled to rise farther  --  otherwise the whole assistance effort will collapse in failure . The second fallacy is the dangerous tendency to equate our preponderant economic strength with an assumed corresponding preponderance in brains and experience  --  and , worse yet , with some right to impose our judgment on the rest of the world . This tends to alienate the people we are trying to help and gives rise to the Communist-propagated slogan of American imperialism . New , affirmative American leadership must combine humility with strength . 3 . The final element in a successful attack upon the causes of misery and discontent is the realization that a cooperative , world-wide economic program can sue ceed only if it draws its stimulus from indigenous revolt against intolerable conditions . This means , bluntly stated , that such a program must ally itself with social December 16 , 1950 change and even with social revolution , instead of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is perhaps the most difficult hurdle for us to surmount . Our present tendency is to seek to hang on to what we have , to resist change , and so to ally ourselves throughout the world with others interested in preserving their present advantages . The two affirmative purposes just outlined could be put into the form of a resolution by our Congress empowering the American delegation to the United Nations to propose ending the present armament race through a universal disarmament agreement which would give the United Nations effective and enforceable powers to inspect and control all weapons . To make this possible the delegation must also be empowered to cooperate in amending the Charter , even if such changes may necessitate an amendment to our own Constitution . Congress should further pledge itself to full cooperation in a world-wide program of economic reconstruction and development , to be planned and channeled through the United Nations , which would raise the living standards ? .. in depressed areas without lowering " standards in the more developed areas . This program should include promotion of the peaceful development of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on technical assistance to and capital investment in underdeveloped areas . This country should , as evidence of its good faith , promise to launch such a program immediately and , after disarmament has been achieved , should pledge itself to contribute to the program 's support whatever sum may be saved on armaments in the five subsequent years . This plea for a new look at the world-problem  --  for new creative American leadership  --  is not to be confused with the commonly heard demand that we should state our case more persuasively  --  and more loudly . We need leadership , not salesmanship . The reason the " Voice of America " is today a mere whisper is not so much its lack of volume as its lack of substance . We may very well need more radio tranSmitters and more skilful broadcasters . But what we need most of all is an - affirmative American policy for the " Voice " to explain and exploit . Benjamin Franklin said long ago : " It is difficult to make an empty sack stand upright . " Denouncing Soviet lies and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long as the truth consists in a listing of Soviet sins and a catalogue of what we conceive to be American virtues . A creative policy of liberation , such as is here briefly outlined , will not bring us- overnight into the safe harbor of peace . It can only set our course toward that harbor . It can only slowly create that synthesis of faith , purpose , and power which , once attained , will make the free world invincible and , ultimately , render the whole world immune to conflict .                     