@@431557

 | FOREIGN AID : Is it still necessary ? Congress is about to plunge into crucial debate on how we ought to use our main weapon ? money ? to accomplish America 's aims abroad . Here are the facts on which it will base its decision . . . and a guess at what it will cost . T H E outbreak of fighting in the Middle East made it painfully clear that the order we had tried to maintain in that area is hopelessly unstable . Sources of the instability include pathological nationalism , racial and religious hatreds , embittered reactions to Western contempt , and inexperience in responsible government . But Poverty is its basis , the poverty that everywhere underlies these specific miseries ? and not only the fact of poverty , but also the frustrating hopelessness of being so mired in want that no way out is visible . It was no accident that the recent tragic round of events was touched off by the abrupt and humiliating withdrawal of American support from the Aswan Dam project , one of the few symbols @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's poverty itself can not be removed in our lifetime . What is important is that its people experience the beginnings of steady , peaceful development and see for themselves that orderly growth can bring real and individual rewards . This is now going to be doubly difficult to bring about . The situation in the Middle East was allowed to deteriorate so far into chaos that only drastic action , if that , can restore its peoples ' faith in their economic future . What is even more disturbing , in South and Southeast Asia and in much of Latin America , about which we feel no similar sense of urgency , a like disaster lies only a knife-edge away . Failure to create or sustain a sense of economic progress there can quickly lead to a situation as difficult as that in the Middle East . In the world 's hungry half , as far as America 's role is concerned , time is indeed running out . Most of the world 's people outside Europe and North America still live in a simple village society , practicing subsistence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poorer and more desperate over the past two or three generations , as more and more of them have pressed harder and harder upon their wasting soil resources . The people of these countries have generally shared in modern economic life only when they lived in large cities , or only in connection with the export of raw materials ? like rubber and tin and jute ? which was financed and controlled by foreign businessmen . The already frail economies of these countries were disrupted ? indeed almost destroyed ? by the decade of war , insurrection , and civil disorder which followed 1939 . Trade patterns were shattered : factories and railroads wore out and broke down when replacement parts could not be obtained ; and markets disappeared . By 1949 the economies of the Asian and Middle Eastern countries , and even of all but the most fortunate of Latin American countries , had sunk far below their already pitiful prewar levels . Many of them faced famine and collapse . This background for President Truman 's proposal of Point IV may help explain the almost hysterical enthusiasm with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas . Since then five important things have happened . First , several years of relative peace and stability ? except in Korea and Indochina ? have  | enabled the traditional economies to regain most of their prewar effectiveness : roads and railroads have been restored , and people have settled back into the rhythms of work and trade . Second , the Korean war created a sudden demand for military raw materials , a dramatic shot in the arm to the producers of rubber , oil , tin , jute , chrome , manganese , and other needed items . Third , after a slip backward , the boom of the past two years in North America and Europe has been reflected , though rather feebly , in a steady demand for the products of the underdeveloped areas ? especially oil and coffee . Fourth , the weather has been excellent for several years in South Asia , producing abnormally large rice and wheat harvests . And finally , the efforts at internal development in many of the countries have begun to yield significant returns in the simpler sectors of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been rising , though not rapidly ; conditions of life have improved ; and acute famine is no longer a threat . But this improvement is shallow . Per capita agricultural production throughout most of the area is still well below even prewar levels ; in Burma , for example , only about two-thirds as much food is grown per person as in 1938 . And there are disturbing aspects to even the limited progress that has been made . It still depends on largely uncontrollable outside factors , such as foreign markets or the weather . Two or three successive failures of the monsoon might reduce India to a starvation level , and a marked business relapse in Europe or America could wipe out most of the progress that has been made in the past half-dozen years- in the underdeveloped countries . WHAT WE 'VE DONE , AND NOT DONE RE A L progress has been made , however , in clearing the way for fulzne growth . In 1949 few underdeveloped countries could have made much use of outside aid . Neither we nor they knew what their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ required for economic growth in general . Plans for development were nonexistent or fanciful . Inexperienced civil servants were rarely capable of handling the complex problems of taxation , budget , currency regulation , and inflation control involved in economic growth ; and tremendous health , sanitation , and education programs were needed everywhere before true " development " could begin . There were no established channels for aid , and we STILL NECESSARY : 73 were as inexperienced in giving it as they were in using it . Today , in most countries , these barriers to future progress have been visibly lowered . The situation that confronts us now is very different . in the early stages of development much could be accomplished with very little capital , by organizing half-employed rural labor to use hand tools on community projects , such as building roads or digging wells . Better seed could be introduced and more efficient farming methods taught . Sanitation projects could be built . Cottage industries could be developed . But these limited means are no longer adequate . Many underdeveloped countries are now reaching a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but for outside capital , soon and in quantity . Food production per person must now be increased , radically and quickly . Any reclamation project to accomplish this will require dams and power installations , which mean major capital imports . Industry is equally essential , and not merely village handicrafts , but productive factories which will show the full benefits of modern technology . This means even more capital . And neither industry nor agriculture can survive without increased power supply and radically improved transportation ? again more capital . The economic development of two continents is threatening to grind to a halt , before momentum can be achieved , simply because it is capitalstarved at the crucial point . Our competitors and imitators , the Russians , have already begun to exploit this situation with attractive , if entangling , offers . Russian grain elevators , hydro-electric plants , and irrigation installations are being built or planned in Afghanistan ; a Russian steel mill is under way in India ; a Russian technological institute is announced for Rangoon ; a Russian nuclear physics laboratory is designed for Egypt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Russian economic aid to countries outside the Soviet bloc now totals at least $600 million and may have risen to $1 billion . Soviet offers are dangling before other hard-pressed countries in Asia and the Near East and Latin America as well . Some of this Russian aid is as clumsy and ineffective as were our own early assistance projects , but there is no reason to doubt its reality . It is the more appealing to many countries , especially in Asia , because in offering it the Russians say , in effect : " We , like you , were once poor and weak and despised by the rich and arrogant  | countries of the West : but we have learned how to rise by our own efforts , without their aid . In a generation we have become so strong that even America fears us , and we will help you do the same thing . " Few governments will choose stagnant poverty for their people rather than entanglement iii this honeyed trap , especially if it is their only alternative . But even if the situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ underdeveloped countries would need to be reconsidered anyway . The foreign-aid bill before the last Congress was presented without enthusiasm by the Administration and approved reluctantly , with major reductions . As an indication of the general dissatisfaction , three separate committees have been created to restudy the whole foreign-aid program : one by the Senate , one by the House , and one ? under the chairmanship of Benjamin Fairless ? by the President . Phis dissatisfaction appears to result in part from the way military aid has been handled , in part from a growing recognition that our economic aims are not being achieved , and in part from pore confusion . Confusion begins when you lump under the vague words " foreign aid " all sorts of transactions for all sorts of purposes . These include the S11 billion we spent , mostly through UNRRA , for emergency postwar relief and the S15 billion in loans and grants that went into the Marshall Plan and related efforts to get Europe back on its feet . Both programs were successfully , even brilliantly , completed and no further money @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our recent " foreign aid " ? about S25 billion in all ? has gone to arm and maintain a ring of allies around the edges of Communist power . This suns includes more than $I5 billion for weapons , equipment , and other direct military assistance and some .58 billion to bolster countries ( like Korea , Indochina , Formosa , Pakistan , Greece , and Turkey ) which have been involved in actual warfare or are supporting armies far beyond their means . Of foreign-aid appropriations sought last year by the Administration , seven-eighths were for defense aid , and of this two-thirds were for weapons . The debate over these proposals was essentially a debate on military policy . The question in the minds of Congressmen had little to do with the economic problems of Asia and Latin America . AThat they were actually arguing about was whether American security was strengthened more by helping our allies or by spending the same money on our own air force . It is worth MAGAZINE noting that the cuts of nearly 1 billion in the military aspects of the foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same amount in the Defense Department appropriation , to be used mostly for long-range bombers . The relatively minor sections of the bill relating to economic development received little attention . What has happened , in fact , is that the " bold new program " envisioned by President Truman in the Point IV passage of his 19-19 inaugural has never really been undertaken . Almost a year and a half passed before any funds were appropriated. immediately afterward , the Korean war broke out and diverted the national attention to military matters.When it ended we might have turned our energies to more vigorous efforts , but by then we had a new Administration pledged to the reduction of overseas conmiitnients and a Congressional majority which for years had described all economic aid as Democratic globaloney . The Eisenhower Administration has continued and even somewhat raised the level of purely economic aid in effect during President Truman 's second term ; but it has shown little interest in discussing foreign economic development as such , or doing anything decisive about it . As a result ? though rapid economic progress for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been a stated objective of American foreign policy since 1919 ? we have only nibbled at the edges of the problem . WHAT WE MUST DO , AND WHY T H E trouble with American aid is not primarily that it has been too little . We are spending almost enough abroad already , so far as totals go . The trouble is that our aid has too often been nothing but a by-product of other activities . We have been willing to pour out money to fight starvation or resist Communism or arm allies or get rid of farm surpluses , but not to meet the realistic needs of economically backward nations . To break the grip of stagnation on those countries , and to start a process of self-sustaining growth , is the most challenging social and economic task the world has consciously faced . Quite possibly it can not be clone . But certainly it can not be done by scattered and oblique efforts . If we really want economic progress in those areas we will have to make up our minds to it , and aim our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program must extend and expand our technical assistance if it is to be  | successful , and it must include a number of other elements . But its main component ? its new central core ? must consist of measures for assuring a flow of capital to the underdeveloped areas ; and about these measures we should make six comments : ( 1 ) The need for capital can not be met by savings and investment inside the underdeveloped countries . A critical portion must come from abroad , mostly from the United States . One of the persistent illusions about our foreign-aid program , under both Democratic and Republican administrations , has been the wishful thought that we need provide only " know-how " and that somehow all the necessary capital will come from savings within the underdeveloped areas , or from private investors , or from " hard " loans by the World Bank or the Export-Import Bank . Much of the capital , of course , will be raised within those countries . The materials and labor involved must in any event come out of the local economy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either not fully used before or else withdrawn from previous local use . But not all , not even nearly all , the capital can be raised this way . There are two reasons for this . One is that the capital needs of a developing economy in its early stages are prodigious . You need everything at once : land-reclamation projects ; hydro-electric installations ; roads , railways , and port facilities ; factories ; schools and hospitals ; and a thousand other things . To some extent , one is useless without the other : there is no point in building a railroad - , vith nothing to haul , or a factory with no power resources or rail facilities , or a hydro-electric plant with no industries to supply . Once development is progressing rapidly , each year 's new installations can be financed out of the annual increase in productivity . But until the process is under way , the tremendous increase in investment necessary to get it started can come only from the outside or from the most severe reductions in consumption ? that is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ability to build up capital resources depends on the country 's capacity to import as well as the capacity to save . No amount of local savings can pay for machinery , steel , and equipment unless it can be translated into hard currencies . A Brazilian industrialist may have the cruzerros to finance a new cotton mill , but he wo n't know whether he can get dollars for the new machinery until he knows how the coffee crop will sell . Though the developing countries can , as indeed they do , take measures to ration their imports , there is simply no way they can now increase their exports to the industrialized countries enough to pay for the capital goods they need. * ( 2 ) Private investment , though useful , will meet only a part of the need for foreign capital . Most of it will have to come from government sources . As a matter of fact , given the nature of the projects , most capital for the basic elements of economic development in ' all countries has to come from governmental sources . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ build schools , roads , port improvements , canals , irrigation and major hydro-electric projects , hospitals , and railroads . Nor will American or European investors buy Asian or Latin American bonds except in small quantities and at prohibitive rates . Direct investment has only limited appeal to American businessmen , in part because of the insecurity and restrictions imposed by foreign governments , but even more because the opportunities for investment in Canada and the United States itself are so rewarding . As a matter of fact , the net flow of private capital is into the United States and Canada , rather than away . American and European capital is likely to be invested in volume only in the production of oil and raw materials which Western industries continually and inescapably need . Recently another area for investment has opened up in the foreign production of simple consumers ' goods , so as to avoid the tariff and currency difficulties of direct export from the United States . Both these types of investment are well worth encouraging , especially for the experience in modern technology which they offer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civil servants and for the general stimulus to modernization which their presence provides . But no underdeveloped country can expect from this source a flow of capital in any way adequate to its needs , or aimed to satisfy its most acute requirements .  | ( 3 ) Once an underdeveloped country is investing as much as it can , we should provide additional capital as rapidly as the country can absorb it without waste . This is not likely to cost nearly as much as you think . Our natural tendency has been to gauge the need for aid at the lowest amount that will avert disaster . But if our purpose is literally to help the underdeveloped areas reach a level of selfsustaining growth , then it is in our interest to provide , not . as little as we can get away with , but as much as they can efficiently use . Quite apart from the political and the humanitarian arguments , the quicker these areas reach a selfsupporting stage , the cheaper it will be for us . We were able to finish the Marshall Plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? cheaply , because we gave enough . If we had tried to make do with annual grants of half the site , we would still be pimping aid into enfeebled and stagnant economies today ? if , indeed , discouragement and frustration had not already turned them to Connnuiisuu . It is impossible , of course , to estimate precisely the annual flow of capital that can be usefully absorbed . Proposals have been made that each of the advanced countries should annually contribute 2 per cent of its national income to an international development fund . This would involve an annual American contribution of some eight billion dollars . Though we could manage this , it is much more than the underdeveloped countries can use . About half the population of non-Communist underdeveloped countries is in India , and more than half the capital heeds are probably in that country . Yet India 's second five-year plan would require outside capital , public and private , of only about 5500,000,000 a year . Even if we assume , as we probably can , that more rapid progress would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suns required in India would still remain below one billion dollars . On this basis , annual demands on us are not likely to exceed two billion initially . Dr. Max E. Millikan and Dr. W. W. Rostow of M.I.T. , after a careful country-by-country study , concluded that the maximum possible capital flow from all sources that could be effectively used would be no more than S3.5 billion , even if all countries reached their highest needs for outside capital at once . Actually , about S2.5 billion is a more likely maximum for any one year , in view of the widely varying stages of development . This is a very large sum . But it is not much more than half our present foreign-aid program . and most of the present program , however useful militarily and politically , is unproductive economically . The amount is easily within our means . An effective foreign-aid program requires far-sighted intelligence , but it does not require visionary and impossible stuns of money . ( 4 ) We can materially reduce the amount to be provided by the United States if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dollar income earned by the underdeveloped areas . The principal source of dollars , for their imports and their savings , are the earnings from the exports of underdeveloped areas . Foreign payments for Latin . American exports between 1950 and 1951 ranged between S7 billion and . S7.5 billion a year , while the total flow of both public and private loans , grants , and investments averaged only about 5150,000,000 a year . A 10 per cent fluctuation itt the volume or price of exports would have done far more than the whole flow of aid and investments together to determine the area 's capacity to import capital goods . Countries like Venezuela or Iraq ? which have large , stable exports ? need no foreign aid for development . The needs of other countries arise largely from their lack of exports or stable markets . Wild fluctuations in the prices of products like coffee and rubber do special harm , since a single bad year can bring a devastating halt to all development , and the uncertainty discourages prudent investors even in bonanza years . Perhaps the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas has been the growing market for their exports . If we can maintain a large and reliable market for their products , the amount of aid they need will be greatly reduced , and their progress will move more rapidly into the self-supporting stage . Earlier efforts to stabilize the price of coffee , rubber , and similar products ? undertaken by the producer countries alone and usually in periods of declining markets ? have generally ended in failure . Put carefully planned agreements could be made to work , barring a general economic cataclysm , if the major buying countries were seriously and responsibly to participate in them . ( 5 ) " Hard " loans should be used whenever the transaction calls for them , but most aid will have to take the form of grants , which will be cheaper in the long run . Marshall Plan aid cause almost entirely in  | grants , as does our military and technical assistance . Both Congress and the Administration , however , have seemed considerably uneasy at the idea of outright grants for economic development ; and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practice . The Senate Foreign Relations Committee , for example , has stated on the one hand that it prefers loans , not grants , but then again , it does n't want the State Department to worry too much about collecting them . This confusion of loans with grants is too bad , since it is likely to lower respect for obligations to pay , and make genuine loans from the World Bank or the Export-Import Bank that much harder to collect . Loans have important advantages in terms of self-respect for the borrowing country , and the prudence with which they are sought and used ; but these advantages exist only when the loan is genuine , given because the borrower is a sound risk , and expects to repay in full . Many of the needs for capital in the underdeveloped areas meet such standards and can properly be met by businesslike loans . When that is so , they should be dealt with through the World Bank and the Export-Import Bank , and the resources of those institutions should be increased accordingly . We should not exaggerate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repay . Even the United States , fortunate and relatively painless as was our economic growth , defaulted during the Civil War and the panics of 1873 and 1893 on a large part of the foreign capital we had borrowed for building our railroad network and other nineteenth-century development needs . Most of the remainder was finally repaid only during the two world wars , when desperate European need for imports from us built up enormous trade balances in our favor . If it is in our interest to make the growth of these economies self-sustaining at an early date , then our least expensive course is to make outright grants and let increases in productivity be plowed back into further investment , rather than into debt service . ( 6 ) Grants and loans for economic development should be made through international channels , if effective ones can be devised . At present , most international aid is given directly . This would be inevitable if the assistance were always given to forward the short-term political or commercial aims of the aid-granting nation . But if the purpose of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are powerSTILL NECESSARY ? 77 ful arguments for using an international channel . Above all , it allows the aid to be divorced from the shifting requirements of political policy , and permits it to be administered in the disinterested atmosphere of objective economic and technological considerations . The Aswan Dam is a classic case . Though this seems to . be technically a feasible project , its economic advisability is the subject of earnest debate . For Egypt to concentrate potential domestic savings and foreign aid for so many years on so vast a project , from which returns will be long deferred , would expose her to many problems . There would be strong inflationary pressures , and her government might be insufficiently experienced to carry through so complex and lengthy an undertaking . Would not a series of smaller projects , from which earlier returns could be expected , be a better immediate objective ? On the other hand , the Aswan Dam , if successful , would give the maximum return per dollar , and might very well be the only project of sufficient mass and drama @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Though these are grave questions , they are capable of reasonably objective answers . Yet I suspect that our earlier offer to give support for the Aswan Dam was not based primarily on such answers , and certainly our abrupt and peremptory withdrawal of the offer was not based on a revised judgment of the project itself . These politically governed decisions , as you would expect , initiated a whole series of other politically governed decisions that seriously , and perhaps hopelessly , set back the opportunities for rational economic growth in the Near East . Had the decisions been entirely in the hands of the World Bank , or an organization in a similarly disinterested position , we might have had strong and hopeful progress instead of embittered chaos . Because the interest of the United States does coincide with that of the underdeveloped areas , we have the most to gain from channeling foreign aid through an international organization . This is particularly true in connection with the rapidly growing Russian program . This aid , skillfully administered for Russian political gain , may become an increasingly effective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leave the United States in the position of either abandoning some countries to Russian influence or entering an absurd competition in gifts . One way out of this dilemma would be to internationalize our aid , which would compel  | Russia to do the same or by implication admit her own political motives . A further reason for using international channels is that many requests must be turned down for economic reasons even where national pride is emotionally involved . When an advanced country makes such a refusal , ill-will inevitably results ; an international organization can much more easily afford the tough " No " when it is necessary . Also , the attachment of specific conditions to a loan or grant , frequently including supervision of its use , may often be necessary if the money is to be effectively used . This , like plain talk , is much more readily accepted from an international organization than from any single pourer . There remain two serious questions . Does the United Nations have the machinery and the administrative capacity to handle a major aid program without its becoming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Obviously the machinery of the UN itself is ill-adapted to so large an operation ; but the record of the World Bank shows it is possible to create a special agency ? insulated from direct political considerations , staffed by expert professionals , and free of the veto ? which can act promptly and well . The proposals for a Special United Nations Fiund for Economic Development ( SUN FED ) , though vague as to administration , lie along this line . The second is whether aid so predominantly from the United States can be made international by calling it so . If 75 or 80 per cent of the contributions to SUNFED or any similar organization are provided by the United States , which seems unavoidable , wo n't the United States necessarily dominate the organization and be held accountable for its decisions ? This is not an easy question to answer . We are confronted with what Gunnar Iyrdal has called " the awkward fact of the United States ' bigness . " No international organization , even the UN itself , has been entirely able to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States " dominance " has not necessarily resulted . ' We provide most of the funds for the UN technical-assistance program and the World Bank , and the president and many of the senior executives of the latter . Yet they have been able to maintain a genuinely international character . The mere fact that police decisions have to be openly discussed within an international board does much to assure recipient countries that aid is not being offered from concealed motives . Much would depend on the wisdom and self-restraint of the United States ; if we are wise and far-sighted enough to commit our grant program to the UN , we will doubtless be wise enough not to forfeit the advantages by trying to exploit our position.T H E necessities of such a program as this have never been laid before Congress . The Truman Administration did not go beyond technical assistance : the Eisenhower Administration has ( lone somewhat more , but has concealed most of what it has clone under the name of defense assistance or surplus-crop disposal . The belief has somehow been accepted that spending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accepted by the people only on the grounds of immediate self-interest , preferably assessed in naked military terns . Yet a look at the legislative record suggests the contrary . The Marshall Plan , requiring a considerably larger expenditure than Asian aid is likely to , and offered to Communist , and nonCommunist countries alike , was approved in a Republican Congress , with bipartisan support and wide popular hacking throughout its history , and is generally viewed today as a wise and successful undertaking . The Point IV program has similarly enjoyed enthusiastic popular support and in Congress has become almost noncontroversial . Even the heated debates of the last session , it was not the economic aid but the military aid that was attacked and reduced . There is a latent humanitarianism in the United States that feels an obligation to do what we can to stake the benefits of technology available to everyone . There is also a growing awareness of how inseparably our own future is linked to that of Asia , Africa , and Latin America , and a wide dissatisfaction with aid to those areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realization that only immediate and massive action can recover our position in the Middle East and avoid similar collapses elsewhere . With the simultaneous fracturing of the Western and the Soviet alliances , we have arrived at another of those turning points in history where our decision will shape the course of events for years to come . So far our reaction to the challenge has been narrowly and unimaginatively political , with the result that we alienated our friends in Europe and joined hands with @# WHAT COMES FIRST ?  | the Soviets in the slim hope of courting favor among current regimes in the Arab world . We do right , as the British and French well know , to make certain that the Russians do not monopolize the role of champion , among the colored and formerly colonial peoples , against the West . But we can not do so by moralizing and legalisms empty of real content . We can do so only by openly asserting our long-range self-interest ? by announcing unequivocally that . the . rapid growth to self-sufficiency of the underdeveloped areas is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President can clearly and authoritatively state such an aim . And if , with his enormous prestige , he were forcefully to urge upon the Congress a well-constructed program for achieving it , Mr. Eisenhower would almost certainly get what he asked for . If he does not , the forces blindly opposed to any kind of aid will mobilize themselves in the vacuum , and a negative decision will be made by default . At the first international economic downturn , the slender margins of growth in the underdeveloped areas will be wiped out , leaving as the only alternative for half the world 's people a road that leads into the future only by way of tyranny . We have fortunately been spared this decision long enough to learn that we can make it realistically , in careful concern for our own survival . President Eisenhower , freed by the election from any dependence on the bitter-end isolationists in his party , has the country behind him and an unparalleled chance to exercise his leadership . It will not come again .       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     