@@264380

While the ruckus about the Dixon-Yates power contract roared on in Capitol Hill committee rooms last week , the President of the U.S. and the mayor of Memphis met at the White House for a sensible discussion of the question . Democratic Mayor Frank Tobey told President Eisenhower that Memphis is wholly sincere in its plan to build a steam plant that will replace the power drawn from the Tennessee Valley Authority by the Atomic Energy Commission . By building its own plant , Memphis will be assured of power without Dixon-Yates . Since this fitted the Eisenhower policy of local rather than federal solutions to such problems , the President announced that the Dixon-Yates contract will be canceled . <P> With that , bulldozers at the Dixon-Yates site at West Memphis . Ark. stopped running , but the political arguments on Capitol Hill rolled on . They are sure to continue at least until the 1956 election , focusing partly on the charges against Dixon-Yates made by congressional Democrats , partly on how much , if anything , the U.S. should pay the Dixon-Yates combine in closing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had found unusual circumstances . They had learned that Investment Banker Adolphe H. Wenzell played an ambiguous role as a consultant to the Budget Bureau in the early stages of Dixon-Yates , at a time when he was also a vice president of the First Boston Corp. , which emerged as a Dixon-Yates financing agent . But First Boston had acted without fee , and there was no showing that Wenzell profited by his activities . Last week the probers made another discovery : White House Chief of Staff Sherman Adams had personally obtained a brief delay in the Securities and Exchange Commission 's Dixon-Yates hearing in June , when the House was about to vote on Dixon-Yates transmission lines . The Administration explanation was that Adams , no lawyer , had wanted advice from Attorney General Brownell and White House Special Counsel Gerald Morgan about legal problems relating to the SEC hearings . Since Brownell and Morgan were away from Washington at the time , Adams requested that the hearings be put off until he could confer with them . <P> Such matters were grist for the congressional mill , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But none of these mistakes adds up to scandal , or even superficially documents such wild charges as Kefauver 's that the President had to cancel the Dixon-Yates contract because it was be coming more scandalous , more smelly , all the time . . . When Memphis , in June 1955 , announced it had arranged to build its own power plant at the expense of local basic points he taxpayers , made the in 1952 President and won 1953 " his                     