@@493765

BOOKS IN REVIEW " Equally ACHRISTMAS LIST of books in a journal published for what Mencken used to call the civilized minority " may presumably be somewhat different from a commercial roster attempting to be all things to all publishers . It resembles more closely the sort of memorandum one might make for one 's self in anticipation of a period of enforced idleness ? a list that would both pass the time and improve it . Even the attempt to make such a list prompts reconsideration of what there is in the current offerings to solicit one 's imagination , to open up vistas in literature or knowledge that one could explore in the leisure time thus wishfully provided . A book list is a fantasy of what one would choose if one were given a large gift certificate , on the condition it be spent mostly on current publications . One speculates on what books to give to one 's friends , and since it is a Christmas list , one estimates what sort of Christmas garland one could make for one 's self from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make out an imaginary list for a perfect literary Christmas . There would be one or two or three novels anyway , serious works of art that had that magical transmutation which renders a " mere story " somehow a comment on life and an intensified revelation of it . E. M. Forster provided the qualitative test when he remarked , in Aspects of Fiction , that at the close of a fine novel , as at the close of the Beethoven Fifth , something more has been said than is in any of the single notes . There would be at least one discovery , the work of a young master , or a new and masterly work by a veteran . Genius is , of course , a commonplace in publishers ' announcements , and this season is no exception , though the advertisements today do not use the words masterpiece and classic as frequently as heretofore . If there is a top-flight novel current , claims , their premises , their promises are less magniloquent . For example , Crane Brinton 's Ideas and Men is a brilliant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western world , and a shrewd discussion of the relation of ideas to men , of hypotheies to history . And Bertrand Russell 's little book , Authority and the Individual , tells more about the central conflicts of our times than many heavier tomes . Finally , Stuart Hughes published last year , in An Essay for Our Time , a modest brochure cutting to issues deeper than any momentary crisis . There is always the chance , of course , that some book brushed aside or ignored carries the hint of revelation , a central act of insight for our time or for any time . One looks over the current lists trying to guess what prophetic marvel may have been neglected Not , surely , Saint-Exupery 's posthumous The Wisdom of the Sands , extreme right-wing politics dressed up in heavy clothes of obscurantist mysticism . Not surely Worlds in Collision or Dianetics . Norbert Wiener 's The Human Use of Human Beings , a brilliant consideration of the implications , for good or evil , of that machinery which will render mind as well as muscle gratuitous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of Cybernetics fame , opens up the dreadful possibility of a machine a gouverner in which a few sinister leaders might pushbutton all of us around . But arresting as are his suggestions , what he has given us is the loose makings of a first-rate book , not a book finely and finally made . To rsadsrs over fifty , the current lists are remarkable for the number of volumes trading on nostalgia and for the books that begin to explain those years which those of us in middle age ( or older ) are shocked to realize are already history . Thus to read The Letters of Ezra Pound , especially his early letters , is to have a tragedy given its natural genesis and to see even in the midst of a great early talent the seeds of decay . Already there are ? or is it only hindsight ? ? in the early letters signs of a passionate lover of poetry rebelling against a culture philistine and material , marks of a rebellion that was to turn into madness . Another esthete , and something of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his baroque reminiscences into Volume Five , but this final volume parades as " noble essences " still living friends of his for whom a more modest term might have been wiser . Alistair Cooke , in A Generation on Trial , not only takes up the Hiss trial but makes it a parable of the history of liberals for the past generation . Jonathan Daniels writes a book , The Man of Independence , that tries ? already ? to place President Truman in history . Are these books for all time ? Are they books that will live long enough so that even five years from now they will not seem badly dated ? It needs to be recognized , perhaps , that many volumes these days that are called books are merely extended pamphlets , which the movement of world events renders faintly antique before they are processed through the binderies . Not only nonfiction but fiction attempts to instruct us promptly about what we need for the instant to know about Korea , or if the headlines turn to China , about China , or about gang @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farming . On* loran wistfully to books in which the eternal becomes alive in us , or in which the moments of those who have never lived at all , save in the author 's imagination , become at once present and eternal . One looks , in short , not too hopefully in the current lists for works of art . Is it the sense of having come upon one that makes certain " revived " works so special a delight ? Trot-lope 's The Way We Live Now , about the vanished world of nineteenth-century England , is a book that simply will not vanish . In its very matter-of-factness , it elevates fact to the eternity of a well-made fiction . It is for something like the same reason that James Thurber 's little fantasy , The Thirteen Clocks , gives so pure a pleasure ; one feels that the pleasure would have the same purity at any time in almost any state of the world short of pure annihilation . What the current lists lack most , perhaps , is poetry in the wide , Greek sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lifts the spirit free for a moment into intensified awareness , into clarity , into delight . But the spirit is lifted sometimes by a very modest , by a quietly exquisite , or subtly limited book , by precisely the kind of book that it is economically almost impossible ( or so American publishers claim ) to publish in these days of high costs . Only once in a generation does a poet become a best-seller ( and not always the best poet ) . And books of quiet charm , the special pleasures of intellectual exploration , or musing erudition , where do these appear on the book lists ? How often does one see a volume of essays or of unpretentious humor ? Luckily Ogden Nash attracts enough readers to find a publisher . His Family Reunion of this season is more than a matter of trick rhymes ; it is a gentle and wise study of the little and big difficulties and delices of family life . But the experiments in verse or ideas , the small adventures into off-center reaches of fancy and imagination , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vain for these on this year 's book counters . Lift Up Your Heart shouts the title of Monsignor Fulton Sheen 's new book . But of books that do lift up the heart there are few . Elizabeth Bowen 's Collected Impressions do ; so do passages of affirmation and gayety in Gilbert Highet 's The Art of Teaching . So do the essays of John Mason Brown in Still Seeing Things , in which that wise and amiable writer not only ' sees but thinks about the sage and the stage that is a world . In its scabrous and coxcomb way , Boswell 's lately published London Journal lifts up the heart , too , for whatever the terms , there is life here and love of life and genius in evoking it . And a new and convenient one-volume Plutarch reminds us how lives of great men may remind us that , when an inspired writer tells them , the greatness in the writing may transcend the greatness portrayed . One looks , perhaps not altogether in vain , for some passage in a book that speaks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the almost deliberate obscurantism now epidemic . There is such a passage , I think , to be found in Crane Brinton 's Ideas and Men . It occurs after he has reviewed the history of the chief intellectual episodes of the West : " In the perspective of Western intellectual history we can see that many of the problems that seem to our alarmists so new , so demanding of intellectual solution , are in fact very old problems that men and women of Western culture have managed to survive without solving . " One is tempted to quote Mr. Brinton further , for he has shrewd things to say about the inadequacy of the abstract faiths of the modern intellectual , faiths no less inadequate , perhaps , than the last sentence of Monsignor Sheen , who tells us that " love is our destiny . " Love , too , can be an abstraction . One is tempted to quote from Erich Fromm 's Psychoanalysis and Religion , in which the author reminds us that there is wisdom in the language of the old religions , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supernatural dogmas . There is a temptation , finally , to quote from Edmund Wilson 's play , " The Little Blue Light , " in which one of the characters says , " the Reds , who are , of course , the extreme right . " But quote as one will , there is no sovereign aphorism to be found . The age is too complex even for a brilliant formula . Well , there is n't a great deal in the current offerings to set the spirit free . But , if winter comes , can spring ( and its lists ) be far behind ? And , who knows , by June we may stumble on the incandescent tale , the searching vision , the master idea . It has happened before in American literature . ? Next year may be the Annus Mirabilis. 