@@487562

ON DECEMBER 15 , in an impressive ceremony , the Bill of Rights , the Constitution , and the Declaration of Independence were removed from the Library of Congress and placed in a shrine under the dome of the National Archives Building in Washington . Sealed in a purified helium atmosphere between sheets of glass , the sacred documents will now be protected against chemical decay and insect damage . At night they will be lowered into an ingenious fifty-ton safe manufactured by the Mosier Safe Company , makers of the gold-storage vaults at Fort Knox , and guaranteed to provide " security against almost every conceivable hazard . " But there are certain hazards which even the guaranties of the Mosler Safe Company do not cover . One of them is complacency . On the occasion of this 161st anniversary of the Bill of Rights , the American Civil Liberties Union has announced that according to newspaper editors in nineteen cities civil liberties in general are better safeguarded today than they were a year ago . Do the national and local officers of the A. C. L. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other day that Justice William 0 . Douglas , in an address before the Authors ' Guild of America , said that the pulse beat of freedom is feebler now than at any other time in the history of the United States . And the A. C. L. U. ' apparently forgot to poll the Pittsburgh Post Gazette , which in a fine editorial titled A Living Bill of Rights has declared that " the almost hysterical attack on civil liberties ' threatening the United States today " is " no longer a nibbling at the Bill of Rights , but a threat to engulf and destroy it . " An even greater danger than complacency is found in the attitude of persons who , while professing undying devotion to the liberties of prosperous majorities , refuse to stand up for those of despised minorities . These are the people who , as President Truman observed in his speech dedicating the new shrine , believe that the immortal phrase , " we , the people , " should be amended to read : " some of the people of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with , do ordain and establish the Constitution . " " They are people , " as Mr. Truman put it " who believe it is too dangerous to proclaim liberty throughout all the land and to all the inhabitants . " Exceptions to the unequivocal , unconditional , and unqualified guaranties of the Bill of Rights , if tolerated too long , will sooner or later lead to its destruction . This  --  the fundamental point about constitutional freedoms  --  was stated with great force and clarity by Justice Hugo Black in his concurring opinion in the recent Supreme Court decision invalidating Oklahoma 's loyalty oath , one of the few hopeful omens for civil liberties in 1952 . " We must have freedom of speech for all , " Justice Black pointed out , " or we will in the long run have it for none but the cringing and the craven . ? . . The right to speak on matters of public concern must be wholly free or eventually it will be wholly lost . " The moment we say that those who have been labeled " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they May not be teachers or government employees or work in industrial plants or travel abroad or publish books or give lectures or appear on radio programs , we have destroyed the underlying principle of the Bill of Rights . Painful as it may be , we must either defend the civil liberties of all citizens who are adult , competent ( in the perhaps too generous sense that they have not yet been committed to institutions ) , and law-abiding or forfeit our right as individuals to claim the protection of those guaranties . LONG with complacency and cowardice , blindness to reality is a major threat to the Bill of Rights to-day . Many- opinion leaders feel compelled to assume that every measure proposed in the name of national security is actually intended to achieve that end . To as-sume this is in many cases to assume also the necessity for the particular measure , even though it may appear dan-gerous in principle . Once this concession is made , oppo-sition to the measure on its merits is no longer possible . Even the skeptic is driven to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so-called subversives . Thus measures are adopted and practices are sanctioned in the name of national security which in total effect abrogate the Bill of Rights , and because this happens bit by bit , almost by stealth , the public is all too little aware of the direction and end result of the process . Plain speech is needed if this business of amending the Bill of Rights by indirection is to be stopped . It was time that someone said what Justice Black said in the opinion from which we quoted above , that " test oaths are notorious tools of tyranny .. which should - be unspeakably odious to a free people . " Test oaths and similar measures , he added , are aimed " at coercing and controlling the minds of men , " not at safeguarding the nation against spies and traitors . " The real explanation , " to quote again from the editorial of the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette , " of this threat to American traditions of freedom is in the ruthless exploitation of the Communist scare by politicians who know that fear is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discovery of mass-destruction weapons . . . But subversion and espionage are not the concern of most of these political opportunists . They do not deal with overt acts of treason , which the law recognizes and punishes . They seek to make capital of what they regard as treasonable thoughts . " T HOSE who believe that McCarthy 's prime aim is to safeguard America against enemies , - foreign and domestic , reveal a credulity as great as that of the Germans who ' thought Hitler was simply a misguided and . emotional patriot . Our freedom is our security . Every restriction on free speech has a direct relevance to national security . To deny the rights guaranteed by the first ten amendments is , as President Truman has said , " worse than dangerous , it is absolutely fatal to liberty . The eternal threat to liberty should not drive us into suppressing liberty at home . Those who want the government to regulate matters of the mind and spirit are like men who are so afraid of being murdered that ' they commit suicide to avoid assassination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President warned that in enshrining our sacred documents we should not make of them " mummies in their glass cases " or " curiosities " or " glass idols : " We confess to have been bothered by the same misgivings . If General Eisenhower intends to check the inroads that have been made on civil liberties in the last four years he will lose no time in implementing Senator Lodge 's suggestion that a commission of distinguished citizens , from all walks of life , be appointed to survey the problem of freedom and security . Let this commission , working with the Fund for the Republic just set up by the Ford Foundation , roll back the fog of fear which today obscures the vision of freedom in America . In the meantime let the President-elect use his great prestige , while it is still intact , to demand an abatement of the witch hunt . ' Let him heed the words of the Post-Gazette : " The ultimate aim of most of - these Congressional inquisitions is to confuse and divide the Ameiican people . They are intended to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to intimidate all critics of political , economic , and social orthodoxy , to take the guts and meaning out of the Bill of Rights . " The General can assume that the Bill of Rights has now been adequately protected against the ravages of time and the possibility of physical destruction . His task is to see that the rights which it guarantees are respected by the government and freely exercised by the people . The Shape of Things Peace vs . Power Politics The stultifying effect of power blocs , large and small , was dramatically demonstrated when the General Assembly failed to muster a two-thirds ' majority for a resolution calling upon the Arab states and Israel to attempt to settle their differences by direct negotiations . The resolution violated the rights neither of the Arab states nor of Israel and rescinded no previous resolutions of the United Nations . From the violent opposition organized by the Arab states it was clear that they knew negotiation was inevitable and must eventually produce a settlement . Why they fought the inevitable is also clear . Hatred of Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to divert the rising anger of their people against misery and corruption . Despite Arab opposition the resolution , introduced by a group of neutral powers , was adopted in the Ad Hoe Committee by a vote of thirty-two to thirteen . A last-minute maneuver , however , produced its defeat in the plenary session by a vote of twenty-four to twenty-one , with fifteen abstentions . The final vote saw the Arab-Asian bloc , except for Burma , spearheaded by the Soviet bloc , in solid opposition to twenty-four countries led by the United States , the United Kingdom , and France . The only state which gained anything from the result is the Soviet Union . Every Arab news-agency dispatch from the U. N. gave Russia credit for the victory , thus raising its stock sky-high in the Arab world . The irony is that fifteen states , all opposed to the Soviet Union , should by their abstentions have given Moscow this prize , among them twelve which abstained in deference to the Vatican , the other three being Turkey , Greece , and Nationalist China . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abstained on the vote in the Ad Hoc Committee , and had voted against ' the amendment on the internationalization of Jerusalem in the plenary session . Their vote against the resolution as a whole , ex-plained by them as opposition to the continuance of the Conciliation Commission , was carefully calculated to seize the sudden opportunity to win the Arab public without effort and without cost . If the U. N. has not the courage to ask two grou- ps of states to try to settle their differences around the conference table , how can it hope to settle the more fundamental issues behind the cold war ? Dilemmas in Oil Iran continues to- involve the State Department in a series of interlocking dilemmas . The department sympathizes with Britain 's position since it , too , is concerned with defending the sanctity of international contracts ; at the same time it fears that ' Whitehall , by sticking so firmly to its legal rights , will force Iran into the Soviet orbit . Thus its recent cautious announcement that independent American companies might buy Iranian oil , if they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sign to Premier Mossadegh that the United States was not towing the British line completely . But this move must also be considered in relation to the current anti-trust case against the international oil cartel of which the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company is an integral part . What is the logic , Justice may very well have asked State , of discouraging independents from cutting into a monopoly which we are trying to prove illegal ? Yet the Anglo-Dutch-American group of giant international oil corporations is so powerfully entrenched that no solution of the Iranian problem may be possible without its cooperation . According to the New York Herald Tribune of December 22 a forthcoming offer to Iran will be based squarely on recognition of the cartel 's total domination of world oil markets . Mossadegh is to be told , it is said , that Iran will never be able to sell more than a fraction of its oil unless it can use the transport and marketing facilities of the cartel which , in order to protect contracts in other Middle Eastern countries , will limit Iran 's profits to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to be warned that if a settlement is delayed much longer , the increased output of other fields will malce Iranian production superfluous and unmarketable . If this report proves correct , it would seem that the United States government has surrendered to the oil cartel , the continued prosecution of which will become a farce , and is asking Iran to follow its example . " Cold War and Hot Emotions " The Supreme Court in an eight-to-nothing decision has ruled that Oklahoma 's loyalty oath is unconstitutional ( see Oklahoma Loyalty Oath , The Nation , August-11 , 1951 ) . The decision indicates that the court has finally become concerned over the implications of its ill-considered decisions upholding the Los Angeles loyalty oath ( the Garner case ) , New York 's Feinberg law , and the Maryland statute requiring candidates for public office to take a test oath . The court seeks to distinguish the Oklahoma oath from the rest on the ground that the statute failed to make knowledge a factor in applying the doctrine of guilt by association . For instance , a teacher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ listed as subversive or the organization might have ceased to be regarded as subversive or might not have been under subversive control during the time the teacher belonged to it . The court has also come to recognize that the exclusion of a person from government employment on the ground of disloyalty is tantamount to a general blacklisting . " The stain is a deep one , " says Justice Tom Clark , who wrote the opinion , " . . . a badge of infamy . " Showing some sensitivity on the score that as Attorney General he drafted the loyalty- order and prepared the first major " list of " subversive " organizations , Justice Clark protests that the list was intended to have only " a limited evidentiary use " under the federal loyalty program . The protest is not impressive . Having carelessly lighted the fuse of a time-bomb , Justice Clark now says in effect that the explosion injured more persons than he had intended . The Oklahoma decision may point the way to - an eventual reversai of the earlier decisions on loyalty oaths . Like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these decisions were clearly products of what Justice Clark now calls a time of " cold war and hot emotions . " Mr. Lie in Hot Water The personnel policy of the United Nations is now certain to have a hearing at the resumed session of the General Assembly scheduled for February 24 . Moreover , twenty of the twenty-nine persons discharged under the new policy adopted by Trygve Lie will have their cases reviewed by the U. N. Administrative Tribunal . After notice had been served upon him by India , the Netherlands , and New Zealand that they would ask the steering committee to add the item to the agenda , Mr. Lie hurriedly made the request himself . Few issues have stirred the U. N. as profoundly as the personnel issue . In a preliminary hearing before the Fifth Committee delegation after delegation , large and small , made dear to Mr. Lie their common belief that he had exceeded his authority and had acted outside - the Charter , and that the issue was one which could undermine the international organization itself . The inclusion of the item @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the recommendations of the panel of jurists , ? discussed in last week 's issue , will be scrapped , or indeed that the Assembly ' will not be con-fronted with a fait accompli . Mr. Lie stoutly maintains that he alone has the authority to decide personnel questions and gives no assurance that he will desist from firing staff members under the recommendations now challenged . Moreover , it is dear that the pressures upon him to apply these recommendations will continue . The State and . Justice departments and the federal Civil Service Commission are collaborating , at the request of President Truman , on a plan to guarantee a " maximum of security " in the selection of United States citizens for employment at the United Nations . The plan itself has not been disclosed , but its very existence has no justification under the Charter . When completed it will no doubt be communicated to Mr. Lie and , if his present mood prevails , will probably be applied . Pongam : Stupidity Plus Brutality As usual the Russians in the U. N. made the worst @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in session all night for a last-minute debate on its charge of " mays-murder " against the United States , and by the-violence of its attack , Russia managed to get a forty-fiveto-five vote against its resolution of censure . Even the Arab-Asian countries , usually critical of American handling of the Korean war and especially sensitive to charges of brutality , voted with the West . Whatever its propaganda effect in Communist areas of the world , the Russian move had the general result , we believe , of handing the United States a tactical advantage it does not deserve . For Gromyko 's speech tended to blur rather than highlight the tragic incident on Pon , gam Island , where more than 200 interned Communist civilians were killed or wounded by guards acting under American orders . - Whatever the official explanations , most normal people reject the idea that unarmed men must be mowed down by machine-gun fire in order to stop them from demonstrating and otherwise disobeying orders . Even if they were " fanatical , " even if their eyes were " glazed , " even if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is difficult to accept the military view that they could be subdued only by being killed . It is a fact that no milder methods were tried , ap -- parently because the steep hills made the use of tear gas and other non-lethal weapons difficult . Nor has it been explained why the prisoners , known to be hardshell Communists , should have been kept in such large units or the camps established on such rough and unmanageable terrain . One need not accept Mr. Gromyko 's preposterous charge that the United States is engaged in the " systematic extermination " of Communist prisoners , to admit that this second major killing within a year is a poor way of demonstrating our tender concern over the fate of Communist prisoners of war who might be repatriated against their will . Austerity , Everywhere but in Washington Pope Pius XII has approved style and dress modifications that will reduce the cost of a cardinal 's wardrobe by about $1,000 . The trains of the scarlet and violet cassocks which were formerly twenty feet in length may now be reduced by half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of wool instead of watered silk : The world situation being what it is , the Pope has enjoined " a sober tenor of life upon all and a measured and austere one particularly upon the clergy . " At the same time from London comes word that Queen Elizabeth has given those peers who plan to attend but not to participate in the coronation ceremonies permission to dispense with costly robes of state . Peeresses may turn up wearing a tasseled velvet headpiece ( price about $10 ) instead of the customary coronet ( price $100 and up ) . All in all , the peeresses will save about $600 , while hard-up peers will now be able to attend minus the conventional velvet robes trimmed with miniver and ermine . The keynote everywhere this year is austerity  --  everywhere , that is , except in Washington where the costliest inauguration in American history is being planned . To Europe we might now well say , in the spirit of the McCarran-Walters act , send us no more of your tired , your poor , your huddled masses ; send @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ silk , and any unused coronets you happen to have around . Scholars and Statesmen Beware ! Both Owen Lattimore and John Carter Vincent are basically victims of the recently revived notion that scapegoats must be found whenever a nation changes its foreign policy . From Prague to Washington , last year 's official policies can easily become - this year 's treasons . Lattimore was indicted , not because of discrepancies in his testimony , but because he had thought the " wrong " thoughts and come to conclusions of which the China . Lobby did not approve . Scholarly research has now become an aspect of the science of policy . Let the research worker take care what facts he collects , what conclusions he draws . Now that we are committed to the idea of prose- - cuting the architects of abandoned policies , logic demands that we hold the principals accountable too . Let General George C. Marshall , Dean Acheson , and Mr. Truman be brought to trial with Lattimore ; let the Loyalty . Review Board test their loyalty . They made the decisions ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by appointees of an.Administration for which they are merely the stand-ins or substitute targets . Will the principals permit the proxies to stand trial for them or , while they still have the power , will they reverse these indefensible actions ? Let them act now . Proposals for Peace-1 Recently The Nation asked a number of men who influence the world 's thinking what specific proposals , in their opinion , offered the best hope of bringing peace to the world . The following statement , first of the series , is by Lord John Boyd Orr , former director general of the United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization , who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1949 . Other suggestions will be printed in subsequent issues . ) THE people of all countries want peace above all . else because they realize that a war with modern weapons would be the ultimate horror and that no country would escape . But the enormous powers which science has let loose can not be bottled up again . At present they are being used for armament . If this continues , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world war . The best chance for peace lies in diverting the powers of science to constructive ends . The organization for this is at hand in the U. N. specialized agencies , such as the Food and Agricultural Organization , established to put an end to hunger , the World Health ' Organization , established to eliminate preventable disease , and the World Bank , established to finance the development of the wealth of the earth for the benefit of all . The U. N. has failed to fulfil the high hopes which it inspired not so much because the politicians have not resolved the conflict between capitalism and communism as because governments have refused to cooperate in the concrete measures these agencies were designed to carry through . Such cooperation would lead to a lessening of the political tension and be a first stage in the functional evolution of some form of world government , without which , as Churchill has said , there is no hope for the future . A world food plan is the easiest way to begin . Increasing the world 's food supply - would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Russia , and China , for example , export food ; Great Britain and India import it from all three . An international authority based on the U. N. specialized agencies and given limited power and funds to apply modern science to increase the world 's food supply would be a realistic approach to the problem of what to do with the forces of science . It would be a first step to a dynamic peace , the only kind of peace possible in this modern age . It would be putting into practice for 365 days of the year the peace and good-will to men we talk about on Christmas Day .                     