@@476417

THE Republican party has lost five successive national elections ; its contin-uance as a viable organization is de-pendent on its winning in 1952 . American history shows several instances of parties fading and disappearing from the scene , while a new alignment of forces restores the two-party system so essential to the workings of our political institutions . It is just possible that this time the disappearance of a major party would not be followed by such reassuring results . Modern conditions give the party in power great resources and far-reaching controls over the people 's minds . The prolongation of Democratic rule , combined with Republican disintegration , could introduce a really dangerous period of oneparty government . The maintenance of a two-party system requires a Republican victory . There is no need to argue that the restoration to our national government of purpose , efficiency , moral authority , and simple honesty also requires a Republican victory . In politics ? at least in present political circumstances ? there is no substitute for victory . It is argued ( or , more frequently , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country needs is a referendum on political doctrines . In recent elections , it is said , the voter has had no chance to express himself in favor of strict conservatism and laissez faire . Let there be freedom of expression in all forms ; but I submit that when the Republican voter goes to the polls in 1952 it should be his primary concern to elect a President and bring a national party into power . He will be engaged in a vast strategy for his country 's good , not in a game to test the popularity of abstract political doctrines . By every reliable sign General Eisenhower is shown to be the man most assured of winning . His prestige as a soldier statesman is unchallenged . His appeal to the men and women of this country is literally without precedent . As preconvention tests have revealed , Eisenhower remains in all parts of the country , in all classes and groups , the stable , abiding choice of the citizens . He can carry with him into power the party ticket both on the state and national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from independents to more than offset the numerical disadvantage which the Republican party suffers at present as a result of its long period in the opposition . A Republican administration with General Eisenhower at its head would be an administration united for the accomplishment of large purposes , purged of the frustrations , the bitterness , and the inhibitions which are characteristic alike of a party that has been too long in power or one that has been too long denied power . He more than any other man could preside over a victory which would not split the Republican party or divide the country . The transfer of authority from Democratic to Republican auspices would be accomplished under him with a minimum of apprehension both at home and abroad . Indeed he would assure that the transfer was accompanied by a general rebirth of national unity and enlightened resolve . FA ISENHOWER as President is sometimes pictured as the prisoner of a party in many of its segments out of sympathy with his aims . A list of supposedly horrendous names is read off to illustrate the type of men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate and the House and who would control the floor procedure. * This type of argument can be turned as well against the Democrats . The present committee heads , many of whom have attained their seniority by the simple process of being Southerners , could be recited as a disturbing As in Bernard DeVoto 's " Easy Chair " last month . ? The Editors.list . What is more important is how the Republicans would act when given the responsibility of national power . . The Eightieth Congress saw the two Houses led by many of the men who would be chairmen of committees under Eisenhower . That Congress enacted the law setting up the Marshall Plan , passed the Greek and Turkish aid bills , and produced the Vandenberg Resolution , which resulted in the North Atlantic pact . It is hardly to be supposed that the results would be any less satisfactory when leadership was being supplied by a Republican President , coming to office with the immense prestige that Eisenhower would command . An American party can not accurately he judged by its behavior out of power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discipline cause it to break down into factions and give to extremists a disproportionate influence . Responsibility is the great restorer ? responsibility and an ardent spirit of leadership at the top . The longer a party has been out of power the more it needs in its chief the moral qualities that unite and inspire men . General Eisenhower possesses these qualities in a superb degree , and the Republicanism that he led would be a Republicanism re-endowed with the will to accomplishment which marked the party in the greatest days of its history . EISENHOWER himself comes to the role of leadership with entire self-confidence and with an intuitive sense of political ways . It is true that he has been soldiering most of his life . But he was never a mere soldier ; indeed the most striking fact about the man has been that in the various stages of his career he has seemed to transcend the immediate circle of his preoccupations . You could never classify him , put him in a fixed category , and say this is where his interests and abilities stop . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appreciation of coalition warfare . As Supreme Commander of SHAEF he brought the sure touch of diplomacy to his generalship ; and it is as a world statesman that he has fulfilled his second mission to Europe . In the phrase that Americans have always liked , Eisenhower is a jack-of-all-trades . What is astonishing is that the trades he has mastered have been of literally epic proportions . In war he was much too good a soldier to encroach on the domain of the political leaders ; yet there is evidence that , as the fighting in Europe drew near its close , he was increasingly aware that no clear political concepts directed the soldiers ' march . " I am the first to admit that war is waged in pursuance of political aims , " we find him cabling to Washington in April 1945 , " and if the Combined Chiefs of Staff should find that the Allied effort to take Berlin outweighs purely military considerations in this theater , I would cheerfully readjust my plans and my thinking so as to carry out such an operation . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be forthcoming . Afterward , at Potsdam , Eisenhower was free to give his advice against buying Russian support in the Far East at the price of yielding a dominant position to the Soviets . As Chief of Staff he fought against , and then watched with dismay , the demo-MAGAZINE bilization that was to put us for three terrible years at the mercy of Russian power . The shift from such responsibility in great affairs to a willingness to participate directly in politics was not one the General could undertake lightly . In 1948 he was genuinely apprehensive of the step . But his experience as President of Columbia , and even more his experience at SHAPE , evidently made him aware that the gifts of leading , persuading , and reconciling men are essentially the same in whatever field they are deployed . As the present campaign drew near , Eisenhower 's mind was clear and calm . He took the position which he defined publicly in January of this year : He was a Republican ; he would consider it the highest duty to accept a call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not slight his task in Europe in order to seek it . Given the nature of the man , it was inconceivable that lie should have said otherwise . A few may complain that it was " undemocratic " not to drop everything and enter immediately into the fray . But there is an ancient democratic principle that the office seeks the man . It is embodied in many of our political mores , such as the traditional ceremony of notification and acceptance . There may always have been something of humbug in the surprise with which the candidate heard that his services were required ; but at the heart of it was a genuine insistence on humility and restraint in those who serve the people . To be modest and to await the people 's call is as honorable and certainly as " democratic " as to hire a hall and declare that one very much wants to be President . General Eisenhower 's course was in the old paths of American politics ; it was made the more right by the overwhelming need to finish the great work in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way for some time through the thickets of political ideas . He returned to this country after the war with a clear image of the world and of America 's place in it ; but on domestic issues he could not and did not take over any preformed pattern . He had to think things through for himself , to get hold of the truths that in a deep and unconscious way had been guiding him through all his army years . The speeches he made at Columbia and the more recent letters and memoranda which have been published in the New York Herald Tribune show a man laboring to make articulate and convincing the first and last things by which he lives . Quite rightly these later articles have been published under the title of Eisenhower 's Greed , for they arc the expression , as lie himself says , of the things that do not change ? of " principles , basic character , values , and purposes . " They do not pretend to represent the particular application of these values in the form of a political program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solidly on a belief in the individual . He cares that a man shall possess the dignity and freedom which his Creator intended him to have . He wants him to be himself ; in the old phrase he wants a man amid the distractions and frustrations of modern life " to find himself , " to realize his identity , and to fulfill his possibilities . Everything that stands in the way of that fulfillment ? the pressures of conformity , the vast agglomerations of power in the government or in private organizations ? is immediately suspect . Power must prove its title to legitimacy by the degree to which it is necessary for safeguarding freedom ; the worst and most stultifying of all things is accumulated power exercised for its own sake . Bureaucracy is the very image of senseless restraints upon the individual ; public debt heedlessly piled up represents a burden that kills the spirit . These fundamental truths upon which Eisenhower has insisted over and over again in his writings and speeches are at the heart of Republicanism , as they are at the heart of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has given them something of the clarity and force which they possessed for the generations that first conceived and embodied them in political institutions . What others repeat as a platitude , Eisenhower has been asserting with the freshness of a discovery . A man who has been accustomed in the military sphere to pushing ahead through obstacles , to driving great enterprises to their conclusion , has found in this body of belief the principles that legitimize power , that give it moral sanction and bring it into the service of ideal ends . He remains the superb administrator , ? the leader who set down unprecedented armies on the coasts of France and led them in their sweep across Germany . But he has gained , in addition , a sure sense of the limitations and restraints that rest upon officials in a free state . The process of translating this basic philosophy into a practical program has only begun . In fields where he has had a direct responsibility Eisenhower has stated his position unequivocally ; nobody needs to ask where he stands on UMT , on unification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rest . On other questions he has refrained from making statements that would be necessarily abstract and without roots in firsthand knowledge or experience . In this he was acting true to form . The man 's special genius has been his ability to submerge himself in a situation , to feel out the necessities and interests involved , and then to come lip with a solution that appealed to all by its innate good sense and justice . It was so during his visit to Germany in January 1951 , when in a single statement he undid the tangle into which the Administration had got us and prepared a sound basis for bringing Germany into a European army . It was so to a notable degree with his famous London speech in July six months later . Then Eisenhower took a position on European unity which was irresistibly effective because it sprang from what he had learned and felt and seen during months of fateful responsibility . III I N THE same way , undoubtedly , the major decisions of an Eisenhower administration would be forged in the conflict of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is always so to a greater or less degree ; a preconvention campaign is more a way of learning how a man acts under pressure than of determining an exact legislative program . But with Eisenhower more than with most candidates the solution to any problem is a balancing of forces rather than a doctrinaire absolute ; and today , more than at most times , the issues to be settled are a matter of adjusting necessities . There is nothing like the black and white issue of Prohibition , or even the older division between the high tariff and the low . To maintain our alliances without straining our resources , to keep a strong defense without raising taxes to crushing levels , to meet the legitimate expectations in the field of social service without killing initiative ? above all to do these things cleanly , efficiently , honestly ? this is a task requiring something more than doctrinaire preconceptions . Such a task requires a willingness to face problems , and a clear conviction that they can be faced without resorting to the old , stale method of spending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republicanism dedicated to the proposition that social needs do not exist , that popular aspirations are not the concern of government , would be a dying creed . So would a Republicanism which saw no other alternative than to follow the Democrats blindly and passively . For every problem in our domestic life there are at least two answers ? a good answer and a bad one . The good answer draws upon the funds of initiative and energy residing in the local institutions and the voluntary organizations of our country . It attracts into the service of the whole people those incalculable resources that give to our private enterprises such endless variety and force . Whatever field we look at , whether health , agriculture , or social security , there is opportunity for a new approach . General Eisenhower comes to these problems with a sound philosophy but without having a vested interest in any of the partial solutions which have misled us and engul fed us during the past years . He will sense the necessity , feel out the pressures , and shape a solution conformable to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to anyone who has watched Eisenhower 's management of huge undertakings that he would stand back hopeless or inactive where a plain need for housing or flood control or some other measure existed . It is equally inconceivable that he should respond to such needs with a sterile grant of authority to the state or a corrupting handout of public funds . Eisenhower by his nature and his philosophy will be impelled to bring men together , enlist their enthusiasm and support , and deal with the situation on the basis of what the people concerned could do for themselves and could give ? not what they could get . The fundamental truths which Eisenhower has made his creed will prove in practice to be a liberating and creative force . True conservatism has always contained within it the possibilities of historic action ; for conservatism builds on solid foundations and moves with vast assurance springing from experience and continuity . Today the social measures with which government properly concerns itself are devices for easing the friction and filling in the chinks resulting from our economic system . Social security , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amount of shifting employment which is a necessary accompaniment of a free market . It is only in proportion as the free enterprise system is valued and the virtues of the free market understood that these mitigating measures can be undertaken with confidence and with necessary boldness . The man who is conservative merely by habit or inertia fails to do the very things that are essential for his own preservation . But the conservative with a philosophy ? the man who perceives what is at stake and cares deeply to keep it ? takes timely and energetic steps . He is neither like the Democrats of the past two decades who have been resigned to destroying piece by piece the free enterprise system , nor like those who have opposed with unconstructive bitterness every measure of reform . Eisenhower 's clear perception of the values of individualism and free enterprise , combined with his hopeful , active nature , resolves the dilemma of " me tooism " ; it promises to carry forward , moreover , the true Republican tradition . For in its epochs of achievement Republicanism has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large national projects with the singleminded intent of preserving and strengthening the freedom of the individual . THE clue to General Eisenhower 's political method is to be found , I think , in his concept of unity . He emerges from the tnilitary sphere without having been narrowed or deformed by the habit of command , because he has always known that obedience depends upon assent . As a soldier he never forgot that the GI would fight well in proportion as his zeal and understanding were enlisted . His greatness as a General rests on his having been able to submerge national difference in one command ; his fame as a world statesman rests on his having brought about a larger degree of European unity than had been possible in centuries of stormy history . In these achievements Eisenhower learned the arts and developed the gifts which fit him perfectly for the Presidency . In national politics the appeal for unity has too often been couched in moral terms ; it has asked of men that they ignore or forget genuine differences of belief . A campaign of unity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eisenhower knows that unity is not something to be declared by national proclamation ; it has to be discovered and created , and constantly recreated in the stress of action . A hard fight may be necessary to clear away the impediments of false dogma . There is every evidence that General Eisenhower will return to this country in a fighting mood , prepared to take up the challenge of Trumanism and the Fair Deal . Only when wrongs have been combated and discredited will the work of establishing harmony be fruitful . That harmony , Eisenhower 's whole record suggests , will be composed of diverse elements brought together around practical endeavors . This immense United States , with all its conflicts of economic and geographic interests , with its various national strains and its internal differences rooted in history , presents an aspect familiar to Eisenhower . The task of healing rifts , restoring reason and magnanimity in our affairs , is basically the same task he confronted both at SHAEF and at SHAPE . Once again he must begin with the realization that groups and individuals are at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understand their hopes and fears , work out practical solutions to which the large majority can give their accord . In doing these things he acts according to his particular genius . You may call it great generalship , or great diplomacy , or great politics ; it is the quality that makes Ike Ike . The Republican party finds in Eisenhower the man who can revivify its faith and restore it to national power . He finds in the Republican party the perfect instrument for effectuating his purposes . Republicanism embodies his profound belief in individualism and free enterprise ; it carries forward the tradition of national action established through the anti-trust laws , the creation of regulatory agencies , and the first momentous steps in conservation . From the great Secretaries of State ? Hay , Root , Hughes , and Stimson ? it inherits the tradition of responsibility in international affairs . Finally , and in some ways most important of all , the Republicanism of Lincoln gives to Eisenhower a deep regard for the dignity and worth of the individual human being . On Christmas Eve , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Allied armies was announced to the world ; his task was defined by the Chiefs of Staff in these words : " You will enter the continent of Europe and , in conjunction with the other Allied Nations , undertake operations aimed at . the heart of Germany and the destruction of her armed forces . " History records how that directive was fulfilled . Today , framed in the inarticulate voice of the great masses of the American people , there is another directive , even more tremendous in its implications for the good of this country and the cause of peace in the world : " You will take up the Republican standard ( so it might be said to read ) and with all who support true individualism will restore to our American government , in its policies at home and abroad , creative purposes and moral integrity . " Can there he any doubt but that this mission , too , is destined to be fulfilled ? 