@@431435

WHEN Japan 's capitulation was signed on the deck of the U.S.S. Missouri on September 2 , 1945 , the United States possessed the most sweeping control over the Pacific that any power had ever been able to maintain . In a long series of costly and bloody engagements its Navy , Air Force , and ground troops had swept the Japanese aggressors back to their home islands from the Pacific territories they had seized . By the surrender terms signed in Yokohama Bay , the Japanese divisions that had overrun so many of the Chinese provinces were committed to surrender to the forces of America 's allies , China and the Soviet Union ; and the Japanese troops in Southeast Asia to the United Nations armies under the command of Lord Mountbatten . All the strategic Pacific bases from the Aleutians to the Philippines were in American hands . The island of Okinawa , less than four hundred miles from Japan proper , had become an American fortress . Japan was to be subjected to military occupation for an indefinite period . The victorious allies had agreed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , General MacArthur . The occupying forces were to be chiefly American . Responsibility for the determination of occupation policy was to be also primarily American . In China the Nationalist government of Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek remained in power . There was good reason to assume that with the pledged support of the Soviet Union and of the United States it would gradually overcome the opposition of the Chinese Communists and consolidate its authority over a united nation . In accordance with the commitments made at Cairo two years before , which promised independence and territorial integrity to the Korean people , the United Nations was to put the preliminary administration of Korea under a trusteeship of the United States , the Soviet Union , China , and Great Britain , to continue only until the Korean people were prepared to resume their obligations as a sovereign nation . While a few were questioning the wisdom of some of the Far Eastern agreements made at Yalta , those who were not motivated by purely political partisanship were generally willing to concede that , if these agreements would tend to prevent postwar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moscow and Washington , as well as between Moscow and Nanking , and promote the rapid pacification and recovery of a devastated sector of the globe , the concessions by China that they involved would be justified in China 's own highest interest . The Japanese invasion of China and of  | Southeastern Asia had speeded the development of new forces that could no longer be checked , and that must radically change the future political structure of Asia . The swift rise of nationalism throughout the Asiatic world from India and Indonesia , through Burma and Malaya , to Indochina and China herself was an unmistakable sign that finis must now be written to the history of Western imperialism in the Far East . It was confidently expected that through the means provided by the Charter of the United Nations , the peoples clamoring for - freedom could be helped by the older countries , and particularly by the United States , to assume rapidly the responsibilities of independence . Thereby they would be spared many of the birth pangs that have so often attended the emergence to liberty of subjugated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to assume in September 1945 that the infinitely complicated machinery of rehabilitation was going to function smoothly without many a breakdown . Yet he would have seemed to be equally unrealistic had he anticipated all that has since taken place . AS THESE lines are written , exactly five years after the ceremony on the deck of the U.S.S. Missouri , American troops , acting under the authority of the United Nations , are waging a desperate struggle to repel a Soviet-inspired and ChineseCommunist-abetted invasion of the Republic of South Korea , created and recognized by the United Nations . All the mainland of China is under the control of a Chinese Communist government notoriously hostile to the United States . Chiang Kai-shek 's Nationalist government has taken refuge on the island of Formosa , which the United States has declared it will help to defend , but whose ultimate disposition must be determined by the United Nations . It is increasingly probable that the United States may be drawn into war with Communist China . Washington is offering such assistance as it can to the non-Communist governments of Indochina @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been invaded by the Chinese Communists . In India , in Pakistan , and in the Philippines the probability of Communist uprisings is admitted . By its amazingly effective use of the " big lie " tactics that Hitler so successfully employed , Soviet propaganda has already aroused throughout Asia much animosity against the United States and suspicion of our ulterior purposes . Moscow is using the Security Council of the United Nations as a forum from which to make it appear that truth is falsehood , and that the aggression against the Korean people was ordered not by Stalin but by Truman . The Asiatic peoples are being told that it is not Russia that is preventing the unification of Korea , and the re-establishment of Korean independence , but the " warmongers of Wall Street . " Asia is seething from one end to the other with panic fear . Except for Japan there is no Asiatic country where starvation , misery , and suffering are not more prevalent today than they were five years ago . Now , why did all this happen ? Is it all due @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tell us , to his incapacity and illness , to his efforts to " appease " Russia , and to the decisions he made at Cairo , Tehran , and Yalta ? Is it due to the foreign policy , and in particular to the Far Eastern policy , pursued by the United States since the death of President Roosevelt ? Is it due to a spontaneous transformation of Soviet world policy since the spring of 1945 ? Or is it due perhaps to a combination of the two latter factors , and to acts of omission and of commission for which both the United States and the Soviet Union have been responsible since as well as during the second world war ? It may be useful on this tragic anniversary to review the record of these past years , and to seek to distinguish facts from myths or vicious fabrications . II IWILL take as a starting point a talk that I had with President Roosevelt when I was his guest at Hyde Park one Sunday late in September 1943 . The President had also staying with him for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her lady and gentleman-in-waiting , as well as his youngest son and the latter 's wife . It was  | one of those gleaming autumn days that the Hudson River valley knows so well . We had all had lunch at the President 's hilltop cottage . Afterward the President had driven me back to the " Big House , " and had taken me into the tiny study where he loved to work , and from which he so often broadcast to the nation . In the course of a conversation that ranged over a multitude of issues he turned to the Far East . After going into the military situation in some detail , he spoke of the political and territorial readjustments that should be made after the war . He dealt for a while with one of his favorite projects , the severance of Indochina from French control , and the establishment there of a United Nations trusteeship in which the Philippines should play a prominent part . As a result of his talks with Queen Wilhelmina of the Netherlands and with members of the Dutch government , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war to work out a satisfactory solution for the Netherlands East Indies ; one which would give the Indonesian people full partnership in a Netherlands federation . He referred ruefully to Mr. Churchill 's stubborn opposition to the suggestions that he had offered to expedite a dominion status for India . But he expressed the firm conviction that as soon as the war was over the peoples of India , either as a unit or after partition , would achieve full self-government . To the President , of course , the key to the Far Eastern puzzle was China . I need not here elaborate on what I emphasized in my preceding article , his peculiarly friendly regard for the Chinese people , and his belief that American foreign policy in the Far East should be predicated upon a close working relation between the Chinese and American governments . He told me of the innumerable difficulties he had recently been having with Chiang Kai-shek , whom he classified as " highly temperamental . " He spoke in no measured terms of the corruption and inefficiency which characterized his administration . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sympathy for the abject misery of the masses of the Chinese people . But he recognized as valid the reasons for its very natural resentment at the meager assistance we were at that moment able to provide , and its irritation at seeing desperately needed material frequently diverted to the British . He felt , he said , that the Generalissimo , limited as his military vision might be , and badly as his troops were fighting , was the only Chinese leader who could keep the Chinese armies in the field against the Japanese and who would be able after the war to hold the Chinese people together . He added that the services he had already rendered China were incalculable . He was worried lest the Soviet government now give overt help to the factions opposing the Nationalist armies . For that reason he was anxious to see us do everything we could to compose the differences between Chungking and the Communists , in order that Chiang could continue fighting the Japanese , and not have to expend the ebbing strength of his troops in fighting other Chinese . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up of civil war in China after Japan 's defeat . The danger there was that the Soviet Union would intervene in behalf of the Communists , and the Western powers would be tempted or forced in their own interest to back the anti-Communist side . We would then see , he said , very much the same situation that we had witnessed in Spain during her civil war , only on a far greater scale , and with graver dangers inherent in it . It was his thought that no spot was more likely to create difficulties in the postwar years than China , unless she could be rapidly helped by the outside world to restore her national economy and to repair some of the damage done by the long years of Japanese aggression . She would also need a firm agreement with Moscow that would prevent the kind of Soviet interference in her internal affairs that had existed continuously after the first world war . I reminded the President of the talks we had had the spring before with Madame Chiang Kai-shek when she had come to Washington . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the position of the Nationalist government , that no Far Eastern readjustment could be stable or lasting unless China got back not only the territory that Japan had seized , but also the territories taken from her in preceding generations by other foreign powers , including Hong Kong . The President said he of course remained of the same mind . He realized , however , how difficult it was going to be to convince Mr.  | Churchill , or for that matter any British government , that after a war in which Britain had been one of the victorious allies , she should be deprived by the peace treaty of a colony she had held for a century . As for Formosa , he said it should be returned to China ; but this arrangement must include the establishment there of a strategic air base for the use of the United Nations police force . He stressed especially the strategic importance of Formosa in enforcing peace in the Pacific . I remember very clearly asking at that juncture if he was not afraid that the Russians would put in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the final years of the tottering Chinese Empire , and which Japan had later taken over , as well as for the territories they had ceded to Japan after their defeat in 1905 . The President answered that , while he thought the Russians should , of course , get back the Kurile Islands and southern Sakhalin , ceded under the Treaty of Portsmouth , he was hopeful that they would not claim more than legitimate trade facilities in Manchuria . He was thinking of suggesting that Dairen be made a free port to satisfy them on that issue . ( The establishment of free ports in many parts of the world , and particularly in localities such as Kiel where international controversies threatened to arise , was always one of President Roosevelt 's favorite formulas . In the case of Dairen , it will be remembered that this was precisely what he proposed to Stalin a few months later at Tehran . ) We did not touch upon the question of Korea at that time . But we had discussed it in several talks earlier that summer , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be reconstituted as an independent Republic under a preliminary trusteeship composed of China , the Soviet Union , Great Britain , the United States , and Canada . The record of our conversation of September 1943 shows in considerable detail precisely what President Roosevelt was then thinking about postwar settlements in the Far East . American influence should be exerted to attain these objectives : ( 1 ) The restoration to China of all territory previously taken from her by conquest , or by coercion ; ( 2 ) Support for the Chinese Nationalist government as the only regime capable of unifying China and of preventing a long drawn out civil war ; ( 3 ) An agreement between China and the Soviet Union which would preclude Soviet interference in China 's internal affairs or encroachment upon Chinese territory . IN MY next conversation with the President , which took place at the White House a month later , just before he left for Cairo and Tehran , the President mentioned the trouble he had been having in convincing Mr. Churchill that China should be treated as one of the four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister that if the major allies were going to undertake the task of keeping peace after the war China should be associated with them . Mr. Churchill 's view , he told me , was that the job should be done solely by the Englishspeaking powers . He was willing , even though reluctant , to concede that Russia might have to become a partner in the enterprise . The President had the idea that Mr. Churchill 's thinking was governed by his unwillingness to see that the British Empire as it had existed at the turn of the century was long since a thing of the past . He himself was persuaded that the Western world , for its own safety 's sake , must abandon once and for all the idea that the Asiatic peoples were inferior races , and must work wholeheartedly with China from the outset as the best means of preventing a fundamental cleavage between the West and the East in the years to come . I have not found in the records of any of the negotiations or international conferences in which the President took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general objectives that he thus outlined to me . It is true that friction between the President and Chiang Kai-shek 's government periodically became acute . Specific pledges of military assistance were sometimes not kept , as when Roosevelt reversed his previous commitment to occupy the Andaman Islands as a part of the Burma campaign . The violent feud between General Stilwell and the Generalissimo gave rise to deep resentment in Chungking , just as the Generalissimo 's repeated refusal to abide by American advice  | on strategy and personnel aroused equal resentment in Washington . The repeated ? and , it must be admitted , bungling ? efforts of several of President Roosevelt 's representatives in China to persuade Chiang Kaishek to comply with the demands of the Chinese Communists were productive of misunderstanding , and damaged the prestige and authority of the Nationalist government . Likewise the profound ignorance of China , and the lack of Far Eastern experience , of certain of the President 's representatives there served him in ill stead . These envoys spent much of their time quarreling with each other , or with their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where they did not try to carry out the President 's instructions to further the establishment of a strong postwar China , their erroneous judgment and the wide diversity of their recommendations made it impossible for him to obtain any accurate over-all estimate of the situation . So badly did these envoys inform the President that he could express the opinion to Stalin at Yalta that , in the light of the information he had received from his latest batch of representatives in Chungking , the responsibility for the refusal of the Chinese Communists to co-operate with the Nationalist government lay with the Comintern and the Kuomintang rather than with the Chinese Communists themselves . Yet despite the inaccurate information that he received , the President neither modified the policy upon which he had embarked nor changed his original objective of a strong and united postwar China . From first to last the support given by Roosevelt to the Nationalist government of China was unwavering . The amount of military and , even more , of material assistance granted under the President 's direction was enormous . III THE crux of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be found in the charge that by the agreements he made with Stalin at Yalta China was " sold out " and our own strategic position gravely impaired . Let us see just how much justification there is for this . First in January 1943 and again in October of the same year Stalin formally committed Russia to join in the war against Japan after Germany 's defeat . Those assurances were repeated to the American Ambassador in Moscow in October 1944 . In the earlier stages of the war we were faced with the prospect of a long drawn out and grueling struggle to win back by our own , almost unaided , efforts the control of the Pacific . At that time , the assistance that Russia could have given us , had it been feasible , would have been deemed invaluable . By the autumn of 1944 , however , some of the President 's ablest staff advisers had reached a far different conclusion . To them Japan was already to all intents and purposes defeated . The naval and air blockade of Japan was nearly complete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ submission without any need for an American invasion of her home islands . These advisers , and among them Admiral Leahy was outstanding , proposed that the United States should limit itself to continuing the naval and air blockade of Japan and to occupying the Philippines and perhaps a number of strategic points on the coast of the mainland of China . The Army , on the other hand , speaking through the Chief of Staff , General Marshall , insisted that Japan could be compelled to surrender only by a progressive occupation of her main islands , commencing with an American amphibious invasion of the southern island of Kyushu . This fundamental difference in the strategic advice given to the President first became acute immediately before the second conference at Quebec , which President Roosevelt held with Mr. Churchill in September 1944 . At Quebec , after full debate , the Combined Chiefs of Staff of the United States and of Great Britain recommended that , once Germany was defeated , the two countries , together with Russia , throw all their available resources into the battle against Japan . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over Japan a date approximately eighteen months after Germany 's defeat . The advice of Admiral Leahy , and of those who held with him , was disregarded by the Combined Chiefs . The alternatives before the President were therefore these : to adopt or not to adopt the  | recommendation of the Combined Chiefs of Staff . Their advice represented the considered decision of the heads of the American and British Armies , including General Marshall , whose strategy had consistently proved to be brilliantly successful throughout the North African and European campaigns . Though it envisaged the loss of many thousands of American lives during the invasion of the Japanese homeland , it was the strategy believed to be essential to defeat Japan at the earliest possible moment . We now know from the evidence produced before the War Crimes Tribunal at Tokyo , and also from the testimony of competent officials who held office in the Japanese government during the war years , that the advice given by Admiral Leahy and those who agreed with him was sound , and that Japan could not have held out for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recommendation of the Combined Chiefs was offered under a basic misapprehension of existing facts . Yet upon a question such as this , which was almost entirely one of technical military strategy , would the President have been warranted in disregarding the recommendations formally submitted to him and to Mr. Churchill by the Combined Chiefs of Staff of the two governments ? Once the President 's decision had been made , it necessarily became the foundation for the military and political planning at the Yalta Conference a few months later . And it was the President 's highest obligation to take every possible step to ensure the success of the operation and to keep to a minimum the loss of American lives . His military advisers insisted that for this we must have Russian help , including not only the use of Russian divisions against the Japanese armies in Manchuria , but also the use of Russian territory for American Air Force bases . AT YALTA President Roosevelt told Stalin that , while he hoped the invasion of Japan might yet be found unnecessary , she still had some four million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not be foreseen . He asked that for that purpose we be granted bases on Russian soil . Stalin authorized the establishment of American air bases at Komsomolsk and Nikolaevsk , and expressed no objection to the establishment of additional bases in Russia 's maritime provinces . In a private conference with the President , Stalin then made known Russia 's Far Eastern demands : The Soviet Union wished to obtain from China a long-term lease of Port Arthur , the establishment of Dairen as a free port , a lease of the Chinese Manchurian railroads , and her agreement to the continued autonomy of Outer Mongolia , as well as to the cession to Russia of the Japanese-held Sakhalin and Kurile Islands . Stalin maintained , as he repeated to Harry Hopkins six months later at Moscow , that after the sufferings they had already experienced the Russian people must be given " a good reason for going to war against Japan . " He stated that a guaranty by the United States and Great Britain that China would grant these demands must be a prerequisite of Russian participation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Churchill , agreed to these conditions . It is this agreement which , it is charged by the President 's critics , " sold China down the river , " and fatally undermined our own strategic position in the Far East . Of such critics Mr. Hanson W. Baldwin , the military expert of the New York Times , is surely among the most authoritative and reputable . In his book , Great Mistakes of the War , he says that at Yalta the United States representatives placed themselves in the amazing position of " giving away " territories which did not belong to us , and of undertaking to secure concessions which impaired the sovereignty of a friendly allied state . The political misconception , so obvious now , should have been apparent then ; it was not to our interest , or the interests of China , or of the world , to make Russia a Pacific power ; it was not to our interest to beg or borrow for Russia 's entry into the Pacific war . Nor should military considerations have affected this political judgment . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not by the atomic bomb which had not yet been perfected , not by conventional bombing , then just starting , but by attrition and blockade . . . . The full seriousness of the Japanese plight was not then , of course , completely understood . Our military men were preoccupied and concerned with the  | fierceness of the Japanese defense : the tactical situation obscured the hopeless strategic position of Japan , and some of our Commanders took , therefore , far too pessimistic a view . In his summary Mr. Baldwin concludes : " Russia drove a hard bargain at Yalta . Stalin promised to enter the war against Japan within an estimated ninety days after the end of the war against Germany , but for it he got the Kurile Islands , all of Sakhalin , a half interest in the railways in Manchuria , Port Arthur , a Russian-controlled free port ' in Dairen , and thus strategic hegemony in important Northeast Asia . " There can be no quarrel today with Mr. Baldwin 's assertion that at the second conference at Quebec and at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " fundamental military misconception . " But one may legitimately wonder whether Mr. Baldwin would maintain that , if Russia had not joined in the war against Japan , Stalin would have been thereby prevented from making these claims . In 1945 peoples everywhere believed that the only hope for future peace lay in co-operation between the Soviet Union and the West . The Russian territorial claims were widely regarded as being legitimate and just . Is it probable , once these claims were entered by Stalin at a peace conference , that the United States and Britain could have successfully rejected them ? What I chiefly question is the validity of Mr. Baldwin 's further assertion that President Roosevelt 's acquiescence in Stalin 's demands involved a " fundamental political misconception . " This is the complaint voiced by the four Republican Senators on the Foreign Relations Committee in August 1950 . They declared that , " The major tragedy of our time was the failure and refusal of American leadership in 1945 to recognize the true aims and methods of the rulers of Soviet Russia . " IV @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Far Eastern postwar settlements President Roosevelt was guided by the conviction that our interests , the interests of China and of the world , would best be served by the unification of the Chinese people and the creation of a strong postwar China . He held that the best assurance of this would be a firm agreement between Moscow and the Chinese Nationalist government guaranteeing Stalin 's support of the government of Chiang Kai-shek and his non-interference in China 's internal affairs . Those who condemn the policy for which that conviction was responsible now maintain that the hope for Chinese unification was wholly illusory , and that Mr. Churchill 's opposition to the recognition of China as a major power was altogether justified . What , in 1945 , would the alternatives to that policy have been ? Had the Chinese people been summarily dismissed as a potentially constructive force in Asia , to welter indefinitely in civil war and anarchy , what other power could have counterbalanced the weight of the Soviet Union in the Far East ? The Allies were pledged to disarm and to demilitarize Japan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Switzerland . No sane statesman would at that time have considered the suggestion that immediately after Japan 's defeat she should instantly be rearmed in order to prevent Russia from moving into the vacuum to be created by a decision to leave China inert and impotent . I can see no alternative to the policy decided upon by the President which in 1945 would have seemed to promise so much hope for success in the construction of a peaceful Asia . Four years ago I expressed the view that " Russian possession of southern Sakhalin and of the Kuriles is essential if the Soviet government is to obtain security for its Siberian provinces . Both territories were torn from Russia by Japan . The internationalization of Dairen and the grant of permanent autonomy to Outer Mongolia have a considerable measure of justification . However , the restoration to Russia of the right formerly possessed by the Imperial Russian governments to dominate Manchuria through the control of the Chinese Eastern and South Manchurian railroads , and the lease of Port Arthur as a naval base necessarily fall into a different category . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a new unified China to exercise full sovereignty within Manchuria , are all the more objectionable in view of China 's absence from the conference table when they were decided . " I have not modified that opinion . Nevertheless , if Stalin had respected the treaty with the Chinese Nationalist government which he signed at Moscow in June 1945 and which embodied the Yalta agreements , that treaty would have paved the wad for the unification of China and for the eventual creation of a strong postwar China . It may be recalled that when Harry Hopkins was sent by President Truman to Moscow six months after the Yalta agreements were signed , he cabled this report to Wash-ington : Stalin made the categorical statement that he would do everything he could to promote unification of China under the leadership of Chiang Kai-shek . He further stated that this leadership should continue after the war because no one else was strong enough . He specifically stated that no Communist leader was strong enough to unify China . . . . Stalin repeated all of his statements made at Yalta @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wanted China to control all of Manchuria as part of a united China . . . . He agreed with America 's " Open Door " policy and went out of his way to indicate that the United States was the only power with the resources to aid China economically after the war . He observed that for many years to come Russia would have all it could do to provide for the internal economy of the Soviet Union . WHAT to me is the most remarkable feature of Mr. Baldwin 's criticism of the Yalta agreement is the implication which must be drawn from the paragraphs I have quoted from his book that President Roosevelt had the authority at Yalta to determine whether or not " to make Russia a Pacific power . " Russia had already for a century been a leading Pacific power . It was inconceivable in 1945 that a victorious Soviet Union would meekly resign herself at the peace conference to a denial of her claim for the return of territory earlier taken from her by a defeated Japan . It was inconceivable that her agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the unification of China under the Chinese Nationalist government , which the President regarded as essential to China 's future safety , could be secured were the United States to refuse to agree to the return of that territory . It was inconceivable that we could enlist her co-operation within the United Nations , or in the stabilization of Europe and of the Far East if we refused to admit her traditional position as a Pacific power on the ground that this " was not to our interest . " It was inconceivable in 1945 that American or Western European public opinion , then so eagerly hoping that co-operation with the Soviet Union might prove possible , would have supported any such policy on the part of the United States . Much as I regret Roosevelt 's belief that it was imperative for him to acquiesce in Stalin 's demands regarding Manchuria , I am fully convinced that the military exigencies he believed then existed , on the report of the Combined Chiefs of Staff , and the advantages to China that he thought would come from a firm agreement with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The best answer to Mr. Baldwin and to his fellow critics of the Far Eastern agreement signed at Yalta is in these lapidary sentences of Admiral Leahy : ( 1 ) Russia was our ally , and up to June 1944 took the full force of the mighty German Army . ( 2 ) Fears expressed by many , some in high places , that Russia would make a separate peace with Germany , particularly when we were unable to mount a second front in 1943 , had proved unfounded . Russia had kept every military agreement made before that time . ( 3 ) As for political agreements , we had reached at Yalta the first major understanding regarding the postwar world . Russia had shown a conciliatory attitude on the United Nations , on giving France a voice in the control council of Germany , and in agreeing to reorganization of the Polish and Yugoslav governments . In fact , on almost every political problem , after a  | forceful statement of their views , the Russians had made sufficient concessions for an agreement to be reached , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the war , was there any reason why President Roosevelt should have assumed that the Yalta agreement would be reached only " on paper " ? V IN THE search for the answer to the fundamental question posed at the beginning of this article , a series of facts may here be cited to throw light upon the reasons why our relations with the Soviet Union have grown progressively worse since the spring of 1945 , and why the United States now faces the present desperate situation in the Far East . When President Roosevelt returned from Yalta , he said that Stalin 's position of supremacy seemed to have changed materially since the conference at Tehran . At Tehran Stalin had appeared to make decisions without hesitation , and with no indication that he needed to consult with any other Russian authorities . At Yalta President Roosevelt felt that this was no longer the case . He had the feeling that the leaders of the Red Army had become far more influential . It is certainly true that from that time on there were many signs that Stalin 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transformed Red Army . He himself assumed the titles of Marshal and Generalissimo . Military decorations were established , and given the names of the greatest generals of the tsarist days . The military ranks and disciplines of the Imperial Russian Armies were reinstituted . Above all , Stalin inaugurated a foreign policy that was conceived in the traditional imperialistic spirit of the Tsars . The wording of his proclamation to the Russian people on August 16 , 1945 , announcing Japan 's surrender confirmed his statement to Harry Hopkins , " that the Russian people must have a good reason for going to war . " But also it was patently designed to cater to Red Army aspirations . " The defeat of Russian troops in 1904 , " said Stalin , " left bitter memories in the mind of the people . It lay like a black spot on our country . Our people believed and hoped that a day would come when Japan would be smashed and that blot effaced . Forty years have we , the people of the old generation , waited for this day . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position laid down by Lenin , who had said that the Russian defeat in 1904 gave the proletariat " reasons to rejoice " and meant that " Russian freedom has come nearer , " that it is hard to believe Stalin 's proclamation would have been so worded if he had not thought that such a fundamental change in Soviet policy was imperative if a split between the regime and the Red Army was to be avoided . On reading the very detailed record which Harry Hopkins kept of his talks with Stalin in June 1945 , one is struck by the extent to which the views Stalin then expressed are surcharged by the professional military point of view . One must also be impressed by the ominous indications of growing fear and suspicion of the West throughout the series of bitter complaints that Stalin voiced against Great Britain and the United States . They were a warning signal ? which was disregarded by Washington . Little , if any , effort was made by London or Washington , either before or at Potsdam , to find a constructive solution for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for possible later dissension between the Soviet Union and the Western powers . HAD the new American President or the new British Prime Minister possessed the measure of vision which was then so needed , they would , for example , have foreseen that the division of Korea into Russian and American zones could not fail to create serious difficulties before long . Stalin had agreed that the trusteeship for Korea should be held by the United States , the Soviet Union , China , and Great Britain . He had also expressed his approval of President Roosevelt 's proposal that no foreign troops should be stationed in Korea after the defeat and withdrawal of the Japanese invaders . But during the months between the defeat of . Germany and the surrender of Japan the State Department , with an almost incomprehensible lack of foresight , in view  | of the all too evident danger that Korea might become a bone of contention unless detailed agreements were reached before V-J Day , failed to see to it that such an agreement was concluded . Later , when the Japanese armies were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that something must be done . Some subordinate officers in the Pentagon hastily recommended that the Russians accept the Japanese surrender north of the 38th parallel in Korea , while the American troops would accept it south of that line . I am told that this line was fixed because it seemed " convenient . " Certainly it was fixed by officials with no knowledge of what they were doing , and without consulting any responsible members of the Administration who might have had some regard for the political and economic considerations which the decision so lamentably ignores . It is important to remember that this step was not taken upon the initiative of the Soviet Union . The mistake might well have been corrected by prompt remedial action . Yet neither the White House , the State Department , nor the War Department moved until it was far too late . The artificial frontier thus set up in Korea rapidly became , as was only to be expected in view of the constantly growing antagonism between the Soviet Union and the United States , an impermeable barrier . By 1946 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up in the north by the Red Army operating through Korean Communist stooges . In South Korea the record of American administration is not pleasant to contemplate . The free political system we tried to set up was a deplorable failure . Even had the Koreans placed at the head of the South Korean government been the ablest statesmen that the Far East has produced ? which they certainly were not ? they could not possibly have succeeded in giving their countrymen peace and prosperity in the face of the - difficulties they encountered . They were ' not given efficient American co-operation . They were not given adequate arms for self-defense or even for the preservation of internal order . They had no encouragement to carry out the radical and far-reaching reforms that the South Korean people demanded . They were constantly frustrated by the propaganda and subversive tactics of the North Korean Communists . What those who were then directing our foreign policy fatally ignored was that Korea is of basic significance to China . The control - of Korea by any power that may menace the independence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The United States should have foreseen that the agreement upon a trusteeship for Korea , in which China would participate , was of the utmost urgency if China was to be saved from Communist domination . THIS is not the place to discuss the amazing anomalies and ' ? vagaries of American policy toward China since 1945 . But once it was clear ? and it was surely clear long before 1948 to all who wished to see ? that Stalin was violating his treaty of 1945 with Chiang Kai-shek , and disregarding his pledges to the United States to support the unification of China under the Chinese Nationalist government , the imminence of acute danger in Korea was apparent . Just as Japan violated her solemn obligations to the League of Nations when she refused to permit League authorities to visit the Japanese mandated islands of the Pacific , so the Soviet Union violated its obligations to the United Nations when her puppet government of North Korea refused to permit a United Nations committee to visit the territory under its control . Once Moscow had taken that step , our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aggression from the north can hardly be understood , let alone condoned . If ever a preventive policy was called for , it was called for in this instance . Yet not only were no precautionary measures taken , but official statements were issued in Washington as late as January 1950 from which the only inference to be drawn was that the United States would not lift a finger to prevent aggression against South Korea . In view of its consistent inconsistency it is difficult , even for the least prejudiced observer , to guess what present American foreign policy in the Far East may be . It would seem to be predicated upon the need for the rapid reconstruction of Japan as a major power to serve as a counterweight to the Soviet Union in the Far East ? although the perilous uncer- tainties in such a policy are glaringly apparent . But whatever it is , or is not , it is certainly not the policy of Franklin Roosevelt . His policy was to make China united and strong so that neither the Soviet Union nor any other alien @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that objective by supporting the Nationalist government of Chiang Kai-shek . That policy , since his death , has never been wholeheartedly pursued . It was essentially scrapped by the present Administration before the autumn of 1946 . It was finally relegated to limbo when General Marshall , as Secretary of State in 1947 , overruled General Vedemeyer 's recommendation that the United States should give allout support to the Chiang Kai-shek government . It is hardly logical for the critics to allege that the Roosevelt policy has failed when it has never been given a fair trial . IF THE time ever comes when international controversy is less rife and partisan passions here at home have cooled , the objective historian will , I believe , find that the agreement Roosevelt reached at Yalta with Stalin and Churchill upon a postwar Far Eastern settlement was warranted in the light of existing conditions . The President could not then know that his military advisers were wrong and that Japan would surrender without an American invasion . He could not know that the co-operative relationship with Stalin that he had established would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ winter of 1945 he hoped , as did Winston Churchill , that the Soviet government would stand to its obligations , as it had throughout the war years . He could not know that Soviet policy would suffer a radical transformation . It was his decision that China should be the keystone in the arch of a new Asia . To him , the best way to get a unified and strong postwar China was to do what we could to support the Nationalist government and to make sure that all foreign powers respected her independence and integrity , in entire harmony with our traditional Open Door policy . It has been the reversal of that decision that has so greatly contributed to the disastrous course of events in the Far East during the past four years .  |                     