@@476746

AN APHORISM of the Chinese philosopher Mencius declares that the problem of government presents no difficulties : it is only necessary to avoid offending the influential families . In January 1953 the Business Administration in Washington took off from a related premise : that it was only necessary to get along with the trade associations . This article deals with public power and the public lands , other natural resources , and the national conservation policies which have been developing for three-quarters of a century . In dealing with them the Administration had to convert into concrete measures the generalizations of the Republican platform and campaign promises . It had no program when it took office . It was promptly handed one specific program , which the electric power companies had worked out in anticipation of a Republican victory in 1948 . It has improvised several others , playing by ear . On several problems , it apparently is not concerned with programs ; it has simply drifted downward . Perhaps I can formulate the campaign generalities as working principles . In fields where private enterprise could operate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government operations . In fields where private enterprise could not make profits , it would maintain government operation up to the minimum political necessity . In both areas it would try to provide " a greater measure of local participation and control , " greatercooperation between federal and local governments , and " a friendly partnership " with private business , It would try to " decentralize " federal administration , and it would ? in an even more opaque phrase ? " operate at the grass roots . " T HERE was an inherent weakness in these working principles . They would throw the gates wide open to the boys in the back room unless the Administration could get in first with programs of its own . It did not and the boys ? the trade associations , the lobbies , the special interest groups ? rushed in with a loud whoop . During the campaign Mr. Eisenhower once remarked that he would not interpret his election as a mandate to preside over the liquidation of the publicly owned natural resources of the United States . Others have so interpreted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already and much more is in the works . Eighteen months have made clear that the executive departments and the independent agencies will go much farther than Congress in alienating public property ? but not ( except perhaps in the Department of the Interior ) as far as the boys have in mind . They pin their hopes to the new Hoover Commission . The first one worked out intelligent plans for reorganizing the executive departments in the interests of efficiency and economy ; but the second one is clearly intended to slay Mr. Hoover 's white whale at . last . it is to erase twenty years of infamy , root out all remnants of the New Deal , and turn the clock back to 1928 . There are those who regard 1928 as practically a pinko compromise : the clock should be turned back somewhere beyond Theodore Roosevelt . Fiat by Washington 1 N TIlE Departments of Agriculture and the Interior the business men whom the Administration summoned to government promptly displayed the political ineptness visible in other departments . One reason may have been the sources of information @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A Congressman who wants a quick check on what the folks back home are thinking is apt to telephone to a local editor or political figure , or the head of some local labor or farm organization . From the top offices of Agriculture and Interior , however , the phone calls went instead to a chamber of commerce or to the Washington office of a trade association . The information available there being of a radically different kind , there followed such miscues as Secretary McKay 's nomination to be Director of the Bureau of Mines of an open and recorded enemy of the services he would have to direct . Top officials were also unable to recognize public opinion as a political force . Congressmen saw a clear portent in the widespread opposition to the Tidelands Bill ? and in the public outrage when the Assistant Secretary of Commerce tried to discharge the Director of the Bureau of Standards for affirming that the addition of a laxative to a storage battery would not improve it . But to the Business Men in Office these were unrelated and meaningless phenomena @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Agriculture revealed this state of mind in its handling of the reorganization of the Soil Conservation Service . There could be no more local an organization than a Soil Conservation District ; more than 2,500 of them cover the country and they are literally of the grass roots . But they were not consulted about the reorganization of SCS and indeed could not find out what was going on till it was completed . In Administration semantics , " local participation and control " had become " fiat by Washington . " The districts were enraged ; they still are . This reorganization , an aggrandisement of the land-grant colleges and the Extension Service at the sacrifice of conservation values , was typical of the new order in several ways . SCS had originally been organized on the basis of state units but had evolved a much more effective organization in a series of regions , each with its own headquarters , specialists , and technicians . The reorganization plan proposed to dissolve the regions and substitute state units for them . The heart of SCS assistance to farmers was its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abandoned and the specialists of the other two were to be distributed among the land-grant colleges ( so far as the colleges had jobs for them ) and the Washington headquarters . For the immensely successful program of SCS , forty-eight fractional and necessarily unharmonized programs were to be substituted ; and these were to be administered from Washington . Decentralization had worked out in the semantics as greater centralization . Incentive to local conservation practices was to he provided by decreasing appropriations . And with technical service reduced , much research was to be abandoned . But opposition to Tidelands and the firing of Dr. Astin had not been just one of those things , and nation-wide opposition to the new scheme forced the Department to reverse itself in midair . A new system of regional offices , under a different name and with headquarters in different cities , was extemporized . ( In the semantics , A ceases to be A when you rename it B. ) The technical services were retained , though in a more cumbersome and more expensive form . S I WRITE , SCS is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been broken up . Their invaluable pool of common experience at working together has been dis-sipated . This drastic impairment of profes-sional skills is typical of the administration of public resources in the new order . So are the increased expense , delay , red tape , and ineffi-ciency . So is the destruction of morale in a career service . Promising young men have left SCS in droves ; promising young men who might have sought a career there are notably failing to join it . An Administration fetish whose name is Management-Practice Improve-ment has had its paper tribute , but a straitjacket of mediocrity has been forced on public administration . And a damaging blow has been struck at the conservation of America . cropland and rangeland . The Department of Agriculture , however , appears to have taken instruction from the public reaction . Evidently it has abandoned some reactionary changes which it had in mind a year ago and has narrowed the scope of some others . Not so the Department of the Interior . The boys have practically taken it over ; the predicted giveaways are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reminds observers of the aromatic days of the General Land Office . Yet some things that look like cynicism may be mere ineptness . Thus Secretary McKay at a moment when all the conservation organizations in. the country ? national , nonpartisan , and representing hundreds of thousands of votes ? were denouncing his recommendation of Echo Park Dam . Seeking for le mot juste to characterize conservationists , he came up with " punks . " Return to the Spoils System TT HE top officials of SCS have been put on Schedule C ; so have those of all other conservation bureaus in Agricul-ture except ( as yet , perhaps ) the Forest Service , and all those in Interior except the Geological Survey . Schedule C is a classification withdrawn from Civil Service protection which permits discharge at the will of the Secretary , without regard to merit . It has a twofold purpose : ( 1 ) to provide jobs ; ( 2 ) to substitute a pliable sycophancy for professional judgment in the making of policy . Promotion according to merit is abandoned for the spoils system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the conservation agencies has been disastrous ; it had not hitherto been supposed , and it can not be supposed now . that the publicly owned resources could be administered on any basis except a purely professional one . These bureaus first introduced into the American government the concept of a professionally expert civil service . Staff them with spoilsmen , and the public resources must begin leaking away . The Administrator of the Rural Electrification Administration is appointed to serve ten years . It was therefore a tipoff when the White House requested the resignation of Mr. Claude Wickard two and a half years before the end of his statutory term . Rural electrification and federal power can be treated together here , and several facts which are tirelessly misrepresented must be noted . The electric power generated at public installations runs between 13 and 16 per cent of the national total , never more . In spite of nationwide propaganda by the utilities ( paid for out of tax money and rate-increases ) , unalterable natural circumstances make it certain that the percentage will decrease as time goes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are strictly private enterprise , locally owned by their members and locally managed . They pay interest on the loans which REA makes them ; they pay of the loans ; they pay local taxes . They are " socialistic " only in the new semantics : in that they are not owned by the utility companies and they sell power to consumers so cheaply that their rates serve as a yardstick by which the rates of the utilities ? a natural monopoly ? can be regulated . Finally , most of the power they sell is bought from the utilities . They constitute an area of private enterprise which the utilities had refused to pioneer or develop . In 1935 when REA was established , about 11 per cent of the farms in the United States had central-station power ; in 1952 about 90 per cent had it . This constitutes an agricultural revolution even greater than that effected by SCS ; it has transformed agricultural production , farm labor , and rural living . REA and the co-ops have greatly increased the business done by the utilities and very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appl lances . A MULTIPLE squeeze has been put on coops and REA . The Administration 's first budget request drastically cut REA funds . Its powergeneration program , and therefore its bargaining power with the utilities , would have been destroyed . Its ability to accommodate new co-ops and the ability of the co-ops to serve new customers would have been drastically reduced . Congress refused to go so far and saved much of the program by increasing the appropriation far above the request . But Congress did not vote an increase over the Budget 's allotment for technical service . Thus the theme of SCS is repeated , for the abandonment or even any serious reduction of REA 's technical service to the co-ops would be a serious blow , to some of them a fatal blow . Small co-ops , unable to afford such a technical staff as a utility company maintains , have been able to get their problems solved cheaply by REA . Moreover , the Power Use Section of REA was cut down , and the auditing services were abolished , thus increasing the financial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the attempt by Congressman Kit Clardy of Michigan ? an old and dear friend of utility companies ? to double the rate of interest which REA charges on loans to the co-ops . M EANWHILE what amounts to a rewrit- ing of the Federal Power Act , sup- plementary acts , and even the Reclamation Act has been achieved by administrative action . The utilities would be glad to have the government build the large and expensive control darns ? because they make private downstream dams efficient ? provided they could buy the power generated at them on their own terms and could control its distribution . But they have always rebelled against the - preference clause . " This clause ? which in essence goes back to the earliest conception of public power in Theodore Roosevelt 's first Administration ? is a provision that public bodies and co-operatives shall have first call on the power generated at federal dams . ( " Public bodies " means primarily municipally owned systems and such organizations as the power districts of Oregon and Washington . ) The ordinary growth of such systems was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utilities on short-term contracts only . By abandoning this practice , the Administration is in effect discarding the preference clause . In the Northwest , utility contracts , previously short-term , now run twenty years . This limits the growth of co-ops , denies them new customers , and rations the power used by their present customers . A similar change in the Missouri Valley has been held up till after the November election . The co-ops have been faced with an impossible choice . Either they must forfeit their preference privilege , thus arresting their own growth , or they mustcontract for power far in advance of their needs and so pay a ruinous bonus for power which they could not use and which would have to he resold to the utilities at dump prices . The utilities have fought the construction of steam-generating plants by REA to firm the power produced at government hydroelectric plants , a frequently necessary measure because of seasonal fluctuations in stream flow . And the low rates charged by the co-ops have always harrowed them , for the differential is all too visible . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not pass on to their members the savings they effect , and Assistant Secretary of the Interior Aandahl announced the answer . Federal power rates , he said ; would be raised to the point where there would be no incentive to continue REA or establish co-operatives . Here is one form of private business with which the Administration will not enter into a friendly partnership ? and , as Senator Murray remarked , here is a negative yardstick for the power industry . As for the generation of power , the Director of the Budget announced that there would be no " new starts " ? no additional federal power projects ? till arrangements had been made with local ( which here means largescale and absentee ) interests to install the generating facilities . He thus proclaimed publicly a policy which some members of the Administration were simultaneously denying . It is significant that of the twenty-three new starts so far made by the Corps of Engineers , none are multiple-purpose and none include power . And it seems likely that the Engineers will be favored over the Bureau of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are far friendlier to the utilities , they can legally assess against the taxpayers a larger percentage of the costs , and they are able to circumvent painful provisions of the Reclamation and Power Acts . T HE program drawn up by the utilities in 1948 has not been carried out in full . But the process of strangulation that has been applied to REA should kill it in another two years . The co-ops will be withdrawn from competing with the utilities and furnishing data for the regulation of their rates . It would take considerably more than two years to get a wall round federal generation of power . Secretary McKay 's abandonment to the Idaho Power Company of the Hell 's Canyon site ? the greatest remaining one in the country ? was geared to this policy . In the current semantics a consumer co-operative , owned and operated by farmers unable to get electricity except by their own efforts , would not be local enterprise ; but Idaho Power is. / DAHO POWER is a Maine corporation . About 7 per cent of its stockholders live in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , except Harvard University and the Commonwealth Fund , are insurance companies or investment trusts ; all but two are east of the Mississippi and those two are insurance companies . The corporation could satisfy its future needs more cheaply by building steam plants , but the idea is to keep federal power out of central and southern Idaho . The cost of the three small darns it currently proposes to build in Hell 's Canyon will be taken care of by a rate increase ? there being no public systems to provide a yardstick ? and by the use for permanently profitable construction of the tax-amortization privilege which was intended to protect defense industries from losing money on temporary plant expansion . The Secretary also withdrew government opposition to the Pacific Gas k Electric Company 's proposed developments on the North Fork of King 's River ? developments made possible by existing facilities built at public expense . But much as Eastern-owned Western utilities respect the spirit of private initiative , the West needs dams and wants payrolls . The relinquishment of federal reserved sites and the no-new-starts policy caused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So the Upper Colorado Storage Project was taken out of mothballs and nearly a billion dollars ' worth of construction was recommended . ( It will cost about twice that ; for obvious reasons , Bureau of Reclamation estimates are poetic conventions . ) Its political feasibility is obvious but its economic and social justification is open to the most serious doubt . Worse still , the plans for it are part fantasy and have been changed so often and so capriciously that no one knows to what extent its engineering is sound . But it satisfies the requirements . Nocorporation would ever want to build dams on this stretch of the Colorado , so there is no competition ; but the promise of the Budget Director would attract corporate investment in the generating facilities , since the public would be paying all other costs . The recommendation of this project breaches the basic national parks policy : one of the darns it includes , Echo Park , is to be built in Dinosaur National Monument . The darn will destroy the beauty of spectacular canyons of the Yampa and Green @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ McKay 's promise to spend $21 million of Bureau of Reclamation funds to build the roads now denied the Monument and to construct " recreational " facilities at the fluctuating , unsightly reservoir which the clam will create . This sum is equal to four-fifths of the drastically-cut 1955 appropriation for the entire National Park Service . The progressive impairment of the parks by budgetary blood-letting is a national disgrace ? but it is a smaller evil than Mr. McKay 's approval of Echo Park Darn . Opening the parks to exploitation by the Bureau of Reclamation ? which in the semantics is " co-operation between federal and state governments " ? makes only a matter of time their exploitation by any corporations which may want their water , water power , timber , minerals , or grass , and which have sufficient capital to awe a business man in office . M ANY trial balloons about TVA have been sent up . The refusal to reappoint Mr. Gordon Clapp as its Director I - fade clear that career-service administration is not desired . His successor will need only a single qualification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tennessee Valley by providing cheap power . Several other trial balloons from Interior are significant , such as suggestions that the tremendous Central Valley Project might be sold to the State of California . At the right price it would make a happy deal : the big corporate farms would get the water denied them by the 160-acre limitation they have been fighting since 1902 and PG &E; would get the power facilities . This clue is underscored by a recent announcement that the utility companies of the Northwest are forming a syndicate capable of taking over all the federal dams and power plants on the Columbia River , the projects that brought industry and boom times to the Northwest . If the Central Valley and the Columbia Basin projects should be handed over to utility corporations , how will flood control , erosion control , and the other conservation functions of federal projects be carried on ? . The utilities could not possibly assume them . Indeed a corporation has no proper concern with them , and no state has ever done an even passable job at any of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is being laid for the property evaluators , rate specialists , and constitutional lawyers of the new Hoover Commission to propose that all federal reclamation and power projects be sold . The Cowboys Ride Again B OTH the platform and the campaign had promised to take care of the small but influential group of Western stockmen who ever since 1946 have been trying to gut the Forest Service and get hold of the grazing ranges in the national forests . A bill embodying as much of the malodorous " Stockmen 's Proposal for an Act " as it seemed cagey to put in one package was sponsored ( behind the scenes ) by Senator Barrett of Wyoming ? who as a Congressman had spearheaded the attempted landgrab of 1946-47 . He has great parliamentary and backstage skill ; but his sole victory with this bill was his success in keeping the Secretary of Agriculture 's adverse report on it from reaching the House Subcommittee on Public Lands . At the public hearing Western spokesmen ? water users , sportsmen , wildlife specialists , hydrologists , city engineers , individual stockmen , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Denver Post attacked it repeatedly ; so did such other prominent papers as the Salt Lake Tribune , the Portland Oregonian , and the San Francisco Chronicle . More striking was the opposition of many small newspapers , even in Wyoming , which had always before supported the plans of the stockmen 's lobby . Whereas the attempted landgrab of six years before had to be stopped by the Fast , this time the West itself prevented a shameful raid on the public resources . Senator Barrett ? seeing that the bill would be defeated if it came to a votemaneuvered to keep it in committee and to prevent publication of the testimony at the hearings . But something had to he done for the stockmen and so the Hope-Thye-Aiken Bill was made an Administration measure . Bad to begin with , it was rendered truly vicious by amendment ; it has been passed by the Senate but as I write has not yet been taken up by the House . That such sound conservationists as Senator Aiken and Congressman Hope have been lined up behind so reprehensible a measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commerce and other allies of the stockmen 's lobby have succeeded in bringing to bear . Long since , Senator Aiken should have been attacking his own bill . The bill would achieve three major objectives of the landgrabbers . It would give present holders of grazing permits in the national forests two different kinds of property rights in those forests , thus impairing the public title and in part alienating public property . It would enable the present permit-holders to sell the permits at will and without reference to the Forest Service , closing the ranges to newcomers and making monopolization of them certain . It would permit them to construct permanent improvements on the public ranges , further alienating public property and enabling the permit-holders to tie up the public lands indefinitely with lawsuits . Finally , it would cripple the regulatory power of the Forest Service by permitting appeal to the courts on various kinds of purely administrative decisions . It is a raid on the public . land system and its passage would seriously undermine our conservation policy . T HE House of Representatives stopped something even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Congressional spokesman for big lumber interests . It provided that when the government acquired privately owned timberland , as for the reservoir of a dam , which a timber operator had under sustained yield ( that is , cutting only in step with replacement by natural growth ) , the operator would have the option of being paid in cash or by the transfer to him of publicly owned timberland of equivalent value . This meant the national forests or the far smaller forests administered by the Bureau of Land Management ? and in committee it was extended to include the forests in the national parks . Proof of operation under sustained yield was not stipulated and there was no guarantee that it would be used on the land to be acquired . The government bureau which must provide the timberland was given no control over its selection , and no power to require any kind of protection or conservation . B AREFACED as these provisions were , how- ever , they were unimportant compared to the central fact : ostensibly a measure of relief for suffering corporations , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permanently reserved public lands to private ownership . Enemies of the public lands system have been trying to achieve precisely that fundamental step ever since the first reserves were made in Benjamin Harrison 's time . The Hope-Thye-Aiken Bill would open fissures in the foundation of our national conservation policy ? but the Ellsworth Bill would have shattered it . The Secretary of Agriculture drew up an adverse report and this time it reached the committee . Normally this is enough to stop a bill . He was , however , prevailed on to withdraw it . No notice of the public hearing was given except the routine listing in the Gazette ; conservation organizations and interested Congressmen did not know that it was to be held . It was attended only by representatives of the Department of the Interior , who had been instructed to think highly of the bill ( one who was n't thinking highly enough on the witness stand was called away by telephone ) , and of the Department of Agriculture , who had obviously been instructed not to think ill of it but to try @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out and by a tricky lateral pass in the Rules Committee Mr. Ellsworth cleared the way for an attempt to slip it over on the House in the closing days of the session . Chance discovery at the last moment , however , scared him into holding it over till the next session . By then the bill was in the open and it was murdered . The quarter-backing on the floor of the House was by Congressman Metcalf of Montana , who was making a distinguished record in his first term . His Democratic teammates were Madden of Indiana , Price of Illinois , and Brooks of Texas , with McCarthy of Minnesota , Magnuson of Washington , and Hays of Ohio assisting at critical junctures . A striking development , however , was the cooperation of four Pennsylvania Republicans who were well acquainted with the issues at stake ? Messrs . Gavin , Saylor , Fulton , and Mumma . Mr. Gavin 's role in the debate was especially informed and expert . This extemporized coalition drew the bill 's teeth with amendments and then , when the strength @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recommit it . His motion carried on a roll-call vote of 226 yeas and 161 nays ? a brilliant victory for the freshman Congressman , who is not even a member of the relevant committee . Perhaps a few other Republican Congressmen , who were active in opposition to the grazing bill , can be added to what looks like a conservation bloc . If the Republican party retains control of the House in November , this bloc will be important . For it is clear that if any of our historic conservation policy is to be saved , it must be saved in the House . Senator Langer fitfully opposed some anti-conservation measures but no other Republican Senator did . Senator Aiken , who devised the strategy for many earlier victories over anti-conservation forces , has now put his great prestige at the service of the attack on the Forest Service . The Independent party , Senator Morse , has been magnificent , making an all-out fight against every anti-conservation move . " Reorganization " with Burglar 's Tools T HE Forest Service may also serve to illus- trate dangers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and a cant phrase from schools of business administration , " management-practice improvement . " If consolidation and reorganization are the first recourse of a management engineer , they can serve more devious ends and become the last one of a lobby or a I andgra b ber . The Forest Service has always been decentralized . It began with a regional organization , to prevent the delays and rigidities that half-paralyzed the General Land Office . There are now ten regions , each with headquarters and specialist staffs . Differences in terrain , climate , forestation , methods of lumber operations , and other complex variables make this the only kind of organization that could conceivably be efficient . To consolidate the regions , reducing them to four or even two , as has been proposed , would greatly increase expense and greatly reduce efficiency . It would increase travel , paper work , and red tape . It would slow up administration and all field operations . It would make the specialist and scientific activities of the Service more cumbersome and expensive . In all these ways it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use the forests . But the notion is attractive to the managerial mind . You consolidate the Omaha and Denver offices of Continental Gadgets ; why not , then , consolidate Nebraska and Colorado ? There is a more sinister aspect . Weakening professional and administrative efficiency by such a consolidation of the regions would favor both the special-interest groups which want to exploit the national forests and those which want all federal regulation everywhere undermined . Also it would greatly reduce such ability as the Service now has to resist the attacks of its enemies . That is one of the ends in view . LL these hazards would be increased by the unbelievably idiotic plan , which has also been proposed , of abolishing the regional setup and achieving " local control " by grouping the national forests ? which disregard state lines ? in state units . Neither a forest stand nor the watershed of a river will stop short at a state boundary on Executive Order . But the thirty-eight miniature Forest Services thus created ? in ten states there are no national forests ? would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fetish which dreams of reorganizing federal conservation activities on a state-wide rather than a regional basis is a victory for the propaganda which represents issues as a conflict between local interests and Washington ? when in fact they are conflicts between one local interest and all the others ; that is , between a special interest and the public interest . In every aspect of conservation this kind of " local control " must inevitably mean local vulnerability , local manipulation , and local intimidation . All research in the Department of Agriculture except that of the Forest Service has been grouped under one bureau . In some respects the results have been of no particular importance , in some others they have reduced expense and increased efficiency . But also in some instances they have reduced efficiency and increased expense . It seems likely that the eye of the management-improver is on Forest Service research , and that his table of organization calls for transferring it to the central bureau . To do so would be a truly stupendous blunder . Forest Service research created scientific forestry in the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is so organically related to the field activities and daily jobs of the Forest Service that it could be dissected out only at the cost of permanent damage . The damage done would increase geometrically in the future . And one wonders . The Forest Service , always the cornerstone of our national conservation policy , is the most vigorous of the conservation bureaus . That is precisely what is wrong with it in the eyes of the landgrabbers , the cowboys , the U. S. Chamber of Commerce , and its other organized enemies . It is threefold : it consists of the national forests , its agencies which assist and supervise and cooperate with state forestry and private forestry , and its research programs and experiment stations . The effort by the Bureau of the Budget to abolish two of its co-operative programs suggests an intention eventually to amputate one full third of the Service . Removing its research to another bureau would also lop off a third . Reduced by two-thirds , it would be weak , ineffective , easily preyed upon , immensely less valuable to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? At any rate , in their most arrogant moments the landgrabbers never dreamed up so promising a way to make it impotent . Arrival of the Buzzards 1 N A year and a half the business men in office have reversed the conservation policy by which the United States has been working for more than seventy years to substitute wise use of its natural resources in place of reckless destruction for the profit of special corporate interests . They have reversed most of the policy , weakened all of it , opened the way to complete destruction . Every move in regard to conservation that the Administration has made has been against the public interest ? which is to say against the future ? and in favor of some special private interest . Most notably , too , every one has been in favor of some big special interest and against the local small ones . The friendly partnership with business has turned out to mean only some kinds of businesses , the bigger the better . More important still is the appointment of officials friendly to the enemies of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future . Judicious selection of a Director could doom TVA , for instance , and no doubt will . The utilities plan to " get the government out of the power business altogether , " with all that that implies in destruction of resources and exploitation of consumers . Many other corporate plans look to getting hold of publicly owned resources and converting them to dividends . Under Secretary of the Interior Tudor has announced that his legal staff is rewriting contracts for the water from federal dams in such a way that the 160-acre limitation can be " by-passed " ? which means that the government will connive at breaking the fundamental Reclamation laws . Assistant Secretary Lewis has said that he looks forward to the time when there need be no federal forestry . Their chief , Secretary McKay , has repeatedly said that he favors the disposal to private hands of various classes of public lands . W F CALLED it corruption in Harding 's time . It is not corruption when it is Administration policy . But it does show an intent , or perhaps only a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond the first Roosevelt , to the Old Stone Age of Republican domination by those to whom the infinite wisdom of Providence had entrusted the property interests of the country . Meanwhile the future of the United States is caught between the inexorable millstones . Population pressure steadily increases . The rivers fill with silt , the water table drops , the rains run off as floods . In the West , booms endbecause there is neither enough water nor enough electricity . The West too has had four years of drought , parts of it five years . Two dustbowls have formed : " The best place to get a Colorado farm is eastern Kansas . " And the best place to get anything else you may want is the Department of the Interior . Indirect damage such as the sacrifice of professionalism in the public service is manifest . But consider something else . If , for instance , the Central Valley Project should be sold to California , doubtless Mr. Hoover 's evaluators could work out a price . ( California utilities and the Department of the Interior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the loss to the public in past investment , future waste , and future expense . Similarly with every other aspect of conservation ? erosion control , flood control , watershed management , forestry , range improvement . Whatever is lost or weakened now will mean pyramiding loss in the future . For it is the nature of the problems of land and water that damage done to either is cumulative . And it is also their nature , as the entire American experience has shown , that they can be grappled with effectively only by federal action . on , conservation districts , REA cooperatives , conservation organizations , browned-out areas of power consumers , towns and counties apprehensive about dust and drought ? here are a lot of voters . One obvious giveaway is the presentation to the Democratic party of a shining issue for 1954 and 1956 . And if Schedule C proved to be a fine means for a quick cleanup in top administrative offices , it will remain one after the elections . In the early fall of 1953 Washington birdwalkers reported a phenomenon which their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buzzards resident in and near the city had increased remarkably . The buzzard population continued to grow through the winter and the following spring . By now it has created a sizable problem at feeding time at the zoo . 