@@492210

HOW YOU CAN SURVIVE AN A-BOMB BLAST By RICHARD GERSTELL ER service in the wartime Navy and postwar work in boarding radioactively " hot " ships in the Bikini tests , I received a call from the Department of Defense to help draw up plans for protection of the civilian population against possible atomic attack . As far as we knew , Russia at that time did not have the bomb , but we were taking no chances . When I went to Washington to report for duty , I felt pretty sure that atomic destruction for a sizable portion of the human race was inevitable . Many others who , like myself , had got a worm's-eye view of the Bikini shambles felt the same way . The title of a book which grew out of this close-up viewpoint summed up our gloom well . It was called No Place to Hide . Today , after having gone over the full and integrated reports of the Bikini testa as well as preliminary reports from the later tests of newer bombs at Eniwetok , and thus having obtained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind . I have concluded  --  and I honestly believe  --  that although the atomic bomb does indeed come up to its billing as the most destructive weapon devised by man , it definitely does not mean the liquidation of mankind . You would , for instance , have a difficult time trying to convince-a citizen of Tokyo that he suffered less than did the inhabitants of Hiroshima and Nagasaki ; for although 66,000 died in Hiroshima and 30,000 in Nagasaki , no fewer than 84,000 perished in the fire-bomb raid on Tokyo in March , 1945 . Truthfully , I would as soon be in an atomic raid as in a saturation blockbuster or incendiary bombing . Actually in major respects the atomic bomb is similar in effect to conventional bombs , and , just as there are common-sense precautions to be taken against the ordinary bomb , so are there practical safety measures to be taken against the nuclear weapon . And these all of us may very well commit to memory . To paraphrase in reverse that horrendous book title , there most definitely is some place to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of attack upon this country , thirty minutes ' warning , even with radar defenses , is often the most that can be expected . Yet thirty minutes , or even a fraction of that , can be a long-enough time in which to take those measures that will reduce to a minimum the human injuries caused by the atomic bomb . Basically , the only difference between the atomic bomb and the conventional explosive bomb lies in the nuclear weapon 's radioactivity , which is much less of a wartime threat than most people believe . The atomic bomb 's most destructive elements are its blast and heat , which  --  although of far greater magnitude ? are the same forces as in the ordinary bomb , and what is a defense against the blast and heat of one is n defense against the same two forces of the other . An atomic explosion is sometimes an eccentric thing . In Nagasaki , for example , crude timber shelters covered with four feet of ordinary earth remained standing 100 yards from ground zero , the surface point directly beneath the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miles away . The blast may bounce ineffectively off one wall and richochet across a street to demolish another . Yet , in general the explosion follows certain predictable patterns of behavior . It is known , for example , that relatively few direct injuries are caused by the blast or the actual " squeezing " of the bomb 's pressure wave . Most injuries and fatalities are results of the blast 's indirect effects  --  from being thrown against something or struck by a falling object . Therefore , in terms of individual protection , a person with only a few seconds ' warning would lessen his chances of injury by lying flat on his stomach , face in his arms , eyes closed tightly . Instead of looking up immediately , he should remain in that position for eight or ten seconds after the detonation . This would be not only a protection against such things as flying glass but also against the temporary five minutes or so of blindness that could result from looking into the explosion 's dazzling burst of light . If one were outside at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be taken in a ditch or gutter or against the base of some substantial structure  --  not a flimsy affair that might possibly fall on him . Inside a building , the best shelter would be the basement , and there a person should lie next to a wall , away from the windows , or against the base of some strong supporting column ; definitely not in the middle of the floor , where the danger of falling beams is much greater . Although there is always a risk of being trapped in the basement , the upper floors hold the greatest hazards ; for those floors  --  aside from being open to the radiological dangers which I will mention later ? might collapse . Except very near the point of detonation , flash burns  --  the second greatest cause of injury and death  --  can usually be avoided by the flimsiest of shielding . The ditch , gutter or wall that affords the best protection against the bomb 's blast would act even as a more effective barrier against its heat . Thin cotton cloth might do the trick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffered flower-shaped burns . It was learned that this was caused by the designs on their blouses , the lightly colored material reflecting the heat rays , the darker patterns absorbing and letting them through . In the event of an emergency , a person should always wear long trousers or slacks and loose-fitting light-colored blouses with full-length sleeves buttoned at the wrist . A hat , brim down , could help prevent many a face burn . Women should never go bare-legged . Even when the two wartime raids came as complete surprises , even when the inhabitants did not have the knowledge or time to use the measures of protection known today , in the tinderbox city of Hiroshima slightly more than one half of the people a mile from ground zero survived the catastrophe ; and in Nagasaki , 76 . THE - VI'UItl ) AY EVENING PINT January 7 , tl.50 The meter readers would he assigned either to survey or personnel duties . After a raid , the job of the survey men would be to detect radioactive hot spots and relay this information by radio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the incoming reports graphically portrayed on maps of the city , the entire radiological picture could be studied , and rescue and safety plans formulated from it . That headquarters would be not unlike the task-force command ship at Bikini , the nerve center of the operations , where master charts of the situation were kept as reports came in from Geiger men like myself who were boarding ships . flying over the bombed fleet in airplanes , testing the water in patrol boats and surveying the islands of the lagoon . From the charts , those in command at Bikini , could tell at a glance which ships were radioactive , which could be boarded , and for how long a period . They knew the radiation of the islands and even how far the bomb clouds had drifted . The headquarters of a bombed city would serve the same function . Once the reports were in from the survey men and the radiological situation mapped , a " hot plot " would go into effect . By radio , sound truck or some other means , advice would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where to go . Contaminated areas would be roped off . Rescue and engineering teams would be sent wherever needed . Meanwhile the job of those meter readers assigned to personnel duties would be to accompany fire fighters and other rescue and medical teams that might have to work in polluted areas , and to protect them from overexposure to radioactivity . First of all , a fixed maximum limit of daily exposure to radioactivity would be set for all teams , and it would be up to the meter reader to see that the team for which he served as radiological monitor stayed under that limit wherever possible and practical . Let us say that the limit was ten roentgens per twenty-four hours . If the meter reader 's instrument showed anything less than that figure , the teams could work in that area all day and night without harm . Should the indicator show forty roentgena , however , which would be four times the daily limit , the teams could remain only a quarter of a day , or six hours . After that they would have to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at first sound implausible , its basic principles were tested and proved at Bikini . After the underwater explosion , many ships , deadly radioactive , were boarded by Geiger men who very frequently estimated the safety limit at only several minutes . It was important , however , to get the test animals out as soon as possible for study , and so one team would rush aboard , pull out as many rats or pigs as it could in the allotted time , then leave ; another team would follow . This continued until all the animals were removed . Not one man who boarded those ships , not one of the approximately 40,000 who took part in the Bikini tests , was injured through radioactivity . Incidentally , some of the goats used in the first Bikini test had previously been sent to Cornell University for a checkup . Several psychoneurotic ones were then selected , so that the scientieta would be able to see what effects the nuclear explosion had upon their nervous systems , and in this way perhaps the human susceptibility to crack-up and panic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon one such goat before the test . When the film was developed later , it showed the goat calmly eating before the detonation . At the moment of explosion there was a mans of ( lying objects on the screen ; and then , this clearing , the goat once more could be seen eating calmly and very much undisturbed . No collapse . No nervous breakdown . In addition to accompanying defense and rescue teams , personnel meter readers would be performing detection duties of miscellaneous types following a raid . Some might Lest the radioactivity of the clothing of patients brought into hospitals . The garments , if found contaminated , might have to be scrubbed until cooled down to a safe limit or else they might be destroyed . Other readers might check for pollution of water-supply systems , milk stations and foodstuffs . If food supplies or the main water system should be found contaminated , radio chemists and other specialists would be called into action to determine the type of " heat " and what to do about it . That , briefly , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevent widespread panic ? for much of the danger of radioactivity is mental  --  and actual radiation injuries . Whether radiological defense will prove a succese depends to a great measure upon each individual within that community , upon each person 's calm knowledge of the true potential of the bomb and its radioactivity , and of the safety steps that can be taken to minimize its dangers . The radiological hazards of the atomic bomb fall into two classifications and , in order to prevent panic and injury , it ie. important for everyone to know them . First are the short-lived , " prompt " radiations . These consist of X rays , gamma rays and neutrons that are thrown off at the very second of explosion and last only as long as the detonation itself . Second are the " lingering " radiations . These consist of invisible radioactive fission products  --  or bomb " ashes " ? and just as invisible hot bits of unexploded uranium and plutonium atoms that failed to undergo fission when the weapon was detonated . The lingerers may last for seconds or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? or any  --  lingering radiation depends primarily upon the level at which the bomb is exploded . In a mid-air detonation , such as at Hiroshima and Nagasaki , the only serious radiation dangers are the short-lived ones , moat of the bomb wastes being swept into the sky by the swiftly rising bomb cloud . A near-surface detonation may result in some lingering contamination , but only rarely will it cover more than a fraction of ki square mile . It is in the underwater bombing , where all the radioactive wastes are trapped by the water and mist and scattered spottily over as much as seven or eight square miles , that great danger of lingering radioactivity exists . The only protection against the bomb 's short-Lived , prompt radiations is adequate shielding at the moment of explosion . In the immediate vicinity of ground zero , reasonable safety is afforded by one foot of steel , three feet of concrete and five feet of earth . At 1000 yards , the comparative thicknesses fall roughly to five inches of steel , fifteen inches of concrete and twenty-five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fraction of an inch of steel and several inches of concrete are all that would be required . It should be recalled here that of all the deaths and injuries at Hiroshima and Nagasaki , only 15 per cent were caused by radiation , and this at a time when whoever was sheltered was sheltered only by accident . The basement of a building affords not only the most adequate protection against the atomic bomb 's blast and heat but also against its short-lived , prompt radiations ; for not only would a person be best sheltered there by surrounding structures but he would also have more radiation barriers  --  steel , concrete , wood and earth ? between him and the bomb . High in a building , there would be few such radiation-absorbing materials in the path of the straight-traveling rays and particles . Window glass would let them in readily and even scatter them about . Because the blast of the atomic bomb is often a spotty thing , a building even close to the point of the explosion might suffer little structural damage , but at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not be riddled with prompt rays and neutrons . These short-lived rays and particles , while having no visible effect upon building materials  --  no holes , no breakage  --  might cause artificial , lingering radioactivity in such household items as silverware and prescription drugs , although they would not damage bandages and other common first-aid supplies in the medicine cabinet . The wise person , after a raid , would be wary of the silverware , and throw away the prescription drugs . Short-lived , prompt radiation that passes through the walls of a house will not , of course , be stopped by the tin or glass of canned or bottled food . Unless the containers were broken by the blast , though , the food probably would still not be dangerously radioactive and could be eaten . A check by a meter reader would be the best precaution , however . As for water , there is little possibility that the fluid inside household pipes would be dangerously radioactive at the time of attack . The simple precaution here would be to draw some off immediately and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the post-raid period . Although the taps might still run after an attack , it would not be wise to use the water from them much later unless told to do so by the authorities . Boiling of water will not remove the radioactive pollution ; instead , it will concentrate it . The operation of mechanical devicee ? telephones , radios , television sets ? is not affected either by prompt or lingering radioactivity , and their usage is part of the over-all plan of radiological defense . The practicability of this was shown beyond doubt by the tests at Bikini . There , by radio , pilotless airplanes were flown straight through the deadly radioactive bomb clouds , and drone boats were sent directly into the target area to pick up water samples . Also , in the underwater test , television receivers on the observation ships portrayed clear pictures of the target fleet , even during the time the area was at its highest radioactive intensity . And proof of the operation of mechanical devices was brought home to me with special emphasis at Bikini when , walking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bomb target for the first test , I came upon a delicate chronometer . Although it was one of the most radioactive objects on the ship , it was still ticking away and keeping perfect time . This clock , one of countless exposed test objects , also VIM further proof to me of the blast 's occasional eccentricities . On one side of it an airplane had been tossed forty feet and wrecked ; on the other side there was a huge depression in the deck , like a punched-in pillow . The chronometer , however , was untouched except radioactively . Therefore , unless power lines were knocked out in a raid , electric lights , radios and telephones should continue to work . As for the family car , radioactivity will not affect its operation . To prevent lingering wastes from entering it , though , the windows should be rolled up , and , if possible , the car should be kept in a closed garage . While protection against short-lived radiation is a matter of adequate shielding at the moment of the detonation , protection against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is important , too , it is also a matter of avoiding contaminated objects and areas after the actual explosion . In the rarer low-level or underwater bombings  --  rarer because the atomic bomb is basically an antimateriel weapon and only the midair explosion uses to their full potential the bomb 's forces of blast and heat  --  there is relatively little that can be done to prevent lingering contamination in the immediate area of an explosion . Even most of the houses in that vicinity would not be free of it ; some of the bomb wastes would enter through broken windows , drift down chimneys or seep through cracks . Yet many things can be done to reduce such pollution . All windows should be kept shut . and broken ones promptly covered with cardboard or blankets . All fireplace flues should be closed . Because wind could blow the hot althea around or the radioactive wastes could fall out of drifting bomb clouds , householders even in areas outside the stricken one should follow these same precautions . Also , much pollution could be brought into a house @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , carrying the invisible wastes on their clothes and shoes . Therefore shoes and outer garments should be removed and kept outside , later to be scrubbed in disposable tubs . The family washing machine would not be good to use here , as it might become contaminated and make other garments slightly radioactive . It would be safest for anyone connected with any defense or rescue teams to wear overalls and rubbers as well as a hat at his job . A shower with plenty of soap and water is the beet means of cleansing body surfaces of all radioactive materials . At Bikini it seemed as if we were always showering . Even radioactive ships were somewhat cooled down by fire hoses . In taking a shower , a person should pay particular attention to his hair , shampooing it thoroughly , for there is where heat tends to accumulate . It also accumulates under the fingernails . A personal check by a meter reader , even after a shower , would be a sound extra precautionary move . I never shall after the Bikini underwater teat I was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out at the fleet in the distance , when a bunkmate held his Geiger counter next to my head . " You 're as hot as a firecracker ! " he shouted . I felt my stomach grow knotted . It was as if I had been condemned to death . I did n't know which way to turn . Somehow I managed to look at his meter . What I saw confirmed his words : My hair was radioactive slightly above the exposure limit , and it undoubtedly had been so for several days . Abruptly , but trying to look perfectly calm , I took off for the washroom . I must have stayed under that shower for an hour , scrubbing my hair with soap and water . Then , when I had a reading taken again , I found that my hair was still radioactive b.t much less so . I was thinking , however , of those days when I had been walking around with a painless though fiery scalp , and I resigned myself to await as calmly as I could the aymptoms of radiological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ falling hair , perhaps nausea , weakness . But days passed and I remained healthy . I did n't lose a single strand of hair . My appetite improved , if anything . Which brings me to another point  --  the wide , healthy gap that looms between detectable and dangerous radioactivity and the gap , too , between injurious and fatal amounts . Radioactivity is all around us . It is something with which each of us has lived since birth . If I took a Geiger counter in my hand and held it in the peaceful quiet of my home , I probably would get about twelve telltale clicks a minute , mostly because of cosmic radiations from the heavens . These small but readily detectable amounts of radioactivity rarely , if ever , are harmful . Large amounts of radioactivity definitely are , but even then the degree of injury depends upon how much of the body surface is exposed to it . It is believed from past experience that detectable human injuries rarely result from the absorption of leas than one roentgen , that damage does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not a certainty until the body has soaked up more than 600 roentgens . In terms of distances from ground zero , this means that anyone caught completely unsheltered within 1000 yards of a detonation probably would absorb a fatal amount of radiation . But it also means that the fatality rate would fall off rapidly until , tait a little over a mile , although there would be injuries , very few would cause death . Remember , that 's for the completely unsheltered . But I rarely think of the wide difference between detectable and dangerous -I 1114 SATt MAY amounts of radioactivity in terms of figures . I think of it in terms of that day when my hair was found to be radioactive or that other day when , again at Bikini , I was in my bunk deep in the hold of the ship , and my bunkmate , a curious follow , casually held his Geiger counter near the outer bulkhead . He turned around quickly , hid eyes opened wide . He pulled off his earphones and wiped his lips nervously . The ship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ underwater bomb that were held against its outside surface by barnacles and algae . For days now we had been sleeping with our bunks flush against that hot bulkhead , and no doubt we had soaked up ionizing rays in appreciable quantities . " What do we do ? " my bunkmate asked anxiously . Instead of answering , all I did was to move my bunk away from the ship 's shell . He did the same . There was little else we could do . Again that wait for symptoms ; and again nothing . Lingering radioactive dusts on the outside of the body are not likely to he highly dangerous . Swallowed , however , they could cause trouble . That is why clean hands and fingernails are important ; why cuts should be bandaged as soon as possible ; why a person in a contaminated area should not smoke or wipe his sleeve on his face ; why , unless checked by a meter reader , unpackaged food should not be eaten ; why bottled and canned goods should not be opened until washed thoroughly , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ person who thinks he has eaten highly radioactive food should lose no time in ridding himself of it . One of the lessons learned at Bikini was the value of knowing about radioactive decay time . With this knowledge many lives could be saved in time of war . It is known that the intensity of radiation drops very quickly during the early postraid periods ; that , at the end of the first fifteen minutes , the heat of lingering radioactivity is usually equal to only about one fifteenth of that existing a minute after the detonation ; and that after an hour it is onlyone sixtieth of its original intensity . For this reason a person should never be in too much of a hurry to leave his home or shelter after a raid . Even a ten- or fifteen-minute delay could he all-important . And then , too , anyone leaving his home without waiting for official word might be moving needlessly from a relatively cool zone into a hotter one . Protection against the atomic bomb 's lingering radioactivity is to a great extent a matter of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the street . . ' Also she opined , ' I 've got an uncanny intuition ; sometimes it frightens me ! ' " EVEN I NC POST The person unable to reach some underground shelter such as a subway should , in addition to lying face down beside some high , protecting barrier , also try to shield himself from possible radioactive bomb wastes . A cover of a few sheets of newspaper or a board might very well do it , but a raincoat or is torn strip of awning would be better . And later , when getting up , it would be important to crawl slowly from under the covering , avoiding , wherever possible , waste materials that might be on it . Of course , in the event of attack , fire and other hazards existing after a raid might force many people to leave their homes and shelters without waiting for official announcements . This is the point at which it would be important for each individual to be able to identify the level at which the bomb was exploded . Should there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sky , one would know that the bomb had been detonated in midair and that there would be almost nothing to fear from lingering radioactivity . Should he see darker , squatty , low-flying clouds , indicating a nearthe-surface detonation , or a waterspout or mist wave that would indicate an underwater bombing , he would then know that he might well face hazardous ground contamination , and he could take proper precautions . During evacuation under conditions of ground pollution , the carrying of excessive baggage would he foolish . One change of clothing , including shoes  --  and everything safe from contamination in a suitcase or bag ? is all a person should take with him . He should also wear a hat and , if possible , rubbers . Rags wrapped around his shoes , if rubbers were n't available , would be a worthwhile precaution . Wherever possible , evacuation routes would be marked out by meter readers , and in that case , it would be an unwise person who attempted a short cut through a vacant lot or alley , or even to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instances at Bikini where I found deck space on one side of a ship almost free of radioactivity while the other was a furnace . There would be times , naturally , when instructions for travel could not be given . In general , a person should avoid all places drenched by the base surge of an underwater explosion . He should travel , wherever practical , against the wind instead of with it , for that would take him to areas least likely to be polluted . When necessary to go cross-wind , he should walk along the sides of streets lined with tall buildings , for there he would find the least contamination . Also he should avoid all water puddles  --  which , in Bikini , I Juneau. , 7 , 11910 found to hold the greatest heat  --  and piles of rubble ; and he should never pick up souvenirs , especially gold or silver ones , for they carry the threat of induced radioactivity . Once in an area of safety , he should shower and change his clothing , burying or destroying his old garments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are many , such as mass sterility and permanently uninhabitable " doomed areas " ? is that the bodies of the dead give off deadly rays and particles . And I have read articles in which authors , discussing some theoretical bombings of our large cities , described how trenches would have to be dug twenty feet deep and the bodies picked up with long-handled cranes ; and , once the bodies were buried in a mass grave , how they would have to be covered with twelve feet of concrete . This is untrue . Although the coins in their pockets might be temporarily heated , there is little chance of being burned by handling the bodies of the dead or by handling the injured . Everyone should do whatever is possible to help the injured . If much duet was raised in freeing someone from wreckage , a handkerchief around the nose and mouth would help prevent the inhalation of dangerous amounts of radioactive wastes . And in applying first aid , if one should have to use strips of his own clothing or that of the victim , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least likely to be polluted . Actually there is nothing that is new or mysterious about radioactivity . Although it has been brought forcefully to the foreground by the atomic bomb , its principles and its injurious factors have for many decades been the subject of laboratory study . More , for example , is known about radiological injuries than is known about polio or the common cold . Basically , radioactivity is no greater a threat in wartime than are typhoid fever and other diseases that often follow the ravages of a bombing . The terrible and shameful part of the whole thing is that radioactivity , which has made a great contribution to medical science , must be compared to a disease . Its discovery was heralded as a gift and a blessing to mankind . But perhaps , if understanding among nations improves sufficiently , it will be once again . Although there are defenses against the atomic bomb  --  and the world can go on living with it just as it has lived with poison gas and all the other former portents of mass destruction ? the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in their striving for defenses against one another , the nations of the world will find and use the most obvious one . 