@@487531

SUSPENSION OF MARSHALL PLAN AID TO Britain by friendly agreement eighteen months before the date originally fixed for its termination has rightly given satisfaction on both sides of the Atlantic . Ameri  --  cans can feel that their money has been well invested . It has been used to strengthen the foundations of Britain 's economy and has helped to bring about almost sensa  --  tional increases in British production , productivity , and exports . Britons , for their part , are pleased to be stand  --  ing on their own feet again . Grateful as they are , not only for aid received , but for the fact that , by and large , it has been without " strings , " they realize that acceptance did to some extent limit their freedom of action , and from the beginning they looked forward to relinquishing it at the earliest possible moment . As the New York Times has remarked , " it was no accident that Britain is today in a position to forgo further Marshall aid. - Hard work , self-discipline , and , let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this end . But at the same time it is necessary to recog  --  nize that closure of the dollar gap , which made sus  --  pension feasible , is partly due to luck  --  bad luck . It is the darkening of international skies and the subsequent rearmament boom which has turned the sterling area 's dollar deficit into a dollar surplus by creating a tre  --  mendous demand for its raw materials . Even in eco  --  nomic terms this development is far from an unmixed blessing for Britain , which lives by importing raw mate  --  rials and processing them for resale abroad . In the past year British import prices have risen 25 per cent , export prices but 7 per cent . Consequently , iii order to pay for the same minimum quantity of imports , export volume must be expanded by nearly 20 per cent . Taking this factor into account , together with the need for diverting productive facilities from civilian supply to armament , it is easy to understand why Britain 's ability to dispense with Marshall aid does not imply the end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ COULD work up as much indignation as anyone at the President 's gross behavior toward the music critic who wrote un  --  flatteringly of Margaret Truman 's singing . If the Presi  --  dent were not weighed down with decisions that mean life or death for millions , we might even share the views of Westbrook Pegler and the Russian press that his vituperative note was a revelation of " nasty malice " and deficient moral sense . If this were not the same Pegler who hoped the attempted assassination of the Presi  --  dent would " be a lesson " to him and remarked that he was neither shocked nor horrified , we might have felt that Mr. Truman was undignified , though not inaccurate , in referring to the Hearst columnist as a " guttersnipe . " We find some of the President 's highly publicized cor  --  respondence -- the letter about the Marines , the reply to Representative Hebert , and the note to the music critic  --  profoundly disturbing , not because of the injudicious  --  ness , the folly , and the arrogance they seem to indicate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burden under which he is forced to carry on . If these nonsensical outbursts serve as an escape valve , they are worth the price they cost the nation in embarrassment . Better the abuse of an innocent  --  and , in this case , gallant and understanding  --  music critic than an explosion in the realm of high policy that could push the world closer to the awful brink of war . OVERCOME BY A KIND OF GROUP PARANOIA , a social disorder not uncommon in these days , a " citizens ' committee " in - Bartlesville , Oklahoma , . has succeeded in chalking up several points for the cause of book burn  --  ing and racial segregation . Last February ' a band of self-appointed censors , drawn from local chapters of the American Legion , United Daughters of ' the Confederacy , Daughters of the American Revolution , and a Republi  --  can womens club known as " Pro-America , " attacked Miss Ruth Brown , city librarian for thirty-one years . Miss Brown 's outlook , it seems , had been tainted by her long association @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Bartlesville 's Negroes . The city library , furthermore , openly displayed The Nat:on and the New Republic , obviously subversive pub  --  lications ' which carry advertising for books published by firms that have been cited by the House Un-American Activities Committee and the Tenney committee in California . Moreover , Carey McWilliams of The Nation had also been cited by the Tenney committee , and The Nation had been banned in New York City schools . The " citizens ' committee " brought their complaints to the Bartlesville City Commissioners . They , in turn , referred the matter to the Library Board , a body appointed by the Commissioners but autonomous according to state statute . AFTER A THOROUGH INVESTIGATION OF THE charges , the Library Board reported to the Commissioners that it opposed the removal of any- magazines , with the exception of Soviet Russia Today , from the library 's periodical list : The stalwart " citizens ' committee , " how  --  ever , continued its campaign , and eventually the Com  --  missioners took matters in their own hands . Last June , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assumed direct control of the library , supposedly under authority of the city 's charter . The old Library Board was fired , a new board was selected predominantly from the " citizens ' committee " , and the librarian was dismissed for " insubordination . " When the ' backers of Miss Brown and the Library Board contested the legality of these actions , the court ruled in favor of the Commissioners . The decision will be appealed , but this may cause a delay of two years . Meanwhile , The Nation and the New Republic will remain banned , the library will be staffed by non-professional help because qualified persons are unwilling to risk similar defamation , and Miss Brown will be out of a job . Understandably enough , the " citi  --  zens ' committee " has made frantic efforts , to suppress detailed reporting of the dispute in the local press . A fair coverage of the facts would expose not Miss Brawn- or the Library Board but the " citizens ' commit  --  tee " as the enemy of democracy in Bartlesville . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's opinion in the case of Mrs. Patricia Blau is that so thoroughly simple and inescapable a decision should potentially have such far-reaching implications . In normal times it would have been taken for granted , if indeed the case had reached the Supreme Court at all , and the repercussions would have been insignificant . A Denver grand jury- two years ago asked Mrs. Blau sev  --  eral questions concerning the Communist Party and her alleged employment by it . The Smith act , under which eleven-leaders of the Communist Party were subsequently convicted , makes it a crime knowingly " to become a member of a group " teaching the " desirability of over  --  throwing the government by force . " Mrs. Blau accord  --  ingly refused to- answer the questions on the ground of possible self-incrimination , whereupon the District Court Sentenced her to a year 's imprisonment for contempt . The Fifth Amendment to the Constitution says plainly that " no person . . . shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself . " Noting that the Smith act made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government had called " a mere imaginary possibility , " the Supreme Court unanimously reversed the contempt conviction . As Justice Black pointed out , the opinion follows precedent going back all the way to the trial of Aaron , Decamer 23 , 1950 Burr , and there would be nothing noteworthy about it if it did not raise questions concerning other legisla  --  tion now on the statute books . For example , if a person may not be compelled to divulge membership in the Communist Party on the witness stand , before a grand jury , or before a legislative committee , can he be forced to register as a member under the McCarron act ? It is true that the law in question provides against use of such registration as evidence in a criminal proceeding , but this would seem to be a very inadequate protection inasmuch as the mere presence of a name on the rolls could be used by the government as the starting point in building up a case against an individual whom it might otherwise have ignored . It would have the entire roll @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for potential state 's witnesses . ' Black 's language appears to us to rule out the validity of this technical dodge . - Whether such admissions by themselves would sup  --  port a conviction under a criminal statute is immaterial , " he wrote in the Blau case . " Answers to the questions ? asked by the grand jury would have furnished a link in the chain of evidence needed in a prosecution of peti  --  tioner for violation of . . . Smith act . " The McCarron law itself carries such punitive meas  --  ures for Communists , including internment in certain emergencies , that one is led to wonder whether the re  --  quired registration does not constitute self-incrimination quite apart from the Smith act , the validity of which is to be passed upon by the court in the case of the eleven Communist leaders . Here again a technicality of the law may prevent the applicability of the Blau ruling , since under the McCarran act such internment would be regarded as a civil action by the state and not the impo  --  sition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however the distinction is likely to seem strained , and it is not implausible that the high court will find that in this connection registration is a viola  --  tion of the spirit if not the letter of the Constitution . The Blau decision , further , makes the device of the loyalty oath more fatuous than ever . If a man is regis  --  tered under the McCarron act as a member of a sub  --  versive group , presumably he wo n't even be given a chance to take the oath . If he is not so registered but should be , it will be extremely difficult to prove his oath false when he may not be compelled to incriminate himself and when officials of suspect groups can not be . compelled td produce membership records in court lest in so doing they in turn incriminate themselves . All of which indicates that these fevered efforts to suppress a movement by fiat can succeed only if we rip apart the fine w , eb of constitutional law which is our ultimate guaranty of freedom . Once more it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , against subversion lies in the use of statutes of patent constitutionality  --  laws that prohibit overt acts of treason , sabotage , violence , and the like , leaving ideas to be combated only by other667 ideas , propaganda only by counter-propaganda . It is ex  --  tremely good to know that even in these irrational days the Supreme Court can adhere , unanimously , to the basic law of the land . Let the lower courts take note and take courage . Not By Arms Alone O NLY those of very tender years will be able to enjoy this Christmas fully : for the rest of us , listening to the bells with one ear cocked to catch the distant rumble of the guns , it will be hard to sing hymns of peace and good-will without consciousness of their ironic overtones . Nor can we Wish our friends a happy New Year with any , confidence when we must recognize the possibility that it may see the world plunged into a war which would wipe out civilization , if not mankind . At best 1951 promises to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ millions of young men , here and abroad , it will bring conscription and the interruption of studies and careers . To all of us it offers the prospects of adjustment to a semi-war economy , a constant struggle against inflation , a possible brown-out of civil liberties . The somber outlook for the New Year was made plain by the President in his radio address of December 15 and in the emergency proclamation of the following day .. Mr. Truman told us that in order to uphold and if necessary to defend the principles of the United ' Nations , we must speed the building up and reequip-meat of our armed services and those of our allies . T-o achieve this end we must mobilize our industrial strength-and expand production to the utmost : we must work harder , pay much heavier taxes , curtail non-essen  --  tial expenditure , public and private . In view of the rapid deterioration of the international situation , it would be hard to deny that we do face an emergency calling for measures of this nature . But it is important to remember @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Indeed , there is danger that we may rely too much for our security on our ability , when pushed , to produce massive quantities of military equipment ex  --  celling in devilish ingenuity and efficiency that of our enemies . The struggle in which we are engaged  --  the struggle to deliver mankind from the threat of Commu  --  nist domination without resort to methods that would make victory meaningless  --  calls for non-material as well as material skills . Our present plight is due much less to failures in handling machinery , in the broad sense , than to failures in handling ideas . Confused by our own propaganda as much as by that of our opponents , we have , as many contributors to last week 's Eighty-fifth Anniversary issue of this magazine pointed out , weak  --  ened our cause by inability to understand and cope with the revolutionary temper of the times . In his radio address the President once again spoke of this country 's honest desire for peace . " We do not , " he said , " believe that war is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the free world and those of the Soviet Union that can not be settled by peace  --  ful means . " But " we can not yield to aggression , " and ' " we will not engage in appeasement . " Few Americans will quarrel with any part of this state  --  ment , for although we react strongly to threats we are not a warlike people . But clearly if we are to settle our dif  --  ferences with Soviet Russia and Communist China peace  --  fully , we must learn to distinguish between the processes of give and take which are essential to any negotiation and appeasement in the Munich sense , which involved buying an illusory security with someone else 's freedom . At Lake Success efforts to arrange a " cease-fire " in Korea appear to have broken down because we insisted that it must be unconditional , while the representatives of Peking insisted on discussing conditions and , in par  --  ticular , the question of " equality " ? recognition of the Chinese People 's Republic as a sovereign state and its admission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nition to Mao 's government at a time when we had no real quarrel with it , a reversal of this position is obviously difficult after our forces have been attacked by Mao 's army and after we have experienced the imitative brutal  --  ity of General Wu 's diplomacy . Yet how can we hope to negotiate ' with a strong government holding powerful cards if we refuse to concede its right to exist ? And what alternative to negotiation do we have save a war , declared or undeclared , against Communist China , a war which could prove as fatally unprofitable as Napoleon 's inva  --  sion of Russia ? Most Americans , apart from the clients of the China lobby , agree that it is far more important to preserve Western Europe from inclusion in the Soviet sphere than to recapture China . As the Wall Street Journal has pointed out in the course of an argument for cutting losses in , the Far East , China can contribute man-power to Russia but owing to its lack of economic development will prove a drain on its industrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has an industrial capacity which , added to that of the Soviet bloc , would enable Russia to approach the industrial potential of the United States . Our involvements in the Far East and the reverses we have suffered there have already raised doubts in Europe about the value of our promised support as a deterrent to Russian aggression . And now these doubts have been multiplied by the unprecedented Republican call for the removal of Secretary of State Acheson at the very mo  --  ment that he was leaving for Brussels to attend the con  --  ference of Foreign Ministers of the Atlantic Pact nations . Mr. Acheson , whatever his faults  --  and in our opinion they are not those for which he is beinensured  --  has always been a " westerner " rather than VI " easterner , " Ibe and his repudiation by the Republicans appears to Euro  --  peans as a possible prelude to a move to cut European commitments . Thus at a time - when our transatlantic partners need reassurance about our firmness of purpose , their faith in American leadership has been undermined by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be compensated by multi-billion defense appropriations , makes our emergency look very real and very terrible . De Gaulle Stirs Again Paris , December 11 HILE De Gaulle matters little in " normal " times he seems to have a genius for putting himself forward in a time of grave danger . It would be foolish , therefore , to dismiss his speech at Lille on December 10 as so much hot air . The main points he made were , first , that France was quite capable , without ruining it  --  self , of forming twenty permanent divisions , plus twenty to be mobilized in an emergency , and of building up an air force of 5,000 planes . This could be easily achieved by a government " worthy of the people 's confidence . Second , the , cornerstone of a strong Western Europe was a Franco-German agreement ; Western Europe , in his view , includes England , as No. 3 , Italy , and Spain . This Western Europe would need America as much as America would need it . Third , the Atlantic Pact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conception of reserving all-out defense for the British Isles . How the " above-party " government which would put France " in the center of world events " was to be formed he did not say , but armed insurrection is scarcely part of his purpose . Anyway , he lacks the means for that . He spoke with his usual disdain of the parliamentary parties and , the present government and said that- " the plan and the framework " would have to be changed , after which a sort of plebiscite should be held in France to indorse the establishment of the new government . Mgaro complains of the General 's failure to seek the support of any of France 's present parliamentary leaders , but it is not too difficult perhaps to visualize a catastrophic situation  --  or even a panic  --  in which De Gaulle could rally around him many politicians now belonging to the center or even to the non-Communist left . Whether he waits for the next election , which may come- as early as March , 1951 , before he acts or treats the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , especially if more trouble develops over China or , more important still , over Ger  --  man rearmament  --  that is , if the danger of war in Europe becomes more tangible than it is-today . A. W.                     