@@476090

WILL all BOAC passengers to London kindly board your jet airliner now standing at Gate Two , please ? Estimated flight time to London is six hours owing to head winds . ... " The scene is New York City 's Idlewild Airport in 1953 , the voice comes from the airport loud-speaker system , and the airplane at Gate Two is a British de Havilland Comet . Compared with a train fare to Boston the London plane ticket is expensive , but though it 's ten times as far to London as it is to Boston the trip wo n't take any more time . " Will all passengers to London on the American flag transport kindly board your plane now standing at Gate Three , please ? Estimated flight time to England is fourteen hours .. . . " If you are by then the president of an American airline and happen to be standing at Gate Two or Three the chances are you will be boiling mad , for the British plane will be packed and yours will be almost empty . If you are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old days of 1949 , when piston-engine American transports were the envy and the standard of the world 's airlines ? the fastest , the safest , and the most efficient to operate . Fantastic ? Probably not . For jet transportation is here today . The British do have an acceptable jet transport . The de Havilland Comet is not only very fast ? more than 200 miles per hour faster than the nearest American competitor ? but according to current reports it is reliable , reasonably economical , almost vibrationless , and capable of flying oceanic distances . With considerable fanfare , it is going into commercial " Empire service " in the early 1950 's , for upon this Comet the British have pinned their aviation hopes . T o MOST air-minded Americans the news of the British jet transport came as a shock , for the experts have been telling them ? and still are telling them , for that matter ? that a ticket on a jet plane to London , or Podunk , is fifteen years away . Even as recently as mid-December one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a New York Times dispatch to be gloomy on the subject . The vast and intricate problems of traffic control , jet dependability , jet fuel gluttony , length of runways required , and myriad other difficulties have discouraged the engineers despite our own formidable military jet progress and that of the British . They seem unwilling to believe their own senses . When the news first broke in England at the Farnborough air show last September that the Comet was about to fly , there was a wild cheer from British aviation enthusiasts . The Comet turned out to be a standard-looking sleek sort of plane with four jet engines . It held thirty-six passengers and was designed to cruise at altitudes of 30,000 feet at speeds ranging from 450 to 500 miles per hour for a distance of 3,000 miles . A few weeks after the show , the Comet flew the 2,980 miles to Tripoli non-stop with a full simulated load aboard and landed with its fuel tanks far from the danger mark . It handled remarkably well at low speeds in an aircraft traffic circle along @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ naturally seemed unbelievable to the American aviation industry , for the fastest commercial equipment we have in the air lanes today gets along at 300 miles per hour at 20,000 feet . General Jimmy Doolittle told a dazed Trans World Airline management club in November , after reviewing British progress , that the United States was two years behind Great Britain in jet transportation and " getting further behind every day . " On another occasion , Harold Harris , American Overseas Airlines vice-president , warned that " we must get our jet transportation program under way without further delay . " Pan American Airways spokesmen admitted that they had an intense interest in the Cornet . And the able boss of Eastern Air Lines , Captain Eddie Rickenbacker , let a big cat out of the bag by allowing it to be known that his airline was interested in the Avro jet transport which the Canadians were testing . For the Canadians too , without any special fanfare , had built what appears to be an excellent jet transport . What appalled American aviation men the most was that our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world in transport aviation , did not have a working or prototype model of a jet in the air . A minority of the engineers went so far as to discount the British jet plane as " before its time . " But the majority privately agreed with one airline president who made no bones about the matter . " We 've been caught short , " he said , " and it 's damned embarrassing . " II T HERE is nothing particularly complicated about a jet engine . Compared with the Rube Goldbergish monstros-ity of the standard piston power plant ? such asthe one in your car ? with its hundreds of moving parts , the jet is over twice as powerful , weight for weight , and has only two moving parts . The principle of the gas-turbine jet has been known for two centuries , but lack of heat-resistant metals has hindered its development . ( Jets work at thousands of degrees centigrade compared with the few hundreds of degrees for the reciprocating engine . ) It was only a little more than twenty years ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the gas-turbine engine as applied to aircraft . Two years later he took out a patent on a design . In 1936 , after a brilliant military career as a test pilot and engineer , Frank Whittle formed Power Jets Limited and began to solve the problems of building jets . What Whittle did was to fit a compressor and a turbine wheel on a shaft inside a metal tube . He put a spark plug and a spray of fuel just behind the compressor and touched off the spark . The air caught between the compressor and the turbine was rapidly expanded by the fire , and the resulting air pressure whirled the turbine . The turbine shaft drove the air compressor . New air was sucked into the compressor and blasted back to the " furnace , " spinning the turbine at higher speeds ? and the process was steadily and constantly repeated . It made quite an air blast . Whittle did this exploratory work so successfully that in 1939 , with a war in sight , the British government ordered a special Gloster air frame and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first English jet plane , which flew a straight and level course at five hundred or so miles an hour way back in 1941 . Of course , the first jet engine was primitive by today 's standards . It sopped up fuel like a hog , on occasion it exploded , and it created a mass of new problems for the air-frame designers ? in particular , speed and altitude problems which still plague them . But the jet engine offered advantages which could not be ignored in either military or commercial fields . The unique advantage of the jet is that the more speed or power it produces , the more efficient and economical it becomes to operate . Because of its stark mechanical simplicity , it is easier for the pilot to fly ? there are fewer instruments to watch , fewer adjustments to make ? and relatively simpler to maintain on the ground than today 's reciprocating engines . Because the best jet fuel is coal oil , which is much less volatile than high-octane gasoline , fire hazard is greatly reduced . Fuel costs are cut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as pistons , kerosene is less than half the price of aviation gas on today 's market . Furthermore , jets at cruising speeds create no noise or vibration , which is not true of the piston plane . And finally there is none of the propeller torque which tends to twist the piston-engine plane out of its course . These gains are at least partially offset by formidable losses . As noted above , jets do burn two or three times the fuel of a comparable piston engine , a serious problem for the air-frame designer of the long-range jet . Worse still , the jet burns twice as much fuel at slow speeds and low altitudes as it does at high speeds and high altitudes . Even then , the jet is inherently incapable of developing its full thrust , or power , at slow sub-flight speeds . Hence it frequently requires artificial take-off aids on ordinary runways , such as the rocket " jato " units now used by one airline at Mexico City for piston-engine transports . Without " jato " ( which stands for " jet-assisted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ runways almost twice as long ( 10,000 feet ) as those needed by piston-engine transports of similar weight . By contrast , the piston engine is a dependable and proven machine , thoroughly understood after thirty years of intense study . The piston develops its full power at the critically slow speeds of landing and take-off . Its fuel economy is recognized , and military and commercial operating standards are geared to its operating characteristics . Nonetheless , the piston engine is probably doomed to take a second place after jets for two major reasons . First , piston engine efficiency and economy drop off sharply at speeds in excess of four hundred miles per hour . Tremendous horsepower is needed to cross that mark , demanding inordinately heavy and complicated ( not to mention expensive ) engines , and even then it is difficult to design an efficient propeller to absorb such power ( fuel bills alone would be prohibitive ) . Second , the high-octane fuels required for piston engines can present a dangerous firehazard . There are other reasons but these are the most important . Notice the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also the high-speed ? high-power characteristic of the gas turbine . Engineers both here and in England worked out a compromise which they hoped would combine the advantages of each : they developed the so-called " turbo-prop " power plant simply by tacking a reduction gear and a propeller to the main gas turbine shaft . Thus , they felt , the propeller was given a new lease on life , and its tentative speed range was jumped to about five hundred miles an hour as a result of the great power output of the turbine . Upon this engine , the " intermediate step " between pistons and jets , American designers had pinned their hopes for the next five or ten years to come . But the British , with four turbo-prop planes in the air , already have discarded it for the future . III I t4KE cities , airplanes are not built in a day . Even when the building materials are known quantities with known characteristics , whose mixing formulas have been well demonstrated , it takes from three to six years to carry a plane @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flying model does come along , the process of , ' working out the bugs " is frequently formidable , and many a rosy dream of a flying machine has turned up on the junkheap after its first few hundred hours in the air ? if it stayed up that long . During the war , the British and American governments made an aircraft manufacturing agreement , the English to concentrate on fighter and some bomber production while the Americans concentrated on bomber and transport production . As a result , the American manufacturers after the war had a jump on the world in transport know-how , and by 1948 they were selling the three finest four-engine transports known to man . These were the Lockheed Constellation , the Douglas DC-6 , and the Boeing Stratocruiser . Long-range airlines ? including the British Overseas Airways Corporation ? had little choice but to swallow national pride , find scarce dollars , and buy the magnificent equipment . It hurt ; but the planes were safe and reliable , and they even made money . For a while the British manufacturers tried to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the most magnificent flop in transportation history . At incredible cost the British aircraft industry built a fleet of four-engine oceanic Tudors . Obsolete on the drawing boards to start with , and expensive to run , they had a most unfortunate history during the brief span that the British flew them . No one else would . Until September 1949 , British transport aviation was thought to be the biggest joke in the business . BOAC , a government corporation , lost millions of pounds a year trying to operate its British-made transports and converted transports against competitive lines flying American-made planes . True , the company made money on the North Atlantic run flying Lockheed Constellations , but the British , who had built the world 's best military fighter , the Spitfire , did not seem to have the knack for making transport planes . It is possible that they would still be trying to build planes along American lines today were it not for a group of far-sighted aviation experts known as the Brabazon Committee . Hand-picked by Lord Brabazon , an ex-Air Minister himself , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first became apparent that the Allies would win the war . The Committee determined to plan the shape of British aviation for thirteen years ahead ; and its extraordinary recommendations , later adopted by the Air Ministry , are now history , although the plan is neither well known nor appreciated here . There were two meetings , the first in 1943 and the second a continuous affair starting three years later . Remarkably enough , the plan called not only for a first stage of plane and engine development but also for a second stage after the first could reasonably be expected to become obsolete . The jet Comet falls in the second list . The government , of course , financed and guided the entire project , since it demanded a national effort . The group took three steps . First it set up specifications for postwar commercial aircraft . Second , it nominated the firms best qualified to submit designs for these planes . The scheme , of necessity , also called for immediateconversion of military to commercial models for the first postwar period . Third , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general airline service , together with a special category of seven other types which do not concern us here . ( The latter group included helicopters , a I20-ton flying boat , small charter machines , and an amphibian . ) Look at the first list : ( I ) A land plane of 130 tons for North Atlantic service . It should have eight gas turbine engines , a 5,000-mile range , should cruise at 350 miles per hour , sleep 72 passengers . ( 2 ) A feeder land plane For European service , using either two piston or two gas turbine propeller engines . It should have a 1,000-mile range , cruise at 240 miles per hour at 20,000 feet , and seat up to 40 passengers . ( 3 ) An alternate feeder land plane for European service , using four " Mamba " gas turbine engines , to cruise 32 passengers at 230.300 miles per hour for 1,300 miles . ( 4 ) A land plane of 95,000 pounds ( I have been unable to obtain further specifications ) . ( 5 ) A pure jet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) A 16-passenger land plane with four 330-horsepower piston engines designed for 175 miles per hour at 10,000 feet . ( 7 ) An 8-passenger , 2-piston engine plane to cruise at 160 miles per hour at 5,000 feet . One can not help remarking the daring of a scheme which specified engines unbuiltor in prototype and test stage ? for air frames which could only have been dreams in the minds of theoreticians . Turbo-props and refined jet power plants , a new method to cut air resistance by 20 per cent , a new approach to airline economics based on unknown measurements ? these and more goals were in some instances proposed and accepted on the basis of the purest a priori research . A reporter can only admire . There is nothing like it in the history of commercial aviation . The British made a national gamble . While engineers in this country banked on a gradual progression from pistons to turboprops to jets , the English concluded that pistons were kept alive solely because it suited American convenience . With a sort of national shrug the English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from us to keep the North Atlantic trade going , and staked their aviation future on the jet . Result : Today the British have four turboprop transport planes in the air , and to our intense amazement we have none . The British machines include the Vickers Viscount , the Handley-Page Hermes 5. the Armstrong Whitworth Apollo , and the Mamba Marathon . Coming up is the eight turbo-prop engine Brabazon II , a one-hundred-passenger ( seventy-two-berth as a sleeper-plane ) monster which was intended for the North Atlantic routes in case the pure-jet Comet failed . Now it rather looks as though the conventional Brabazon was the gamble , and not the Comet . Startling as these facts are , there is another just as shocking to the professionals . BOAC , one-time poor relation in the airline family , now plans in the near future to place its Viscounts in the Caribbean service under the aegis of British West Indian Airways . The real reason is suspected to be not that the British wish to display their fast , quiet , vibrationless turbo-props in a trial-run area , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be obsolescent . In fact , at least two of the highest British jet authorities have said privately that they no longer recommend to the Air Ministry the serious continuation of turbo-prop experimentation . Instead they think all research should be turned toward the pure jet . These were of the clan once considered here in America to be five years behind the times . Today they puff their pipes and cheerily evade questions about advanced British design . Iv A FTER the initial shock wore off , American reaction to the British jet was something approaching profound skepticism . Both the airlines and the manufacturers with an enormous piston engineering investment at stake were inclined to punch holes in the British thinking ? while in the same breath accepting the premise that jets were inevitable . " It 's too early " about sums up their public statements ; to their privateselves they must have admitted they were worried . For if the British jet project succeeds , it will temporarily reduce all but five civilian airports in the world to obsolescence , revolutionize air traffic control , upset @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ current air manufacturing business world into an entirely new shape . Every major airline in the world today assuredly is poring over such data as has been released by the British concerning jet performance . In this country American Airlines , newly equipped with fleets of fresh piston-engine craft , is considered to be especially concerned , while Pan American Airways officials frankly state they might take British jets if they prove successful . ( Canadian Pacific Airways already has bought two . ) Nor is this merely private speculation , for the intense competition of international aviation knows no borders . If the monarchy of Monte Carlo developed a new twist to jet engines and offered it to the free market , every nation in the world would unquestionably buy . They would have to . The best airline comment has been that of Harold Harris , the AOA official quoted above . In a talk last October , he outlined the advantages of jets , and then considered the disadvantages from his company 's point of view . High fuel requirements , he felt , seriously limited payloads at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best jet economy brought in the problem of decompression , for if a jet lost its passenger cabin air pressure at , say , 40,000 feet the life of every person aboard would be endangered by the lack of oxygen in the outside air . Gusts at high speeds are a menace both for the plane and the passengers , and bad " air-bump " conditions have been found up to six or eight miles above the earth . Then the de-icing of jets is almost as difficult as the de-icing of ordinary piston engines . Even on the ground the jet could make trouble , for the hot blast of the engines could set grass areas at airports on fire . And , finally , the whole matter of efficient air-traffic control will have to be revised to assure straight-in approaches to an airport from great altitudes at very high speeds on split-minute schedules . The best engineering comment on the jet was offered recently by the chief engineer of a major American jet manufacturing con- cern . In his judgment , the engine as we know it in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he said , " submit they have got up to a thousand hours ' use out of jet power-plants before overhaul . The best I can do here with a British-type engine is something over two hundred hours , and the average piston engine time is still in the neighborhood of five hundred hours . The overhaul record of the jet is distinctly poor . Up to five hundred miles an hour the turboprop as we understand it today ? and not the pure jet ? is the best job for long ranges , and the best in economical fuel consumption . " Furthermore , most gas turbines use a kerosene type of fuel which is cheap now only because it is a relatively unwanted by-product . The moment demand soars , prices can be expected to climb , since the refiners will have to convert crude-oil-cracking processes away from gasoline and toward kerosene production in volume . " We know little about the turbo-prop ; its future is unpredictable . If it is good , and American models are coming along now like the Allison engine for a Navy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Otherwise the turbo-prop may flop . Despite the fact that the Civil Aeronautics Administration has approved a few American jet engines for ' commercial ' use ? such as the General Electric TG-190-B ? there is still no jet power plant which will pass the same CAA requirements as piston engines . " He concluded , however , that the turbo-prop will go out of use for several reasons , " the chief being psychological , " he said . " It 's the propellers . We shall have to fly at six hundred miles an hour in the not-so-distant future on commercial airlines . The current British goal of five hundred miles an hour is not enough . We can build propellers for six hundred miles an hour . but the cost of maintenance and construction coupled with the noise and vibration they create is hardly an advertisement compared to the almost noiseless , vibrationless , high-speed jet . Furthermore , in the near future I know I can build a turbine with 20 per cent less fuel consumption as compared with today 's models . There will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inevitable , even for short distances of down to a few hundred miles . Let 's face it . " T . going opinion in American aviation circles is that the present piston is good for another five years , that the turbo-prop will then take over for another five years , and that from then on we will be in the pure jet period . With this widely accepted formula the British jet pioneer , Sit- Frank Whittle , thoroughly disagrees . Recently knighted and otherwise rewarded by the British government for his engine developments , Sir Frank today is jet-engine adviser to BOAC , and as such he occupies a unique position in the aviation world , comparable perhaps to Charles Lindbergh 's position here . " It 's a myth that jets ca n't fly slow , " he said , on a recent trip to this country , " that they ca n't stretch between overhaul time , that British jets are n't dependable as compared to pistons . " He did concede , as do all jet enthusiasts , that the chief problem is traffic control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present-day pistons . The problem is Somewhat like trying to adjust the traffic lights of the nation 's highways to cars which cruise not at thirty-five but two hundred miles an hour both on the open road and in city streets . The problem of air traffic control is vast in itself and scarcely concerns us here except for one point ? what pilots call " stacking " or " holding " in the air , waiting for landing clearance to an airport . In rough weather today 's piston airliners frequently have to fly special patterns , such as a figure eight , in an assigned patch of air marked by a radio beam . Once , for example , the writer had to hold his plane for two hours over Richmond waiting for an instrument clearance into National Airport at Washington , D. C. Jets today can not do that . The more slowly jets fly , the more fuel they consume ? and they always burn a lot . The answer is that a procedure accurate beyond any we have today must be installed at major airports to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ split minutes even on multi-hour runs . Such equipment is under development today . W HEN , you might ask , will tickets for a jet flight to England go on sale here in New York ? Or a jet passage from California to Hawaii ? Or a jet ticket from London to Rome or Capetown ? There is no answer other than : sooner than you think . The British government has thrown its material resources behind the guarantee of jet dependability and commercial success . Even in the early stages , when the jet may not be a commercial proposition , the British will fly them anyway , writing off the losses to experience . When they get through , they intend to be the most proficient jet experts in the world . To date the American aircraft industry has been loath to accept government millions for the development of commercial prototype jet aircraft , and Congress has been unwilling to offer such funds to private industry without control strings which , with considerable justification , the industry fears . Nonetheless , without capital far beyond anything the hard-up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a private gamble in jet experimentation . Costs have jumped to the point where a new prototype takes millions , not a few thousands , to build . Recently , however , there has been a crack in the industry 's wall of opposition , and many experts feel that if the United States is to hold its leadership in aviation , private companies will have to accept government aid in some form or other in order to catch up with the British . At best it will be a difficult decision for a fiercely individualistic industry which has been bred on government military orders but still strives to be independent of government control . " Look at the French , " is the argument . For before France nationalized her aircraft industry ? after World ' War I ? it was a leader in plane manufacturing . Today , largely because of government political control and the ancillary red tape and politics involved , its vitality has been sucked from it , and France is a third-rate aviation manufacturer . The British have taken the lead and flung the gauntlet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stakes are high and it looks as though the British were winning .                     