@@494162

the name of an actual respected physician of that era depicted as an unswerving lecher and fire-bug . Following an episode in which a well-trained marine rifle team displayed the effectiveness of liquid heat when applied to an enemy position ( it brought sweat to my face , 200 feet away ) , an explosion was set off which rather successfully simulated an atomic bomb burst while the American flag at the end of the stadium was bathed in colored lights . " Will this enormous force be used for peace or for war ? " the narrator asked the citizens of Pottsville over the public address system . " Will we enter into an age of untold abundance or will the civilization that we have built be destroyed ? These questions will be answered as we desire if each and every one of us will sincerely declare , I Am An American ! " This injunction was greeted with tumultuous applause from the audience . The narrator then listed for us essential items in the American Way ? of Life ( I recall that he included " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of July " ) and concluded with a second assurance that all of these would be preserved if only we would declare , " I Am An American ! " Again there was applause , wilder than be ? fore . The national anthem was played , fireworks were set off , and the crowd filed out of the stadium , heading toward homes or the neighborhood taverns where they would listen to the evening 's football scores coming in . ( Pottsville High School , playing away from home , won a decisive gridiron victory over a traditional rival on the first night that I attended the Anthracades. ) pOTTSVILLE , as O'Hara 's readers know , is a satellite of the axis of great East Coast cities , which distinguishes it from similarly sized towns in the South and West , and it is a coal mining capital , which accounts for a per ? manent air of tension not present in the ordinary farming center or even mill town . Moreover , it is gripped by a continuing economic recession that has come with the decline of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ town . I talked with a shrewd old Judge who might have been the boss of the locally domi ? nant Republican organization but preferred instead to be its eccentric critic and ally . " We 're safe here this year , we 're probably safe two years from now ? but four years , six years , sooner or.later the chances are we 'll get Demo ? cratic majorities in this county . " He swung around on the swivel chair in the tiny , second-story office , filled with photographs of former Republican greats . ( " I knew them all . I served a term in Congress ; did n't like it down there . They were all bankers , ' corporation lawyers , ex-governors of Nebraska . Alice Roosevelt 's husband was Spea , ker of the House . The only one with any brains was Fi-o-rello La Guardia . " ) The New Deal came late to Pennsylvania . Not until 1951 , when the Democrats finally stormed the old Re ? publican citadel in Philadelphia , did the combinations ' begin , to work that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ normally Democratic country . Pottsville and its surrounding county , heavily populated with mine workers and laboring men who in other parts of the nation were voting heavily Democratic during the thir ? ties and the forties , never slipped from the iron control , of the Republican court house . The reason wai simple : state patronage . George Leader , the current Democratic Governor , has said during the present campaign that " Pennsylvania is the biggest patronage state in the Union . We do n't boast about it , but it 's one of the facts of political life . " And a young lawyer friend of mine whom I met in Pottsville the day I talked to the Judge added that " when the Republicans were in Harrisburg we had so many state jobs in this county it was our third most important in ? industry . Everybody had at least a cousin on the state pay ? roll . Now those jobs are gone , and believe me the Republicans are hurting . " 