@@494511

BEHIND THE HEADLINES " NOBODY presses a button in Minnesota politics and gets results , " said Gerald Heaney , the Democratic State CommitteeMan , " not even Hubert Humphrey . " But Hubert pressed the button on October 30 , and the State Central Committee of the Democratic-Farmer Labor Party , meeting in Duluth , called on Adlai Stevenson to become the party 's Presidential candidate in 1956 . The button was pushed hard by the terms of the resolution which instructed the district conventions of the DFL Party to reconvene " for the purpose of considering the Stevenson candidacy . " For this , in effect , ruled out of order motions trom the rank and file on behalf of other candidates . But while a few old timers muttered about democracy and a few others held that the Coonskin Cap had support , the resolution passed unopposed and with warm support . Stevenson is far and away the first choice of Minnesota Democrats , and their respect for him was increased by his speech , followed by an hour and a half of handshaking , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether the Committee would bracket Hurnphrey 's name with Stevenson 's as Minnesota 's ' Vice Presidential choice . Humphrey is cer-tainly s running ; but Stevenson 's advisers suggested that a joint endorsement would lessen the impact of Minnesota 's action across the nation and the Committeemen saw the point. ? On that Sunday morning , while the Central Committee got down to busi ! ness , Governor Freeman , a Lutheran , led Stevenson , a Unitarian , and Hum phrey , a Congregationalist , off to Duluth 's First Lutheran Church . When the service ended Stevenson set out with Freeman in the Governor 's Cadillac on the long bleak road to St. Cloud , pursued by a small band of hungry journalists and worried drivers . At Foley , a small town in Republican ' territory , the Cadillac stopped to pick up Charles Stickney , a former Department of Agriculture official who now runs a farm near St. Cloud and serves on the Democratic National Committee 's 15-man Agricultural Advisory Committee . Stickney ? led the motorcade on to a roadside farm where a group of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past them and up to the sliding doors of a poorly-painted cow barn . The farmers strode after them , and the journalists followed , hopping through the muck . This was the 220-acre dairy farm that Robert and Kerney Henry had taken over when their father died . The two boys , one in a sports coat and yellow shirt , the other in a leather jacket , stood . by the barn door . Their trouble , Stickney told Stevenson , was flexible price supports . The , boys stood silently as Stickney spoke for them . Stevenson listened with pursed lips . The journalists , trapped in the narrow aisle between two rows of Holsteins , moved restlessly as the cows spattered manure , and at one side of the menfolk a shy group of farm wives stood bundled'up in shawls against the first chill of winter . At last Stickney called on the Henry brothers to bring out their figures of cost and income . Shielding their books from the curious eyes of other farmers , they demonstrated that their gross income had remained constant since 1948 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income for the labor of both men and the return on invested capital had fallen by two-thirds to $2,400 a year . " Flexible supports do n't work , " cried Stickney . " Lower farm prices cause greater surpluses because as you can see these boys have to work harder and produce more to earn as much . " The Henry brothers nodded , but without conviction . It seemed more probable that they had been and were now producing all that two men could with a given farm plant .. " Why not ask the Test of the farmers here , " said Robert Henry and Stickney agreed . " Is n't it true that flexible supports produce surpluses ? " he demanded . " By God , I 'm a liar if it ai n't the truth ! " cried one burly farmer . But others muttered , " prices went down under the rigid supports , " and " trouble is them labor unions run the price of machinery up with all their wage demands , " and " it 's better'n sending money overseas and having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pause . " Well , " said Robert Henry to Stevenson , " how 'd you like to have your picture with the biggest bull in Benton County ? " Stevenson burst out laughing and deferred to Freeman . The reporters and . photographers hung back , for the great bull imprisoned behind light bars , had been roaring menacingly throughout the interview . It seemed , however , that all the bull wanted was attention . It thrust its ringed nose forward and seemed pleased by gingerly pats . Next a baby Holstein was tugged out to be photographed . Freeman knelt behind it , gripping it by the neck and hindquarters . Stevenson laid a gloved hand on its head . The flash bulbs lit up the barn 's dark interior . Stevenson remarked , " If you work on her , much more Orville you 'll get her vote ! " More laughter . Then the motorcade rolled away toward the airport . Minneapolis m.s . Another New Look REPUBLICAN , PARTY leaders at the highest level , have reached a decision on their campaign appeal for 1956 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and outlined their strategy . The look was unveiled in two trial speeches , very similar in content and delivered the same week , by Presidential Economic Advisor Gabriel Hauge and Vice Presi ? dent Nixon . Their appeal fits well with the sickroom strategy of Presidential Assistant Sherman Adams and follows a chain of reasoning which would transform into Republican assets all the handicaps of the President 's illness . The Republican reasoning assumes the President will not run . The GOP can not afford to invite a free-for-all for the President 's mantle because this would jeopardize the President 's program in the next session of Congress and could impair the role of Vice President Nixon as constitutional successor , ready to step into the Presidency at any time in the next 14 months . Thus any clash of Republican personalities must be postponed for as long as possible , preferably until the convention next August . This means the party must go before the people during 1956 on the basis of issues , not men . And what of the issues ? Foreign policy , it is assumed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic attack . But on domestic policy it is expected that the Democrats will promise the people more than the Administration has proposed . To this the answer is simple . Republican campaigners must seize the initiative and outpromise the Democrats . And every assertion must carry the stamp of the Eisenhower image . Mr : Hauge spoke before the Commonwealth ' Club of San Francisco on October 14 , Mr. Nixon before the Investment Bankers Association , in New York City on October 19 . Mr. Hauge defined " Eisenhower conservativism , " as offering something for everyone . Fcir the businessman Eisenhower conservativism will protect free markets , profit incentives , sound money , and stable economic growth . This was Mr. Hauge 's pitch to the Republican right-wing . Next he put on his New Deal-Fair Deal hat . " The Eisenhower conservative is no standpatter , " he asserted . " He knows history does not stand still . " He ' believes that " a larger role for government " is needed in solving many problems . Specifically , " the Eisenhower conservative is determined to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unemployment insurance , social security , housing , collective bargaining , bank deposit insurance , securities regulation , and agricultural price supports . " In short , Eisenhower conservativism offers " the way to a welfare society without the regimentation of a welfare state . " It is a philosophy , he concluded , which is " fit for today and many tomorrows . " Mr. Nixon was even more glowing in his claims . Eisenhower conservatives , he declared , " have offered to the country workable programs which we believe will build more roads , schools , houses , provide better medical care , develop more power and water resources than our predecessors ever dreamed of . " " We oppose the programs of our predecessors , " he said , " not because they were too high but because they were too low . " At this point Mr. Nixon , like Mr. Hauge , made his bow to the Republican right-wing , and added , " Some may shake their heads and say , ' This sounds too New Dealish , too liberal ' . The answer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to obtain the support of a majority of the people it must continue to be . " So there you have a campaign line : Promise the people all that the Democrats have offered under Roosevelt and Truman , but " without socialism " ; call it conservativism , and preface it with the name Eisenhower . The bedside strategy of Sherman Adams in controlling the President 's visitors contributes to this strategy . If the GOP is to run on the Eisenhower name , it is important that the President impress upon the country that he is in active control of the government . Therefore he must dominate the news . Since Eisenhower can not yet hold press conferences , or even be burdened with day-to-day problems during convalescence , Adams hit upon the strategy of starting work upon the State of the Union message two months earlier than usual . This brings to the Denver hospital a parade of official visitors , and each , after talking with the President , holds a press conference at the hospital . These conferences follow a pattern . First , the emissary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Next , he outlines some new piece of the Eisenhower program , which the President himself requested before his illness , and which he has now approved after a careful review . And before the conference is over , each official gives assurance ' there was no political discussion . So the pattern emerges : the issues , the Eisenhower image , and no talk of the campaign . Mr. Hauge himself demonstrated how to combine Mr. Adams ' bedside strategy with a campaign of outpromising the Democrats . On October 24 , Mr. Hauge announced that President Eisenhower had approved sending to Congress a program to aid the nation 's chronically depressed areas . Last January when the President 's economic . message to Congress gave little recognition to , the areas of continuing unemployment , Eisenhower was criticized by the Democratic majority and Senator Paul Douglas ( D , Ill. ) introduced legislation in July Providing a detailed program of action . Without a word of this background , Mr. Hauge now offers this program as an example of " Eisenhower conservativism . " This preparation to run on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrats for 20 years reminded Republicans of Herbert Hoover and Hooverism ; while those same Democrats used the portrait of Franklin a Roosevelt on campaign platforms for years after his death . Now the ideas of FDR seem ready for reworking in another campaign ? and this time by both parties .                     