@@476567

IN HIS State of the Union message President Eisenhower urged that statehood to Hawaii " should be granted promptly , with the first election scheduled for 1954 . " The platforms of both political parties had promised immediate statehood to Hawaii , he stated . It was asked widely why no mention had been made of our other territorial candidate for statehood ? Alaska . Since President Eisenhower cited the platforms of the two political parties on Hawaii , what they say about Alaska is pertinent . The Democratic platform pledge for Alaska was identical with that for Hawaii : " immediate statehood . " The Republican plank came out for " statehood for Alaska under an equitable enabling act . " President Truman , the first President to endorse statehood for either Alaska or Hawaii , endorsed both unqualifiedly and urged action upon the 79th , 80th , 81st , and 82nd Conceresses . The two territories have been generally teamed together , though through separate bills . The reasons for this association are fairly obvious . They are the only remaining " incorporated " territories and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case with the other possessions of the United States . Puerto Rico , for instance , has never sought statehood , but instead has received a special and uniquely generous treatment ? including a financial status under which it retains its customs receipts and internal revenue receipts , and pays no federal income tax . Two years ago it received likewise from Congress an unprecedented political status of its own choosing , that of an associated Commonwealth . That action of Congress has been further ratified by approval by the Puerto Ricans themselves of a Constitution which confirmed such status . Puerto Rico has received exactly what it wants politically and economically , and the action of the United States toward that insular possession has been in every sense praiseworthy . The case for Hawaiian statehood has long been outstandingly clear . After being an independent Republic for four years , from 1894 to 1898 , Hawaii sought and achieved annexation . Its population , just under one-half million , exceeds that of four states in the union and equals that of several others . It has more population that any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It has a sound economy based on sugar , pineapples , and tourists . It has for years paid more federal taxes than a number of states . It has preserved and revived ancient , joyful customs for the delectation of islanders and visitors , contributing to America 's cultural diversity the sweetness of Hawaiian music , the graceful rhythm of its dance , the flowered lei , and , above all , the aloha spirit ? of which the world could well use more ! The only argument which could be presented against Hawaii 's admission to the family of states which did not apply to other territories is its " noncontiguity . " Opponents of statehood point to the 2,300 miles of ocean separating Hawaii from the mainland , and emphasize that a great precedent would be established by Hawaii 's admission . The real reason for the delay in granting Hawaii statehood , however , has been seldom , if ever , publicly admitted , though well known . It is racial prejudice . There are , unfortunately , still a substantial number of people in the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon members of other ethnic groups as inferior . Only about 15 per cent of the people of Hawaii are pure whites ; the rest are of Polynesian , Japanese , Chinese , Filipino , or Korean descent . Approximately one-third of Hawaii 's population is of Japanese origin . There has been considerable intermarriage between the races . These facts have been advanced ? although not too openly ? as arguments against admitting Hawaii . A common prejudicearousing inquiry in private conversation on Hawaiian statehood has been a whispered : " How would you like to have a United States Senator called Mow ? " Actually , the unique and highly creditable racial tolerance which exists in Hawaii , whose origin is fully explained by Hawaii 's history , should have been the strongest argument for Hawaii 's admission . Hawaii is one area under the flag where there is virtually no discrimination based on race . It is a shining exemplification of what Americans should practice everywhere . The Union should long since have admitted Hawaii by acclamation ! Now that the Cold War clearly requires of the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ habits , and make our democratic professions a reality , political equality for Hawaii becomes a categorical imperative . In a world three-quarters of whose people belong to the darker races , whose sympathy and friendship we must win in our conflict with the Kremlin , we can no longer afford the racial intolerance which has in the past characterized large segments of the American people . This intolerance is , happily , diminishing . The admission of Hawaii would be a further step in the right direction . But as it now seems almost certain that with a Presidential endorsement , and the commitment of both political parties , Hawaii will be admitted to statehood by the 83rd Congress , we may well turn to Alaska and see what differentiates its case for statehood from that of Hawaii . T HE two causes are similar in the abstract . Both Alaskans and Hawaiians desire statehood and have voted for it on referendums because they want no longer to be second-class citizens . They can not vote for President or Vice President . In the Congress they are represented by only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mattersa delegate may not vote even in Committee . As in the case of Hawaii , every Committee of the Congress to which the Alaskan statehood bill has been submitted , has rendered a do-pass report . That occurred in the 79th , 80th , 81st , and 82nd Congresses . In the 81st Congress the Alaskan statehood bill actually passed the House ; in the 82nd Congress , the Senate Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs reported the bill favorably , as it had in the 81st , but when the bill came up for debate in the Senate in February of 1952 , it was defeated by the narrow margin of one vote , 45-44 . The defeat was accomplished by a motion to recommit the bill to Committee . The arguments against statehood for Alaska , with the one exception of the non-contiguity argument , are similar to those that have been advanced against the admission of nearly all of the twenty-nine states which were territories before their admission . One : it has insufficient population . Two : it is too far away . Three : it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arguments can be readily refuted . Alaska has more population than one-third of the states of the union had at the time of their admission . To this it is retorted that its population is relatively smaller , in proportion to the total population of the United States , than that of those earlier states at the time when they were admitted . But there were five states which not only had less population than Alaska has now , but less population in relation to the national total . The adverse arguments were based on the census of 1950 , which gave Alaska 's population as 128,000 . It is now over 160,000 . The argument of distance was advanced against the admission of Oregon , New Mexico , Arizona , and other Western states . Against Oregon , admitted in 1859 , before railroads spanned the continent , people argued that its Senators and Representatives could not cross the Rockies and the prairies in time to attend the sessions of Congress to which they were elected . This was nonsense , but it was the kind of nonsense which finds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pertinent terms ? namely , time required to journey between the proposed state and the national capital ? Alaska ( and Hawaii ) are much nearer Washington today than were all states at the time of their admission . In the early days of the Republic it required a fortnight to journey by stagecoach from New Hampshire , South Carolina , or Georgia to Philadelphia . It took an almost equal length of time to reach the capital , on horseback , over trails , when the first states across the Alleghenies were admitted . The journey from California after 1849 , and from Oregon in 1859 , required several weeks by stage or on horseback . Even when the last two states , Arizona and New Mexico , were admitted in 1912 , the trains of that day consumed four days en route to Washington . Today one flies from Juneau , the capital of Alaska , to Washington in approximately nineteen hours ' flying time ? less than a day . And instantaneous communication by telephone adds a factor not in existence when previous states were admitted . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national telephone system . T HE third argument ? that Alaska lacks the resources to support a state ? is fanci- ful . It has far more resources than many of the states now in the union . Even in its present state of underdevelopment ? which is largely the result of its territorial status ? the Alaskan economy is amply able to support statehood . Alaska 's financial picture compares favorably with that of many states . The Territorial Government finished its biennium on March 31 , 1953 , with not a single cent of indebtedness and a surplus of $4 million in its treasury . The additional cost of statehood has been estimated by as dispassionate an agency as the United States Bureau of the Budget . as between $4 million and $5 million annually . This estimate is diminished by the million dollars of revenue which would come to Alaska under the statehood act from one-half the net proceeds of the Pribilof Island seal fisheries . Actually . Alaska 's present tax structure , while moderate , is sufficiently comprehensive and flexible to come pretty close to sustaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ despite federal bureaucratic inhibitions , is expanding . Any increased costs of statehood could , without difficulty , be borne by a slight increase in revenue if necessary . It might be well to remind ourselves that this argument had been a familiar one in previous statehood debates . " What is there , " said congressional opponents of New Mexico'sand Arizona 's admission , " that will support a state ? It is a desert ? nothing but sand , sagebrush , cactus , Indians , and jackrabbits ! " In the case of Alaska the changes are again rung on " Seward 's Folly , " and one Senator contrasts the number of farms in his agricultural state with those in Alaska , to the latter 's disadvantage . Of course Alaska is not an agricultural area . It would be just as fair to argue to Nebraska 's disadvantage that it had a negligible number of fishing boats compared to Alaska 's . What then is the significance of the wording in the Republican platform requiring an " equitable enabling act " ? The answer is that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of opposing statehood per se to the argument that the bill presented to the 82nd Congress was not adequate to permit Alaska to become a viable state . It was urged that 99 per cent of the land in Alaska was in public domain , and that Alaskans had been remiss through the years in not transferring more of this land into private ownership ; and further , that given this large amount of federal control over land , Alaska would not in effect become a free and independent sovereign state , but would remain a vassal of the Department of the Interior . The fact , of course , is that it is Congress itself which , through the years , has made the acquisition of the land by private individuals almost impossible in Alaska . During the first thirty years under the American flag , despite the unceasing protests of all Alaskans , the homestead and general land laws were not made applicable to Alaska . Congress did not act until the turn of the century . Up to that time it was impossible in Alaska to secure title @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , adopted two generations earlier in the states , were applied to Alaska , they were obsolete and inappropriate . For the past half century Alaskans have vainly tried to secure modification of the laws and of the red-taped procedures in their application . Alaska is in the ironical position of being reproached by Congress for Congress 's own failure to act . A -r THE last full-dress hearing on Alaskan statehood , held in May of 1950 , before the Senate Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs , not a single Alaskan appeared in opposition to statehood . But some fifty did fly down from Alaska to testify in favor of it . The only opposition came from representatives of the Canned Salmon Industry , whose seat of operations is outside of Alaska , and by one or two individuals who were brought there by it , and admittedly at its expense . The Canned Salmon Industry , whose headquarters are in Seattle , has been bitterly opposed to statehood , and its potent lobby successfully assisted in congressional inaction in the , 81st Congress . Its opposition has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in taxation . This reason has now virtually disappeared since the territorial tax structure adopted four years ago would need little modification to support statehood . The second reason , however , is a continuing one . There is a device known as a fislitrao , by which salmon are caught in large numbers as they migrate from the ocean up Alaska 's rivers to spawn . The fishtrap provides the fish inexpensively for the canneries . It is violently opposed by all fishermen , who not only see in it ruinous competition for their purse-seines , gill-nets , and trolling apparatus . but consider it destructive of the fishery resource itself . Apart from fishermen , the people of Alaska as a whole oppose fishtraps , and on a referendum in Alaska in 1948 voted by a majority of nine to one for their abolition . The vote was merely an expression of opinion , however , since under Alaska 's Organic Act of 1912 the control of the fisheries is retained by the federal government , a discrimination against Alaska which never had any counterpart in the other territories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fishtrap is both unpopular elsewhere and deemed destructive is suggested by its abolition in British Columbia and the states of Washington and Oregon . Meanwhile , the fisheries of these areas ? despite factors adverse to salmon , such as industrialization , urbanization , power dams . and pulp and paper industries ? have maintained their supply ; Alaska 's salmon , on the other hand , under federal control and without the above adverse factors , have been steadily diminishing . This is one of the Alaskans ' great grievances . They want the fisheries transferred to the control of Alaska , which statehood would do . But this is precisely the reason why the Canned Salmon Industry opposes statehood . It knows that the Alaska legislature wouldabolish fishtraps . It likewise opposes the transfer of the fisheries to Alaska independently of statehood , which Alaskan legislatures have repeatedly requested for the past thirty years . On a referendum on that issue in the fall of 1952. the people of Alaska voted by over five to one for the transfer of the fisheries to territorial control . Again this was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action that has been consistently opposed by the Department of the Interior , which does not wish to relinquish its jurisdiction over Alaska 's fisheries . H OWEVER , in the Canned Salmon Ind ustry ' s extensive presentation before the Senate Committee in May 1950 , this vulnerable basis of opposition did not appear . Instead the attack was directed at the large amount of Alaska 's land still in public domain , the slowness with which the surveys proceeded ( also a matter of inadequate congressional appropriations ) , and criticism of the bill in that it did not provide enough land to make Alaska self-sustaining as a state . This argument has little merit . In its original form the Alaska bill provided the traditional statehood formula for public lands in territories seeking statehood , namely , the transfer of two numbered sections nut of each township to the new state . This was later amended to provide four sections . But in the desire further to improve the bill to Alaska 's advantage , the Senate Committee again amended the bill with a new formula under which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in addition to more than a half million acres for specific purposes . The object of this change was to obviate Alaska 's securing , under the numbered sections formula , mountain tops , swamps . tundra , and otherwise worthless lands , and ? even in the best sections ? lands which would be disconnected and hard to administer . With nearly 23,000,000 acres of public land to be transferred by the statehood bill , an area larger than the state of West Virginia , Alaska would , as a state , come into possession of more land not in public domain than is now possessed by each of the four states of Idalio , Utah , Nevada , and Arizona . True , percentagewise these nearly 2.000,000 acres would be but 7 per cent of Alaska 's total acreage of 375,000,000 . Actually , possession of a large amount of land entails considerable expense . the cost of a land office to manage these lands , the cost of surveying them . if Congress would modernize the land laws , and make them appropriate to Alaska , more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private enterprise . But Congress has not seen fit to do that , despite the repeated pleas of Alaskans . However , if the present Administration considers that the bill defeated at the last session , S.50 , and now again before the Congress , is not " equitable " ? as was implied by the Republican platform and stated in Senate debates ? it would be very simple , if a sincere purpose exists , to make it equitable . Alaskans , like the traditional Scotchman , will be glad to accept any " given " amount . There are some ways in which the bill could be made somewhat more generous if Congress desires to make it so . It could provide Alaska with an appropriation for constructing its capitol , state penitentiary , and institution for the insane : these last are now handled under an undesirable contract system by the Department of the Interior in an institution in Oregon . The Congress could , if it desired , offer the funds for surveying the 23,000,000 acres provided by the previous bill , considered by the opponents of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the land grant . Alaskans have not in the past requested such generosity . Those who have given the question study are satisfied with the bill and would , if necessary , accept an even less generous act in preference to perpetuation ' of the territorial status . Territorialism 's inherent discriminations and frustration , more flagrant in Alaska than in the case of Hawaii , would require pages of chapter-and-verse documentation . But it can be said with moderation , as well as truth , that Alaska has for eighty-five years suffered congressional policies and bureaucratic tyranny , unparalleled in any other territory , which have thwarted its normal development . Some improvement has come in the past few years . But this has been due largely to wholly extraneous circumstances ? World War II with its Japanese threat , and the sequent actions and attitudes of the men in the Kremlin . These , and these . alone , have belatedly called attention to Alaska 's strategic importance and to the necessity for building up itsdefenses . The military program has benefited Alaska substantially by providing long overdue roads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even here the developments are unbalanced by the fact that they have been wholly subordinate to purely military considerations . They should instead be geared to a well rounded , intelligent economic develdpment , which would enable Alaska to achieve its destiny to be not only a bulwark of defense for the Western Hemisphere , but an outstanding example in these far northern latitudes , in juxtaposition to Soviet totalitarianism , of the American way of life . I T MAY be noted that few causes have so much popular support as Alaskan statehood . It has been endorsed by such widely diversified organizations as the United States Chamber of Commerce , the United States Junior Chamber of Commerce , the American Legion , the Veterans of Foreign Wars and AMVETS , the AF of L , the CIO , the Railway Brotherhoods , the General Federation of Women 's Clubs , the National Grange , such fraternal and civic clubs as the Lions and Kiwanis International and the Loyal Order of Moose , and the Congress of Home Missions , representing some thirty Protestant denominations ; and the support of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Alaska 's authorizing the two eldest priests in the Diocese to appear before the Senate Committee to testify in favor of statehood . Finally , statehood has for the past six years received the annual endorsement of the Conference of Governors of the forty-eight states . No single national organization of any importance has come out in opposition to-statehood , and none has even counseled delay . The press , so divided on many issues , is virtually unanimous in favoring statehood for Alaska . In the face of such overwhelming endorsement , if Congress were as responsive to public opinion as elective bodies are supposed to be , statehood for Alaska would be promptly enacted . Why , then , was Hawaii alone mentioned in President Eisenhower 's message ? One reason why Hawaii and Alaska have been bracketed together in recent statehood legislation has been the assumption that under statehood Hawaii would elect Republican Senators and Congressmen , and Alaska , Democratic . To be sure neither Alaska nor Hawaii can be considered a Vermont or a South Carolina ; both would fall into the category of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hawaii has been predominantly Republican , and while the Republicans in Alaska swept into the Legislature in the 1952 election , Alaska 's Democratic Delegate , Mr. Edward L. Bartlett , survived the Republican landslide . That however is not the whole story . President Eisenhower , in his message , significantly urged that Hawaii should be granted statehood promptly , " with the first election scheduled in 1954 . " Since Hawaii has already adopted a State Constitution , its ratification , and thereby statehood , can be achieved very quickly by Congress . What the Administration has clearly in mind is the election of two Republican Senators in 1954 to increase the slender majority of one which it now holds in the Senate of the United States . The chances that it will be successful are excellent . It is interesting to note that the long standing opposition to statehood for Hawaii of Senator Hugh Butler , Republican from Nebraska , who now occupies the powerful and controlling post as Chairman of the Senate Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs , has vanished in the face of political exigencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five years ago as now . In the 80th Congress . the Hawaiian statehood bill passed the House and would have passed the Senate if Senator Butler , then likewise Chairman , had permitted his Committee to vote it out . So earnest were the proponents of Hawaiian statehood in the Senate at that time that an unusual attempt was made by a group of Senators , headed by Knowland of California , to discharge the Committee , a heresy which was bound to fail , and did , although it mustered twenty senatorial votes . There is no question that had Hugh Butler approved statehood then , Hawaii would now be a state . Besides Senator Butler 's opposition , and that of the conservative Republican wing which followed him , there was the opposition of the Southern Democratic bloc ? for wholly different reasons . In the 45 to 44 vote which defeated Alaskan statehood in the 82nd Congress , twenty-three out of the twenty-six Senators from the thirteen Southern states voted in the majority . The supporting minorityconsisted of liberal Republicans and Northern Democrats . The Southerners ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on their unwillingness to admit any state whose Senators could not be counted on to take the Dixie view on " cloture . " The right to unlimited debate to the point of filibuster was based on their fear of federal civil-rights legislation . Without entering into the merits of that issue ? which was certainly dragged far afield in opposing the admission of either Alaska or Hawaii ? it may be said that the Administration 's relinquishment of action on civil rights to the states has diminished Southern opposition . That opposition will no doubt be recorded but will scarcely go to the lengths of a filibuster . Thus Hawaii 's achievement of statehood during the 83rd Congress can be taken for granted ; and whatever the mixture of motives , the event should be hailed with rejoicing . Even if the 83rd Congress were to pass a statehood enabling act for Alaska , the mechanics of electing delegates to a , for Alaska in 1954 impossible . What puzzles and distresses Alaskans is that no word of encouragement was given to the Alaskan statehood cause by the President , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1950 , spontaneously espoused statehood for Alaska and Hawaii , saying in a Denver address : " Quick admission of Alaska and Hawaii to statehood will show the world that ' America Practices What It Preaches . ' " No sooner had the Presidential message to Congress in February of this year been broadcast in Alaska than the Territorial House of Representatives , consisting of twenty Republicans and four Democrats , by unanimous vote wired the President in protest against his omission of Alaskan statehood . That message embodies the hope of Alaskans that before long the new Republican Administration will also give Alaskan statehood a nod , and that the Congress will then take the necessary steps to demonstrate that the good faith of the United States , in applying the basic American principle of government by consent of the governed , is not based predominantly on partisan considerations .                     