@@487527

A CURATORSHIP for the Holy Places supervised by an interfaith commission voluntarily established by the governments of Israel and Jordan may be the final solution of the question of the Holy Places in the Jerusalem area . The coup de grace to United Nations authority over Holy Places was given at the current session of the Assembly . The delegates , by a procedural maneuver , refused even to permit a vote on a practical proposal to register U. N. authority over Holy Places , submitted by Sweden and subsequently jointly amended by the United Kingdom , the United States , and Uruguay . This proposal was offered as a substitute for the 1949 resolution internationalizing 100 square miles of territory and 160,000 people , which the Trusteeship Council said it could not implement . At the same time , the United Nations , in defeating a Belgian proposal , refused to reaffirm the 1949 resolution and the principles of a corpus separatum . Although the Jerusalem question could come before the United Nations again next year , the internationalization plan is actually dead for all time . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority over the Holy Places after three years of debate is due to a number of factors : ( 1 ) The Vatican 's determination to keep on the statute books the " dogma " of internationalization , even though it was fully aware that  --  apart from its manifest unpracticality  --  such a scheme could never be carried out over the opposition of both Israel and Jordan . This insistence was based on the hope that if the " dogma " remained on the U. N. record , it could be revived at some time to establish in Jerusalem a Middle Eastern extension of the Vatican . ( 2 ) The intransigent demand of the Arab League states that Jerusalem be either recognized as an Arab city or inter-nationalized . The Arab League 's attitude is conditioned by its active vendetta against Israel , its jealousy of Jordan , which alone salvaged substantial spoils from the disastrous Palestine war , and its hope that stubbornness would increase the size of the Western payoff. ( 3 ) The cynicism of the group of so-called Catholic states in Europe and Latin America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resolution than resist Vatican policy . For this latter situation the United States is largely responsible through its lack of courage and leadership . True , the Jerusalem question came before the General Assembly at a most critical hour , when the thoughts of all were turned to the issue of war or peace . But it might have been assumed that precisely for that reason special impetus would be given to the effort to dispose of the Jerusalem question through a just , honorable , and practical solution . T HE discussion began in the Ad Hoc Committee with a statement by the president of the Trusteeship Council that the statute for Jerusalem could not be implemented except by force . To bridge the gap the Swedish delegation submitted a plan based on the principle of an international curatorship for the Holy Places under U. N. supervision such as was proposed in the fall of 1949 by a distinguished American group . The Swedish plan would have limited U. N. authority to protection of the Holy Places and religious sites in the Jerusalem area , this protection to be extended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government of Israel accepted the Swedish proposal . The representative of Jordan , which controls the area in which thirty-four of the thirty-six Holy Sites are located , after days of wavering under the pounding of 694 the Arab League , expressed reservations , but said most of the provisions of the proposal were already being carried out by Jordan . It was assumed on good authority that the government of Jordan would acquiesce after the passage of the resolution ; this was openly suggested by the delegate of Sweden and Lord MacDonald of Britain . Abdullah is a protege of Britain . Vigorous espousal of the Swedish proposal by the United States at the outset could have procured its passage , particularly since initially most of the delegations , with the exception of a few diehards , wanted a final conclusion . What was the American position ? It can only be described as a combination of ineptitude , awed obeisance to the- Vatican 's actual or implied wishes , and personal hostility against Israel , reminiscent of the days of 1947 when the personal dislikes of the small fry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the verge of contravening Presidential intention and even directives . The State Department directive at the outset was to vote for the Swedish proposal . The Jerusalem discussion began on December 7 . The Ad Hoc Committee voted on December 13 . The United States did not show its hand until December 12 . The period was marked by some interesting behind-thescenes developments . Sitting in the Ad Hoc Committee as the United States representative was John Sherman Cooper . Mr. Cooper was scheduled to make an early and strong appeal for the passage of the Swedish proposal , when suddenly he withdrew his name from the list of speakers . Why ? One of the State Department " experts " asked him to substitute another speech in which lukewarm support was offered to the Swedish proposal and then , presumably , only if the majority favored it . Subsequently , a new directive called for abstention . The NATION In the interval , lacking indication of United States favor for the Swedish proposal , the pro-internationalization forces rallied . Their spearhead was Auguste de Schryver , a founder of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of internationalization had not been given a fair chance and proposed a commission to negotiate with Israel and Jordan to accept the corpus separatum . Behind Belgium stood France . The French delegation pursued the will-o ' - the- wisp of serving the Vatican and at the same time gaining a new toehold in the Middle East . It hoped to bring about through the Belgian resolution a solution based on the so-called Garreau plan , which had been offered to the Trusteeship Council in the spring of 1950 by Roger Garreau , then its president , and turned down by the Council on the ground that it was not in accord with the 1949 resolution . Under the Garreau plan the Jerusalem area was to be divided into three parts  --  one part controlled by Jordan and administered by it , another part controlled by Israel , and a third to be the international enclave . To produce this enclave practically the whole of the Old City of Jerusalem was to be internationalized as well as a slice of the New City . France 's stake in the operation was the bid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The day after the Belgian proposal was submitted , the United States made its long-awaited speech , hedged in with ifs and buts , in which it expressed a preference for the Swedish proposal but pointed out that since Jordan opposed the Swedish proposal , it would be prepared to settle for an agreement under which Israel and Jordan would promise the United Nations to observe human rights and fundamental freedoms , assure freedom of access to the Holy Places , observe and maintain the rights with respect to Holy Places and religious deDecember 30 , 1950 nominations which were existent on May 141:94 ' accept a U. N. representative who would supervise the fashion in which the commitments made were being carried out . A year earlier a similar proposal made to the United Nations by Israel received no backing . Even then the Unites States was not prepared to submit a formal resolution of this kind and looked for some other country to do so . In the afternoon of the same day , under the pressure of the United Kingdom , a joint proposal in this sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Uruguay , as an amendment to Sweden 's proposal and was accepted by the latter . By the time this proposal was made , the pro-internationalization forces had consolidated their position . It was clear that the same procedural maneuver would be attempted which a year earlier had prevented any resolution , other than the internationalization one , from coining to a vote . Notice was served of this intention by the delegate of Chile , Sefiora Figueroa , whose country 's views on Jerusalem are allegedly dictated by the Arab member of the Chilean delegation . Seilora Figueroa demanded that the Belgian resolution be voted on first , on the ground that the American amendments to the Swedish resolution in fact represented a completely new resolution ; under the rules , resolutions are voted on in the order of their submission , and therefore the United States proposals should be voted on last . Normally such a question can be decided by the Chair . But the Peruvian chairman , already canvassing for votes for the presidency of next year 's General Assembly , chose not to risk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to decide the order of the vote . Belgium won precedence . When the issue arose , the American delegation did not even bother to ask that its resolution be voted on first . Had the amended Swedish proposal been voted on first , it would have had a fair chance of winning , since a number of delegations pledged to vote for the Belgian resolution would have abstained on the Swedish resolution . In the Ad Hoc Committee thirty votes were cast for the Belgian resolution , eighteen against , with eleven abstentions and with Costa Rica absent . Two votes were lacking for the required two-thirds ' majority . Within minutes after the adjournment of the Ad Hoc Committee the American delegation , instead of fighting to prevent the resolution from passing finally in the plenary session , was talking about defeat . There was even a strong intimation that the American delegation would switch to a vote for the Belgian resolution . In the end it voted against the Belgian resolution , which in the final count failed by two votes to obtain a two-thirds ' majority . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nine abstentions , three absent . How close Belgium came to winning may be gauged from ' the fact that two of the countries which most ardently pressed for its resolution in the Ad Hoc Committee , El Salvador and Haiti , arrived late , after the Assembly had acted . This can hardly be attributed to design . Liberia , which had voted against the Belgian resolution , also was absent ; had not Nicaragua shifted from abstention to no , and Thailand been persuaded from accepting the advice of France to shift its vote from opposition to support , the results would have been different . On the other hand , Australia , which had spearheaded the fight in 1949 for internationalization , supported the Swedish proposal . TN THE course of the debate attempts to revive the Protocols of the Elders of Zion were made by two Arab delegates , Dr. Charles Malik of Lebanon and Dr. Jamali of Iraq . Dr. Malik , running short of arguments to bolster his tottering case for internationalization , blandly asserted that the Israelis had been able to capture the press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which to do it than even the powerful United States . Dr. Jamali told the United States , the United Kingdom , and Uruguay that in introducing their resolution they were " bowing before the will of the Zionist international . " No delegate , other than the Israeli , not even the chairman , challenged , repudiated , or reprimanded these utterances , which were borrowed directly from the textbook of world anti-Semitism . The members of the anti-Israeli bloc were not satisfied . Led by the delegate of Greece , they charged the Israelis in effect with introducing spurious documents . This was a reference to two communications , opposing internationalization and favoring an interfaith commission to supervise the Holy Places , from two of the most important religious patriarchs of the Jerusalem community . Ambassador Eban had read into the record the file originals in this sense received by Trygve Lie , from the Greek Orthodox Patriarchate of Jerusalem and the Coptic Patriarch of Jerusalem . These were the so-called forged documents . On this inglorious note the debate ended . The idea of a curatorship of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first advanced in 1949 by fifteen religious and lay leaders , including Freda Kirchwey , president of the Nation Associates , and was subsequently supported by almost three hundred outstanding Americans , a representative cross-section of the leadership of the various Protestant denominations . Israel and Jordan are now discussing a possible curatorship plan . Should they reach an agreement , they will give practical demonstration of the essential simplicity of protecting Holy Places without sacrificing the free development of the peoples in Jerusalem . Such an agreement will do more to stabilize peace in the area than three years of debate in the U. N.                     