@@494387

TVA AFTER TWO DECADES agencies had been strengthened , their staffs increased in both numbers and competency . TVA , as a matter of basic policy , has initiated and encouraged such developments through both technical and material assistance . As this has happened , TVA has been able to devote its staff talents and energies to new problems and to special areas of difficulty untouched by statewide and valley-wide programs . In this process of co-operation state and local agencies have shown more leadership and competence in the development of the region 's resources . There are many examples ? in state and local planning , in the extension of library service , in recreation and park development , in food-processing research and establishment of new food industries , in the operation of public river-port facilities , and in the distribution of electric power . In view of the way " planning " and " planned economy " have been booted about the past few years , the role of planning in the Tennessee Valley is a good place to start . There is nothing grandiose about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unknown for youthful sociologists or economists to wander into TVA offices in search of " the plan . " There is , of course , no such master blueprint , although there are plans and planners ? for the control , of the waters of an entire river system , for the development of a new fertilizer-manufacturing process , for the measurement of changes in income as farms change from cotton and corn to diversified agriculture , for selective cutting of a large forest tract or a farm wood lot , for pushing rural electric lines out along new highways and byways . Some of these are TVA plans , some are state and local plans , but " planners " collaborate freely across boundaries of jurisdiction , knowing the governing body of each will have its say in the program agreed upon . Here is an example of how such planning works . The construction of multi-purpose reservoirs caused quick and sharp adjustments in a number of riverside communities where new shorelines were to emerge . To help make these physical , social and economic adjustments as painless and as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local planning boards which could express the desires and interests of the communities and with which TVA technicians could work and because local matters frequently blossom into issues of state concern , TVA fostered arrangements with state planning agencies , through which TVA aid to communities in the reservoir areas could be channeled . In Tennessee , at the request of the governor , the TVA assisted in drafting state-local planning legislation . It then provided a small amount of money to hire a cityplanner to assist communities affected by TVA construcL tion . Similarly , it provided funds for the Alabama state planning commission . In 1933 none of the seven Tennessee Valley states had planning agencies ; now all have agencies either exercising broad planning functions or acting in the narrower field of industrial development . In 1935 there were only two city planning agencies in the Valley ; by 1950 there were 46 active local planning agencies and 23 other communities had engaged in planning to meet specific problems . TVA provides no funds for any of these agencies . They represent new agencies of administration and decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example : The TVA needed to provide library facilities for employees on its construction proj-ects , some of them in remote mountain areas and others near small towns with little or no library service . The TVA could have set up its own libraries at each construction site , moving them off with the bulldozers and the concrete-mixing plants when the job was finished . But the TVA elected to spend the same amount of money contracting with state and local library boards for service . The construction crews have long since departed and the TVA 's contributions have been withdrawn , but 11 of the regional libraries are still in operation with state and local funds obtained from local taxpayers . As of 1950 there were 26 regional libraries in the Valley states , where none had existed in 1933 . The reason the people retained these libraries was graphically expressed by a local library-board member when the time came , upon the completion of Watts Bar Dam in 1942 , to discontinue its support of the first such project . She said : " We have 6,000 people in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and no newspapers . The bookmobile and the grapevine are the only means of communication . If we lose the bookmobile , how will we know what is going on in the world ? " She and her neighbors prevailed upon the county court and the legislature . for state and county funds to carry gn what TVA helped to start. ? In 1933 there were no state parks in the Valley and only two states had park agencies . To show what could be done on the lakes in the way of recreation , the TVA in the early years set up and operated five demonstration parks . Today , there are 50 state , municipal and county parks along the lakeshores . All the states have park commissions . There ? are 200 boat docks and 18,000 pleasure boats , ranging from canoes to cruisers . State and local agencies , corporate enterprises and individuals have put $31.5 million into recreation , facilities on the lakes and commercial operations last year grossed $4.3 million . The TVA no longer operates any parks or recreation facilities , There is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farmers to improve their farm practices . In recognition of this the TVA sought to improve the markets by encouraging food processing through research . For some research it used its own staff and facilities , while in other projects it co-operated with state institutions to which it paid about $240,000 over a period of years . Through these activities , the TVA 's technical assistance contributed to the establishment of more than 120 industrial canning and freezing plants , more than 250 freezer-locker plants , and about 120 small meat-packing plants . In 1934 two men at one institution , with $10,000 worth of equipment and a budget of $18,500 , carried on all the research in the Valley states . By 1950 nearly all the Valley state institutions were engaged in the work ; 45 technicians were employed , research facilities were worth $1,750,000 , and annual budgets totaled $414,000 . The TVA has recently retired completely from the field . Last year the 630-mile channel TVA has created with its dams carried about 600 million ton-miles of freight , , saving shippers nearly $8 million . Large users @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mills , provide their own terminal facilities . During World War II , the TVA built public-use terminals at four ports along the waterway so that shippers of smaller-than-barge-load lots could use the river . Today , these terminals have been turned over to private concerns on a business basis for operation under licenses which , if Congress approves , will be converted to leases with options to buy . Th ? TVA dams control floods , provide a navigation channel , and store water for the generation of electricity . The TVA operates the huge generation and transmission system which produces 12 times as much power as the region had in 1933 . It is currently engaged in doubling its generating capacity to meet the normal power needs of the region and the extraordinary demands of such defense agencies as the Atomic Energy Commission . But the distribution of electricity , where it touches the lives and concerns of people in their homes , on their farms , in their business and industrial activities , is in the hands of the power boards of 147 locally owned municipal and co-operative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elected by consumers . The systems , headed by these men and women , buy power from the TVA and resell it to 1.25 million consumers in a $100 million annual business . They have pioneered . The early co-operatives set up in 1934 are the prototype of hundreds of the REA co-operatives spread over the country today . Eighty-five percent of the farms are electrified , compared with three percent in 1933 . Average home use of electricity has increased from 600 to 3,900 kwh annually ; the current national average is about 2,070 kwh . Residential consumers , on the average , pay less than half as much for their electricity as do consumers in the rest of the country , but these business-managed , publicly owned systems , operated by the people of the region , are on a sound financial footing and rooted in local control , close to the consumer . These examples may explain why the magnitude of the TVA projects and activities have not overwhelmed the people of the Valley . Maybe these examples show how residents of the Valley have used the TVA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonstrations , its forest and agriculture activities , its technical advice and assistance in all fields of resource development , to develop the region along the lines of their own choice . The TVA has helped the region change in two decades from an area predominantly agricultural to a region of rapidly expanding industrial employment . Manufacturing income in the Valley was 346 percent higher in4 1950 than it was in 1929 , compared with increases of 309 percent in the southeast and 201 percent in the nation . Manufacturing employment has grown 72 percent . Per-capita income has grown much more rapidly in the TVA region than in the US , being 58 percent of the national average in 1950 as compared with 40 percent pre-TVA . The region has come far . It is a much more productive unit of the nation than it was two decades ago . It has demonstrated what can be accomplished when people get economic elbowroom and modern tools to work with . Not that the region has " arrived . " Both the TVA and the region have their eyes on new horizons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Valley do n't get very excited about the furious debate over whether or not Valley authorities represent " creeping socialism " or whether they are " vassals of a superstate . " Many of the special interests , which took a dim view of the new agency when it was launched at the depths of the depression have changed their opinion too ? power companies , the coal industry , and retail merchants . Fitzpatrick , the noted Post-Dispatch cartoonist , recently epitomized in one of his drawings the change that has taken place . He shows a giant dam representing TVA . Before it stand two contemplative figures , labeled " Local Business Man " and " Chamber of Commerce . " " Remember , " read the caption , " when we used to call it Socialism ? "                     