@@487623

The Soviet Union 's foreign policy is keyed increasingly ' to " foreign aid " ( see editorial note on page 567 ) . The question arises as , to whether the Russian economy is strong enough to support such a policy  --  either alone or with the help of the satellite states . Peter Wiles is a noted British economist and a Fellow of New College , Oxford . IT IS a great mistake to judge economic systems only , or even mainly , by the justice or injustice with which they distribute wealth among individuals and classes ; by their adaptability to consumer demand or their economic " rationality " ; or by the political and social relationships to which they ' give rise . The mbst important criterion is more materialistic and less sophisticated : how , much does the economic system produce per head ? For the principal object , after all , of economic , activity is to satisfy human wants ; and these being almost , limitless , the best way to satisfy them is to produce a great deal of everything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that the rate of growth of productivity is higher in the Soviet Union than in any important non-Communist country eyed at the period of its maximum development , let alone now . The best performance 13y a large non-Communist economy over a long period appears to be that of Japan between 1912 and 1937 , when its productivity grew by about 3 per cent per annum . The Soviet economy showed an increase of approximately 5.5 per cent annually before the war and has been growing by about 7.5 per cent since 1948 . In ' mining and manufacturing alone  --  and this sector usually outstrips all others in any economy  --  the figures are : Japan , 7 per cent ; U. S. S. R. , 12 per cent . The overwhelming Communist superiority in industry leads to an overall superiority in the national income . The effect of compound in- , terest is very great over a few dec- ades . Thus , growing 3 per cent per annum faster than the United States , the U. S. S. R. , starting with half the United States national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three years . ' What is the cause of this superiority ? There is nothing comforting here to the anti-Communist . It is not just because the satellites have been exploited : their own economies are expanding at an almost equal rate , and Soviet exploitation is offset by Soviet subsidies to China . In any The NATION case this would not explain prewar Soviet growth . Again it is not because the Soviet economy , technically stagnant until well into the twentieth century , had only had to apply methods known elsewhere to cover in one easy technical leap a century of hard-won Western progress . For such a leap is beset with every social and economic difficulty : all backward economies stand equally be-fore it , but only those under ' Com-munist rule have managed it . The reasons for Communist industrial progress are to be sought in Communist industrial efficiency . First , there is the planning system itself : targets are set , in physical or financial terms , which each ministry , trust , factory and individual worker must beat . The ' targets are raised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has quasi-legal force . This is the principal aini and result of the whole planning system . Nor does the legal stick exclude the monetary carrot . Taxes are not highly progressive : the highest marginal rate , of income tax is only 13 per cent , and direct taxes fall most heavily on food , not manufactured luxuries . Third , the system of ownership helps efficiency . Factories can , in theory , be combined , ' processes transferred from one to another , and specialization and standardization imposed by mere fiat . There are no obstacles of property law , shareholders ' vested interests , etc. ; all industry is treated as 1 one big trust . Fourth , communism wholly emasculates the trade unions . The influence exercised by a labor monopoly over wages , hours , conditions of work , apprenticeship , hiring , craft demarcations , indeed over almost everything , is restrictive . At almost no point can a union raise efficiency : it can at most  --  with significant exceptions in the American garment trades  --  not hinder it . All these obstacles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the party line on industrial matters . It loses all bargaining power except in the field of welfare outside of working hours ; it becomes a cheer-leader , an organizer of productivity and promoter of enthusiasm . If the authorities want the norms raised they get the trade unions to get the workers to propose it ' " spontaneously . " Fifth , new industrial techniques can not be resisted by deliberate ' inDeconci &or; 31 , 1955 ertia or wilful ignoiance , as , is done so often by trade , unions or capitalists in free countries . There ' is but one authority to be cajoled into experiment and browbeaten by demonstration . Admittedly this one authority may be frightened and thus suppress a good new method altogether . But the more serious danger in practice is the very slow spread of methods proved correct by the best firms . , This danger the system of , central direction minimizes . Also trade secrets are forbidden : it is sabotage to conceal a technical discovery from the authorities or those ' whom , in other circumstances , one would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state funds , and may not in practice take out a patent . Technical education , too , equals in quality and far surpasses in quantity the best Western examples . Sixth , while competition still exists the object in a Communist society is not to divert profits from the other man to oneself ( and not every measure conducive to this end benefits the community ) , but to be more efficient and productive than the next man . ? Socialist competition " is not a fight but a race , and greater production is a direct , not an accidental or circuitous , result . Seventh , savings are extracted much more successfully from the population by taxes than by lure of interest rates in a free economy . It is true that when the military and ' the police have had their due the Communists have not very much ' more left for investment than others . The IT . S. S. R. invests a fifth or more , the U. S. and Great Britain about a sixth , of their net national incomes in defense . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ larger share and construction a much ! smaller share of the capital available than in other countries , so that to some extent Soviet i industrial growth is the obverse of the Soviet housing shortage ; but this does not remove the Soviet system 's superiority in raising capital , nor explain why the whole national income , as opposed to that derived , from industry only , has grown ' faster . Eighth and last is the whole ideology of communism . Second only to class war , material progress is the criterion of value and the content of history . " Full communism , " history 's last stage , is a state of productivity so great that out of the ensuing plenty all men 's desires can be satisfied according to need , without money or accounting . Yet this fantastic Utopia is taken very seriously : it is official dogma that the U.S.S.R. is even now moving toward " full communism , " and the speeches of party bigwigs often end in a peroration on , this theme . As Christian medieval ' Europe , was building @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S. R. building material progress . EXPERIENCE ' teaches that the thesis I am ' , advancing rouses ugly passions and is easy to misunderstand . First , it should be clear that the thesis connotes no political sympathy with communism whatsoever , merely a certain respect for facts . NeXt , the rates of Soviet growth here given are not capied from official Soviet data ; indeed , they fall far below such claims . Foreign observers build their figures on the Soviet national income carefully from its basic constituents , using the most reliable data available in each case . Documents captured by the Germans prove that , at least until the war , the vast bulk of Soviet published figures correspond precisely with the figures the Soviet planners them-Selves were using . The German documents reveal no falsification or bias in the statistics not already brought to public notice by complaints in official Soviet technical journals. , But what of falsification a lower levels ? Suppose the Soviet planners were themselves deceived ? Soviet managers and accountants very often cook their books , since f they can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bonuses , perhaps their jobs , perhaps even ' their freedom . Sophistical as it may seem , this objection goes to prove beyond any doubt a slight underestimate in the rate of growth . For it is clear that in the early chaotic phases of planning , and again of postwar reconstruction , the opportunities and the need to cook the books were much greater . Later on , in the late thirties or again today , the banks and the auditors , not to mention the police , were P more efficient ; and the need to raise one 's income by dishonest means was less . So if the extent of falsification probably diminished , the later figures were less exaggerated than the earlier ones , and the rate of growth is understated . MISUNDERSTANDINGS arise because the word " productivity " might mean either output per man-hour of work or output per head of population . In more recent years the ' difference , though great , is not overwhelming . Thus , Colin Clark arrives at a growth of output per man-hour of 7 , yorlt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while my own reckoning was 7 5-per cent per head of population . These are both very formidable figures , and could doubtless with some trouble be reconciled . In earlier years , 1928-37 , the difference between the two measures of the rate of growth of productivity is much greater . For in this period growth was achieved by conscripting into industry the wives of industrial workers and the underemployed peasants from the countryside  --  a process that certainly raised output per head of the population very fast , but may well have actually lowered the average efficiency of a worker . It should be noted , however , that an economy which can put up enough factories to set such hordes of idle hands to work in so short a time is ipso facto efficient . The precise measure Of the efficiency of the Soviet industrial system in that early period was its capacity to expand the number of factories and mobilize the labor force , in a way that no other backward country has found possible . Now that the surplus hands are absorbed , we perceive that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantages of the system which I have set out , are raising production both per man-hour and per head of population at a frightening rate that no other developed country finds possible . But take the spate of criticism in , k the Soviet press of this or that organizational shortcoming : Socialist competition has been reduced to , a farce and a formality in Stalinabad , managers are extremely slack about introducing new techniques in Stalinogorsk , costs are inflated by nepotism and idleness in Stalino . Surely this shows that the organization itself is not efficient , by the Communists ' own admission ? I think not . For one thing these self-criticism campaigns are often deliberately exaggerated , in order to bring people up sharply . For another , self-criticism is precisely one of the system 's stimuli . What we see here is the central power actually at work , bringing pressure to bear on the backward enterprises . One can infer the disease from the fact of treatment , but not the failure of the doctors . It is as if one looked at a free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was inefficient . But bankruptcy is precisely the free economy 's penalty for inefficiency , and the threat of it makes everyone else do better . THEN , finally , it is useless to point to the U. S S. R ' s low level of consumption . Consumption is growing , as it happens , very fast . ' It is no mean achievement , however high the starting point , to have nearly halved the cost , of living since 1947 , while slightly raising wages . Consumption fell so catastrophically before the war , and is so low today , and may fail to grow in the future , because of the failure of agriculture . It is correct that Tsar Nicholas fed his subjects better than Khrushchev . It is correct that this is largely due to the unpopular and inefficient way in which the Communists insist on organizing agriculture  --  and also to their predilection for ground-nuts schemes and their refusal to invest large sums in farm buildings , fertilizers , etc. ; albeit agricultural productivity , as opposed to production , has grown quite a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are comparatively cheap and plentiful , and the supply of them grows rapidly . The non-Communist world 's situation with regard to all this seems to me by no means desperate . Certainly perfect laissez-faire could not generate such growth , but in many respects the Communists have gone too far , and the free democratic countries do not need to imitate them precisely . Their governments have much more power than is required for economic growth . It is not nationalization the democracies need , but state power to rationalize : that is , to amalgamate enterprises , to enforce specialization upon branch factories , to standardize products , to dissolVe restrictive cartels and trade associations , and so on . Most of these things occur under private enterprise , only much too rarely and slowly . In my view the whole formal And legal structure of private ownership can and should be maintained , but there should be occasional changes , imposed from above , of management and organization . In planning , again , what matters is that certain standards of efficiency be enforced , pot that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A central efficiency audit is a much more ' practical and less threatening proposition than a 100 per cent central plan ; yet for economic growth it is much more desirable . Even with trade unionism , some aspects are less deleterious than others . The cherished right to strike for higher wages is a minor nuisance on the whole ; it might possibly suffice to do away with the major evils ? restrictive practices , apprenticeship conditions and craft demarcations . For while higher wages affect merely the value of money , restrictions affect the quantity of output . Indeed many American and Germar , trade unions have reached already this comparatively harmless state . CERTAINLY , then , it is urgent that something be done , lest Communist industry out-produce the free world 's . But this is a challenge to our will-power and forms of organization that we can surely meet . I believe that the political , human , ' and moral costs of Communist economic progress can be avoided by good sense and good-will . We can also rely upon the superiority of our agriculture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mere economics for a moment , on many other advantages besides . There is no call to wring our hands , but still less to put our heads in the sand .                     