@@488236

TO RETURN to Stratford , Ontario , after a lapse of seasons is a rare satisfaction : tangible evidence that dreams come true . If the creation from scratch in less than five years  --  in a remote provincial town whose only promise was the magic of its name  --  of an international festival presenting classic drama , opera , popular and symphonic music ; books and the plastic arts was possible , then anything is possible . That it has been done with such brilliance is a miracle reviving everyone who works in the theatre ' as an institution rather than as speculation . Just as the big tent was the first , most striking impression of the initial seasons , so now is the permanent house which rose in ten short months to take its place . It embodies much that was ' characteristic of the tent  --  lightness , a projection of stylized intimacy , even a friendly rawness , which the completion of the building may temper . Now , exposed concrete , bare brick and raw edges seem clean as a new gym @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are ample , stairways wide . Backstage is the envy of the world : half the entire huge space de4oted to services , with the best-arranged dressing-rooms in America and place enough left over for a whole other experimental theatre . There are so many seats ( filled 98 per cent this summer ) that a comparatively short season with two lavish productions plus many ancillary art and musical events is self-supporting . But a tent is by nature an experimental , an uncommitted device ; it serves the immediate occasion and need not incorporate the balance or flexibility required of an enduringly useful , permanent structure . The new theatre has a doctrinaire , design . Robertson Davies , its architect , says : It is quite unlike 3 Greek Theatre , and although its stage has some kinship with that of an Elizabethan theatre , the rest of the structure is far more considerate of the audience . . . . It contains no reminders of the theatres of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries , which were designed for a proscenium stage and an aristocratic  --  latterly a plutocratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Calvinism . Mr. Davies errs in his history . The great theatres of the European capitals constructed after the French Revolution were rarely court-theatres , but rather houses serving municipalities . Covent Garden , La Scala , the Chatelet , Barcelona , Rome are all popular theatres . And Mr. Davies may be prOved wrong in his puritanical philosophy of construction . The new theatre in Stratford can not accommodate any repertory later , than Shakespeare ( including Moliere , Congreve , Shaw ) according to the original intention of the scripts ; since it has no orchestra pit , neither opera nor dance-spectacle ? can be mounted there . It is committed to one ' limited aspect of open staging . Hence it is in essence a director 's , rather than an actor 's or even an audience 's theatre . Wherever you sit , half the audience and at least a quarter of , a range of unwavering yellow lamps face you . The actors must compete with a tapestry of spectators ' heads and the lights set above the balcony . And it is a pity that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the open-air promenade above the lobby would have given on the charming Avon rather than on a grim old schoolhouse . THIS single-purpose auditorium reflects the fact that it is Tyrone Guthrie 's house  --  indeed , his shrine . His votive bust dominates the promenade , his eagle 's beak exactly like a griffin on one of those vases which were the prizes of the original Panathenaic dramatic festivals . The tabernacle of his temple is the small grove of columns backed by double stairs and topped by a , small triangular balcony , which dominated the stage of the tent-theatre . It is now set in concrete , a sacred relic , but it seems to have shrunk with the addition of the great mezzanine ; its proportions are diminutive in the roofed hall . Before , it looked bigger in scale than the actors ; now they seem to perform against a doll 's house . However ingeniously handled from play to play , the insistence of this permanent structure always refers to Guthrie 's historic priority . Combining important features from the Greek , Elizabethan and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Copeau , this standing set was calculated five years ago to start a new tradition in a new country , where most people had never seen Shakespeare centrally staged ( or staged at all ) , and were not aware of the innovations of Craig , Reinhardt or the Russians during the first half of our century . Guthrie synthesized them all in his free and opulent approach , which was perfect for a province in its initial period . Now the theatre is petrified in this image and , while even reinforced-concrete can be broken up , it remains to be seen if subsequent directors will be grateful to Guthrie 's ghost . Guthrie , however , was still present in the flesh this season just past , and his The NATION farewell production left ' the ' festival a model for emulation . There are few complete productions which from the first gun ( at Stratford they fire a 12 pounder and follow it with " God Save the Queen " ) give one the breathless sense of a ' master 's relaxed yet intractable over-all concept . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most splendid Shakespearean shows ever seen in America . Set in the epoch of Charles I , most marvelously dressed by Tanya Moseiwitsch in a delicate fusion of Anthony van Dyck and Frans HaIs , there was a honey-flow of irritable oddity and placid insanity , every so often electrified by small tragic shocks or brief bursts of murderous melodrama . Advancing the time to a generation after Elizabeth gave Shakespeare 's whimsy a prophetic edge . At the end , when Malvolio , all but driven literally mad by facile nonsense shouts : I 'll be - revenged on you all , the threat for the first time seemed to make Shakespeare 's gimlet sense . Malvolio 's puritan revenge was quite simply Cromwell 's rebellion . The preposterous court would have their heads cut off . And the performance was filled with details . of characterization and expert acting like rose-diamonds set in a Faberge frame . Luxurious caprice , an atmosphere of effete , suffocating silliness made the players pose like idiot orchids in a carnival conservatory . Christopher Plummer 's Sir Andrew Aguecheek all but stole the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debauched , exhausted , a prize-dog with almost ( but not quite ) ' all the brains bred out of him , the crowning disaster of an ancient line of wastrels ? Plummer invented a great foolish character , as touching as Don Quixote . Siobhan McKenna 's Viola had an ingratiating sweet lightness and candid grace , with the enormous advantage , for about the first time in Shakespearean history , of being provided with an identical twin , so that the double-switch of sister and brother elicited a whole series of genuine double-takes by the audience . Bruno Gerussi 's Clown , with his lovely voice and fine head , strained a trace towards feyness , but the whole troupe was so fine that everyone shared Guthrie 's triumph . SO much could not be said of Hamlet , directed by Michael Langham , the English director , whose functions now combine those of Tom Patterson , the initiator of the festival , and Tyrone Guthrie , its first artistic director . Hamlet can , be a play about many things , but however variously imagined it can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the rotten domestic court of Denmark . Unless the State is in present danger , the Dynasty threatened , exterior enemies combining with traitors at home , then the Prince has no scope for his agony of ratiocination . If the Establishment is not depicted there is no hazard , hence no irony ; the Ghost turns into the Sorcerer from Swan Lake , the Players become a gypsy-divertissement , Rosencranz and Guildenstern a sister-act and Fortinbras a supernumerary . Langham 's unfocused production seemed to be only about one thing : somehow getting through Hamlet on a central stage . And that it scarcely managed . During the play-scene , the King and Queen had to be separated , their mutuality destroyed ; the public did not know where to look since so much was always going on somewhere else ; as a coup de grace , a gorgeous salmon-orange velours carpet was thrown over the whole playing-area , dazzling the action out of existence . Plummer 's Hamlet had his beautiful voice and decent gravity , but the performance was tainted by so much self-pity that the audience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great performance in this Hamlet was Frances Hyland 's incomparable Ophelia , surely the most beautiful personally , the most alive and consistently touching within memory . It is good news that New York will soon see her , and some time surely in Shakespeare . She is an actress of the first order . THE FUTURE of Ontario is a fascinating speculation . The heroic period identified with Tyrone Guthrie is gone ? crowned by a permanent theatre and a permanent institution . Michael Lang-ham has inherited what Tom Patterson , the inventor , dreamed of , insisted on , fought for , well nigh bled and died to make a fact . Once established , an 290 stitution tends to become the property of custodians . Administrators , having been presented with a property , are sometimes overawed by the might and dignity of a success which has not been , after all , entirely due to them . It all seems too good to be true . They doubt the vision that made the miracle happen in the first place ; it all seems logical enough now that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bank it . But art can not be administered . like trust funds , and the sure way to theatrical ruin is conservatism . It would be impossible to have more success than Ontario enjoyed this summer , financially , as well as artistically . Directors from the United States flocked up to hunt for actors and bagged their fill , which is our luck . Naturally the DOminion , in spite of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation programs , the fine work of the Canadian Players , the adventurous Crest Theatre in Toronto and Le Theatre de Nouveau Monde in Montreal , does not , have the scope of Broadway Plus Hollywood pins the television networks . It will be more than a simple prciblem of patriotic loyalty to hold actors the year around for one summer season . To be sure , England , Ireland and Australia continue to contribute excellent actors to Ontario , but it begins to seem as if Stratford might become a way station . It will need the combination of moral suasion , personal magic , elastic statesmanship and the pioneer spirit , exemplified in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tom Patterson , to ensure a next five years as fine as the last five . Tom Patterson ? is now called a consultant . It would be sad if , having made Stratford the Athens of Canada , having given Canada a cultural fo-cus and physiognomy , he were served by the festival as the Athenians once served Aristides the Just .                     