@@477366

USUALLY it is as much a waste of time to find fault with a book 's title as CO quarrel with the advertising copy on its dust jacket , but when Paul Lazarsfeld and Wagner Thielens , Jr . call their new book The Academic Mind ( The Free Press , $6.50 ) , they seem to me to lay themselves open to a charge of mislabeling . The book is a report on a very intricate piece of investigation undertaken in 1955 at the behest ( and of course the expense ) of The Fund for the Republic ; it was an investigation designed to discover how much the red scare of the late 1940s and early 1950s intimidated or coerced or otherwise unfavorably : Affected the teachers of social science in American colleges . It is an interesting question , and an important one , but it is at most a fragment of the whole subject of the academic mind . " The investigation began with the selection of a sample of American colleges ; next professional interviewers from two different commercial polling agencies were hired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he social sciences at the colleges selected ; then the completed questionnaires were returned to the central office , where they were coded and classified in various ingenious ways by Lazarsfeld and Thielens and their research associates . The Academic Mind is essentially a series of graphs based on these codings and classifications , and a running commentary on them . When so much expensive and highly trained manpower has been invested in a book , a mere reviewer who has also done time as a college teacher has to have considerable temerity to raise his voice in criticism . I confess that I am the kind of reader in whom a graph is likely to inspire more humility than understanding , that my grasp of statistical method is on a par with my grasp of nuclear physics , and that for me to question the results achieved by men as distinguished and successful in such matters as Lazarsfeld and Thielens is like a pig raising a squeal of protest at a pork-judging contest presided over by Messrs . Swift and Armour . Yet I find myself a good deal annoyed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that teachers of social science in American colleges felt themselves to he under a good deal of pressure from right-wing critics in the years immediately preceding 1955 ? is established beyond dispute . Whether it was worth all the time and work and money that went into The Academic Mind to document what any alert observer of the academic scene already knew in a general way may be open to question , though I am willing to grant that it was . Perhaps that is enough to say about the study ; after all , it is not a book that many people will read , and interest in the subject may now be little more than academic , in at least two senses of the word . But I suspect that the book will have an influence far beyond its rather limited circle of readers ; it is an example , and a very professional example , of a way of looking at society that now enjoys an enormous vogue ; and it is the kind of intellectual enterprise that can attract talent and money in quantity in America . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the book has a certain significance as a cultural artifact , as a big expensive piece of work that enough people believed in enough to get it done , like a Roman aqueduct or St. Paul 's Cathedral or the Triborough Bridge . LOST DISTINCTIONS 0 N E annoying thing about the book is that it makes almost no effort to distinguish between genuine victims of political pressure and the free-loaders of distress . In academic circles ( as elsewhere ) , there is a good deal of free-floating anxiety , generalized dissatisfaction , sense of neglect , and mild paranoia , all of which tend to cluster around the most legitimate cause of discontent available at the moment . Teachers love to complain , and I suspect that there is a tendency in all of us to attach our complaints to the issue that will win us the largest , most attentive , and most sympathetic audience . Certainly that issue in the years 1948-55 was McCarthyism . Probably no survey can distinguish with strict accuracy between the victim chosen by society and the victim chosen by himself , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a difference , though with slightly better questions they could have established at least a crude distinction . In addition , the authors go far beyond their primary task of discovering who was scared ; they have constructed an elaborate typology of college professors which seems to me to have almost no foundation in their investigations . The key to their typology is the concept of ' permissiveness " ; they call it the " pivotal attitude " of the social scientists interviewed , which means that it is the quality of temperament by which they separate the sheep from the goats . The term permissiveness undergoes a rather slippery evolution in the course of the book . Originally Lazarsfeld and Thielens use it because they regard it as a less confusing synonym for liberalism , but later it seems to take on an independent meaning ; at least they are pleased to discover a " marked correlation " between permissiveness and liberalism , a correlation which would hardly be surprising if the two were synonymous . Still later any pretense that permissiveness is merely a descriptive term disappears , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not see that Lazarsfeld and Thielens made much effort to find out who was or was not permissive in their sample . Unfortunately the word permissiveness has come into use too late to make any dictionaries , but it must mean something like " toleration of a wide variety of behavior " ; a permissive parent is one who allows his children to do a lot of the things they want to do without subjecting them to correction or coercion . But Lazarsfeld and Thielens never tested the members of their sample to see if they tolerated a variety of behavior ; they tested them to discover if they tolerated one kind of behavior , and only une . A typical question , and it is very typical , asked if the teacher interviewed thought that " a controversial figure like ' ' Owen Lattimore should be permitted to speak on the college campus . If the teacher gave an affirmative answer it might mean that he was permissive ( that lie disagreed with Lattimore but thought he had a right to be heard ) or it might mean simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lattimore 's point of view . With a question that involves only one name , there is no way of telling . But nothing would have been easier than to ask the professors how they would feel about inviting a variety of controversial figures to speak ? a leading white supremacist , on officer of the NAACP , an advocate of socialized medicine , the president of the AMA , Robert M. Hutchins , William F. Buckley , Jr. , and so on . From their answers to such a question it would be possible to tell how permissive the men inter-viewed really were , or at least how permissive they liked to appear in the eyes of an interviewer ( the question would still have been hypothetical and the answer anonymous ) . RELUCTANT GUINEA PIGS I A M struck by how much opposition the questionnaire encountered in the persons interviewed ( " respondents " ) . Part of this resulted from the fact that the respondents were themselves social scientists , many of whom had administered polls and most of whom had used the results of polls . Any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his own medicine , and , a cynic might add , his reluctance will not be reduced if he knows all the tricks for adulterating it . Part of the reluctance , too , doubtless arose from what I regard as an eminently healthy distaste for seeing one 's loyalties and doubts turned into graphable numbers , a dislike for seeing the irreducible ambiguities of one 's own position turned into statistics . And part of the opposition came , I suspect , from a feeling that to reduce the problem of academic freedom to a single pattern of liberalism ( permissiveness ) versus conservatism is to oversimplify it to the point where a teacher 's own experience of freedom or constraint is largely irrelevant . A college teacher , even more than most men , lives in a whole series of communities ? his department , his college , his university , his field of scholarship and research , his family , his town , his region . Each of these communities is dominated by a group of orthodoxies , the generally accepted attitudes and ways of doing things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social ; some deal more generously with dissenters than others ; hut . all tend to perpetuate themselves by favoring their adherents . For most teachers , year in and year out , academic freedom lies only partly in their ability to utter unpopular political opinions ; ultimately it is a man 's freedom to be himself ? politically , socially , intellectually ? among the competing and often conflicting orthodoxies of the various communities in which he lives . In one way The Academic Mind makes an attempt to cope with the complexity of this situation far better than most books dealing with academic freedom , for the authors realize that there is no such thing as " the college " in America ; they recognize that there are many different kinds of colleges and that to treat a great university and the tiniest degree-granting girls ' finishing school as if they faced the same problems and could solve them in the same way is unrealistic . The Academic Mind contains a pleasant surprise in the form of a postscript-essay of more than a hundred pages ( and more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Riesman dissociates himself from the fancy superstructure built up in the body of the book ? for instance , he uses the word permissiveness only twice ( once in a footnote ) , and both times he puts it between quotation marks , as if he would n't care to handle it without tweezers . Riesman 's assignment was to see how well the pollsters did their job ; he sent out some follow-up questionnaires by mail , and in company with a colleague lie went around to some of the campuses and talked to people who had been interviewed to see how they felt about the whole thing . He concludes that the pollsters did a pretty good job , but such a summary hardly does justice to his essay . Riesman rarely touches social science without leaving it somewhat less scientific and considerably more interesting than he found it . He is a man fascinated by human behavior ( especially his own ) , a disappointed novelist . What he really does in his essay in The Academic Mind is to rehumanize the whole subject ; while officially confirming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why it should have been undertaken , because its graphs and statistics are such a clodhopperish substitute for intelligence , perception , sympathy , and imagination . I N The Academic Marketplace ( Basic Books , $4.95 ) Theodore Cap-low and Reece J. McGee use the statistical method to investigate another aspect of academic life ? the turnover in professors in certain educational institutions . When I read the hook I thought it not very good , but after The Academic Mind it seems so modest in its pretensions and expenditure of funds that I feel quite kindly disposed toward it . The study is characterized by a tone of innocent shrewdness ( or perhaps " misplaced knowingness " would be better ) which is fairly common in writing in the social sciences . When , for example , the authors were told that a certain professor made a sacrifice in changing jobs , they know better : they know that people do not make sacrifices ; the new job must have carried more prestige . On the other hand , when a department head said that a certain man . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Because lie played the recorder : " " Yes , we thought that would be nice " ) , the possibility that anybody 's leg was being pulled seems not to have occurred to them . But it would be unjust to multiply examples . The Academic Marketplace contains a good deal of useful information , and its chief faults are those of incompleteness . The book ends with a series of sensible suggestions for improving the hiring of college teachers . Most of the suggestions are obvious , but that does not mean that they arc in the least unnecessary , or that their adoption would not be an improvement . SPEAKING OUT AVTER these two studies of the problems of the academic bureaucracy it is a comfort to turn to a book concerned with the quality of education offered in American colleges ? Some of My Best Friends Are Professors , by George Williams ( Abelard-Schuman , $3.95 ) . The title strikes me as corny , and some of the writing carries a little more of the accent usually associated with the cracker barrel than I care for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the expense of ignoring much that is long considered , deeply felt , and well put , I would say that Williams is primarily concerned with the problems raised by the conflict of two different educational economies in our colleges . Most present-day professors grew up in an era of educational scarcity ? they think of education as a privilege , a hazardous and unpleasant initiation into a mystery whose gate-keepers they have now become . Their students , on the other hand , are living in an era of educational abundance ; the goods they are offered in the classroom no longer have the value of scarcity : teaching must recommend itself to them on other and , Williams thinks , saner grounds . Williams believes that learning is nothing if not a joyous activity , and his book is essentially an invitation to professors to cast off their bad manners , their cultism , their efforts to use the classroom as an arena to get back at the world , and rediscover joy . This is not quite as simple-minded as I make it sound . Williams ' book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but it is also ( perhaps no more than half-consciously ) a pioneer effort . Other writers have been aware of how changes in our economy affect the mechanical aspects of education ? the numbers of students to be expected , buildings , costs , etc . But so far as I know , no one else has suggested how the motivation to learn is affected when opportunities to learn become very much greater . In a society committed by statute to full employment , presumably no one will be driven to learn by fear of his inability otherwise to make a living ; - perhaps learning will come to resemble virtue , by being its own reward . COLLECTORS COLLECTED I N The Proud Possessors ( Random House , $5.95 ) Mine B. Saarinen has written a very ingratiating account of a group of American art collectors , from Mrs. Potter Palmer , the queen of the Chicago Fair of 1893 , to the present generation of Rockefellers . Mrs. Saarinen follows no particular line of analysis ? site does not attempt to write a history of American taste @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nor does she attempt to investigate collecting as either a psychological or sociological phenomenon , though on occasion she offers some shrewd observations on the relation between the collecting mania and the social setting in which it manifests itself . Mrs. Saarinen obviously loves works of art , she obviously enjoys people , and she tells what has happened in some of the more dramatic encounters between the two . The result is a highly enjoyable book . I prefer the chapters dealing with dead collectors ; Mrs. Saarinen tends to muffle her irony and wit ( as who would not ) when her subject is still , as it were , looking over her shoulder . Or it may be that some of the earlier collectors had a grandeur as characters that their followers can hardly equal . Certainly it would be difficult to find such another pair of imperious brigands as the tart-tongued Isabella Stewart Gardner , who left behind her own museum in Boston as a permanent monument to the brilliance of her personality , and the gimlet-eyed J. Pierpont Morgan , who spent $60 million on art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collector the world has ever seen . Yet not all great collectors have been colorful ; neither Mrs. Saarinen not anv other writer has succeeded in making the personality of Andrew Mellon very dramatic or exciting , yet by building the National Gallery , by giving it his own superb collection , and by leaving lots of handsome blank walls to attract the holdings of other leading collectors , Mellon probably did more than any other one man to make great works of art available to the American people . ( His large purchases from Russian collections in the early depression years when he was Secretary of the Treasury had to be kept secret . ) Not all of Mrs. Saarinen 's subjects were rich ; some , like Katherine S. Dreier and Gertrude Stein and her brothers , made modest means go far by buying the works of young and little-known artists at bargain prices . But most great collectors have of course been wealthy , and often a moralist must be puzzled as he reads The Proud Possessors , puzzled at the complex relationships between money and power and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and feared may in time he remembered because it is inscribed as donor on a picture in a gallery . But Mrs. Saarinen wisely refrains from moralizing , and a reviewer of her excellent book would do well to follow her example . ( Numerous illustrations . ) ARTS AND ARTISTS Mine Enemy Grows Older ( Simon and Schuster , $4.50 ) is the free-flowing autobiography of a man named Alexander King , who identifies himself as an artist , a former editorial worker on Life and other periodicals with less stamina for survival , a reformed drug addict , and any number of other unlikely things . I had never heard of him before reading this book , but my ignorance is a loss , since King is an extraordinarily uninhibited , amusing , and high-spirited man . Now very ill , he says that he has written his book for his grandchildren , but it may prove a rather heady brew for the little ones ; certainly King is nobody 's idea of a grand fa thee . King has a lively wit ( he calls the celebrated sculpture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plumbing " ) and a superb ear for dialogue . In the course of Mine Enemy Grows Older he tells at least half-a-dozen flawless anecdotes , some of them very funny but some moving and horrifying . In temperament and style of life King seems to have anticipated what is best in those of his juniors who are known as the beat generation . His great commitment has been to freedom , to being himself ; his proudest boast is that he has never owed anybody anything but money . At the very beginning his book threatens to be cute , but once a certain initial uneasiness is conquered , the prose rushes forth with wonderful vitality and freshness . WHEN the late James Agee 's novel , A Death in the Family , appeared , and again when it won the Pulitzer Prize this spring , many of his admirers had hopes that his motion picture reviews would be collected and published in book form . Now it has been done . in Agee on Film scene or an idea or an audience . A critic could have a worse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best known in this country for There 'll Always Be a Drayneflete , an extremely funny takeoff on English local history in text and drawings . His new book , Here , of All Places ! ( Houghton Mifflin , 55 ) , is a swift survey of styles in architecture and interior decoration from Stonehenge to the present . Each style is illustrated with a full-page drawing and commented on in a page of facing text . ( A selection of these drawings appeared in Harper 's this October . ) Occasionally there is a snide quality in both words and pictures that I do not find endearing ; the prose , to use labels as Lancaster himself does , is Late Rococo merging into Early Coy ; and the insularity of British taste may become a little annoying to the American reader . Yet Here , of AU Places ! is frequently genuinely amusing , and it is certainly a painless way to pick up a rough acquaintance with a variety of architectural styles . TWO FOR THE ROAD Journey to Poland and Yugoslavia ( Harvard , $3 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kenneth Galbraith kept while he was lecturing in Central Europe last spring . ( He believes that he gave the first comprehensive series of lectures on capitalism to be delivered by a non-Socialist in a Communist country since the Russian Revolution . ) In both Poland and Yugoslavia he was warmly welcomed ; there seems to be no anti-American-ism in either country ? for which we have Russia to thank , Galbraith says . Both countries contain many pro-American Communists . The main trouble with life in Poland , according to Galbraith , is its drabness , shabbiness , lack of variety and color . Alcoholism is a major problem , even among small children , because people need some release from the dreariness of their lives , and because they have few other things to buy with what little extra money they may have . All the intellectuals dream of a trip to Western THE NEW BOOKS Europe or the United States , apparently at the expense of the Ford Foundation , whose work in Poland Galbraith admires greatly . The intellectuals have a good deaf of freedom and not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people 's democracy are the farmers . One of Galbraith 's oddest encounters was with a former American Communist who had either been deported from these shores or had fled to anticipate deportation . The deportee 's faith in Socialism seems to have become a bit dim ; he described himself to Galbraith as " homesick as hell. - Yugoslavia presented a more attractive face than Poland , not . because it is more prosperous ( actually , the standard of living is lower ) but because the distribution of goods is less egalitarian , and consequently some people have enough money to live well . In Galbraith 's account . Yugoslavia seems to be generally the happier , more vigorous , and more hopeful country . Journey to Poland and Yugoslavia ? is written , rill the author 's usual grace and wit , and Galbraith has managed to incorporate several political jokes that are making the rounds in the countries he visited . Example : " Under capitalism , man exploits man . Under Socialism , it is just the reverse . " The discussions of the economies of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any previous acquaintance with the dismal science . I N Brave New World Revisited ( Harper , $3 ) Aldous Huxley has gone hack to the imaginary society he envisaged in his famous satire first published in 1931 ; the object is to see how good a prophet he really was . But the result of the return journey is a little pallid and professorial in comparison with the original . The new book is written with the disembodied lucidity that characterizes most of I-Iuxley 's later work ; it entirely lacks the original 's sardonic wit and wild fertility of invention . The main trouble is simply that history has caught up with Huxley . In Brave New World , for example , he boldly imagined a society in which people calmed their anxieties with an as-yet-undiscovered drug he called                     