@@487654

THE SOUTH is in a predicament from which it can emerge only by its own efforts . Although encouragement and tactful criticism by outsiders may be moderately helpful , rebuke will not . What the South needs most of all is to learn to see itself for what it is , so that in self-knowledge it may move past the crisis with which it would have been confronted today even had there been no Supreme Court desegregation decision . For the crisis in the South is real and bred in the bone ; it has to do with something far more fundamental than the fate of the Negro , however tragically he may be involved in it ; and the alternatives are maturity for the region as a cultural entity or extinction . To understand the nature of this crisis , we must be prepared to admit one thing . The South as we now know it  --  a region roughly limited by the old Mason and Dixon line and Ohio River on the North , by the open sea on the East and South , and by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into being as a region only during the conflict of 1860-65 . Whatever the causes of that conflict , it compelled the inhabitants of a territory only recently snatched from the wilderness and the Indian to stand together . At points along the fringe of that region established societies already existed : Virginia J had a distinct culture , as did parts of South Carolina and New Orleans ; the rest of the region was still mainly frontier in spirit , energetic , uncomplicated , rapidly developing and extravagantly imitative . What the South gained from the war of rebellion was existence itself , an identity . Forced into being by violence , it survived a bloody birth and has somehow continued to survive , independent and distinct , throughout the almost a century that has elapsed since . It has developed what amounts to a national consciousness , buttressed and supported  --  as adolescent national conciousness usually is  --  by a structure of myth . MOST NATIONS , like most people , fall back on some support during their youth . Modern England , soon after it had emerged from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ useful to revive the stories of a Trojan Brutus who had founded the nation and a Prince Arthur who had established it in Christian glory . The legends were harmless , and Englishmen at that point sorely needed the feeling of majesty that the legends had created . So it was with the infant South ; for the South , having very little past of its own , had much greater need than most nations to make recourse to the majesty of myth The materials - it used were an intermingling of truths and pardonable falsities . For one thing , it traded heavily upon the " glorious antiquity " of its established societies ; Virginia and South Carolina , and to a less extent New Orleans , suddenly became very important to thousands of second-generation frontiersmen . In many instances they quickly and effectively submerged their consciousness of being frontier , of being " Southwest , " and proceeded to prove their identity with the cultivated societies of the coast by assiduous genealogical probing . A vast section which up to the eve of the war in 1860 had been in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transformation into the Old South . Among some groups , the romantic novels of Walter Scott , which provided abundant examples of a belated chivalry and a compelling analogy with Scottish nationalism , offered an opportunity to throw blood lines even farther back and claim a more ancient heritage for a new Southland . Other people , far more numerous and considerably less literate , could and did point to a heritage of song and folklore as evidence of their ties with older and more established cultures . In more recent years , to be sure , a good many substitutions in the Southern national myth have proved necessary . The growth of historical scholarship and its influence on popular education have made it increasingly difficult for the " Old South " to identify itself with Old Virginia , South Carolina and New Orleans . A quick glance at telephone directories in most Southern communities will show that the Southerner 's general claim to a Scottish The NAT ION heritage is seriously open to question . Nowadays less is heard about magnolias , white columns , darkies caroling at dusk , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the " culture of the Old Southwest , " of pioneer folkways in Tennessee , Georgia and Alabama , and of the almost forgotten usurpation of Indian lands . But the substituted myths have proved less virile than the old . The " scientific " researches of folklorists remain the reading matter for specialists , and the image of the Southerner as English squire , holding a modest piece of land and pursuing a life of intellectual leisure , has never caught on . One reason is perhaps that the South has outgrown the first stages of its development and no longer needs the solid myth to support its national consciousness . It is enough that Southerners have inherited the land and speech of their fathers , along with the memory of boys in gray who fought under gallant generals during those glorious and sad years of 1860-1865 . The " War " itself , much talked of but faintly understood , is now firmly established as the Southerner 's national myth . THE CRISIS of 1860 was a crisis for the nation as a whole , not merely for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without war , the nascent South might have gone on to lose its identity in a United States that would have been poorer for its relative homogeneity . But the crisis today is peculiarly Southern . Either the South will complete its growth as a people and contribute to the parent nation that wisdom and leadership which , as the productions of some of its men of letters prove , it is capable of giving ; or it will turn bitter , decay and lose the identity which it now imagines itself so ardently defending . Whatever it does , the South must supply its own motive . The specific occasion for the crisis which the South now faces happens to be the Negro , and the difficulty with the Negro is that he , like the rest of the South , is alive and changing . When the Southern region emerged as a nation during the last century , it was already on the deDecember 15 , 1956 fensive about the Negro in its midst . Northern abolitionists in their fervor had all but made the Negro the supreme issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could understand it . In 1865 the South refused , rightly , to take upon its collective conscience a blot of guilt for its treatment of the colored man . The feeling was then , and is now , that the South had done as well as any other region in this regard , perhaps better than any other region . The unfortunate thing was that the South , in the early myth-making phase , accounted for the colored man , insofar as it accounted for him at all , in only one way . All the images of itself that the South managed to construct or appropriate during ; : hose crucial years fixed the Negro so firmly in the status of a servant that the Negro could not change his status without shattering them . He was black and readily distinguishable . He could not , like the white servant , change neighborhoods and shake off his past . As long as he remained in the South , he found it mandatory to keep the same place in an arbitrary and initially fragile Southern cosmology ; and as that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ LONG time Southerners found it easy to justify their treatment of the Negro by insisting that he was subhuman . In the present century it has become increasingly difficult , however , to maintain this illusion and the argument for keeping the Negro in his place has shifted to other grounds . The Negro , it is now said , has no history , no culture , no sense of the past . Even the tradition of song and folk literature which Southerners once cheerfully ascribed to him has proved , upon examination by ardent Southern folklorists , to be only a grotesque distortion of the white man 's more ancient heritage . The Negro , it would seem , can at best become a cultural parasite . Granted that he is racially the white man 's equal , he can upon admission to equal political and social status with the white man only debase the white man 's culture . He may even in time begin to intermarry with white women and produce a mongrel people , contemptuous of all tradition , history and culture . The irony of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense of history that the Negro is accused of having . As often as the Southerner describes himself as the transplanter of a more ancient culture ? Virginian , Cavalier , highlander or what not  --  just so often must he reveal to the detached observer his own historical naivete . What he did bring to his " new ground " was the memory of some of these things , and some of what he brought he was able , by virtue of his literacy and position of mastery , to retain . The Negro , it is true , being illiterate and in an inferior social status , by and large lost even his memories . But the Southerner with his fragmented memories never transplanted a more ancient culture in the way in which he himself described it . And if he did not transplant a culture , neither did he create one in that half century during which he inhabited his region before the war . For most Southerners that brief period was one of conquest  --  of taming the land , of displacing the genuine Indian culture which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of exploiting and of building . The fact of a civil war gave the Southerner an opportunity to forge a culture , and he seized upon it . The rest is a story of infancy and adolescence  --  of the creation of a past which the Negro now rejects because it denies him dignity as a man . The Negro has not always rejected the past which the white man gave him . Even today in many parts of the South Negroes are fearful of their own people 's attempt to step out of livery and wear a plain man 's clothes . But collectively the Negro has developed 515 to a point of self-awareness from which he can retreat only at the price of racial suicide . He has lately learned his own potentiality for human dignity and , for the most part , has accepted the heavy responsibilities of his knowledge with becoming courage and grace . It is perhaps unfortunate that the American Negro could not grow up without posing a challenge to the Southerner 's long-cherished myth , but he need feel no compunction on that account @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be challenged sooner or later , by the Southerner himself if not by someone else . That it has been challenged constitutes the present crisis the developing mind of the South . Whether he likes it or not , the Southerner must now reexamine his collection of myths and learn how to use it in a different way . He must abandon his adolescent insistence upon his rights to arbitrary individuality according to the letter of the law as interpreted by himself and accept the responsibility of a genuine individuality which was forcedupon him in 1860 . He must learn how to preserve the important differences which belong to him by virtue of the culture within a culture which is now uniquely his , and learn also to abandon those differences which , if insisted upon , will ultimately cause him to deny his own dignity as well as that of the Negro . Unfortunately the Southern scene does not seem to give much grounds for optimism . Until recently the South had too many poor people in it for its own good , and many of these were descendants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ superiority were their pioneer independence and the color of their skin . Thus in many parts of the region city , county and even state governments still reflect the will of large and unenlightened segments of the population whose background is one of economic and social rivalry with the Negro . These people inherit the Southern tradition mainly as prejudice , which is often as fierce as it is unreflective . But the Southerner also has muchthat may help him Survive his crisis . He has first of all those partially discredited myths , which in spite of all their shakiness as history present a laudable image of human worth . He has , secondly , a profound respect for law and order , which , even if it seems frequently to express itself as childish legalism , is nevertheless there and ripe of development . Finally , he has religion  --  for the most part simple , uncomplicated and unreflective , and embraced by him with the same youthful enthusiasm with which he defends his chivalric and legal codes . His mythology tells him that man is capable of glory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him that the Negro is a man ; and his religion tells him that all men are brothers . In these concepts , he has the means to all the mature knowledge and understanding he needs , if he can only begin to see them as means to self-knowledge , not as ends to be defended against mortal destruction at the hands of subversives within his borders and infidels without .                     