@@487530

Effective Censorship Dear Sirs : I believe that in refusing to renew my visa to the United States your government is penalizing me for opinions which I expressed- in my recently published book , Volume I of " Whither the American People ? " In June , 1949 , after more than two years in the United States , I had to interrupt my study of American social problems and return to France because of the death of my father . I later applied to the United States consulate for an immigration visa in order to complete my work and see my family  --  my wife and daughter are permanent residents in the United States , and my mother-in-law is an American citizen . In June of this year , after fifteen months ' delay , the consul informed me that my request had been denied . This occurred a few weeks after the appearance of the first volume of my book in the " Temps Modernes " series edited by Jean-Paul Sartre . My literary activity is a matter of public record . Among other books , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a study of Fascism in Italy and Germany which is being used as a textbook in several American colleges and which was quoted in the United States government publication " Fascism in Europe . " My opinions were known before my last visit to the United States and were no obstacle then to my obtaining a visitor 's visa . Besides , I have been able to prove beyond any doubt that I have never had any connection with Moscow or its agents . By making it impossible for me to complete my second volume in the United States your government is exercising a kind of censorship on my writings that should not exist in a free country To be sure , I might say some things which would not please everybody , but that is one of the privileges as well as one of the risks of democracy . DANIEL GUERIN Paris , December 6 Internal Union Affair Dear Sirs : In his article " Labor 's Semi-divided House , " in The Nation of October 21 , Howard K. Smith referred to headlines in the papers in the current @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irresponsible strikes , which in no case so far have been against capitalist employers but in all cases against the Labor administrators of public industries  --  the London bus system , the Scottish coal mines , the London gas plants . " In the matter of the London bus strike we did not strike against the " Labor administration of a public industry " but against the executive of the Transport and General Workers ' Union , which had refused point-blank to negotiate a wage increase on our behalf and accepted changes in working conditions against the wishes of the majority of bus men  --  who form only a small group in the T. A. G. W. Union . We had previously sent a sick-pay resolution through the correct channels and at the time of the dispute were awaiting the verdiceof a court of arbitration . The strike was an internal union affair . The issue was the right of union members to use the machinery of negotiation . Since our domestic press is probably 90 per cent anti-Socialist , its emphasis on " petty . . . strikes " in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ printers  --  not employees of a publicly controlled industry  --  though it affected millions of people all over Great Britain , passed off , I believe , without a single headline . ARTHUR MOYSE London , November 10 The Trouble with Liberals Dear Sirs : Francis Goodell 's letter in your issue of December 2 raises questions which liberals have never fully answered in any country . 1'o achieve success , however , they must try to answer them , or at least reach some agreement as to primary objectives . Irving Howe concisely states the trouble with American liberals in his review of " The Lonely Crowd " by David Riesman in the same issue . Howe writes that Riesman " goes along with that mild optimistic ameliorism which has so incapacitated American liberalism . " As to where the labor and liberal movements are heading , the answer is ultimately nowhere , if their final objective is to obtain concessions for the working class from government and business . At some time opposing interests will refuse further concessions . And assuming a broad program of aid has been put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unearned incomes , there will always remain the threat of its being halted by a change in public sentiment or some calamity such as war or depression . A Labor Party should be organized here even though its immediate hopes of success would be as small as was that of the Labor Representation Committee formed by MacDonald in 1900 . The unions would be just as reluctant to join a new organization which could promise little in the way of immediate gains as they were in England . But eventually they would join , as they saw that its leaders were chiefly concerned with their economic improvement and were indebted to no other interests . In the beginning no definitely socialist policy need be adopted . But when it became clear that no further gains could be made through present procedures , the liberal and labor movements would have an organization ready to take the necessary step toward socialism . Above all , if this country faced another major depression , a Labor Party could help insure that neither the extreme right nor the forces of communism would rise to power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's unrest into constructive efforts . Liberals in America are dissipating their strength by their adherence to the present party system . Their haphazard support of this or that issue or this or that candidate accomplishes nothing , for later they can not depend on those they supported . The potential for a new party undoubtedly exists , and if some liberal group undertook to form one , without expecting sudden national success , it might in time be able to build up an organization , present candidates , and become a force in Congress . FRANK DVORSHAK Dodson , Mont. , December 5 Freedom to Advertise Dear Sirs : May I express my appreciation for your publication , on the back cover of your December 2 issue , of the advertisement of the Committee to Defend the Eleven  --  that is , the eleven Communist leaders . While this was a straight commercial transaction , fear has paralyzed so many liberals , not to speak of people who regard themselves as independent minded conservatives , that even the conclusion of an ordinary business transaction involving Communists becomes something unusual . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the publications that rejected our advertisement , which stated a very elementary constituhave these ends been served ? In Korea , we are exposing our most vulnerable flanks and are inviting an attack in Europe . We are systematically destroying the confidence in American leadership of our Western European allies , to whom our conduct appears devoid of both reason and morality . We are proceeding further along the path of alienating friends and allies by demolishing constitutional liberties . American security is inextricably linked to democratic values In the process of destroying them we are inevitably achieving an uncanny likeness to the Soviet system , from which free men almost everywhere have recoiled We are blissfully unaware in this headlong , psychopathic , suicidal rush that we are actually erasing the features of strongest appeal to our system of free men everywhere . RICHARD ARENS Buffalo , N. Y. , December 1 Imagination in Printing Dear Sirs : In his review of Delmore Schwartz 's new book of poems , " Vaudeville for a Princess , " Rolfe Humphries speaks of the " arty " format of the book . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this " arty " volume received a citation from the Trade Book Clinic of the American Institute of Graphic Arts The book was designed by S. A. Jacobs of the Golden Eagle Press , whose typographic work is outstanding for its freshness and originality . Your excellent reviewer often praises imagination in verse , why should he deny it to the printers ? JAMES LAUGHLIN Norfolk , Conn. , December 10 Laski Letters Dear Sirs : I am collecting material for a biographical memoir of Professor Harold J. Laski and am anxious to see letters and material which throw light on his life and his opinions . He was a prolific letter-writer and had many friends in the United States . I should be most grateful if anyone who has preserved his letters or other material concerning him would lend them to me . All letters and manuscripts will be copied and carefully returned at once . They should be sent to me in care of the Viking Press , 18 East Forty-eighth Street , New York . KINGSLEY MARTIN , Editor , New Statesman and Nation London , December 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @           