@@487608

Once again Senator McCarthy has the commentators guessing . Some say that Joe simply " blew his top " in bitterly attacking the President ; others , noting that he Waited until the Senate was in adjournment and selected December 7 as the day on which to launch his attack , regard it as an act of cold calculation . There could be truth in both theories . When McCarthy first entered the committee room " he seemed to be kind of excited " to Senator Mundt , an authority on his moods , who urged him to " take it easy . " He did leave the room for a moment only to return muttering : " They 're shooting at me and I 've got to say something . " Joe was mad , no doubt about it . It is equally obvious that what he said was calculated but what were his calculations ? Mr. Lippmann and others assure us that McCarthy now feels that the Democrats will win in 1956 and is therefore out to control the " hard core " Republicans as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a permanent minority party can hardly be Senator McCarthy 's idea of a brilliant future ; he calculates to win , not to lose . Were he to clarify his intentions , however , it would throw little light on his future , which is closely tied up with events which he can influence but not control . It will be recalled that Hitler 's following dropped to a very low point on the eve of the 1929 depression . It is not so much McCarthy 's intentions that one needs to know in order to predict his future ; what is needed is a calculus of events and forces . Points or Principles ? Talk of the split in the G. 0 . P. over foreign policy and McCarthy has diverted attention from divisions in the Cabinet . Of these , the running argument between Secretary of Commerce Weeks and James P. Mitchell , Secretary of Labor , has taken a new turn . Aided by the November 2 returns , Mr. Mitchell appears to have convinced some at least of the President 's top political ad-visors that ' the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direction . The contrast between Mr. Mitchell 's pre-election speech to the A. F. of L. convention and his recent address to the C. I. 0 . is remarkable . The same contrast appears in the warm , friendly message from the President which Mr. Mitchell delivered . In taking a firm stand against state right-to-work laws , e ? " I oppose such laws categorically " ? Mr. Mitchell drew immediate fire from spokesmen for the N. A. M. and the United States Chamber of Commerce . And his stand on this issue is only one phase of a larger plan . The Wall Street Journal reported on December 3 that he intends to " proposethat the federally-fixed floor under industry 's wages should be lifted by a dime or fifteen cents and extended to include several million additional workers . News of these developments must have made Mr. Weeks moan and groan and this despite the President 's statement that the Secretary of Labor was expressing personal , not Administration , views . Nevertheless , it remains to be seen whether Mr. Mitchell has won a round on principle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasized suggest ' that his objective may be to disrupt labor 's growing identification with the Democratic Party as much as to help labor chalk up significant gains . Labor 's new interest in state right-to-work , laws  --  in seventeen states now  --  is related to significant Democratic gains at the state level : eight new governors and 545 new state legislators . Formerly labor could see little chance of reversing the " anti-labor " trend in the state capitols ; with these gains the situation has changed . It was with a clear eye on Mr. Mitchell 's objective that Walter Reuther quickly challenged him to support amendments to Taft-Hartley which would invalidate state right-to-work acts . Similarly in preparing plans to raise and extend the minimum-wage law , Mr. Mitchell must be deliciously aware of the fact that the South , as a region , would feel the greatest immediate impact ; industries that have - " gone South " in search of lower wage rates will not appreciate his proposal . The labor committees in both houses are chaired , of course , by Democrats . Hence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were sidetracked , it still might have the effect of upsetting labor 's attitude toward the Democratic Party . Even so , it is significant that the Administration is giving Mr. Mitchell a chance to build support for his policies . Secretary Humphrey Dissents If the Weeks-Mitchell argument on labor policy marks one significant split in the Cabinet , the rapidly accumulating differences between Mr. Humphrey and some of his colleagues on fiscal policy mark still another . At the recent Rio conference , Mr. Humphrey was widely credited with being the most influential Ameirican spokesman . ' His policy , reported Donald Grant in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch , was simply one of " turning down coldly . . . all the demands of Latin AmeriCan countries . " Now the Administration has come around to the belief that some kind of economic-aid program must ' be projected for Southeast Asia but , as one might expect , Secretary Humphrey dissents . . Whether the issue relates to Latin-America , Asia , or domestic policy , Mr. Humphrey stands for stabilization , budget-balancing  --  although he concedes that a balanced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard-money policy . During the recent hearings of the Joint Economic Committee , he stoutly maintained that the hard-money program adopted by the Administration in the spring of 1953 was justified as an anti-inflation measure . " Inflation was checked before you , sir , ' came to the Treasury , " commented Senator Ralph Flanders . Similar echoes of conflict over fiscal policy were audible in the sharp exchange between Federal Reserve Board Chairman William McChesney Martin , Jr. , and Allen Sproul , President of the New York Federal Reserve Bank at these same hearings . Add to all these splits  - -  and differences , the divisions within the Republican Party on military policies and one can , with Mr. Truman , " feel sorry for poor old Ike . " Alvin , Johnson at Eighty - The Nation 's staff gladly joins the hundreds of friends of ALvin Johnson in celebrating this week his eightieth birthday and the imposing sum of accomplishments , scholarly and humane , the years have recorded . To us he will always be first of all , the journalist ; one who during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , editorial honors with Herbert Croly , Walter Lippmann , Francis Hackett , and Walter Weyl . We recall too with gratitude his later help to this weekly as an editorial adviser  --  one of a group which included Heywood Broun and other able journalistic hands called together during the middle thirties by Maurice Wertheim , then owner of The Nation . But of course it is Alvin ' Johnson 's career as director  --  he was also one of the founders  --  of the New School for Social Research in New York that forms the heart of his achievement . For the New School remained " new " throughout his long term of leadership , a generator of fresh ideas and ways of teaching , of ' creative work and thought ; a refuge for unconventional minds and , at all times , of free speech and free learning . Out of this , unique educational experiment developed Alvin-Johnson 's most stirring single accomplishment  --  the rescue of more than two hundred European scholars and their families , bodily snatched from the fascist terror in Italy and particularly Germany , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other colleges . For a multitude of obvious reasons , besides those of friendship and personal admiration , we wish Dr. Johnson many more years of happy activity in the wide and varied fields of his interest . il Silence Means Dissent Americans whose only source of information is their daily papers must have been surprised by the strong show . of popular feeling against Franco in the recent municipal balloting in Spain . A private letter just received from Madrid gives some details that have not been reported here , showing lidw , under fascist electoral controls , this opposition made itself felt . To begin with the number of people entitled to vote was limited to heads of families ? " padres de familia " ? and excluded all persons who had ever been sentenced " for political reasons . " These restrictions reduced the theoretical figure of seventeen million voters to seven million actually permitted to vote . - Generally the opponents of the regime could register dissent only iDy staying away from the polls . This is precisely what 40 per cent of the eligible voters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case ; it was the only city where an opposition slate  --  the Monarchists  --  ap- , peared on the ballot . And in Madrid participation in the vote reached 90 per cent . Monarchists denounced the pretense of a " secret vote " and " free elections " and formulated precise accusations of fraud and other abuses . Several local incidents took place , not reported in the American press , indicating that the Spanish people are gradually losing their temper . The letter bears out what American visitors just returned from Spain have reported  - -  that suddenly one hears talk on all sides about a possible early return of the Monarchy . Another indidation of the weakening of the Madrid regime is the fact that last week Franco was forced to remove the Governor of Pamplona province to appease the Navarrese , jealous of their " sovereign " rights . The Navarrese , whether Monarchist or Republican , are the staunchest enemies of the Falange throughout Spain . Bill of Whose Rights ? Henry Lee Moon 's admirable totting up of the score to date on desegregation in the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ note  --  except for certain areas in the deep South . There , as Mr. Moon points out , the chief problem is to counteract the dema-gogues who play on prejudice for personal or political profit . Reports supplementing Mr. Moon 's account indicate the inflammatory nature of white-supremacy tactics . In Georgia a gubernatorial candidate in the primary proposed to chase all Negroes out of the state ; another , suggesting that special schools be set up for " mixed " pupils , as well as for Negroes and whites , said that any white who chose a " mixed " school should have his head examined by a state psychiatrist . In Mississippi state legislators - December 18,1954 are participating in white " county councils " designed to keep Negroes out of white schools ; one actually sug- = gested that " a few killings " now might save more bloodshed later . Mr. Moon tells how a group of Negro leaders stood up to Mississippi 's Governor White . A recent incident in that state indicates that Negroes do better to stand up than to bow , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with 300 children and no school to send them to , sought help from school officials . The Negroes were told to borrow the money to build a school and were promised that a special tax would be levied to enable them to repay the loan . The county Board of Supervisors approved the plan but suggested that the Negroes make a contribution of their own . The Negroes collected $4,200 and borrowed $9,000 more from two white business men . The county school board donated $1,800 . But after the school was built , the supervisors refused to levy the tax which would have enabled the Negroes to repay the loan . The money lenders obtained a court judgment attaching the Negroes ' property as security for their loan . In effect , the Negroes got their school at the cost of their homes . These reports , together with Mr. Moon 's article and the letter from Charles Morgan published elsewhere in this issue , make appropriate reading this week . Wednesday was Bill of Rights Day . Frozen in Enmity IT was five years ago to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after it had sustained one of the greatest military defeats in modern history , fled beaten to Formosa . Two and a half million Nationalist troops and 80 per cent of their good American equipment had been lost. ? None who had watched the Nationalists ' precipitate decline after V-J Day could have imagined that half a decade later a great Western power might think it worth its political while to reach a formal alliance with the exile group that had won so little credit in its own country . But now the United States has chosen to negotiate a mutual defense pact with the refugee rump " government " we have taken under our wing A noxious miasma rising out of the marshes of the cold war chokes our Asia policy . American scholars and diplomats who know the Far East have been mostly shelved , or silenced . Ignorance of the area is deliberately fostered by a small group who flaunt their " patriotic anticommunism " as justification for advocating a foreign policy and strategy that runs contrary to those of our major potential supporters in Asia ? Great- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our own evident best interests . Surely it is only in such an atmosphere that Mr. Dulles would dare ask a Democratic Senate to approve ' a treaty embodying the essence of the Knowland-Radford 523 concept of go-it-alone in Asia  --  even into World War III . We should make no mistake about it : Syngrnan Rhee and Chiang Kai-shek can achieve their aims in Asia only through the United States going to war with China , and if need be with Soviet Russia . Rhee was candid enough to admit this to the United States Congress last July  --  though by turns he threatens to march north on his own . Chiang Kai-shek pretends that his beaten war machine will stage a comeback single-handed against the mainland power that South Korea - and the U. N. , only with difficulty , fought to a draw on the Korean Peninsula ; but his " unleashing " in February , 1953 , led to no such move . Far more impressive is the solemn warning from , Premier Chou En-lai that the United States must " take upon itself all the grave consequences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Formosa and the Strait . The Washington Post , always well informed about Asia , has welcomed the Formosa pact , as a safeguard against provocative moves on the part of Chiang which might embroil this country in war with China . While nothing in the agreement explicitly bars attacks on the Mainland by the Nationalists , the Post assumes that Chiang has privately promised not to make any such move " without this country 's consent . " Arguing from this premise , it insists that only a treaty based on such a clear understanding can provide a curb on Chiang 's " unrepudiated aim of involving this country in war with Communist China as his only hope of restoration on the mainland . " The same view was expressed by Foreign Secretary Eden last week in Parliament . This will undoubtedly be the hope and argument of . ' moderates " - in the-Senate who support the pact . But any such rationalization ignores the danger implicit in an . agreement which , unnaturally and arbitrarily , freezes American policy for an indefinite period in a posture of enmity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British , Japanese , and Indian policies in Asia . Ratification of the alliance will both defer and complicate the problem of eventually regularizing relations with Peking . In view of all this the notion that we are putting Chiang " on leash " again seems a bit " - silly . By tying America 's fate to that of our Formosa protectorate , Mt . Dulles seems instead to be catering to the unappeaseable Republican right-wing at the expense of the more realistic purpose of President , Eisenhower to avoid provocations and thwart what the Post describes as the " impetuous plans Of the interventionists . " The treaty is bad politics as well as dangerous policy . So conservative a man as Nicholas Roosevelt , in a letter to the New York Times of December 5 , while arguing the strategic necessity of excluding the Chinese Reds from- Formosa , insisted " that the support of Chiang Kai-shek as head of the so-called Nationalists- is as futile as it is costly to American interests in Asia . " The recognition of fundamental realities is the first essential for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Nationalist rump perched on ForMosa the prime - : requisite at this stage is to take a clear look , to remark like the child in the story  --  that the emperor really has nothing on at all . - 