@@198860

In a long-expected move , the U.S. changed three diplomatic faces last week : Dr. Henry Grady , 69 , U.S. Ambassador to Iran since June 1950 , to retire . Grady went to Iran with the understanding that the State Department would give him $250 million to spend on economic aid-a technique of diplomacy Grady had mastered as Ambassador to Greece from 1948 to 1950 . The promises finally dwindled to a proffered $25 million loan from the <P> Export-Import Bank . As the situation ran toward disaster , Grady lumbered persistently between the stiff-necked British and the sagging iron cot of Iran 's Premier Mossadeq . " He loves me , " said Grady . To all who would listen , he complained that Washington had let him down . The Harriman mission was the final affront which Harriman compounded by refusing to let him see cables from Washington on the ground that they were " too secret . " Loy Henderson , 59 , Ambassador to India since 1948 , to replace Grady in Iran . One of State 's ablest career diplomats , Henderson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ job in Iran , where the Communists are reaching for the spoils of disaster . As director of the Office of Near Eastern and African Affairs , Henderson watched Iran , with U.N . and U.S. help , weather the crisis in 1946 , when the Red Army finally got out of the northern part of the country . To replace Henderson in India , President Harry Truman nominated Chester Bowles , ex-partner in the advertising firm of Benton &; Bowles , wartime OPA administrator , ex-Governor of Connecticut . Left-wing Democrats have long argued that U.S.-Indian relations suffer because the U.S. does not show India its liberal face . If there is any merit in this argument , Liberal Bowles should be able to improve matters . The chief obstacle to U.S.-Indian friendship is Prime Minister Nehru 's attitude of publicly distrusting the motives of all governments except his own . Neither Bowles nor any other U.S. ambassador could be expected to fix that .                     