@@186888

Loving You ( Paramount ) is an authorized pseudo biography of the professional career of Elvis Presley . The only substantial departure from fact is that the movie 's Deke Rivers is a clean-living Texas orphan , whereas Elvis is actually a clean-living Tennessee homebody with a real mom and pop . The big pitch in Loving You is that Deke , wide-eyed and unspoiled , is victimized by a predatory lady pressagent ( Lizabeth Scott ) and a scheming bandleader ( Wendell Corey ) . But the harder the venal two try to cheapen and exploit this naive lad , the richer he gets . He just ca n't avoid it . <P> The loose parallels in Deke 's and Presley 's careers will set off happy squeals among the juke-box brigade . Some cheer-jerking implications : Elvis was sort of born with a guitar in his hands , a Hydra-Matic shift in his hips , a fog in his throat-and he never recovered . Elvis will fight bullies only if extremely provoked because bad publicity draws standing-room-only audiences . Elvis do n't drink or smoke , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In tracing its hero 's rise from beer-delivery boy to the threshold of greatness , the film applies whitewash so thickly that the coated object loses all shape . About the only big event in Presley 's real life not touched upon by Loving You is his invasion of Hollywood . This is understandable . To be true to its own brand of ballyhoo , the film would have to show Elvis-modest and shy fellow that he is-rejecting all offers to lend himself to Hollywood commercialism . <P> Love in the Afternoon ( Billy Wilder ; Allied Artists ) suggests that the Big Bad Wolf can be devoured by Little Red Ridinghood-provided she plays her cad right . Romancer Claude Anet 's 1924 novel Ariane , transplanted in the movie from Moscow to Paris , originally fascinated a generation of French schoolgirls , inspiring them to daydreams of enticing worldly seducers into marriage beds . A German film version ( 1931 ) with Elisabeth Bergner as its cunning heroine sent many a lovelorn Mdchen into similar transports . <P> Hollywood , turning its best scene-milking hand to this bittersweet trifle , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last drop of champagne from his vintage script of springtime in Paris , Co-Scripter Wilder achieves many effervescent effects . But his last-minute cascade of bubbles , belly laughs and bathos is overstretched and often repetitious . <P> Gary Cooper , Hollywood 's past master at playing variations on the theme of oneself , is this time cast as a lass-grabbing U.S. tycoon just Gary 's age ( 56 ) . He perfunctorily amasses millions while concentrating chiefly on his globe-girdling conquests ; he only counts his assignations , and his corporations take care of themselves . While working on a big deal during his annual Paris fling , Casanova Cooper is rudely interrupted by mysterious , wide-eyed Ariane ( Audrey Hepburn ) . His big deal 's husband , warns Audrey , lurks with a loaded revolver just outside Cooper 's Ritz suite . Thus saved from a drilling , grateful Gary turns his wolfish attentions to Audrey .                     