@@494714

Rendezvous in Paris by Jean Daniel Has President Eisenhower followed the advice given by The Economist of London to all statesmen who have to deal with de Gaulle ? In other words , has he read the third volume of General de Gaulle 's memoirs entitled Salvation ? If he has not , it is to be hoped that his staff will quickly brief him , for it is impossible to understand what is now happening in France without reading Salvation . Chancellor Adenauer has definitely read it and has understood , it is said , that the event has no historical precedent ? the publication by a statesman at the height of his power of recollections presented in such a manner as to amount to a warning to all foreign countries and especially those still called " The Great Powers . " The third volume of General de Gaulle 's memoirs is devoted primarily to French foreign policy between 194o and 1946 ; that is to say , foreign policy as de Gaulle conceived it . In his recollections , both moving and distrustful , he pictures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of understanding by a patriotic Machiavellism . He sees himself , lonely as Moses , setting out desperately to convince the French people that it is the chosen people among peoples and striving to give a spectacular content to that " election . " That is what de Gaulle 's enemies call " the policy of greatness " and what he himself calls " national ambition . " Nothing must prevail against this " ambition , " everything must yield to it . But what is it ? What is most striking , and what is in some respects most reassuring , is that this ambition is not defined ideologically . It is definitely made clear that France always has a universal message , but the message can change in relation to the epoch or the man : no ideology assures its consistency . Simply because the message is French , no one on earth has the right to disregard it . But the world and also , unfortunately , the French must be convinced of this fact . It must be said at once that this attitude ? though it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fascist . It is true that one can find in Salvation the influence of the famous 18th Century bishop , Bossuet , or the inspiration of such monarchist-nationalist writers as Barres and Maurras , but some pages also make one think of Michelet and of Jaures , two great socialists who believed in the French mystique and in the universality of the French message . The goal for Charles de Gaulle is to restore " rank " to France , to act in such a way as to assure a voice for her in all fields that she may be consulted on all the affairs of the world ; in brief , that she may be present everywhere . Out of national pride ? Of course ! But also in the interest of the world . What was gained at Potsdam , at Teheran , at Yalta in excluding France ? Nothing , de Gaulle maintains , and the proof is that France had to be appealed to soon afterward . The metaphysic of this attitude is the belief in the election ? France , according to de Gaulle , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? and that is at least as interesting ? is the conviction that everywhere in the world there are only national ambitions ; and that , in any event , the heads of state act as if there were only such ambitions . Labourite or conservative , England remains England . Czarist or Communist , Russia remains Russia . During his conversations with Stalin , General de Gaulle does not show in one single instance or for one single second that he takes into account the fact that the country of Alexander the Great went through the October Revolution . If he ends by coming to an agreement with Stalin , it is because he treats him , according to the phrase of Nietzsche quoted by de Gaulle , as a " cold monster . " How can he , under these circumstances , not be " disappointed " and " irritated " by the " na ? ve " ideologies which clash and disturb his activities , while he struggles on the peaks where the chosen gladiators cross swords ? The mystical requirement of this attitude , this kind of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to serene respect for democracy . And yet , the paradox in de Gaulle is precisely that such respect is not at all ruled out . For him , the " French genius " is not dictatorship ; it is a sort of liberal monarchy , called the Fifth Republic for form 's sake . But a monarchy is scarcely conceivable nowadays except during great crises . Therefore , General de Gaulle tends to link the greatness of the Savior to the misfortunes of the fatherland , and the fatality of the " Salvation " to human ingratitude . The great man must be not understood . Greatness derives from a foreseen and accepted martyrdom : Christ would not be Christ if he had not been crucified by those for whose salvation he appeared on earth . In this conception and by a curious route , one returns to a profoundly democratic attitude : as it is part of the destiny of the superman to be disavowed , one resigns oneself to the incomprehension of one 's contemporaries ; one does not triumph over it by force . Obviously this creates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mission believed to be indispensable for the people . That is what happened during the troubled days before May 13 , 1958 . But once in office , one can not reign by means of the police and the army , that is , by constraint . Thus , General de Gaulle speaks of the elec. , toral failure of Winston Churchill after the victory , as of a law which makes greater the destiny of its victim . ' Because de Gaulle has this conception both of destiny and of martyrdom , he finds himself dependent , in common with any democratic leader , on the tumults of domestic politics . Everything bears down upon him ; his days are numbered . Domestic affairs , the war in Algeria , the international competition , the fact that he has just celebrated his 69th birthday ? all invite him to decide that the spring of 196o will be the epoch of national ambition or of decline . Concretely , what are the present tasks of this ambition ? First and above all , the realization of " French independence . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which demands absolute respect for forms and commands total distrust in regard to one 's allies . The enemy , the adversary , is not to be feared . But the friend is a permanent danger . " The Tempter at Bay " Shortly before the German defeat in 1945 , the chief of the Gestapo , Himmler , sent de Gaulle a message , of which the essential portion was : " When one knows from where you have come , one must , General de Gaulle , take off one 's hat to you . . . . But , now , what are you going to do ? Trust yourself to the Anglo-Saxons ? They will treat you like a satellite and make you lose your honor . Associate yourself with the Soviets ? They will subject France to their law and liquidate you personally . . . . In truth , the only road which could lead your people to greatness and independence is that of an agreement with conquered Germany . Proclaim it at once ! Get in touch , without delay , with the men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and want to lead their country in a new direction . They are ready , they call upon you . " General de Gaulle wrote at the time that " the tempter at bay " would get no answer because , anyway , " he had nothing to offer , " but he made clear his opinion that " doubtless there is truth in the sketch he draws . " The point is the old myth of the " France-Germany couple " whose tragic disagreement three times in the lifetime of a single man turned the world upside down and whose agreement could , according to de Gaulle , be the nucleus of a new West . Germany has always fascinated French military men . When de Gaulle visited the Rhineland after the victory and heard himself acclaimed , it seemed to him that the ancient inspiration of the " French and Germans " was revealing itself once again . For de Gaulle at present , the Franco-German union is a guarantee of independence against US economic force , against England 's policy of " balance , " against Soviet expansionism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , so long as it is divided . The result is that one can officially proclaim the wish for unification while taking advantage , for the present , of division . By good luck , and despite the strong attraction felt by German iron and steel circles for England , Chancellor Adenauer might be the man to back up de Gaulle in this enterprise . The Chancellor , therefore , came to Paris , and for the fourth time and after three days of particularly difficult talks the two heads of state of the " New Europe Marching Ahead " published a communique complimenting each other on their agreement , on the community of their goals and even on their similar stand on the preparation of the Summit conference . But what is hidden behind the communique ? Simply the difficulties brought up by Chancellor Adenauer in regard to a Gaullist vision of the world , which has never been so clear as since the publication of the third volume of the memoirs and since the famous " quarrel of NATO . " What are the , now admitted , goals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first of the Mediterranean , then of Europe . For the Mediterranean , withdrawal of the French fleet from the Atlantic organization , frequent and close French consultations with Italy and Spain , the plan for a future agreement with Morocco , Tunisia and perhaps even Egypt , seem to have created the bases of a policy which , paradoxically , strongly resembles the non-dependence sought by the Arabs . Are Italy and Spain " American colonies " economically ? Undoubtedly , for the moment . But the future should show the decisive pull of the Paris-Bonn axis , an axis that anticipates the day when the Russians and Americans will have withdrawn their troops , when relaxation of tensions and perhaps wider East-West cultural and commercial exchanges will have come about . The Franco-German Union thus becomes the pivot of a great dream which begins by rejecting Europe 's military and political integration into the Atlantic organizations and which should end by the establishment of a third bloc which will be autonomous but not at all neutralist . The Americans , according to de Gaulle , should give up completely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the division of the world into those who are " good " and those who are " wicked . " They must understand that the fact of not being a satellite does not mean that a nation is therefore an incarnation of " wickedness , " that one can desire autonomy and yet be anti-Communist , that America is not necessarily and always the embodiment of " good " ; and that , in the last analysis , if you cling to Manicheanism , it must be remembered that the " good " can be found only in Europe , the mother of the arts and of the sciences , etc . . . . In any event France does not want to be a satellite ; in fact she wants to be surrounded by her own in Europe and in the Mediterranean ? surrounded by those with whom she will go into combat , distinct and autonomous , without any supreme command as within NATO . This third bloc will not create new difficulties ; on the contrary , it will contribute to the relaxation of tension and to pacific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his present relations with the Russians . They have never been so good . In particular , the recognition of the Polish frontier on the Oder-Neisse line has made de Gaulle popular in all Russian and Polish political circles , as well as in East Germany where , for the first time , the praises of General de Gaulle 's " realism " have been sung in the official press . When He Meets Eisenhower How does Chancellor Adenauer react to all this ? To answer the question , we must consider the background of his December trip to Paris . The Chancellor favors military integration within the Atlantic pact as he favors economic integration ? and even political integration ? within the Europe of the Six . The West of the Alliances and the Europe of the Fatherlands , which are General de Gaulle 's slogans , are not his . Adenauer is for the Atlantic Union and European Unity . He believes that the departure of the American forces from Germany endangers the equilibrium of the present status quo . He opposes the recognition of the Oder-Neisse frontier , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He fears French leadership even if de Gaulle intends to make him share it . Finally , he does not believe , down deep in himself , in the relaxation of tension . Nor in the Summit conference . His great man was John Foster Dulles whose disappearance seems to him to have dealt a decisive blow to the West . All this being so , what accord can there be between de Gaulle and Eisenhower when they meet this week ? A common will to build a dike against the threat of a re-born German militarism ? An end to the mortal rivalry between two neighbor nations whose economic dynamisms should be joined together rather than used to destroy each other ? The desire to make of the Paris-Bonn axis a European and Mediterranean magnet ? Of course , all this . But it will take time to harmonize the methods of attaining these objectives , and it is to be foreseen that General Eisenhower , during his trip , will get many pleas to resist General de Gaulle 's disengagement plans . The time has not yet come to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moderation in General de Gaulle 's intentions , especially in the disproportion between the policy of greatness and the means of carrying out such a policy . But there is also his justifiable effort to restore vigor and responsibility to the Europeans and Mediterraneans who have had the tendency to count too heavily on the Americans , while at the same time threatening to turn toward the Russians when Washington did not pay enough attention to their worries . What is important now is to find out what the world can do with a personality as fascinating , as baffling , as disturbing and also as seductive as General de Gaulle .                     