@@487541

AMERICA 'S industrial strength is at present three of to four times as great as that of Russia , - and it will still be considerably greater after fifteen to twenty years of maximum industrial effort on the part of Russia . These are the most striking facts in any evaluation of the relative strength of the two powers . Russian industrial development gained great momentum after World War I. Czarist Russia ' ? heavy industry had produced only about one-fourth as much as Germany 's . However , by World War II , the ratio of German to Russian coal , iron , and steel production was merely ten to eight , although German per capita production was still about three times the Soviet rate . The gap between Russian and American heavy industry today is about as great as it was between Russian and FRITZ STERNBERG , author of " How to Stop the Russians ' Without War , " will bring out a new book next spring , to be called " Capitalism and Socialism on Trial " and to be published in this country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I. The United States produces about 100,000,000 tons of steel annually , the Soviet Union 25,000,000 tons  --  figures which serve as an approximate measure of the two countries ' total strength . Why is the gap between American and Russian production so much greater than that between Germany and Russia during World War II ? One reason is that productivity per man-hour is very much higher in America than it was in Germany . Moreover , Germany 's population of 80,000,000 was only half that of the Russian population of the period , while America 's present population of more than 150,000,000 is only about 25 per cent less than that of Russia , with approximately 190 , - 000,000 . The tremendous difference between American and Soviet productivity corresponds almost exactly with the difference in absolute production . This gap can be reduced in another ten to twenty years but can not be dosed , even assuming the most favorable variant for the Russians  --  that their plans for industrial expansion are entirely-successful . Stalin in one of his speeches predicted that after the completion of three or four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 50,000,000 tons of pig iron , and 500,000,000 tons of coal . But even if the Russians should increase their steel production to 60,000,000 tons by 1970 , this would represent only 60 per cent of the present American output . Moreover , there is no doubt that during this period America , too , can considerably increase its production . This country has never had any difficiilty in raising its output more than 3 per cent per year ; with an all-out effort , a. 5 per cent increase is not too optimistic an expectation . Leon Keyserling , in a recent speech , actually predicted a 25 per cent increase in the next five years . In other words , if no major crisis occurs , the United States will maintain its tremendous industrial superiority even if Soviet industry fully meets the goals set in the projected five-year plans . Is the picture altered when the production of Russia 's satellites is added to its own ? If Russia receives total economic support from its satellites , to what extent will its strength be augmented ? The satellite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Czechoslovakia is at more or less the same stage as the highly developed countries of Western Europe . The Balkan countries , on the other hand , are very backward . The percentage share of these countries in world industrial production is probably about the same as it was before the war . At that time the figures were as follows : Czechoslovakia , 1.6 ; Poland , .75 ; Hungary , .36 ; Rumania , .3 ; Bulgaria , .1 ; totaling 3.11 . To this total must be added the production of East Germany and of those German regions incorporated into Poland since the war . Some of those regions were highly developed industrially , for example , Upper Silesia . Russia 's satellites plus East Germany accounted for more than 6 per cent-of total world production before the last war . Since Russia alone accounted for about 10 per cent , it has brought into its orbit countries producing two-thirds as much as itself . This means that the Soviet bloc in Europe produces far more in relation to the industrial output of the Soviet Union than any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ruling state . The output of the British dominions and colonies was never anything like two-thirds as large as Great Britain 's , and the same is true of France 's colonial empire . However , even with its European satellites , Russia can only hope to reduce , not to overcome , America 's advantage . The fact that China supports Soviet foreign policy will not change the situation in the foreseeable future . China , like some other Asian countries , may gain tremendous importance as time goes on , but its strength st present is nominal . To illustrate the Asian lag : China , including Manchuria , produces fewer industrial goods than Belgium , while West Germany with its populaThe NATION Lion of 48,000,000 produces more than the entire Asiatic continent , whose population totals over a billion . America 's advantage over the Soviet Union and its satellites appears even more impressive when the strength of our European allies is taken into account . Britain 's production alone is not much less than Russia 's , and it exceeds that of all the Soviet satellites combined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and West Germany is added to that of Great Britain , the total surpasses Ithat of the Soviet Union and its satellites . The indicatidns are that this advantage will still exist ten or fifteen years from now . Therefore if Soviet expansion is stopped at its present European frontiers , Russia can not hope to catch up with the United States within any preilictable future ; indeed , it will hardly be able to match the-combined output of the countries of Western Europe . However , if Russia were to draw all Germany into its orbit , it would become much stronger than any purely European combination and would even stand a chance of catching up with this country . The control of Germany is therefore of central importance for the entire balance of power in the world . Without West Germany the Soviet , Union wil continue to be merely world power number two ; if the industrial countries of Europe are willing and able to pool their resources , it may fall to number three . We can not say with any assurance to which of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe , aside from Great Britain , wil be added in time of war . The answer depends not merely on political but on military considerations . AN THAT is the comparative military strength of the two great powers ? It is a decisive error to believe that America 's industrial superiority over the Soviet Union points to an equivalent military superiority . That is simply not so , for the following reasons : First , Russia has devoted a far greater proportion of its economy to military purposes than the United States . Russian demobilization was considerably less than that of America , and Soviet armament production has remained much higher ; its research work and invention of new weapons were considerably stepped up after the war . Russia succeeded in making atomic bombs more rapidly than was expected chiefly because of the continued strength of its war production . The peace-time military strength of the Soviet Union in relation to that of America is therefore very much greater than any mechanical comparison of their respective industrial capacities would lead one to suppose . With its higher starting level , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its potential armament production with far greater ease than the United States . Secondly , Russia has a geographical advantage over America . The whole of Europe is within range of Soviet bombers and could be rapidly overrun by Soviet armies . This means that if the relative military power of the two blocs remains as it is , Russia could , in the event of war , quickly incorporate the greater part of Europe 's indifstrial potential into its own economy . Finally , industrial potential must be translated into military strength . It is not enough that America can produce three or four times more steel than the Soviet Union . That steel ' must be turned into weapons which can be used by armies on a battlefield ; and the armies , their weapons , and other supplies must be transported to the scene of action . It was the difficult problem of military transport which hampered the German army after its initial successes in Russia . German military supplies had to be carried a long distance , while Soviet industries were , at least in part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come , America 's transport problem would be many - times greater than was Germany 's , for its armies and their equipment would have to be carried a minimum of 5,000 miles to reach the probable battle area . The transportation problem would consume a good deal of our industrial effort . Of course , if the Russians had to conduct military operations far from their industrial centers , their military potential would be proportionately reduced . Indeed , the Russians would not have the faintest chance of winning a war that had to be carried to the United States . Clearly , the combination of the three factors mentioned above  --  the tremendous concentration of the Soviet economy on military production , the highly favorable geographical position of Russia for military opera- tions in Europe and Asia , and the distances the American army would have to travel to fight in Europe or Asia  --  greatly reduces the superiority the United States enjoys by reason of its industrial capacity . However , if a conflict should last for some time , the relative strength of the American bloc would sharply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question of atomic weapons , about which no satisfactory figures are available . It is assumed that while Russia has begun to produce atomic bombs , its output is far behind that of the United States and will continue to be so . It is probably still too small to impede the translation of American industrial strength into military strength . The conclusions to be drawn from the foregoing rough balance sheet can be summed up as follows : 1 . Russia could not possibly win a war against the United States , for the victory would have to be won on the American continent . To do that , Russia  --  because of its geographical position  --  would have to be industrially two to three times as strong as America , instead of one-third or one-fourth as strong , as it is today . 2 . America would have a good chance of winning a war against Russia in Europe and in Asia , though its military superiority would always be far less than its industrial superiority . Even if Russia should succeed in conquering a large part of Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Union would be tremendous , not only in Europe but , in contrast to World War II , also in its Asiatic provinces . These two facts may help to increase the chance of peace whether or not a negotiated settlement is reached .                     