@@494477

BEHIND THE HEADLINES EVEN though the " big if " about the President 's 1956 candidacy has not been answered , maiy clues to the future became firm during the first 30 days that Mr. Eisenhower spent at Gettysburg on an hour-a-day business schedule . 1 . The Eisenhower wing of the Republican Party now feels it has firm control of the nomination process , and no longer fears a major fight with t h e extreme conservatives . This confidence arises first from their successful maneuver to postpone the President 's decision until ' late February or March ; second from the balance of power which has been given to Southern delegates at the GOP nominating convention-303 votes out of 1323 ? a bloc which can be manipulated by White House patronage until August . 2 . Many Republican leaders who gave up hope in October that the President would run are now optimistic that he will . This is an educated guess ? more than wishful thinking but less than an understanding with the President . 3 . News correspondents both at Gettysburg and Washington still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. poll of correspondents at the Gettysburg " White House " on the weekend of December 4 revealed the overwhelming judgment the . President ? would not run . 4 , Republican National Chairman Leonard Hall is now the spokesman for the Eisenhower wing of the GOP on campaign strategy . When Hall told the recent Republican meeting at Chicago that Vice President Richard Nixon would again be the running mate if the President consents to run , his state . merit was accepted as authoritative . 5 , Nixon is now regarded as a much more likely choice for ' Presidetitial candidate if Eisenhower does not run ? a second point of retreat after Chief justice Warren . The build-up for Nixon at . the recent GOP Committee meeting was so conspicuous that ' correspondents gained the impression the word had been passed from the leadership . The possibility of a Nixon choice is producing tight co-operation between Nixon and leaders of the Eisenhower wing . They are now mutually dependent . One Republican leader who has recently told friends he believes the President will run is retired General Lucius @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another is George E. Allen , the President 's personal friend and next door neighbor at Gettysburg , who has reported to several corporation board meetings that he has concluded the President will run . Presidential " Assistant Sherman Adams told the Advertising Council in New York that Mr. Eisenhower probably has " average life expectancy " ' despite his heart attack ? that is , 13 more years of life for a white , male at age 65 . There are no available statistics on the life expectancy of 5-year-olds who have suffered heart attacks , but the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company reported that of 611 heart victims it traced , 70 percent lived more than five years after their attacks and more than 50 percent lived more than ten years . The company did not indicate what proportion of these found it necessary to retire . Republican Chairman Hall unveiled at the Chicago GOP meeting a non-strenuous TV campaign for 1956 , custom-built for Mr. Eisenhower . And he added this comment on his conversation the same week with the President at Gettysburg : " I came away with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was well-informed about the campaign , concerned about it , and had a real , continuing interest in it . " The personal message which President Eisenhower sent to that GOP gathering was something less conclusive : You have a splendid record submit to the voters . . . I shall do everything in my power . . . to help you report the record accurately and fully to the country . " That could be read two ways . The most cutting answer to the optimistic forecasts that the President will run came from the typewriter of New York Times Correspondent James Reston . " The real imponderable , " he wrote , is that " nobody can know , now or in January when he gets his ' final ' checkup , or in the spring when he must decide finally whether to run again , what the world events of the next five years are going to be and therefore what the pres sures will be on the American President ' during that period . " Harry . Truman probably aged more during the weekend of . June @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terrible decisions about how to react to the Communist invasion of South Korea than in any other entire year of his Administration but he had no warning of it even the day before . " Doctors continue to ' put the President through ghoulish tests ? first two official appointments a week , then three ; then a cabinet meeting a week , then successive Security Council and Cabinet meetings , then three big meetings in the week of December 12 ? testing , testing like a machine . The President has cooperated in all this without a comment on his campaign plans , so far as is known , even to his intimate friends . Virginia 's Choice VIRGINIA voters will decide by referendum on January 9 whether the state constitution should be amended to abolish the requirement of public schools and permit the use of public funds to pay tuition for school children in private , non-sectarian schools . This is the first state to set in motion this form of . eva sion of the Supreme Court decision on segregation , and may serve as a model for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the amendments last week by overwhelming margins ' ? 93-to-5 in the House of Delegates , 38-to-1 in the Senate . But the , vote in the January referendum will be closer for several reasons . NEW REPUBLIC ind general welfare . Initially , school boards could enforce segregation under this subterfuge . If the Courts declare this system unconstitutional , each county still can vote to abolish public schools and use public funds , including state subsidies , to give parents tuition money for sending their children to private schools . Finally , if a county votes to retain its public schools on an integrated basis , dissatisfied parents can apply for tuition money to send their children to private schools . So far there has been virtually no mention of the fact that private schools , on which the plan is predicated , do not exist in sufficient numbers in Virginia . Nor do the capital funds presently exist for building them and establishing the required bus services . The Byrd machine , which controls the " white supremacy " legislature , has successfully distracted attention from the practical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10450 , which set up the security program . The Senate Civil Service Subcommittee checked every federal agency listed in the report , and found only 342 workers had been terminated under the security order during that year . The balance had been removed from the government by normal civil service procedure , and nothing in their personnel files showed any security considerations . 2 . Between 70 and 75 percent of those workers whom the Eisenhower Administration says it terminated as " security risks " were hired by the Republican Administration and were not holdover employees from the Truman era . This determination was reached by flte Senate Post Office and Civil Service Subcommittee after requesting every federal agency to submit the appointment data of every worker it claims it terminated as a " security risk . " 3 , Administration witnesses were unable to produce figures on the number of " security ' risks " who were considered subversives or Communist supporters . All witnesses stressed that ' the " security risk " figures included mostly alcoholics and other types of unsuitable employees . 4 . Many Administration witnesses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are included in the Republican statistics on terminated " security risks . " These employees were cleared by security boards and restored to duty , but no step was taken to remove their cases from the Civil Service record as " security risks . " Senate sources estimated approximately 10 percent of the terminated " security risks " are now back on the rolls . ? Witness after witness was forced by Senate committee counsels to acknowledge that security statistics are ' " incomplete " or " misleading . " They generally placed the blame on the Civil Service Commission instructions on how to submit statistics . But'when Chairman Philip Young of the Commission was called before the Senate Subcommittee on Constitutional Rights , he testified that " there has always been a great misrepresentation of these figures , both publicly and privately , which I abhor . " He contended that agency heads decided who to count as a " security risk , " that he himself did not know what a " security risk " is , and that his agency never called these terminations " security risks . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Civil Service press release , bearing his name and issued during the 1954 election campaign , which reported " security risk " firings by the Administration . Sen. Olin Johnston ( D , S. C. ) contended the investigations , had " broken for all time the security numbers game . " But other members of Congress wryly . conceded the statisticians could prob- London " TIGERS eat meat and buffaloes eat grass , " declared Khrushchev in India , " and neither will ever change . Russia and India differ in their systems of government . But we share the common objective of peace . " Forgetting the tiger 's appetite , these words were just what the Indians wanted to hear . Everything was done by the visiting Bolsheviks to flatter the sensitive Indian soul . The Soviet leaders did not shake hands , for example , but greeted their hosts with hands pressed together and upward , Indian fashion . They wore Gandhi hats and declared that the Mahatma was the equal of Lenin . This may seem absurd to the outsider ; it was not to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in years . Apart from a desire to repay the welcome he received in Moscow , Nehru seems to have had a variety of motives in inducing millions of Indians of little knowledge and impressionable minds to join in his national embrace with the Soviet leaders . As a neutralist , he works to commit both sides to public and unequivocal renunciation of war . As the leader of a backward nation , he encourages both sides to bid for India 's friendship through economic aid . As the spokesman of the Congress Party , Nehru seems to hope that . Russia can be induced to order the Indian Communists to behave themselves . ( And reportedly instructions were sent to the Indian Communists , through a member of Khrushchev 's party , to tell the Indian Communists to treat Nehru sympathetically from now on ) . Nehru hopes further to put pressure on both Pakistan and the United States to abandon their military association with one another . And lastly , he may suppose that by ? negodating separately with the two great Communist powers in Asia , he may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or resisting Chinese pressure , and vice versa . Some of these motives are obviously compatible with Russia 's aims in Asia . In particular , as China exerts an increasing fascination upon Asian Communists , Khrushchev must feel that it is so urgent to reassert Moscow 's leadership . For , two years in fact , the Russians have been increasing their efforts in India . Cheap Russian literature has been flooding the Indian market ? it is about the only diug However , on his return from a world tour ' of inspection Hollister had informed his associates in government that economic aid could , be cut by 20 percent next year . Did he stand by this view , the correspondents wanted to know ? Hollister declared that he had ' never favored a cut . A silence followed , for the cormspondents knew that he was not telling the truth . He did grant that he had withheld 20 percent of the funds appropriated for overseas countries in 1955 . This he defended as " a businesslike approach " of setting up a reserve . The reserve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flood , a threatening political election . Point Four ; in other words , is a Red Cross , emergency operation in Hollister 's mind . If no " emergency " occurs and the reserve can be ' turned back to Congress at the year 's end , then businessman Hollister will have justified his term  --  in Washington . Did he take seriously the increased Russian activity on Asia and the Middle East , the correspondents inquired ? " Well , " said Hollister , " we 've thrown .. . excuse me , we 've spent billions in the area while the Russians have spent only small sums . " Why do Asian and Middle East nations seek economic assistance , the correspondents . asked ' ? Mr. Hollister mentioned the " avaricious desire for easy money " of countries overseas . In general , he treated the cotrespondents as the vice president of the Cincinnati Street Car Company might treat inquisitive stockholders : none of your business seemed to be his general approach . He gave them one half hour in all , and when he left they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't got much money , " said one in sad irony , " but his heart is sure in his job ! " 