@@487532

PROPOSED American aid will not permit the Philippines government to relax and stop worrying about its precarious finances . Not much of the $250,000,000 to be provided in the next five years is apparently to go toward unpaid bills . Most of the money will be earmarked for new plant and equipment and for technical assistance to bring into productivity the rich resources of the islands and put the nation on the road to self-sufficiency . Such is the tenor of the recommendations made by the United States Economic Survey Mission to the Philippines in what is popularly known as the DAVID T. STERNBERG , a correspondent for the Christian ? Science Monitor , has been living in Manila for some time . Bell Report . Modern technology is to be brought to bear on an agrarian economy bogged down in antiquated methods and capital timidity . According to the report , " the basic economic problem in the Philippines is inefficient production and very low incomes . . . . The inequalities in income , .. . always large , have become even greater during the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the country 's economy , the report concludes that " a permanent solution to these problems will be found only through a determined effort on the part of the people and the government of the Philippines , with the aid and encouragement of the United States , to increase production and improve productive efficiency , to raise the level of wages and farm income , and to open new opportuni , ties for - work and for acquiring land . " Through its recommendations the mission has outlined a program of social , political , and economic reforms which , if imple , imented during the five-year period envisaged , will strik ' ingly accelerate normal democratic processes . Contrary to general expectation , the report does not suggest retrenchment in government expenditures but rather a general expansion of public services administered by a revitalized , better-paid civil service . To-cover the cost of such expansion , reverse the deficit trend , and retard inflation , it urges sharp upward revision of exist ; ing - tax schedules  --  especially in top income brackets  --  heavy luxury taxes , and improved collection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Operation Bootstraps , " domestic wealth plus technical assistance would restore the government 's shaky financial structure and permit its par- ' ticipation in a development program for which the United States will be asked ' to advance $250,000,000 in loans and grants . In Manila the report has been received with unprecedented enthusiasm by virtually all sections of the public . Its criticism of the government , though candid and unsparing , is sufficiently objective to be accepted by the Administration as friendly in intent . Analyses of the nation 's economic background and future potentialities are felt to reflect the painstaking thoroughness of the mission 's approach during its two months ' stay in the Philippines . Basic remedial objectives are regarded with equal favor by progressive management and organized labor . But topping these in public favor is the clause which assures that the program , if accepted by the Philippines government and approved by the United States Congress , will be more than a pious hope . This clause stipulates that the aid is to be " strictly conditioned on steps being taken by the Philippines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the immediate enactment of tax legislation and other urgent ref orms . " To clinch this aspect of the program , E. C. A. Administrator William C. Foster , representing President Truman , B. C. A ' . ' s Far East chief , R. Allen Griffin , and the economist Vincent Checci conferred with President Quirino soon after publication of the report and negotiated - a. memorandum of agreement . Here again is underscored American determination to exact immediate social reforms as the price of economic aid . The memorandum reads : It is realized that the Philippines must have greater production , a more diversified economy , and a higher family income for its industrial and agricultural laborers , all of which will greatly contribute to the enhancement of free institutions . . . . To this end , and considering that time is of the essence , the Council of State shall forthwith formulate a legislative program of the following measures for prompt consideration by the Congress of the Philippines ; a minimum-wage law for all The NATION agricultural workers as the first step toward labor and nu al @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in agricultural areas , and to improve the living conditions of agricultural and industrial workers . . . rand ) a bold resolution expressing the general policy of Congress to accelerate the carrying out by Congressional enactment of the social-reform and economic-development measures recommended by the Economic Survey Mission to the Philippines . IN THE perspective of the situation in the Far East I- this insistence on social reforms is seen as a tactic for combating communism in the area of its maximum penetration , the lowest income strata , and for countering its promises with immediately demonstrable betterment . In the Orient , where extremes of income and low productivity are the standard pattern , the success of the Philippines effort could have far-reaching influence . What are the chances of success ? The first hurdle , of course , will be met in the current special session of the Philippines Congress , which is to pass on President Quirino 's commitment and enact the necessary legislation . Strong opposition to the heavy tax program , of varying objectivity , is expected . Persons in the highest income brackets , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They will be . supported by some civic-minded groups which hold that the proposed tax legislation , by its very severity , would defeat its own ends . Higher living costs are foreseen for those least able to afford them . The added inducement to smuggling up and down the endless coastline of the archipelago could be expected to increase the already crushing expense of law enforcement . Honest taxpayers in business and industry would be placed at an even greater competitive disadvantage with the unscrupulous tax evader . A substantial and sober body of - public opinion holds therefore that the required increase of government revenue should be obtained through improved collection methods , elimination of waste and inefficiency , and penalization of non-productive and idle wealth . There is reason to believe that the government 's American advisers will give careful consideration to their views , since the primary purpose is to develop the country 's economy at maximum speed with minimum cost . How rapidly can the Islands ' economy be restored and expanded ? What- are their capacities for self-help ? To what extent are current difficulties the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be sought in the nation 's experience since liberation . When 1946 was set as the target date of Philippines independence , a , ten-year period-1936 to 1946 ? was provided for the gradual transformation of the economy , and of its social and political mechanism , into that of a sovereign instead of a subject state . World War II and three years of enemy occupation , however , wrought damDecember 23 , 1950 age of inconceivable magnitude . The nation 's , industrial plant was almost ruined . Consumer inventories were virtually wiped out by enemy looting and complete cessation of imports . An estimated 70 per cent of public and private housing was destroyed . Civic and moral values were reversed by the circumstances of patriotic resistance to the occupying enemy . It was with these physical realities rather than the original theories that the Philippines undertook their sovereign existence . Filipinos are particularly irritated today by allusions to the " two billiondollars of United States aid poured into the Islands since liberation . " They point out that aside from $400,000,000 for war-damage claims and $120 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money was subject to government control ; that it was paid out to individuals as compensation for services and as guerrilla and veteran benefits , and that in consequence it was used for replenishment of personal effects and for living expenses rather than for restoration of the shattered economy:Payments to destroyed industries for war damages were initially only 30 per cent of the approved claims and , by virtue of the regulations imposed , a much smaller fraction of the replacement cost . It is conceded that with astute economic controls better use might have been made of these windfalls of foreign exchange , but the imposition of such controls would have presupposed a political maturity and public sobriety scarcely to be expected in the psychological conditions caused by liberation . TN THE years that followed the establishment of the - I-  republic , its political leaders were completely occupied with the game of seizing and consolidating personal power . Neither , incumbent Liberals nor minority Nationalists , led by Jose P. Laurel , defeated Piesidential candidate , would risk their political fortunes by sponsoring the kind of Spartan national regimen that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were urged by the Joint Philippine-American Finance Commission of 1947 but were not acted upon until United States Ambassador Myron M. Cowen in 1949 had his economists prepare a survey of Philippines finances and warned the Administration of the rapid deterioration of its financial position . By that time moderate measures had become inadequate , and the subsequent drastic import and exchange controls aroused public apprehension which merely speeded the crisis : Today the Philippines government , having neglected to make the fullest use of revenue potentialities during the lush profit years of 1948-49 and having failed to direct government expenditures into productive channels , finds itself faced with an accumulated deficit of half a billion pesos , diminishing income , and a rising demand and need for social services . The problem can be solved only if peace and order 673 prevail . Central Luzon has been the cradle of rebellion since Spanish times . Its fertile plains , the " granary of the Philippines , " , first produced the wealth required to send young Filipinos abroad . Returning with European educations , many of the sons of landowners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into agrarian-reform movements . Unfortunately , most of these movements were better intentioned than implemented ; they produced a mass temper ready to take up arms for social justice but economically and politically too unschooled to reject charlatan and opportunist leadership . The result has been a long series of abortive , frequently comic-opera , uprisings . During the war the miniscule Communist Party of the Philippines , using Moscow-taught methods of underground organization , rallied rebellious elements into a resistance army which came to be known as the Hukbalahap  --  telescoped Tagalog for " People 's Army Against Japan "  - -  later shortened to Huks . After liberation these forces refused to lay down their arms and acknowledge the authority of the returned Philippines government . Since the establishment of the republic they have carried on harassing guerrilla actions against government forces and the civilian populace . Today the Huk top leadership is unabashedly Communist and its political line a carbon copy of Kremlin policy  --  often ludicrously inappropriate to the local scene . It is believed that only a small number of the original Huks remain in the organization , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a strong fighting force of escaped criminals , outlaw bands taking advantage of the protective coloration of a social movement , and various other kinds of trigger-men common to the aftermath of war . While the Huks wield little political influence and have never posed a real military threat to the government , they have grown in strength and spread to other areas . Their activities , which follow the regular pattern of Communist disrupLion and subversion , sap public morale , paralyze important productive areas , and siphon off an estimated 27 per cent of the current national budget for maintenance of security . THUS on the debit side of the present Philippines ? ledger we find a snarled government fiscal setup , lopsided and incomplete restoration of the nation 's productive plant , leaders preoccupied with the game of politics , shortage of managerial and technical talent , and a costly state of lawlessnes which the Communists are exploiting . The credit side , however , holds considerable promise . Twenty million people . occupy a land area which competent authorities claim could readily support a population of fifty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arable land is under cultivation , and rich forest and mineral resources have - scarcely been tapped . Though agricultural methods are for the most part archaic and inefficient , there is a sizable core of peasants with enough mechanical aptitude to use machinery if they received technical and financial aid . Literacy is about 48 per cent , and the English language is widely understood . Most Filipinos subscribe to constitutional forms and processes . Despite recurrent atrocities , a strong wave of protest met President Quirino 's suspension of habeas corpus when police raids uncovered a full-scale revolutionary organization in Manila itself . The opposition has been moderated only by the obvious urgency of anti-Communist measures and the constitutional inability of the President to extend the present legal limit of six hours for detention without formal charge . America enjoys the friendship and good-will of a great majority of the Filipino people . Any expression of antagonism can usually be traced to personal exhibitionism , national sensitivity to criticism , or an outspokenness which America encouraged during the half-century of - its stewardship . A recent bitter attack on the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official stationery of the government Office of Information , evoked indignation and censure from every level of public opinion , the press , and both majority and minority political leaders . Before the day was out , feeling ran so high that President Quirino felt impelled to visit the United States Ambassador to express his regrets . It is generally felt here that the United States has a good opportunity in the Islands to demonstrate its policy toward the underdeveloped areas of Asia , and that a successful experiment along lines now emerging in Washington thinking could greatly strengthen the democratic position in the Orient . There are no illusions , however , about the difficulty of persuading Filipino officials to place national interest above all other considerations and of thus assuring that American aid is intelligently administered . 