@@476316

sHILENDRA K. SINGH arrived at half-past six . This was confusing , since I was under the impression I had been conversing with him for the past half-hour . Dr. Taluqdar had said he would send two young men of St. John 's College to call on us that evening at our hotel in Agra : one connected with the Social Service League , who would arrange a visit to a nearby village ; and the other , one of his outstanding pupils , for a conversational hour on the subject of Indian matters . Two young men had arrived at six o'clock , one of whom I naturally assumed to be the brilliant student , though which of , the two I was in doubt , since neither seemed to answer the description nor to be possessed of sufficient elasticity in English to make decision possible . We were still seeking for clues when there was a knock upon the door and Shilendra made entrance on the scene . He was short of stature and dark skinned , with a round , pedagogic face , strangely child @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the side ; with a small , close-clipped mustache of the jaunty type , which seemed not quite to fit with his gold-rimmed spectacles ; with most expressive hands , small and delicate , at times almost mincing in their gestures . He was clothed in a mixture of the East and West : white cotton jodhpurs and a long tweed jacket buttoned to his chin ? a sort of cross between an English riding coat and a venerable Prince Albert . Around his neck he wore , like a cravat , a twisted scarf of white cashmere . Altogether , he presented an engaging figure : a sensitive , dynamic personality , with an air which was at once both academic and aristocratic . His voice was thin and high , his smile disarming , his manner confident , his English fluent and correct . He introduced himself with careless grace : Shilendra K. Singh , pupil of Dr. Taluqdara little late for his appointment , but he had called before and found us out . He acknowledged , with a casual nod , introduction to the two who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the way of upper classmen with undergraduates . And he sat on the couch where they made room for him ? on more than his fair share of it . During the ensuing hour and a half neither of his colleagues said a single word . Shilendra held the floor . HE WAS , he explained , a graduate student . He had taken his M.A. in history under Dr. Taluqdar , and was now preparing to take his Ph.D . He was working on his thesis , the subject of which was the administration of the First Earl of Minto ? 1807-1813 . He was also studying law and would soon take his degree . In answer to my question he admitted he was not yet quite twenty-one years old . He was not making boast of his accomplishments ; but neither , I felt , was he unaware of them . Nor are such accomplishments uncommon in the universities of India , where education is regarded as a rare and cherished privilege , where college life is medieval in austerity , where the hostels which accommodate the students are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poorly lighted , furnished with a table and a chair , and a wooden shelf to sleep on ; with the simplest of food in meager quantity , prepared in primitive surroundings and consumed in barren , cheerless rooms . Higher learning without trimmings , with little to divert the academic mind from concentration on the job at hand . In Delhi , not far from where I write these lines , at the corner of a relatively quiet street , two students often sit at night beneath a street lamp , with books and papers spread upon the ground , studying their lessons while they shiver with the cold , for it is wintertime . On inquiry , they have cheerfully explained to me that their homes are badly crowded , half a dozen adults and children in one room ; they can not concentrate upon their work . Here in the street.they are undisturbed . With such determination scholarship should thrive . Indeed , it is so highly prized that even he who fails of his degree will frequently make record of his effort , inscribing on his card @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name , " B.A. Failed . " I have been told of one who advertised the fact : " B.A. Failed Twice . " Better to have failed than not to have tried at all . The effort in itself is entitled to distinction . As to study of the law , it is a common undertaking for graduate students , regardless of their major interests or whether they expect to practice . Under British rule the Indian was eligible to minor bureaucratic posts ; and the law degree , regardless of its practical value , was a badge to compensate the limitaLions imposed on his career . So the custom grew and lawyers multiplied . The Republic has erased the limitations , but the custom still persists . In short , there was nothing remarkably exceptional about Shilendra 's record . The interesting factor was the boy himself . S HILENDRA continued : His home was in a village near Delhi , and his family belonged to the zamindar class ? which is to say , landlords with tenant farmers , of whom there were ? or had been until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , out of a total provincial population of nearly sixty million . By a recent act of legislation , entitled the U. P. Zamindari Abolition Act , the landlords had been dispossessed , and they were in a sorry plight . They had been accustomed to collect rental from their tenants , part of which they paid as tax to the government . The detail is too technical for consideration here , but zamindars ? in the new bright light of democratic process ? were parasites in the agricultural system , remnants of a feudal institution , and slated for , extinction , not only in the United Provinces , but eventually in all of India . In brief , Shilendra was a capitalist , engaged in one of the most dubious aspects of private enterprise . The abolition act was being challenged as unconstitutional . The case was in the courts where it might be argued for an indefinite time . In the meanwhile the zamindars were suffering acutely , since the government had not excused them from their tax , while on the other hand the tenants were determined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been hasty and unfair ; nor was it farsighted in its purpose , for many landlords had themselves been cultivators of extensive areas , which under present circumstances they could not continue . In consequence whereof there would be many unemployed , who had previously depended on a living as wage earners . He admitted the landlords had been compensated , or would be when the act should be affirmed . But the compensation was inequitable , and not only that : it was to be provided in the shape of bonds , to yield much lower income than the previous rental . And finally , these bonds were not guaranteed ? at least , not adequately . For example , emer-94 gence of a Socialist party in the political arena , by no means an improbable event , might result in their repudiation ? by , if necessary , amendment to the Constitution . Shilendra briefed the issue without malice , with nonchalant detachment ? like a lawyer whose future is assured regardless of what happens to his client . He went on to a discussion of the Rajas , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wealthy ones , perhaps a score in number ; not the ones we hear of in the Western world , whom we associate with Hollywood and caf ? society , with jewels and polo ponies , whose private fortunes , invested widely in Europe and America , are safely out of reach of government . It was not of them he spoke ; but of the modest , unassuming ones , whose way of life , regardless of their assets , could scarcely be distinguished from the peasants among whom they made their homes ? perhaps four hundred of them , from end to end of India , whose demesnes might include a dozen or more villages , or as few as two or three . Their dispossession had been admirably accomplished , with a minimum of friction , . with scarcely any protest ? perhaps a testimony to their character and courage . For the equities involved were open to grave question . As partial compensation for the confiscation of their property and relinquishmentof their authority , they had been awarded pensions which would expire with their deaths ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ zamindari bonds ? susceptible of repudiation if the government should suffer change of heart . Also , as with the zarnindar affair , there were dislocations which had not been foreseen , or at any rate provided for : the Raja class had been employers , of servants and farm workers ? entourages of considerable extent when regarded as a whole , which could no longer be maintained . Families that had served for generations as dependents of the Rajas , were abruptly deprived of their traditional heritage , to be numbered among the unemployed . HILENDRA expanded the focus of his discourse : In pursuit of liberation from the colonial yoke , a degree of unity had been achieved . Family difficulties could be overlooked while the British occupied the premises . But now the time had come to take stock of the internal situation , to consult the record on the question of liabilities and assets . He enumerated lightly , checking off the items on his fingers : ( 1 ) In an area three-fifths the size of the United States dwelt 450 million people ( including Pakistan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And India 's population was expanding at an alarming rate of speed . In the United Provinces alone the increase was 13 per cent since 1941 , and 33 per cent in the last thirty years . Nearly 80 per cent were villagers , on the marginal edge of a bare subsistence level , farming , with antiquated methods , patches of ground one to ten acres in extent ; most of diem in debt , from one crop to another , at usurious rates of interest . Literacy in the total population was not more than 10 per cent . ( 2 ) The country had sustained a hasty and summary Partition which did not express the will of the Hindu people , and in all probability would not prove satisfactory to the Moslem minority when it came to savor the effect in full . Economic handicaps had descended on both parties , and the pinch of them was expanding . The Kashmir question was still a sore , undecided one . India had been weakened by division , and its world status diminished . Nor did Partition actually reflect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hindu and Moslem people . The source was political rather than religious ; and the resulting so-called " Holy War , " with its bloody massacres and terrible displacements , was an artificial phenomenon , devised and stimulated by political chicanery . As of today , there were millions of homeless refugees in India and in Pakistan , who had fled their homes to escape the Terror . Many had returned and were living again at peace among their neighbors , as their fathers had done for several hundred years . But many remained , and disposition of them was still an unsolved problem . ( 3 ) In the international picture , waiting at the door was a shrewd , determined enemy to democratic process , whose fifth column was already on the ground , prepared to take advantage of any opportunity to promote discontent and disaffection . India was fortunately placed , with the mighty Himalayan rampart at its back . But ramparts , in the modern world , had not proved of much effect ? particularly when the danger was within . ( 4 ) The republic 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States . Korea , Formosa , nonrecognition of New China , and the UN accusation of aggression now leveled at the Chinese government were not seen through Indian eyes as they appeared to the Americans . Quite likely there was misconception on both sides , with reasons which were not far to seek . The Indian people had been preoccupied with an overwhelming problem of their own : how to attain their freedom , and what to do with it when they had got it . The Kremlin threat had been remote and easily overlooked , which , if not realistic , was at least understandable . And India was in desperate need of peace ? a breathing spell to put its house in order : a Herculean task for a new , untried republic and an inexperienced government , without adequate weapons for defense , or industrial plant to make them , or capital to buy them ? without food enough to eat . It was scarcelythe moment to antagonize one 's neighbors. ( 5 ) India was in need of everything . Perhaps education was entitled to first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , little else could be effected . But the educational program should be a special sort , designed to protect India 's cultural values , not substituting for them the materialistic ones of Western competitive society . I ventured to intrude a question : What sort of education had he in his mind ? But he could n't answer that , as , indeed , who could ? For man has not yet devised a formula whereby one may eat one 's cake and have it . Shilendra hurried on : Land reform was needed , to emancipate the peasant from his quasi-feudal state ; modern agricultural methods , fertilizers , and machinery ; development of power , dams , and irrigation projects ; reclamation of wide areas of unproductive land ; conservation and extension of the forests ; immense expansion of the industrial plant : hospitals and doctors ; elementary sanitation ; housing for the homeless ; everything in fact ? a standard of living to which , in the modern world , every human being was entitled . And all of this was waiting to be done , could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of such magnitude that it beggared the imagination . But there it was , and the doing of it could not be long delayed . The standard of living must be raised , and quickly too , if democratic process be destined to survive . For there was already through the land a whispered question which might presently grow into a deafening one : " Now that we are free , what do we get out of it ? " In short , " When do we eat ? " ( 6 ) India was hungry , tightening its belt , threatened with a famine . Shilendra smiled and spread his restless hands. ? What did I think ? I HAD been thinking eye to eye with him , and had found no flaw in anything he said . But I had also been thinking of some things he had omitted : There are sixty million people in the United Provinces , and , according to report , some twenty million monkeys who consume , it is alleged , one-third of all the food produced . And the sky is black @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strip a field of grain in the twinkling of an eye . Then there are the cattle , sacred to Hindu eyes , in respect to which India is the richest country in the world , and from benefit the poorest . To quote from an authority : seventy cows and she-buffaloes out of a hundred give no milk at all . The others average less than one-third the yield in Western countries . Most of the cattle are uncared for and half-starved ; there is simply not enough for them to eat . I had been thinking too of an item in the paper a day or two before , relating to a threatened pest of locusts , which read in part as follows : Assisted by the local population , a section of the big swarm escaped to the border districts of Bombay where it bred in safety , giving birth to three new swarms which now menace the countryside . . . . Some persons in Bombay , it is stated , not only resisted the killing of the locusts but also built bridges across the streams to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for instance , kept the arrival of the locusts a secret , declining to inform the authorities . All life is sacred to the Hindu , and may not be taken by the orthodox believer , not even when his own life hangs in the balance of it . And how is-one to harmonize the East and West on such an issue ? Is one sendingfood to India for Indian famine sufferers , or to feed the crows and monkeys , . the worthless cattle , and the predatory locusts ? Bin . I did not ask the question , for there seemed to be already enough on the agenda . Instead , I said in substance : The conditions you describe and the program you present are truly overwhelming in proportions . And I am wondering if they can be successfully resolved , with the expedition which appears to you essential , by the system we describe as democratic government , which even in my own land is extravagantly wasteful in its methods , fumblingly uncertain in attack , and extremely dilatory in accomplishment. - Where there is time and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progression ? a sort of three steps forward and two back ? may finally achieve almost any goal . But where time and wealth are lacking , the result is more uncertain . The public grows impatient of delay and is likely to upset the ship of state before the well-intentioned , parliamentary crew has hoisted up the sails and trimmed them to the wind . There is further handicap , for , in the democratic order , the authority of captain and officers is limited ; and their competence to operate the vessel may be challenged by the passengers . Finally , the crew may be undependable , or even mutinous . Such a voyage , at its best , is never free from hazards . Shilendra nodded thoughtfully , but there was no surrender in his eyes . Turning devil 's advocate , I pushed my inquiry further . India 's social-economic situation as he had described it , I went on , reminded me of Russia in 1917 : a poor , illiterate , peasant country , with no industry to speak of ? stagnant and apathetic . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civil war , and a world war to top off with , Russia had been transformed in a material sense . To be sure , if one credited report , the standard of living had not yet been greatly raised and still lagged far behind the promised program . But most of the items equivalently set forth as ' India 's needs , had in Russia been relieved if not resolved , at a rate of speed not common to , or consistent with , democratic process ; only to be achieved by ruthless totalitarian force , at incalculable cost in human dignity and suffering . There was a blueprint for the plan , from which both European and Asiatic satellites were feverishly constructing alleged streamlined utopias . And there were bands of eager architects in every country of the world , ready to embark on short-cut transformation , once the parliamentary sluggard was disposed of , or proved to be unequal to its task . The cost of quick results was a frightful one to pay ; still , there were many people in the world who were worn out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had he to say to that , as it might apply to India ? Shilendra shook his head . Communism , he assured me , was not a present threat . The Indian people were not to be seduced by its specious promises or its fraudulent philosophy . India was perhaps the poorest country in the world , in a material sense , but spiritually among the richest ? deeply endowed with spiritual values which were among the oldest in recorded history , which could be followed back five thousand years , which had stood the test of time and innovation . Indian people were possessed of incredible resistance . No pattern of life so alien to their historical development could be forced upon them . T HEN what , I asked , did he foresee as solution to the problem ? Shilendra pondered . ? What was needed to be done , he said at last , India could do . But it must have the help of the freedom-loving world . He fixed me with his eye and I knew what he was thinking , but I refrained from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the present pattern of this impoverished planet : by " freedom-loving world " he meant the U.S.A. And by " help " he meant a nebulous imponderable which could not be named in terms of simple wealth ? gifts and long-term credits of incalculable sums ? for not any sum would serve to turn the trick . Nor did it seem worth while to remind him of the fact that the United States was not rich enough to meet all the demands upon it . Nor that even if it were , and were able and disposed to pour its surplus wealth into his country , even this , in my opinion , would scarcely serve to scratch the surface of the problem . Billions would vanish in a well that had no bottom ? a well which could never be filled up from the top , but which must grow up from the bottom , with long and patient effort , trial and error . If there was not time for that , then it was just too bad . Shilendra watched my face , which I tried to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said , and do it by herself ? if only she could get enough to eat . I made no comment . I would see for myself , he added hopefully , when I had made acquaintance of the village life . In the village I would find the veritable India and the fabric of its spiritual resistance , which was as tough as steel . I nodded . I was planning to do that . He asked what time it was , and I was surprised to find that it was eight o'clock . He sprang up from the couch , apologizing for encroaching on my time . And the two who had preceded him ? who had not since his entrance given utterance to a word ? stumbled to their feet and mumbled their adieus . Together they departed , but Shilendra walked alone and a step or two ahead .                     