@@487574

The Durkin Appointment Eisenhower could have done much worse than choose Martin P. Durkin as Secretary of Labor . It is true that the president of the A. F. of L. plumbers ' union ha-s never been known for a broad-gauge concept of the unionmovement . He comes from the Chicago building trades , and building-trades leaders are not in general " do-gooders . " He has shown no sense of mission , no drive to make labor a living democratic force . Within these limits , however , he has had a good record . He was an able Commissioner of Labor in Illinois under the fine administrations of the late Governor Henry Horner . As a member of the War Labor Board during World War H he worked diligently and intelligently . The C. I. 0 . ' s convention resolution congratulating him on his appointment and promising him cooperation was an honest expression of respect . One of Durkin 's major tasks will be to persuade the President that the Labor Department deserves restoration to a position of authority as the government protector of labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ department over the past six years , robbing it of its mediation functions in disputes and of full responsibility in the field of employment . The labor " activities " of the federal government are split among nearly thirty agencies , and the department itself is starved for lack of funds . New Violence in Tunisia The position of France in the General Assembly was not helped by the assassination of Ferhat Hached , Tunisian ' labor leader and chief strategist of the nationalist movement , whose claim for home rule is now under discussion in the Political Committee . Although the murderers had not been identified as the week began , Hached 's followers and a good many people in France suspect that he was shot to death by agents of the colonial regime . A secret organization called the " Red Hand , " organized for the purpose of combating the nationalists , was among the chief suspects . Mr. Hached was in New York only a few months ago , and he would be here now if the French government had not refused him permission to leave Tunisia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his stay he impressed everyone as a man deeply devoted to his country but not extreme or fanatical . As a leading member of the anti-Communist Federation of Free Trade Unions he had strong support in both the C. I. 0 . and the A. F. of L. These circumstances have made it all the more difficult for the French to divest the debate in the Political Committee of the emotion aroused by Hached 's death . To complicate their situation , they have boycotted the discussions as an expression of the official French view that neither Tunisia nor Morocco comes within the competence of the United Nations . Thus they could not meet directly the suspicions arising out of Hached 's assassination . In spite of the unfavorable atmosphere , however , the French will probably be spared a diplomatic defeat . The Arab-Asian resolution calling upon France to " establish normal conditions " in Tunisia and urging the creation of a Commission of Good Offices to assist in the negotiations seems likely to fail when it comes to a vote . But a small victory in the U. N. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tunisia , where Hached 's death has set off a series of open demonstrations and acts of repression . Who Rules in Venezuela ? Venezuela 's new dictator is the old one , Colonel Marcos Perez Jimenez , who damped a censorship on the news of his defeat in last Sunday 's elections and , for the second time , resorted to force to keep himself in power . The only change is that one-man rule takes the place of a three-man junta . There is no more likelihood now than there was before the elections that the " will of the people " will prevail . The victory of the Democratic Republican Union , led by Jovito Villalba , offered conclusive evidence that the Junta had no popular backing . It was opposed not only by the outlawed and persecuted parties , such as AcciOn Democritica and others , but by those that were permitted to participate in the elections . It is particularly significant that the unions , even those " loyal " labor organizations which have existed with the permission of the Junta , reacted to the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jimenez has only the backing of his machine-guns . Or has he , perhaps , other kinds of support as well ? In a statement issued in Mexico City , where he is a refugee , the former President of Venezuela , Muth ? Gallegos , said : " I ask myself whether we are not again in the presence of other complicities . " It should be remembered that , immediately after he was ousted from the Presidency in 1948 by the Perez Jimenez clique , Gallegos hinted very clearly that foreign oil interests had helped the military rebels . His statement last week suggests that he doubts whether the Venezuelan dictator would have dared defy the verdict of the electorate if he had not felt confident of Washington 's acquiescence . A Vote Against Colonialism Kenya is not the only area in Africa where the British are using strong-arm tactics against the natives . A year ago , in neighboring Tanganyika , the British authorities forcibly evicted 3,000 members of the Wa-meru tribe from their land , killed most of their livestock , and burned their village to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supervises the U. N. 's non-self-governing territories , rejected the tribe 's plea that its land be returned ( see Colonialism at the U. N. in The Nation of October 18 ) . Now , a year after the eviction , a spokesman for the Wa-meru has been permitted to take his case to the forty-eight-member Trusteeship Committee of the General Assembly . After a bitter debate a resolution " inviting " Great Britain to return the land to its rightful owners and condemning the manner in which the Trusteeship Council had handled the case was adopted over the vigorous protests and negative votes of thirteen colonial powers . This action was clearly a vote of no confidence in the Trusteeship Council and reflected the feeling which has grown up among the smaller nations that the trusteeship system is being administered to the advantage of the overseeing powers at the expense of the natives . By defending Britain 's position the United States has lost much of the good-will it recently - won among the Arab-Asian countries through its changed stand on the Tunisian question . During the debate John J. Muccio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Trusteeship Council on the ground that it would weaken faith in the U. N. Happily , quite the opposite may result ; the overwhelming support the resolution received will be taken as a heartening sign by many who have been dismayed at the United Nations ' apparent willingness to subordinate principle to the vested Interests of the great powers . The UN . Under Siege F SEVERAL major issues implicit in the fifty-five- page report of the three jurists appointed by Secretary General Trygve Lie to advise him " On Questions Affecting Staff " and in the presentment of the federal grand jury for the Southern District of New York , which was released almost simultaneously  --  the first appeared on November 29 , the other on December 3 ? one or two demand immediate attention . Full analysis of the recommendations of both reports , however , must be reserved for a later issue . For some years now critics of the procedures of Congressional committees have been saying that inquiries like those conducted by the House Committee on Un-American Activities encroach upon the ancient functions of the grand jury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well be reversed : here a grand jury has behaved as if it were a Congressional committee of inquiry , with its lack of judicial restraint in dealing with witnesses and evidence . Grand juries and congressional committees both serve valuable purposes , but these purposes should not be confused . For example , the rule of secrecy is a key to the basicfunctions of a grand jury . Grand juries must have freedom of action , but secrecy is the concomitant of this freedom . If in the course of an investigation of , say , malfeasance in office , a grand jury accidentally learns that the wife of the malfeasor has been guilty of adultery , it is the duty of the jurors not to disclose the juicy item to the Leonard Lyonses and Walter Winchells . Great harm and injury would necessarily result if grand juries were permitted to disregard the rule of secrecy . Yet anyone who has been following the story of " subversives at the U. N. " in the press can readily identify most of the individuals referred to though not named in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instance would seem to stem from the fact that this particular grand jury and the McCarran committee have been working in such close collaboration that their respective functions have been blurred if not exchanged . For example , the McCarran committee has in effect indicted and convicted individuals without regard to constitutionally sanctioned safeguards , while the grand jury has acted as if its function was to inform the public . of everything that had been brought to its attention , however one-sided , unproved , or inaccurate this information might be . Grand juries do not conduct trials ; they do not sift all the evidence . Grand juries are advised by a law-enforcement officer ; they hear the case presented by the district attorney , not the case developed by defense counsel . The issue , in most grand-jury investigations , is simply whether the facts disclosed to it warrant indictment , not whether the person . indicted is guilty or innocent . It is significant , moreover , that in the nine months that this grand jury has been in existence not a single U. N. employee has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made in the report submitted by the three jurists to the Secretary General , one aspect of the circumstances surrounding their appointment should be noted , The panel has no standing under the Charter of the United Nations . Nothing in that document justifies the inference that key policy decisions should be based on the recommendations of advisers chosen by the Secretary General . Even assuming the propriety of seeking " outside " counsel , Mr. Lie should have regarded it as a private legal opinion , prepared at his request for his personal guidance , and not as a document to be used to influence the American public or to pressure the General Assembly - or its various commissions and tribunals . It was not legal advice , in the narrow sense , that Mr. Lie sought ; presumably he had access to expert counsel within the staff itself . What he obviously wanted was some " prestige " support for decisions which he had already made or was prepared to make . Whether or not this was deliberate intent , the issuance of the report of the three jurists makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cases of discharged or suspended staff members . Mr. Lie has now *accepted the recommendations of the jurists as a directive which the Administrative Tribunal could ignore only if it were prepared to challenge his authority . For the Secretary General has now finally tossed aside the decision of the Administrative Tribunal , which last year ruled that his powers were limited and-that he could not dismiss staff members without showing cause . However , we believe it is not too late to question the hasty application of these lawyers ' recommendations as the administrative law of the United Nations . We see no reason why they should not be subjected to the scrutiny and decision of the appropriate committee of the U. N. dealing with . staff problems after Mr. Lie has gone through the formality of submitting them as his own . And it is certainly in order for the Administrative Tribunal itself to ask the United Nations to pass on the validity of the panel 's recommendations and their adoption by Mr. Lie . Read in conjunction with the grand-jury presentment , the report will have a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the editorial expression which has greeted it . The Administrative Tribunal must now reckon not merely with Mr. Lie 's pronouncements and decisions but with a grand-jury presentment , a report prepared by three jurists , and an aroused American public . The grand-jury statement indorses the recommendations of the three jurists . This fact , as well as the appearance of the two reports at almost the same time , warrants the inference that both were intended to prejudge the appeals of the staff members to the Administrative Tribunal . OBVIOUSLY The Nation is opposed to the employment by the U. N. of spies against any country . But it also opposes insistence on conformity and the labeling of every non-conformist as " subversive " in advance of denial , proof , or defense . And we believe that this will logically follow if the jurists ' report is accepted and applied without amendment . Apart from the merits of the recommendations made by the jurists , Mr. Lie 's handling of the staff problem has without question played into the hands of forces in this country that seek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endeavor , to make it a " captive " instrument of American foreign policy . We can well understand why the State Department , as the grand jury has charged , may have sought to induce the grand jury , through the Department of Justice , to shelve the presentment . American foreign policy should not be made by New York grand juries or by the McCarran committee . Yet both agencies are making policy in the sense that they have inflamed public thinking against the United Nations . What the public is reading in the press is the story of " subversives at the U. N. " The public has not heard and may never hear the other side of the story : the attempt to subvert the U. N. by attacking its staff as subversive . Both the grand jury 's presentment and the report of the three jurists will have the unhappy effect of fortifying those elements in the country who feel , without regard to the character of the staff , that the United States should run the United Nations . Both reports refer to the obligations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; unfortunately neither spells out the obligations of the host nation to the U. N. What has happened , in effect , is that the loyalty program of the federal government has been foisted on the U. N. by public pressure harshly applied . Even the three jurists appear to have succumbed to the delusions of McCarthyism : witness their offhand reference to organizations that have been " declared " subversive without a word to indicate who made the declaration , by what standards , and under what procedures . Apparently the jurists are unaware that the United States Supreme Court itself has questioned the validity of certain ex parte " declarations " of this character A Step Toward Settlement By FREDA KIRCHWEY WHATEVER chance exists of breaking the four- year deadlock in the Arab-Israel dispute lies in the early substitution of direct negotiations for the endless , largely futile efforts of the United Nations Conciliation Commission to approach a settlement by dealing separately with the interested parties . A proposal to this end was incorporated in a resolution sponsored in the General Assembly by eight nations ? Canada , Norway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cuba , Panama -- calling on Israel and the Arab states to " desist from any further acts of hostility " and to arrange for direct talks aimed at settling their outstanding differences . Although largely overshadowed by the momentous debate on Korea and by the threatening situation in North Africa , the decision on this issue may prove of genuine importance . For the first time since the armistice agreements were signed , it seems possible that majority backing will be found for negotiations keyed not to past grievances and obsolete resolutions , but to the legitimate claims of the nations directly concerned and of the whole Middle East . Both the form and fate of the eight-power resolution were in doubt as the week began , but the pros-pt was good that an amended draft retaining its essential substance would be adopted . This said , it must be admitted that the debate produced a repetition of all the old , well-worn Arab charges and arguments , including those which challenge Israel 's very right to exist . Some were amusing as well as irritating . Fouad Ammoun of Lebanon , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to agree to the repatriation of Arab refugees in Palestine revealed a purpose to set up a state on a " religious basis " ? which would , he said , rule out any direct negotiations . Apparently he forgot , in the heat of argument , that Lebanon itself , offidaily and admittedly , functions on a " religious basis . " Through an equally glaring slip of memory , he firmly asserted that the Arab states had " bowed " to the partition resolution of November 29 , 1947 , while Israel 's attitude had been one of " quasi-total refusal . " How he accounts for the Arabs ' open defiance of that resolution , accompanied by their invasion of Palestine to prevent its being put into effect , he failed to explain . More important was the Arabs ' insistence that any talks with Israel must be conducted " in conformity with " previously adopted resolutions  --  a condition that from the outset would doom them to sterility . But this unrealistic attitude , while typical , does not necessarily represent the permanent position of the Arabs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own ultimate interest , if they discover that intransigence no longer works . For the fact remains that their legitimate claims stand a. far better chance of being satisfied under conditions of peace than in the present state of suspended- belligerency  --  a fact some of their Asian supporters apparently recognize . BY FAR the most constructive approach to the problems involved in the search for an agreement was put forward by Ambassador Eban of Israel . He premised his proposals upon a strong plea for direct negotiations geared to present realities and genuine interests rather than on previous decisions that had proved unworkable . Dealing first with the primary issue of security , he urged that a peace settlement should include an explicit nonaggression clause ; and once more he assured the Arabs that any fears of expansive ambitions on the part of Israel were " quite unfounded . " Such a settlement would make possible a reasonable limitation of military budgets ; the supply and distribution of arms could be related to the defense needs of the whole region . A settlement would also include practical measures to eliminate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would enable Israel and its neighbors to consider means of regional cooperation to defend peace in the area as a whole . But even more important and politically more appealing was Mr. Eban 's security proposals was his description of the social and economic advantages that would follow a peace settlement . After citing some of the moves Israel had made , even under present circumstances , to ease the plight of the Arab refugees  --  its release , at the request of the Conciliation Commission , of blocked accounts of refugees ; its acceptance of 19,000 refugees into Israel , " notwithstanding the continued existence of a condition far short of peace " ; and its agreement to pay compensation for lost properties in spite of the difficulties created by Arab boycott and blockade ? Mr. Eban pointed out that a real solution of the refugee problem could be found only through " cooperative regional effort . " First , he said , it was essential to restore normal economic relationships and promote trade between Israel and the Arab states . The resumption and early expansion of means of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surrounding countries would , he pointed out , not only facilitate the growth of trade but " produce an atmosphere of integration and harmony , and eliminate what is both a cause and an acute symptom of the present regional conflict . " He discussed the multiple benefits that would flow from joint efforts to control disease and check the narcotics traffic , to bring about agrarian reform , housing developments , and labor organization . BUT above all he showed how hostile relations between Israel and its neighbors had hamstrung the plans of U. N. agencies to provide the Middle East with technical assistance on a regional scale . Power and water development , soil conservation , and economic aid of many other sorts had been " frustrated by the character of our political relations . " He drew a striking picture of the benefits to the economic life of the whole area that would become possible once peace was established . Obviously the attractive program outlined by Mr. Eban will not implement itself . It depends , first , upon the willingness of the Arab states to enter into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , second , upon the willingness of the United States to get behind the Assembly decision , after the resolution has passed , and to promise assistance in resettling the Arab refugees ? an essential part of any peace move  --  and in developing the economic potential of the area as a whole . One of the largest question marks hanging over the Arab-Israel debate has been the attitude of the new Republican Administration . So far no one really knows what position Mr. Eisenhower and Secretary of State Dulles will take on the concrete problems at issue . Without doubt they recognize the importance of political stability in the Middle East . But do they recognize that stability will not be achieved unless peace is made between Israel and the Arab states , or that peace depends upon assurance of a serious , long-range effort , inevitably financed in large part by the United States , td improve the economic life of the area ? The adoption of a valid resolution by the General Assembly is an essential first step , but it will amount to no more than that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid behind a creative program of reconstruction such as Mr. Eban outlined .                     