@@239329

PERSONNEL Changes of the Week William N. Deramus III , 41 , resigned as president of the Chicago Great Western Railway Co. to become president of the Missouri-Kansas-Texas Railroad , succeeding Donald V. Fraser , 60 , who will become board chairman . Deramus , in turn , will be succeeded at Chicago Great Western by Veteran Railman E. T. Reidy , 53 . Member of an old railroading family , big , brawny Bill Deramus went to work for the Wabash Railroad in St. Louis after the University of Michigan and Harvard Law School , ran a railroad in Burma for the Army during World War II , became the youngest president of any class I U.S. railroad a year after joining Chicago Great Western in 1948 . He rehabilitated the shaky line , enabled the road to pay dividends on its common stock in 1953 for the first time in over a decade . In his new post Deramus faces similar financial problems : the Katy has paid no dividends since 1930 . To some railroaders , Deramus ' appointment hinted a Great Western-Katy merger . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of principal stockholders in both the Great Western and Katy reportedly have already obtained options to buy a large block of the Katy 's common stock . &lt;I <P> Arthur M. Loew , 59 , stepped out as director and chairman of Loew 's Inc. , largest U.S. movie producer ( Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer ) and one of the largest theater chains , but will remain as president of Loew 's International , the corporation 's foreign subsidiary . By quitting before the annual stockholders ' meeting Feb. 28 , Loew , son of Founder Marcus Loew , hoped to head off a long-brewing proxy fight ( TIME , Nov. 12 ) with a dissident group of stockholders led by Canadian Contractor Joseph Tomlinson , Loew 's largest individual stockholder ( 250,000 shares ) . To appease the Tomlinson faction , the present management , headed by President Joseph R. Vogel , agreed on a slate to be presented to the stockholders . The tentative lineup : six directors for management , six for Tomlinson 's group ( including Tomlinson himself ) , with the all-important 13th director still to be decided . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treasurer of Ford Motor Co. , will retire Jan. 31 on his 65th birthday after 42 years with the company , be replaced by publicity-shy J. Edward Lundy , former member of the Princeton economics faculty who joined Ford in 1946 after a World War II stint as financial analyst for the Air Force . Doc Briggs got his nickname by starting as a first-aid man at Ford 's Chicago branch assembly plant , rapidly earned a reputation as a financial wizard , traveled widely for Ford in Europe and the Middle East , returned to Dearborn in 1929 to begin his rise to the top .                     