@@487649

THE INSURGENTS is a work of existentialist science fiction , and it was at first difficult to see what I saw in it . With the exception of pioneers like Jonathan Swift , Mary Shelley , H. G. Wells , and only recently Bertrand Russell , I abhor science fiction ; as for existentialism , I expressed myself on this subject at least a decade ago in an article erititled " Th e Emperor 's New Clothes " . Consequently , I was surprised that in spite of Vercors ' philosophical speculation , which was sometimes dull , I enjoyed this new novel very much . It may be that although Vercors ' ideas are neither profound nor original , his characterization and his style , and more than either of these , his emotional intensity  --  for it is a great pleasure these days to read a prose writer who feels deeply , to whom people and ideas matter  --  move and involve the reader . The doctor , Egmont , a leading character , embarks on an experiment to free himself from the human condition . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in a series of Yogi-like exercises , almost succeeds in eluding the fate of his species . A rather curious , passionate , perverse and quite French love interest is maintained by Olga , who is also a doctor and Egmont 's ex-mistress ; she hovers , with a quaint and touching fidelity , over him and his terrifying departures into the recesses of his unconscious . There is a second and interlocking story , in which a research scientist , a satiric writer and a labor organizer figure in a strike . Vercors thus indicates the two paths open to scientists and intellectuals : that of removing themselves , like Egmont , from affairs of the world , or living with a suffering sense of immediacy and DACHINE RAINER , - novelist and poet , is the author of A Room at the Inn , the first published section of a longer work . working toward the amelioration of the evil men do . The Insurgents engs on an upbeat note ; the strike is largely victorious and Egmont returns from months of unconsciousness to the universe of action . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which high moral values are implicit , has been replaced by science fiction in which ingenuity and an alarming preoccupation with techTHE MOST important single element in Morocco 's folk culture is its music . Since it always has been a land where illiteracy is the general rule , its production of written literature is negligible . On the other hand , like the Negroes of West Africa , the Moroccans have a magnificent and highly evolved sense of rhythm which manifests itself in the twin arts of music and the dance . Islam , however , does not look with favor upon any sort of dancing , and thus the art of the dance , while being the natural mode of religious expression of the native population , has never been encouraged here . At the same time , the very illiteracy which through the centuries has precluded the possibility of literature has abetted the development of music : the entire history and mythology of the people is clothed in song . Instrumentalists and singers have come into being in lieu of chroniclers and poets , and even during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war for independence and the setting up of the present pre-democratic regime  --  each phase of the struggle has been celebrated in countless songs . It is a moot question whether this state of affairs will obtain once the French are really out and the nation is on its feet . It seems likely that since the Moroccan way of life has already begun to suffer drastic alterations , the conditions under which music is born will change accordingly and nological progress rule the form ; this is another example of spiritual decline in the face of materialist encroachments . Vercors may be on the path of restoring the balance , particularly in his present treatment of man as both an animal ( and not a slightly more wonderful machine than a cash register ) and as the most remarkable of the primates in his ability to modify an unreflective opportunism by the occasional suspicion of the existence of right and wrong . with ever-increasing speed . For the time being the need for new propaganda songs still persists . The process of Europeanization which in most other economically " backward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an esthetic point of view ) is a natural concomitant of awakening nationalism and of the emphasis placed on mechanization , in Morocco is being hastened by a planned " deculturizing " campaign . This project for the destruction of Moroccan culture has been under way for the past three decades , but is only now attaining its full impetus , since the men who have been directing it in more or less clandestine fashion have at last come to power . Why , according to them , must that which is specifically Moroccan be suppressed ? Why must there be no more street processions with drums and rhaitas , no more Chleuh music and dancers in the markets , no more flutes in the caf  --  s , no more religious ceremonies with choruses and dancing at the tombs of the saints in the country  --  in short , no more traditionally Moroccan entertainment of any kind ? They will tell you that all these things are barbarous , that they are outward signs of a feudal way of life which PAUL BOWLES , long a resident of North Africa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of The Spider 's House , The Sheltering Sky and other books . ! Mist be extinguished in the people 's consciousness as well as in objective fact , and somewhat impatiently , that in any case living conditions are a more important consideration than music . To these propositions one would readily agree if they were truly germane to the argument , but since they smack of speciousness , one is justified in seeking a more cogent reason for the prohibitions . The most immediately satisfying explanation is that Moroccan popular culture is not preponderantly Arabic , but Berber , and since it is practically impossible to find a literate urban Arab here who considers that the Berbers have any culture at all , the general opinion is that the autochthonous population must at all costs be Arabized if it is to share in the benefits of independence . No one seems ever to have conceived of the possibility of an independent Berber Morocco ; in fact , to mention the Berbers at all qualifies one as a pro-French reactionary . At present , to become modern means to become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ misnomer ; it does not imply the forging of a political , economic , ethnic or cultural entity in the land , so much as it proclaims Morocco 's support of the aims of the Arab League ( as contrasted with the wider and less well-defined interests of the Moslem world . ) This ad-herence being still merely a concept held by a tiny but articulate minor-ity , the " nationalizing " of the coun try can be effected only , through an intensive and lengthy campaign on all fronts , a campaign which to succeed requires a thoroughgoing revolution . It entails the urbanization of a pastoral and agricultural people living under conditions which were normal in Europe some fifteen centuries ago . Inasmuch as there is no discernible immediate necessity for the metamorphosis they are expected to undergo , the majority of Moroccans can not cease being what they are , a vestige of antique civilization , until they have been forcibly transformed into something else . THE MUSIC , apart from its contemporary function as a fairly accurate cultural barometer , has a very real esthetic value in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Asia , Africa and Europe have met , repulsed one another , merged , divided , re-met and re-merged . Just as the cult of Pan is still extant in the mountains here , so there are elements in the rural music of the entire North African littoral which defy strict classification as to geographical source , vestigial elements of an extremely ancient Mediterranean musical culture , perhaps already here when the Phoenicians arrived , and yet not necessarily indigenous to North Africa . The neolithic Berbers have always had their own music , and they still have it . It is a hieratic art ( neither Arabic nor Mediterranean ) , highly percussive and with complicated juxtapositions of rhythms , limited scalar range ( often of no more than three adjacent tones ) and a unique style of vocalizing . Like most Africans , the Berbers developed a music of mass-participation , one whose psychological effects were aimed more often than not at causing hypnosis . When the Arabs invaded the land , they brought with them music of a very different sort , addressed to the individual , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speculativeness . In this hostile region they built their great walled cities , where they entrenched themselves , and from which they sent out soldiers to continue the conquest , southward into the Sudan , northward into Europe . With the importation of large numbers of Negro slaves the urban culture ceased being a purely Arabic one . ( The child of a union between a female slave and her master has always been considered legitimate . ) Across the strait in Spain , at the apogee of Moroccan power , a court music was developed which , using the texts of the local contemporary Islamic poets , combined Arabic prosody , West African ( and to a lesser extent Berber ) rhythms , with the melodic tournure and loose polyphony of the medieval Europeans . The idiom was brought back to Morocco by Moslem refugees when Castille invaded Andalusia , and is still a living tradition in the larger cities . Because this music , called Andaluz , is considered to be of primarily Arabic inspiration , it , along with the popular ditties of the day ( which have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , is the only Moroccan music which receives the endorsement of the powers that be . Each Friday one can still hear it over the radio , whereas the few regular broadcasts of music in other Moroccan idioms have ceased . Not that Andaluz music is in favor with the masses , either urban or rural : a generation ago the city people turned to Egypt for their musical and cinematic entertainment , and have remained with it ever since , while the country people up until now have made their own music . The idie fixe of performers here today is that music must be written out in European notation , as in Egypt . Even if this were possible in the case of Moroccan music , which it manifestly is not , the tension formed by simultaneous improvisatory freedom and strict adherence to traditional form , which as in jazz is the very soul of the music , would still be destroyed . The solution , according to the Egyptian musicians who have been arriving in Morocco during the past year , is to write new music . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are basic and harmonies startlingly inept . The difference in quality of both musical ideas and workmanship between the old and the new products is roughly that which exists between a page of illuminated manuscript form a tenth-century Koran and a souvenir pennant from Atlantic City . ITT connectio- n with this program of cultural liquidation , the astonishing fact is not that no influential Moroccan has as yet raised his voice against the destruction of one of his country 's most precious possessions ( for , after all , the statesmen and politicians of a new nation struggling for survival have other things to be concerned about besides the preservation of an art to which they have never given a thought in any case ) , but that no musicologist from any country has made an effort to capture the music on tape or disc before its disappearance . Astonishing , because so much recording has been done in other parts of the world where the music is often of less beauty and less actual value to the student of musicology . Twenty-five years ago it was sometimes possible to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an arbitrarily truncated three minutes ' worth of Andaluz music ; a few Chleuh songs are obtainable on records , but apart from these two categories ( plus , of course , the modern commercial material ) nothing is available , or ever has been . No q'sida ( AraboBerber prototype of the medieval Spanish casida ) has to my knowledge ever been recorded , yet until as recently as 1950 they were still being sung and played by wandering minstrels outside the gates of Fez and occasionally in the Djemaa el Fna of Marrakech . No Riffian music of any sort exists in recorded form , nor does any of the splendid music of the various ( now forbidden ) religious brotherhoods . Nor is anything available from the tribes of the Middle Atlas or from the south of Morocco , where the Draoua , for instance , have a music which is unique in Northwest Africa , and calls to mind the songs of Ethiopia . Nor have I ever discovered a single recorded example of the extremely beautiful cantorial art of the Moroccan Jews , of an early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accustomed to hear in Europe , America or the Middle East . Now it is too late to take down some things , because they have ceased to exist ; but in the hinterlands , providing he were astute enough to overcome the obstacles which might be placed in his path by the self-appointed censor in the population , the intrepid field musicologist would still find enough material left to make even a partially successful attempt well worth his effort . 