@@235234

Although Canadians have kept Liberal governments in power in Ottawa for 20 years . Canada is by no means a one-party country . In provincial elections held last week in Ontario . Canada 's most populous province , the Progressive Conservative ( Tory ) government , led by Premier Leslie Miscampbell Frost , won a smashing victory and was returned to office for a fifth straight term . The Tories captured 83 seats in the 98-seat legislature , while the Liberals , even with the strong backing of their party 's powerful administration in Ottawa , could win only ten . <P> The Tory victory was largely a personal triumph for Premier Leslie Frost , 59 . A genial small-town lawyer from Lindsay , Ont. ( pop . 9,603 ) . Frost took over the premiership in 1949 and steadily built up the Tory vote by running a smooth , prosperous administration . One of his first moves was to settle a long taxation feud between the Ontario and federal governments . Frost tried no spectacular political experiments , but he kept taxes low , increased welfare grants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of discord ever was heard outside the caucus room . <P> Frost traveled tirelessly over the province , delivering warm , neighborly talks to the voters , steadily spreading his reputation as a man of good will by studiously refraining from sharp criticism or controversy with his opponents . Said he : " I have endeavored ' never to be harsh with people . " The voters evidently like his friendly manner ; plenty of them went right on voting Liberal in national elections , but when Les Frost ran in his " own league , they gave him landslide majorities . <P> His phenomenal success in Ontario inevitably caused Tory Party chiefs to wonder about Frost as a potential leader for the wilderness-wandering national Tory Party , which has lost every major election since 1935 . Frost has always rejected the suggestion , stoutly disclaiming any ambition to challenge the Liberals in the national political arena .                     