@@488230

Scientists and Diplomats The three existing nuclear powers ? the United States , Britain and the Soviet Union ? are scheduled to meet in Geneva on October 31 to negotiate an agreement for an international ban on further testing of nuclear weapons . At a preliminary conference , scientists from eight nations , Soviet and anti-Soviet , unanimously agreed that the proposed prohibition could be adequately policed . This rare concurrence was hailed with worldwide applause . Whether it will lead to an actual cessation of testing seems doubtful , howeVer , since , qlow that the scientists are agreed , the statesmen have already begun imposing conditions , trading ' recriminations and ? engaging in the customary mayhem of their profession . The scientists , of course , have no ' monopoly of yirtue any more than the diplomats are vicious through and through , yet the contrast in the behavior of the two groups is striking . Underlying it there is a difference ? in motivation . The scientists and engineers were concerned with solving an exceedingly difficult technical problem in a new and creative way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found fulfillment in their success . The diplomats must grapple with a basic contradiction in their Craft . Randolph Bourne pointed out that war is the health of the ' state , meaning that in war the state achieves a degree of unity and power which is difficult to command in time of peace . The diplomats , obsessed with national power and glory , find agreement not only difficult , but perilous . Almost instinctively , they resist the first steps toward ' INThat they fear . The fault is neither entirely on the Russian side nor entirely on ours , but before looking for the mote in the eye of the " enemy " we are bound , in good faith , to look for the beam in our own . The headline , " Capital Suspects Atom-Test Spying by Soyiet Agents , " ( The New York Tames , October 10 , 1958 ) indicates where we should look . The text of the article blames " leaks or espionage " ( which are quite different ' things ) for the surprising accuracy with which the ' USSR @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out . So many people are involved in an atomic test that , in the normally low security-consciousness of a democracy , anyone with normal journalistic diligence can probably find out the mere fact that a test shot has been fired . Since most tests are publicly announced , can we expect the unannounced ones to be regarded as sacred ? The " leak " which gave rise to the Times story at such a time casts doubt on our desire to reach an agreement . Even more dubious is the appointment of William C. Foster to head the United States delegation for the East-West talks at Geneva on preventing surprise attacks . Agreements on the atomic-test ban and on the prevention of surprise attacks are likely to stand or fall together . The surprise-attack meeting , however , is to be on the technical level , like the successful scientific meeting to devise means of detecting , atomic tests . The other two Members of the United States delegation are the commanding general of the Tactical Command of the United States Air Force and a professor of chemistry . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few years at M.I.T. before World . War I , has dev , oted himself largely , to- business , coordination between business and government , and prosecution of the Cold War . But there is an even more serious objection to Mr. Foster . The Nation commented editorially in its September 20 issue on his ' plan for " peace-fare " ? to double American military expenditures . To match the United States militarily , he said , the Russians " would have to take away from their people one-third of the already sparse good things of life they have . " Mr. Foster 's bright idea may have no connection with the fact that he is an officer and director of Olin Mathieson , the nation 's fifth-ranking chemical company , which is suffering a depression of its own and could conceivably benefit by a sharp upturn in armament expenditures . In any case , his appointment is hardly calculated to inspire confidence in the sincerity of our search for agreement . Recognition and Non-Recognition The ways of diplomacy are often strange to the untutored citizen , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anyway , it seems a lifetime ) , we may find ourselves more puzzled than ever . The United States does not recognize Communist China and , we are assured , never will recognize that iniquitous nation . Even so , for weeks on end our Ambassador has been carrying on lengthy conversations with their Ambassador , and the two , far from meeting by Stealth , have been driving up to the conferential palace with the colors , albeit a bit faded ; they are loyal to the stable and there is nothing apathetic about the way their binoculars are glued to the course . The truth is that they are simply reluctant to bet on a crippled nag which has not done well in the trial heats and now is acting most erratically in the starting gate . Their reluctance to bet may not be sporting , but it ca n't be chalked up as desertion or apathy . Titc mb of Albany Earlier this month a man of twenty-nine died in Albany after being attacked with tear gas by state troopers , who wished to evict him from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to surrender his house when so ordered . The State of New York required his property for a new highway . But it is difficult , also not to sympathize with a man who defends his home against the bulldozers . A man is no more a match for a bulldozer than he is for a windmill , but the very inequality of the combat is what makes it symbolically effective . We do , not suggest-that roads are anything but a public benefit , we do not even whisper that there could be too many of then . But perhaps we should decide ( and soon , for the bulldozer has discovered paithogenesis ) whether man has any needs that run counter to his appetite for driving at sixty miles an hour from horizon to horizon . You need a symbol for such an inquiry : we suggest the figure of the late Marvin Titcomb of Albany . For Members Only In the article on repressive sex laws which appears on page 286 of this issue , Dr. Karl M. Bowman remarks that the long-standing taboos on public discussion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The word seems to have been chosen with uncanny accuracy , for if the Kinsey studies stand as the symbol of a new freedom , what happened to Dr. Bowman himself proves that the freedom still has narrow limits . The article in this issue is based on a talk which Dr. Bowman delivered at one of the regular Friday luncheon meetings of the Commonwealth Club of San Francisco . The club , , be it noted , invited the speaker and selected the topic . Following the luncheon , Dr. Bowman proceeded to Station KLX in nearby Oakland , where a club official interviewed him for fifteen minutes on the highlights of his talk . The interview was taped for broadcasting the following Sunday , and releases on it were sent to fourteen ' other radio stations . All of this was in accordance with normal procedure long since adopted by the club , which prides itself on tackling controversial subjects and is anxious to share its information with the public . But Dr. Bowman listened in yam for the scheduled Sunday broadcast . Inquiry revealed that the club had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ October 25 , .1958 and had sent a wire to all broadcasting stations normally carrying its program : " In view varying individual policies , suggest check tape Dr. Bowman Commonwealth Club ' Repressive Sex Laws . ' " Result : so far as is known , only one of the fifteen stations has used the tape . Now KPFA of Berkeley , California , has asked for a release ; so far the club has refused . All other questions aside , the club 's attitude is an affront to common sense . Dr. Bowman 's subject was the law , and if people can not be informed about the issues involved , and discuss them publicly , what kind of democracy do we have ? Apparently it is the Commonwealth Club 's thesis'that the only place to discuss laws regarding sex is over chicken a la king on Fridays at the Sheraton-Palace Hotel . Carmine 's Many Faces Carmine DeSapio is a man of many roles and faces ? grand , shaman of Tammany . Hall , New York 's Secretary . of State ? but whatever his role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When it became apparent that the Democrats had to ' make their peace with Congressman Adani Clayton Powell to prevent ' a possible defection of Negro votes to Nelson Rockefeller , DeSapio the Tough Political Operator ' became DeSapio the Gentle Mediator with the ease and swiftness ' of a chameleon . In a jiffy , the troublesome Powell was welcomed back to the Democratic . Party.from which , in a more confident mood , DeSapio had recently purged him as disloyal and a bad influence on civic morals ; indeed , the Congressman was upgraded and given new responsibilities , with some nice patronage thrown in for good measure and to guarantee future good behavior . Then , slipping into his role as Secretary of State , DeSapio proceeded to disqualify the petition of the United Independent Socialist Party , which is seeking a place on the ballot , because twenty-three of 27,000 signatures were found to be irregular on ingeniously technical grounds . For example , fifteen signatures were ruled " incomplete " because the signers did not list a full street number , although the registry , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and merely carried the name of the village in which the voter resided . DeSapio is eager to keep the new party , which has nominated John T. McManus for Governor and Corliss Lamont for United States Senate , off the ballot because many of its supporters are potential Democratic voters if the new party is disqualified . The issue is being tested in the courts and DeSapio 's capricious ruling may be set aside . Should it be upheld , however ; the followers of the United Independent Socialist Party can anticipate a welcome back to the Democratic Party as warm as that given the recusant Powell . Where Democratic votes are to be counted , DeSapio is not the man to cherish a grudge. 283                     