@@494658

The Last Years Of Our Greatness ? Khrushchev 's Message to the 86th Congress by HANS J. MORGENTHAU WE ARE in Mr. Khrushchev 's debt for having warned " us , and in Walter Lippmann 's for having conveyed the warning , that the United States may be enjoying " the last years of its greatness . " The scene is extraordinary and full of meaning , and the meaning is in the best Marxist tradition . Other would-be conquerors have foretold the impending doom of their prospective victims , arguing from their weakness and from the decline of their greatness , reminding them perhaps of a greatness of which nothing remains but the trappings . Such is not Mr. Khrushchev 's argument . He recognizes America 's present greatness and he denies its future not because it will itself decline but because the Soviet Union will surpass it . One is reminded of the tribute ? unmatched both in praise and insight by any defender of capitalism ? which Marx and Engels paid the bourgeoisie in " The Communist Manifesto " : It has been the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It has accomplished wonders far surpassing Egyptian pyramids , Roman aqueducts , and Gothic cathedrals .... The bourgeoisie . . . has created more massive and more colossal productive forces than have all preceding generations together . And it is both in spite and by virtue of these achievements ( because it could achieve nothing else , exhausting its historic mission with these achievements ) that the founders of Communism were as confident as is their present heir of the impending doom of capitalism . The message which Mr. Khrushchev , echoing Marx and Engels , sends us through Mr. Lippmann , then , is this : you are doomed not because you are small and weak , but because your greatness and strength are inextricably HANS J. MORGENTHAU , director of the Center for the Study of American Foreign Policy at the University of Chicago , is a member of the Democratic Advisory Council Committee on Foreign Policy . tied to a particular period of history which Communism is in the process of leaving behind . As a general proposition , the point it makes is well taken . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is unable to adapt itself to new conditions and restore its vital energies in the successful contest with new problems is doomed and that all historic societies have sooner or later been so doomed . What makes the truth of that general proposition acutely poignant for us is a general climate of opinion and a general trend of policy which , if they do riot appear to bear out that truth , do not deny it persuasively . Our government appears to act upon the assumption , which the people are pleased to accept as self-evident , that our greatness is a kind of inherited , if not natural , quality owing to certain traditional ways of thought and action and to be perpetuated through the perpetuation of these ways . This state of mind derives from what is in essence an isolationist conception of our greatness . Time was indeed when we could afford to compare our political institutions and social arrangements with those of other nations and rest assured . Time was when we could be satisfied to compare our present with our past strength and with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way of life , in terms not of abstract philosophic principles but of political and economic results , is no longer as obvious either to us or to the rest of the world as it used to be . To hundreds of millions of people the Communist way of life appears more attractive than ours . Our strength vis-a-vis other nations can no longer be measured by the degree of our unchallengeable superiority within the Western Hemisphere . It must be measured against a competition which is resolved to leave us behind and is dogmatically certain that it will . It would , of course , be preposterous to suggest that we do n't know all this . Yet our actions belie our knowledge . We know that we are fighting for our lives , but we act as though it could not be quite as serious as that . This contrast between knowledge and action distinguishes the new isolationism from the old . The old isolationism did not know what the score was and acted as though the score did not exist . The new isolationism knows the score , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . This neo-isolationist state of mind causes almost of necessity a perversion of the priorities of national policy . National policy is at all times confronted with demands which exceed , or seem to exceed , the available resources . It is the task of statesmanship to judge correctly both the actual and potential amount of the resources available and the relative importance of the demands upon them in order to support what is important with what is necessary . The Administration has failed in both tasks . Starting with a static , pre-Keynesian conception of economic life and of the creative role of government within it , the Administration has erected the balanced budget to the measure of all policy . The question , can we afford it ? has pride of place before all questions of substantive policy . And since the answer is in the negative , the argument in reverse comes easy . T His state of mind not only perverts the priorities upon which the Administration acts , it also exerts a subtly corrupting influence upon the public debate on public issues . With the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particularly , Congressional opinion tends to divide not according to the substantive merits of the issues but according to how expensive one kind of policy is compared with another kind . The President having stigmatized the opposition as " spender , " the opposition is tempted to join the issue by either proving that it is at least as budget-conscious as the Administration orelse by defying the Administration and providing more than it has asked for . Yet in truth the controversy over spending is utterly absurd . Since its strictly economic absurdity has been argued with special competence by others , such as the businessmen of the Committee for Economic Development , it only needs to be pointed out here that if the Soviet Union ? with less than half our national product ? can afford to challenge the United States on land , on the seas , and in the air , in economic productivity , in technical innovation , in foreign aid and trade , in the struggle for the minds of men , it is tantamount to a declaration of national bankruptcy for us to act on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Communist challenge . The issue which must for us overshadow all others is not how to save money but , first , how to survive and , then , how to emerge victorious from this contest . The nation which would persuade itself that it can not afford the policies which would assure its survival would have forfeited its claim to greatness and jeopardized its very existence as well . It is against this state of mind , permeating the Administration , that the 86th Congress must defend the interests of the nation . It is against its corrosive influence , against its infectious lure to escape from the hard and risky issues of history into the simple and certain world of accounting , that it must be on guard . For this state of mind , by taking our greatness and our survival for granted and by reducing the great issues facing the nation and mankind to a matter of dollars and cents , is in truth as was its isolationist predecessor in the interwar period , a prescription for disaster , Militarily , it spells mortal danger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quo . Economically , it spells wasteful stagnation . Administratively , it spells chaos . And as the policy of the opposition , it spells " moderation . " It is the mission of the 86th Congress , before it can even think of formulating concrete policies , to restore the lost sense of proportion to the government by facing the great issues that threaten the nation . What are , in necessarily sketchy outline , these issues ? The military danger which the Russian earth satellites revealed in the autumn of 1957 has not been met by adequate action . The recommendations of the Gaither and Rdckefeller committees have either not been implemented at all or else their implementation has been cut and slowed down by budgetary considerations . The sense of urgency which animated at least some public discussions more than a year ago has given way in Washington to a mood of wistful impotence . The possibility that the atomic deterrent may no longer be effective because of our weakness in retaliatory powers and our vulnerability because of insufficient active and passive defense and the certainty that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and so is the mortal danger that the so-called fourth-nation problem poses for mankind . But what can you or I do about it ? Congress can do something about it in two different ways . It can elaborate a coherent defense policy of its own , going far beyond appropriating more money than the Administration had asked for , and while it can not force the Administration to put such a policy into practice , by formulating it it erects a standard by which the performance of the Administration will be judged . Furthermore , it can mobilize public opinion in support of such a policy . A year ago some members of the Gaither committee met with the Vice President , intent upon mobilizing public support for their recommendations ; they must regret now they have allowed themselves to be dissuaded by the White House . DEFENDING THE INDEFENSIBLE WHILE our defense policy has been deflected from a bold , decisive course by the spectre of an unbalanced budget , our foreign policy has been paralyzed by fear of the unknown . Here the need for innovation is obvious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policies have presented themselves . Yet far from at least exploring these opportunities , we have been content , by and large , to continue the military policies which had proved their effectiveness in Europe 10 years ago and to extend them to regions such as Asia and the Middle East , and situations where they were bound to be ineffective . We have pursued an unqualified policy of the status quo , defined in narrow territorial and military terms . As the London Economist put it on November 29 , 1958 , in an article entitled " Stuck on the Status Quo " : " It is not so much what Mr. Dulles does in a crisis as what he does not do in between them . " However , the rationale behind Mr. Dulles ' policy is valid : that any change in the status quo brought about by , or likely to lead to , the use of force can no longer be tolerated in the atomic age . The flaw which invalidates the policy is the refusal to recognize that not every status quo is defensible , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inherently unstable , and that it is the task of statesmanship to create out of the ruinous heritage of the past a viable order which can be defended because it is considered worth defending . The proper role of Congress in the formulation of foreign policy has since Washington 's times been a subject of controversy . Yet in point of fact , the subordination of Congress to the initiative of the Executive is a matter of historic record . Congress can retard , modify , or even obstruct foreign policies of which it disapproves ; it is incapable of initiating new foreign policies and forcing the Administration to execute them . But Congress does not need to be impotent in the conduct of foreign policy . It has three potent weapons at its disposal . First , it can refuse to support foreign policies of which it disapproves . It can do so by withholding its moral support for which the Administration may ask in theform of resolutions or by withholding funds from the purposes of the Administration and diverting them to the purposes of Congress . Congress , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to approve , for instance , the resolutions concerning the defense of the off-shore islands , the non-recognition of Communist China , and the Eisenhower Doctrine . The virtual or actual unanimity with which the Senate passed these resolutions , it can safely be assumed , reflected not so much the considered convictions of virtually all members of that body as the renunciation of its independent judgment and its subservience to the judgment of the Administration . Instead of going every year through the ritual performance of cutting off a certain percentage from the requested appropriations for foreign aid , a procedure which provides no alternative for the Administration 's foreign aid policy , Congress could indeed present the Administration with a foreign aid policy of its own by appropriating funds only for purposes consonant with such a policy . If Congress could not compel the Administration to execute this alternative foreign aid policy , it could , in the unlikely contingency of an extreme conflict , confront the Administration with the alternative of accepting the policy of Congress or having no policy at all . Second , Congress can express @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bind the Administration , have a political weight which the Administration would have great difficulty in resisting . Congress has used in the past this political device for the support of Administration policies , and if its convictions counsel such a course this is as it should be . Yet does the new Congress really approve of our foreign policy , of its sterility and stagnation , of its boldness where it ought to be restrained , of its weakness where it ought to be strong , of its militarization where it is militarily useless and politically self-defeating , of its defense of an indefensible status quo ? If it does not , it has an obligation to stop feeling ill at ease and seeking relief in attacking the Secretary of State and instead to go on record with a foreign policy of its own which presents the Administration , the American people , and the world with a recognizable alternative . Finally , by thus establishing itself as the intellectual , if not the political counterfoil to the Administration , Congress can become the rallying point for a leaderless and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ignorance and complacency , created and continuously nourished by the Administration and in some measure reflecting its own , have shut the American people off from the perilous political and military state of their affairs , on the one hand , and from the thinking of their best minds in Washington and elsewhere , on the other . In the long run , we are moving step by step , as in a helpless trance , toward the ultimate holocaust which will destroy all of us and all that Western civilization has created . In the short run , we are moving quickly into a zone of mortal danger created by the military superiority of the Soviet Union . Yet the American people live in the best of all possible worlds , and the voice of the individual , with no other mandate but his knowledge , judgment , and conscience , has no chance to make itself heard above the euphoric din of the chorus of delusion . Is it utopian to suggest that Congress , bridging the gap between the facts of life and a knowledgeable but ineffectual elite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the other , constitute itself a kind of collective Demosthenes , explaining , warning , proposing , hammering away at the urgency of the dangers and the availability of the remedies ? The economic task which faces the 86th Congress is both more tangible and politically more delicate and difficult to execute than its tasks in the fields of military and foreign policy . It is more easily taken hold of , but it requires great political courage and skill for its achievement . It requires a veritable revolution in our economic thinking and practices . For the first time in our history , our economic task does not arise from a domestic problem , such as monopolies or unemployment , nor from a limited foreign situation , such as currency devaluation , tariffs or dumping . We are challenged , all of us , not just the watch industry or the cotton producers or the Treasury , and we are challenged not just as producers , distributors and consumers of economic goods , but as representatives of a distinctive way of life , as members of a particular social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The challenger is not a foreign industry or a foreign government pursuing hostile economic policies , but the social system of Communism in its totality , directed single-mindedly by a totalitarian government . The Soviet Union has chosen the economic plane as the battlefield where Communism will win its decisive victory . Mr. Khrushchev has been explicit in his resolution to prove Marx and Lenin correct in their prophecy that capitalism is doomed . While Marx and Lenin believed that this doom would result from a series of world wars , fought primarily among the capitalistic nations themselves , Khrushchev has declared that capitalism will fall because of its inferiority in economic organization , technology and productivity . He sees the Soviet Union destined to surpass the United States in economic productivity and well-being , and by demonstrating its economic superiority over the United States , the Soviet Union will set the example which the underdeveloped masses of the earth will want to emulate . They will choose the Soviet rather than the American way of life . Furthermore , this economic superiority will enable the Soviet Union to wage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its foreign markets and tying the underdeveloped areas of the world to its economic and political system . Thus without firing a shot , the Soviet Union will triumph over the United States . This total challenge , aimed not so much at our individual economic well-being as at our greatness as a nation , raises for all of us and , more particularly , for Congress the question of the viability of what we have come to regard as the American way of life in the economic sphere , that is , the competitive use , at home and abroad , of our resources and productivity primarily for purposes of private gain . This challenge is particularly acute in the field of foreign trade . Ideally , foreign trade is carried on by private enterprise for the purpose of private gain . Actually , however , governments have time and again endeavored to use foreign aid as an instrument of national policy . The so-called dollar diplomacy is a case in point . It is not true , even though it is widely believed , that through it private enterprise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ventures . Quite to the contrary , it was predominantly the government which used private enterprise abroad for the purposes of United States foreign policy . Yet while today , in view of the Communist challenge , the need for such use has become overwhelming , the government , shackled by ancient shibboleths and parochial domestic interests , has not dared to develop a policy which would make foreign trade a potent instrument of American foreign policy , and these shibboleths and parochial interests have been powerfully supported by Congress . Traditionally , Congress had to be prodded by the Executive to face the issues of the day beneath the old labels and to subordinate parochial interests to the interests of the nation . Will Congress now be able to free itself from these shackles and give the nation an economic policy commensurate with its needs ? In the absence of executive leadership and pressure , it can do so only if it develops out of its own membership a group of leaders with the vision , skill and courage to persuade devotees of an outworn economic philosophy and representatives of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the government and the economic sphere . PRIVATE TRADE , PUBLIC INTEREST IF Congress should rise to the occasion , it would have to ask itself not only whether the United States can still afford to have its foreign trade carried on exclusively by private enterprise for private gain and have the government intervene by and large only for the purpose of maximizing exports and protecting the domestic producer against foreign competition . But it would also have to raise the much more fundamental issue of whether , in view of the total challenge of the Soviet Union marshalling all its economic resources to one end , the United States can still afford the enormous wastefulness of its economic production , distribution and consumption . Can it still afford its government-stimulated and paid-for agricultural over-production ? Can it still afford the artificially induced annual obsolescence of its hard consumer goods ? Can it still afford the production of scores of slightly different models of essentially the same merchandise , production which serves no economic need but only the whim of the producer and consumer ? What about a system of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself , a ritual performing no valid economic function and being in some of its advertising manifestations hardly more than a respectable racket ? And what about the consumer who had been conditioned not to use what the economy has produced for him until it can no longer be used , but to throw it away and tear it down when it is no longer as new as it is supposed to be ? Finally , can we still afford the luxury of thinking about our economic problems in the obsolete terms of socialism vs. capitalism , spending vs. saving instead of facing the real issue : expansion vs. stagnation ? To these absurdities the government could remain indifferent , or it could even allow itself to promote them , as long as , economically speaking , the United States was , as it were , alone in the world . The United States could then play havoc with its economic resources and still remain a great and powerful nation . Yet with the Soviet Union using its economic resources as a sword aimed at America 's greatness and with our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legal phrase , " affected with the public interest , " how can our government remain indifferent to the rate of growth of our economy having fallen behind that of the Soviet Union , to the misproportion between the resources available for advertising and for atomic submarines , to our policy of foreign trade defeating in good measure the purposes of our foreign policy ? If the government can not remain indifferent to the political and military consequences of our economic policies , it must devise a comprehensive economic policy of its own which establishes the paramountcy of the public interest over private gain and convenience . With the leadership of the Executive Branch in abeyance , the 86th Congress faces here a formidable task of innovation . Even if it had the benefit of strong Presidential leadership , the Executive Branch would be ill-equipped to perform such a task . For the Executive Branch of the American Government has become a cumbersome , slow-moving instrument of government which , short of beitu faced with disaster actual or impending , is incapable of swift , decisive action and radical innovation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one structural , the other historic ? are responsible for this development . The Constitution has created a gap between the President , on the one hand , and the subordinate executive agents and agencies on the other . The Constitution confers upon the President the fullness of executive powers and conceives of the other members of the Executive Branch as his advisers and the executors of his will . According to the Constitution , the President is head of state , Prime Minister , and the Cabinet in the British sense at the same time . In actual practice , the President has had , of course , to delegate many of his constitutional powers . Yet even the most influential member of the Executive Branch , as the least influential one , derives his powers from the fullness of the President 's executive powers . Thus , with the exception of the administrative agencies created by special acts of Congress , the Executive Branch is nothing but an elaboration and proliferation of the President 's powers , lacking in that intermediate range of autonomous executive agents through which other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THIS gap , created by the lack of a constitutionally pro- vided executive hierarchy , we have filled by the extraordinary device of the committee system . The President delegates some of his executive functions to Agency A , others to Agency B , and others to Agency C , and so forth a couple of times through the whole alphabet . Not subject to effective control by either the President or an autonomous agent below the President , these agencies tend to develop into semi-autonomous fiefdoms with vested interests of their own , which they jealously guard and ambitiously try to expand . Yet while these agencies are in their day-to-day operations probably less subject to central control than , say , a British Ministry , they are devoid of the power of independent political decision , especially in so far as a decision , as the important ones generally do , impinges upon the interests of another agency . With the President far away , functionally always and physically often , with no intermediate body , such as the Cabinet , having the power of decision , and with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agency which wants to initiate a new policy must either seek the agreement of the other agencies concerned , or else it must do nothing . The latter is by far the safer and more convenient course ; hence , the propensity of our government to continue policies long after they have outlived their usefulness and even when they have become self-defeating . For the agency which insists upon a new policy must go to war with other agencies , allying itself with some , competing with others , and fighting others still . This struggle for power is brought to a halt by a peace treaty or , more often , an armistice agreement , issuing from a conference called an interdepartmental committee and being at worst an empty formula glossing over rather than settling the issue and at best a compromise among divergent views to be approved by the President . The new policy being the labored product of a faceless collectivity rather than due to the decision of one man , nobody in particular can be held to account for its results , and being a compromise , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and divergent interpretations of the different agencies having a hand in its formulation and execution . Thus if it is not stillborn , it is likely to come into the world with a weak brain and a mutilated body . This system of government puts a premium on inaction and on the mechanical continuation of safe routines . The best it can achieve is a hesitant half-step forward , with one agency pushing and the other pulling back , taken after months of intrigue , bickering and bargaining . There may have been times when we could afford this kind of government . The times in which we live require swift , decisive , coordinated action , instantaneous responses to sudden challenges . In terms of a single act , especially of a military nature , the President has proved himself capable of such a response . In terms of sustained policies , our system of government has proved itself incapable of it . As long as this system persists , whatever novel policies Congress might demand and be willing to support are likely to be delayed , corroded and obstructed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field of the arms race , the superior speed with which the Soviet Union has been able to transform basic science into technological application and the prototype into the operational weapon is obvious and menacing . The superior decisiveness with which it has been able to take the political and economic initiative is less obvious but no less menacing . The 86th Congress will be little more than an ineffectual bystander in the realm of great policy if it does not restore individual initiative , personal responsibility and coordination . Without that restoration , Congress , proposing new policies to the Executive Branch , will be like a man on the platform of a subway station during rush hour suggesting to his friend wedged in the crowd of a local that he ought to take an express ; the friend may be grateful for the suggestion , which , however , will do him no good if he is n't first helped out of the jam . Thus the reform of the machinery of government , in view of its ability to act decisively , responsibly and in concert , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SHOULD and will the 86th Congress assume these tasks , and can it perform them ? There can be no doubt that Congressional government is a poor way of governing a great nation in the most perilous period of its history . Both the spirit of the Constitution and political experience militate against it . Presidential government is vastly superior to it ; the Constitution assumes that superiority , and political experience bears the Constitution out . I have myself time and again pointed to this superiority and called upon the last two Presidents to assume the kind of leadership which only they could have given . However , we must come to terms not with a Constitutional proposition or a political lesson derived from the past , but with the political conditions of the day . We have to choose , alas , not between Presidential and Congressional government , but between Congressional government and no effective goverment at all . Will Congress make the choice which the situation demands ? There is among the leaders of Congress a respectable hesitancy to take a firm hold of the reins of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience , should be in other hands . There is among the leaders of Congress also a less respectable hesitancy which stems from that misunderstanding of the nature of bipartisanship and of the role of the opposition in a democracy , which we have discussed in these pages before . The watchword of that hesitancy is " moderation . " Congressional moderation is indeed a political virtue if it acts as a counterweight and restraint upon the lack of moderation of one or the other branches of the government . Similarly , Presidential or judicial moderation must from time to time counteract the policies of a Congress lacking in moderation . This mutual restraint is a necessary element in the political mechanics of our system of checks and balances . Moderation in Congress , then , presupposes lack of moderation elsewhere . But where the Executive Branch is already moderate to a fault , Congressional moderation can only compound the evils of executive inaction and indecisiveness . In the presence of these evils , it is the task of Congress to push not to hold back , to lead not to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Only thus will Congress restore the political balance which the lapse of effective executive government has impaired and upon which the American system of government rests . Can the 86th Congress perform this task of leadership if it should be willing to assume it ? It would be rash to deny that the odds , on organizational and political grounds , argue against the possibility of success . Yet in the absence of strong executive government , Congress has governed before ; it is true , as Woodrow Wilson has shown , it has done so ineffectually , pettily , and on occasion unworthily . But it was then not faced with a supreme challenge to the greatness and the survival of the nation , which either it will meet or nobody will , and it could not draw then upon the abundance of fresh and exceptional talent which is the great asset of the 86th Congress ; nor did the people then expect its leadership . Congress has never had the opportunity of proving itself , supported by a popular mandate , with such an asset against such a challenge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress can find confidence , in the words which Demosthenes addressed in the Third Philippic under similar circumstances to the Athenians , however in vain : The worst feature of the past is our best hope for the future . What , then , is that feature ? It is that your affairs go wrong because you neglect every duty , great or small ; since , surely , if they were in this plight in spite of your doing all that was required , there would not be even a hope of improvement . But in fact it is your indifference and carelessness that Philip has conquered ; your city he has not conquered . Nor have you been defeated ? no ! you have not even made a move . By the quality of that move , history will judge the 86th Congress . 