@@494664

The Communists are proving their case in big countries like Russia and China . We shall have to prove our case , that material progress can be had with civil liberty , in a big country . . .. This demonstration can best be made in India , and there is little doubt in my mind that if we and our Western partners could underwrite and assure the success of Indian development , it would make a world of difference . . . . It would put an end to the enervating feeling of fatality and inevitability , to the sense that Communism is the only wave of the future , If there is ? any other way of meeting the Communist challenge in Asia , I have not heard of it . - WALTER LIPPMANN , November 12 An amendment 1 sponsored with John Cooper of Kentucky , which would have put the United States in support of the success of the Indian Five Year Plan . . passed after rather serious debate in the Senate but was dropped in conference . My judgment is today we could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ JOHN F. KENNEDY , " Meet the Press , " November 9 . ET us imagine that the United States and other Western governments now determine to " underwrite and assure the success of Indian development " : What must go into such an effort ? How much more would be required of us ? In my view the United States ' share can-not be less than $3 billion over a seven-year period cover-ing the remaining two years of India 's Second Five Year Plan and the full Third Five Year Plan ending in 1966 . Yet , in this critical year of 1958 , the total of our hastily-improved loans has been $325 million ? nearly half of that sum repayable in badly-needed dollars , and all repay-able according to a timetable which bears no relation to the probable repayment capacity of any underdeveloped country . For its part , as I have already argued in these pages ( NR , Jan. 20 ) , India must undertake major agri-cultural tax reforms to increase its domestic revenues ; but such reforms are unlikely to come under non-Communist Washington attorney MATTHEW @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ US embassies and aid programs in India , Pakistan , Burma and Indonesia . From 1946-1951 he was associate in the tax department of the New York law firm of Sullivan and Cromwell . auspices in the absence of massive US assistance now . India 's foreign exchange deficit ? which prompted the emergency US loans this past year ? has been aggravated as a result of the international recession . Foreign exchange balances have dwindled to a low $420 million . The shortage of foreign exchange is going to get worse as a result of the monsoon failure last year and of a food production shortage , estimated at 10 million tons , which will necessitate increased food grains imports . And food scarcity in an underdeveloped country means inflation with its destructive effect on internal financing . Remarkably little thought has been given by our government or the international lending agencies to the basic question of the terms of repayment . Yet if present repayment arrangements are not altered , India 's third and subsequent Five Year Plans may become impossible to finance . Both US and World Bank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ periods and repayment installments in foreign exchange are becoming due and accumulating annually . The 20 loans totalling over $500 million made by the World Bank to India during the past 10 years will be largely repayable during the Third Five Year Plan ( 1961-66 ) . The International Monetary Fund loan of $200 million made last year must be repaid by 1962 . The $ i 50 million loan made by the Export-Import Bank last spring also falls due during the Third Plan . The same is true of the two Development Loan Fund loans in the amount of $175 million , although , with respect to these loans , India can at least choose to repay in rupees . Other US development loans during 1955-1957 ( made prior to the creation of the DLF ) by the International Cooperation Administration amounting to $130 million are in the same category . Additional foreign debts , public and private , will also become repayable , thereby syphoning off more of India 's foreign exchange . In total , the amount of repayments in foreign exchange due during the Third Plan period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the amount of US foreign aid India will have received for the Second Plan ! Since India 's rate of economic development is not likely to generate savings and foreign exchange earnings that would permit these repayments ? while financing even greater imports of capital goods and technical services to sustain accelerated economic development under the Third Plan ? the alternatives confronting India will be to decrease its rate of economic development and risk political disaster , or to seek more external assistance to finance both the repayments and increased imports . But the latter alternative , under the present financial assistance available to India from the West , will merely compound India 's despair under the Fourth Five Year Plan ! Not only in India , but in most of the other underdeveloped countries , the need for capital goods and technical assistance from abroad during the first years of development is so great that any added loan repayments in foreign exchange create an insupportable burden . That is why it seems to me so evident that repayment of loans should be spread over a 50-year period . Repayment should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the underdeveloped country may decrease its import needs as industrialization progresses and increase its exports of manufactures ? permitting a favorable balance of trade with which to earn the foreign exchange necessary to repay the loans . ffiHIS should have been clear from the very beginning . I For it is , after all , one of the lessons of American economic development . The US received substantial financial aid from abroad in the early stages of industrialization , most of it in the form of permanent investment or long-term debt . The best example is the 40-50 year railroad bonds which were held by British and Europeans . ( To keep matters in perspective one may note that India would have to receive about $100 billion ? after making due allowance for greater investment costs and greater population ? in order to secure foreign help equivalent to that received by the United States ) . Contrast this with the World Bank loans to the Indian Railways , repayable during a 10-year period after 5 years of grace ; or our DLF loans , repayable in 20-year installments which begin immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a debtor to a creditor nation , the repayment of our foreign investments and debts became quite painless . There would appear to be no reason why this experience should not guide us in our economic relations with the underdeveloped countries . In the . light of untenable existing repayment policies , the Administration 's plans for channeling large portions of future economic assistance to India and other underdeveloped countries through the international finance agencies ? by augmenting their resources ? may have little value . How the aid is channeled is less important than persuading the agencies concerned to change their policies from short- to long-term loans . Moreover , our fitful efforts to meet periodic foreign exchange crises should be replaced by a longer-range and thus more realistic program . These economic bail-outs are demoralizing to Indians and permit no sound basis for planning . Merely to assure India foreign exchange solvency through March , 1959 , as we are now doing , or even until the end of the Second Five Year Plan , leaves Indian planners in mid-air . With no notion of what to count on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Five Year Plan now in preparation ; and in so doing , they are , of course , endangering the present Indian political order . The precise amounts of aid that are required can be arrived at only after a new series of discussions and consultations with Indian planners . But it can be roughly estimated that the US figure would be at least the $3 billion I have suggested , unless the contributions of other Western governments prove much larger than anticipated . Such assistance would most probably require special Congressional authorization . It may be argued that special Congressional action is not needed ; that the Development Loan Fund can provide enough aid to India if it is given enough money by the Congress ; and that although the Fund does not make long-term loans , there is nothing in the law that says it may not . However , for the Fund to do this , a basic policy change would have to be made . It would not be enough , as some contend , for the Loan Fund to continue its policy of short-term loans but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result would be an accumulation ' by the US of fantastic and embarrassing sums of rupees . Our government would become embroiled in internal monetary and fiscal policy decisions for which no outside power can afford to incur direct responsibility , and might very well at some point hold more rupees than the government of India . The foreign currencies accumulated to date by the Treasury are already creating enough difficulties around the world . Merely adding to the capital of the Loan Fund , moreover , will not make it possible for India to plan soundly for its Third Plan . About 50 countries would be competing for the increased funds . Any disproportionate allocation to India without specific Congressional mandate would arouse more of the kind of resentment and recrimination from other countries which we have already experienced with respect to the two present DLF loans to India . The Congress , of course , could earmark adequate funds for India within the Loan Fund appropriation . This might be a more expedient approach than separate legislation for India , but one or the other is clearly in order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic Idevelopment and foreign exchange needs , the US should greatly expand its food surplus program . India 's recent Food Grains Enquiry Committee , after properly taking into account population growth , increased incomes and other pertinent factors affecting food consumption , estimates a minimum annual need by 1961 ( the end of the Second Plan ) of 79 million tons of food grains . The Committee concludes that , at best , domestic production can be expected to reach 77.5 million tons , leaving a chronic shortage of 1.5 million tons . It adds , however , that cyclical variations as high as 7 percent can be expected in some years because of bad monsoons and other natural calamities . This adds about 5 million tons of food grains to the chronic shortage in bad years . These projections , if anything , must be considered conservative : production during 1957-58 was only 62 million tons , which is , as already noted , about 10 million tons short of the demand estimated by the Committee . India must be assured at least 5 million tons of food from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realistic US program should , therefore , make available to India from our agricultural surpluses up to about $500 million annually in food grains . This year , under the existing P.L. 480 surplus program , we have agreed to supply at best 3 million tons of food , valued at $238 million . This part of our aid program should be handled on a grant basis outside the purview of existing surplus programs . India should not be burdened with debt for food when it is so easy for us to supply it from our surpluses . Finally , it would be highly useful if all of us were to re-assess the Administration 's emphasis on increasing the flow of private investment to the underdeveloped countries . This emphasis is sound in the sense that technical services for the industrialization of the underdeveloped countries can come in the case of the West only from private firms . Investment guarantees and substantial tax con-cessions to alleviate undue risks and augment profit margins are necessary to induce the flow of American investment and technical services to the underdeveloped countries . The Boggs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposals in this and related areas of foreign economic policy . But it was evident in administration testimony that the Treasury Department with its orthodox approach to the tax laws and its unwarranted fear of a loss of revenues is effectively resisting such tax concessions . In any case a heavier flow of private capital and technical services , while vital as a means of transmitting our technology to these countries , is by itself no answer to India 's basic development problem . If our aid is to pay off in stability and growth we must extend governmentto-government aid on the scale I have outlined . Anything less is likely to prove futile . Indeed , one often wonders whether an inadequate program , destined to end in failure and disillusionment in both countries , is worth having at all .                     