@@494345

Competitive Co-Existence COMPETITIVE Co-existence is the new Eisenhower foreign policy . It is no new policy at all for the nation that was led by President Truman and Secretary Acheson . But for the Republican Party which called coexistence appeasement , if not betrayal , it is new .. It means a repudiation of , the " liberation " that the Repub- lican Party advocated for Eastern Europe . It means a further repudiation of preventive war in Asia . It acknowledges that for the foreseeable future the Communist regimes can not be dislodged short of war . And it means a refusal to initiate war to accomplish their overthrow . This much is a reversal of an attitude voiced , if not acted upon , by the Eisenhower Administration from January , 1953 , to June , 1954 . During that period the leaders of the Administration held that the Communist regimes were unstable and could be bent , if not broken , by force or the threat of force , There was reason to regard the Soviet and satellite re , gimes as unstable during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ led to the Berlin uprising . But with the consolidation of the new regime in Moscow , and the maintenance of Communist rule in the satellite na tions , the Dulles concept of liberation became attainable in the short term only by war . And since the Administration made the terrible , if necessary , decision that any war fought in Europe would be fought with nuclear weapons , that decision reinforced the impossibility of liberation as an objective of the NATO powers . Yet no i new political policy was permitted to take its place . Instead , liberation as a potential goal of NATO emerged as a silent concomitant of the decision to arm a sovereign Germany . While the German divisions remained on paper , NATO could discount the murmurs of aggressive war . But for these murmurs the London and Paris Ac cords acted as an amplifier . The accords do not in them selves create a German force capable of threatening Russia . The United States continues as the sole source of nuclear weapons for the European armies , and as the main supplier of heavy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But they do create an armed force that might be used as the pretext for war against Russia given anything less in Washington than a wholehearted dedication to peace . For this reason it was wise for the President again to rule out the preventive war doctrine and to advance the alternative doctrine of competitive co-existence , both to reassure the French Assembly and to make as certain as we can that the violent protests of the Kremlin stop short of armed intervention to prevent the formation of the German divisions . So President Eisenhower has balanced the new accords on Germany with a new emphasis on co-existence . In this sense , competitive co-existence means something less than recognition of the permanence of the division of Europe . It means a renewal of the assurance , contained in the Brussels Pact that the present frontiers will not be revised by force . It means less a softening of allied policy than an effort to prevent a hardening in Soviet policy . ? . N THE Far East , in contrast , competitive co-existence I means - 9. important shift in mood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assumptions of Republican policy ? that the Peking regime is unstable , and that it can be overturned without a world war . , Since January , 1953 , the Administration 's highest ad visers , Admiral Radford and Walter Robertson , Assistant Secretary of State for the Far East , have argued that , the Peking regime is not yet consolidated , and must now be broken . They have held that it can be broken by bombing and blockade , and President Eisen hower himself has furthered the illusion that Chiang Kai-shek could successfully invade the Mainland with no more than American material aid . These now-rejected assumptions led naturally to the decision of April , 1954 , to undertake armed intervention in the Indo-China War , and although Dulles was bluffing then in proposing an air strike , Admiral Radford was not bluffing , Radford granted the risk of involvement with Communist China , but , he believed that any opportunity should , be seized upon to engage Communist China in war . He argued impunity. that China could be bombed with because Peking could not successfully fight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back , Russia would not honor her commitment to defend her partner , Pressed further , Radford added better now than later , the presentable if not persuasive argument for preventiveii war . i It was strategic error and political suicide to advocate the extension of the war in Indo-China . Yet the Vice President followed Radford in predicting the engagement of American troops while the President seemed to endorse the action by announcing that if Indo-China fell all Asia would follow ? an unwarranted statement and one that could only be advanced in order to prepare public opinion for war . The British on that occasion saved the President from himself . Then on November 23 Peking presented a third opportunity for preventive war by announcing the detention of the American prisoners . True to their policy of seizing on every opportunity to extend the conflict with China , Senator Knowland and his counterparts in the Pentagon again proposed responding by force -- in the form of a blockade . Mr. Dulles wavered , but the President called instead for diplomacy , directed by ; the United Nations . Blockade , said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an act of war and : We owe it to ourselves and to the world to explore every possible peaceable means of settling differences before we even think of such a thing as war , The Eisenhower Administration , in other words , is not looking for provocations . Instead it is demonstrating a willingness to live indefinitely with a situation it dislikes but sees no easy way of changing the Communist domination of China . In the half-hidden , indirect manner that marks progress in the Cold War , the United States Government is now offering a kind of unacknowl edged , de facto recognition of the Communist regime . Instead of seeking to overturn the existing situation in Asia , the President seeks to stabilize it . T HE PRESIDENT proposes no formal recognition of the Peking regime , for he regards recognition not as China 's right to demand but as our gift to bestow or to withhold . He is proposing no shift in the US attitude in the UN , at least as long as Peking violates the terms of the UN armistice in Korea . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he regards as a necessary means of delaying China 's military build-up . He is abandoning none of our costly and doubtless futile efforts in South Viet-Nam to prevent the area from passing under the complete control of the Communist Viet Minh . ? In the critical areas of Korea and China , however , the President has moved already to express his new policy of stabilization in formal accords . The new agreement with President Rhee guarantees the Republic of Korea against invasion but prohibits it from attacking North Korea . In the same way the new Military Defense Pact with the Chinese Nationalists guarantees Formosa and the Pescadores against attack but adds that this is the limit of ? our commitment to Chiang Kai-shek . Once ratified by , the Senate this pact makes permanent the intent of the Administration to withhold Formosa from the Communists and removes it as a bargaining , . point in diplomacy . But it also shelves the " unleashing " policy that sought to revive the Chinese civil war . It seeks to , .. separate two sovereign powers , Formosa and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not promoting the Nationalists as an instrument of Communist overthrow , in the hope that under these circumstances Peking will not look on the continued existence of the Nationalists on Formosa as a threat grave enough to justify war with the United States . Here , as'in Germany , the President has moved to avert Communist action ' at a time when Anti-American propaganda is rising to.new heights in Peking . The danger of war in Asia does , however , remain acute . For the Na- tionalists , unlike the West Germans , have an almost admitted incentive to precipitate a general war . And regrettably the incentive is kept alive by the ambiguity of our position . We are committed to tight beside the Nationalists in Formosa and the Pescadores . But they also hold the Tachens and Matsu which are not a part of the Formosa chain but outposts of the Chinese mainland , 18 miles off the China coast . The Nationalists further maintain 30,000 troops on Quemoy , an island actually inside the mainland harbor of Amoy . Quemoy is within easy range of mainland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capture to be intepreted as out defeat . The ' Nationalists hold these islands less as bridges for invasion than as political and , psychological symbols of their intent to return to China . And Chiang , with his 900 generals on full pay , his 1,863 governing bodies already organized for all the provinces of China , his troops who look on their , ecistence on Formosa as - living death , " must plan to return . Knowing this , the Chinese Communists are under the heaviest pressure to capture nearby islands : But while retention of the islands is con- trary to the new Eisenhower policy , our attitude in the . event they are invadedis unknown . The Administration is choosing the course of indecision , but if its indecision ? continues when the islands are attacked , they may still serve as the means by which the Nationalists draw the US and China into a full-scale war . If this is true , then whether or not Peking and Moscow respond intelligently to the shift in US policy , there are bound to be moments of crisis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the President clings to his new policy of restraint , he will come under new and perhaps sharper attack from the Republican right-wing . Its leaders are men of conviction , and because there is some logic in their conviction it is worth treating their position with respect . T Is Senator Knowland 's belief that time is on the om-I C munist side . He does not assume our political and economic inferiority in the West where European recovery is gaining momentum . He does believe that Russia is gaining the military power to devastate the United States . It is his fear that , confronted by this power , the US will go to almost any length to avoid world war . Therefore , he argues , the way will be open for Russia to undertake a series of small aggressions , no one of which will seem worth fighting over , but all of which taken together will amount to the victory of world Communism . As a theoretical argument Senator Knowland 's case is persuasive . And yet/it lacks supporting evidence over the period in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fears . The possession of nuclear weapons has not incited a new aggressiveness in the Kremlin , and probably for sound reasons . First , it seems probable that the Soviet rulers have correctly assessed the destructive power of nuclear weapons . They may have , concluded that while conventional wars can still be won in the sense of advancing national objectives , there is by definition no victory worth winning in nuclear war . Second , world revolution and national survival may be undergoing a shift in relative importance as the objectives of the Soviet State . For the Soviet system like all others is subject to change . In Soviet society , as in all others , industrialization creates its own castes and classes , its own values , its own emphasis on material comforts that take precedence over international revolutionary crusades . There remains , of course , in the Kremlin a continuing refusal to accept the legitimacy of other states . There is further a contrary need to cite the hostility of the non-Communist world to justify continuing dictatorship and misery . But there also appears to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intent to overcome it which may or may not succeed , These factors among others make possible co-existence if not peace . The Kremlin 's objective is still not to agree but to divide . But as long as it does not make preventive war its own policy , preventive war is not a necessary or proper course for the West . Nonetheless , Senator Knowland and those who share his convictions argue with still greater force that in Asia time is on the Communist side . Communism , they hold , is well suited to the present ambitions of Africa , Asia and the Near East for rapid industrialization and modernization regardless of the human cost . China , they add , is the natural leader of Asia , and the vigor of Chinese Nationalism that the Communists have taken over is Asia 's greatest force . Communism , the argument continues , has not yet gained control of the minds and skills of 600 million Chinese . When it does , Asia is lost and with it perhaps the world . Therefore , better now than later when no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coastal cities , the rail junctions , the new factories and mines that arc rising in Manchuria . In our opinion this argument is both morally unacceptable and politically unwarranted . In manpower , in skill , in resources and in ideas the potentials of the non-Communist nations exceed those of the Communist side . The test is simply the capacity of the non-Communist world to organize its potential and put that potential to work in ways acceptable to the peoples of underdeveloped areas . The need is a new vision of what the non-Communist nations by common effort , can achieve and a new program to bring the vision closer to reality . This is the pos itive aspect of competitive co-existence without which , admittedly , the doctrine is unworkable and perhaps even self-defeating . The President understands this . His Administration is contemplating a world economic program on a major scale . It calls for expenditures of $2 billion or more a year for the underdeveloped nations , raised first by grants , next by government loans and third by private investment . In principle the program is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Republican Party that pays homage to the end in view , and then refuses to pay the costs of moving toward that end . On the basis of past statements and actions , it is fair to suggest that there will be no effective , . long-range US eco- nomic program for Asia if it is to be charted and carried through by the **26;1614;TOOLONG Republican leaders in the President 's Cabinet or on the Hill . With responsible Democratic backing , however , the program is possible . . . T0 THE extent that competitive co-existence does gam adherents among representative Republicans , they will in many cases be men who accept it because of its promise of relaxed tensions , who believe it offers the easiest path toward the ever-pursued and never-attained balanced budget . Herein lies another danger . For optimism of this kind might encourage the economy-minded to urge further reductions in our defense spend- ing , reductions inspired less by lowered need than by it desire to cut taxes . Those who support the President 's plan for . , , generous use of American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a right to say they accept the President 's new co-existence concept . But those who oppose this effort can not claim the optimism the concept implies ; for them logic , leads to Senator Know-land 's unnamed solutions and his mounting fears . 