@@265570

Five months ago , U.S. negotiators struggling to achieve an agreement with the Russian scientists on a detection system for atomic explosions were thrown into confusion . Tests had shown that underground explosions could not be detected so far away as had been thought , but the Russians refused to increase the number of detection stations the U.S. had first proposed . Since then , U.S. efforts have been directed at discovering means to improve the sensitivity of detection with the stations proposed . Last week , as negotiators prepared to resume the suspended talks at Geneva , word leaked of a report submitted to President Eisenhower which concludes that U.S. seismologists have achieved considerable success . Though the report itself is still secret , one major improvement has been sacrificed by its inventors-Paul W. Pomeroy and George H. Sutton of Columbia University 's Lamont Geological Observatory . <P> Storm Trouble . The most sensitive way to detect distant earthquakes-or underground atomic explosions-is by measuring the long waves that travel along the earth 's surface instead of striking deep into its interior . Drawback to this method is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set up shorter surface waves ( microseisms ) that obscure or blot out the record . The Lamont improvement is an ingenious filtering device that separates earthquake waves from local confusion . <P> The new system is based on a type of seismograph in which a heavy weight is suspended so that it holds still while the earth waves move past it . The slight motion between the weight and electrical elements close to it creates a fluctuating electrical current . Before the current reaches the recording apparatus Pomeroy and Sutton pass it through a special galvanometer-a coil that makes a small weight move against the resistance of a delicate spring . The waves in which they are interested are long and of low frequency ( 40 to 50 sec . ) . They found that by choosing a galvanometer with the proper relationship between coil and spring , they could mechanically " tune " their system to register only long earthquake waves and filter out shorter microseisms . <P> Jumbles Made Sharp . The result was magical . Seismograph records that were hardly more than meaningless jumbles turned into clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showed these records to a recent Washington meeting of seismologists , the contrast was so striking that the sophisticated audience burst into applause . <P> Pomeroy and Sutton are guarded about the effect their filters will have on international networks for detecting underground nuclear tests . They calculate that six stations equipped with the new instruments could detect most underground disturbances anywhere on earth that have the energy of a " nominal " ( 20-kiloton ) nuclear bomb . Between 20 and 50 stations ( v. the presently postulated 180 ) would be required not only to detect but also locate such disturbances . They are not prepared to estimate just how many more would be required to detect explosions of bombs as small as 5 kilotons or how accurately they could distinguish man-made nuclear earthquakes from natural ones .                     