@@241219

While Southerners in recent years have become increasingly impatient of Northern reporters who write stories criticizing segregation in Dixie , one of North Carolina 's most influential citizens is a sharp-tongued Yankee newspaperman who unabashedly derides discrimination in any form . His name is Harry Golden . A one-time promotion man for New York 's Daily Mirror and evening Post , rumpled , roly-poly Golden , 54 , has published the bimonthly Carolina Israelite ( circ. 11,500 ) since he settled in Charlotte , N.C. 15 years ago . <P> Golden is consulted constantly by Southern officials concerned with racial issues , many of whom have even learned to treasure his irrepressible wisecracks . At a press conference with North Carolina 's Governor Luther Hodges , Golden quipped : " How does it feel to be governor of a state where one-third of the population is embittered ? " Chuckling , Hodges turned to other newsmen and said : " Gentlemen , I think Harry Golden is one of the most valuable citizens of this state . " Golden maintains that his barbs are not treated seriously because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explains , " think of Jews as surrogate Negroes . Everyone knows where I stand , but they laugh with me and at me . " Golden 's favorite boast is that since he is also a Yankee and a self-styled " radical , " he is " a member of three minority groups . " <P> Seatless Schools . In actual fact , Golden 's Israelite does not appeal predominantly to Jews , Northerners or radicals , but to readers with such varied views as Harry Truman and Chief Justice Earl Warren , Adlai Stevenson and Thomas Dewey . Golden has no room for news stories , pictures or headline type . Instead , he fills the 16-page paper with witty , erudite discourse on subjects ranging from Dr. Johnson 's recipe for oysters ( baked in a flour-and-water batter ) to Cato 's hangover cure ( raw cabbage leaves ) . <P> But the Israelite 's keenest fillip comes from Golden 's saucy good sense on issues affecting racial and religious minorities . Last summer , while the North Carolina legislature was concocting elaborate legal stratagems to preserve segregation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formula for desegregation , based on his observation that deep-seated racial prejudices disappear when Southerners stand up . Explaining his Golden Vertical Negro Plan in the Israelite , Golden deadpanned : " The South , voluntarily , has all but eliminated vertical segregation . The white and Negro stand at the same grocery and supermarket counters , deposit money at the same bank teller 's window , pay phone and light bills to the same clerk . It is only when the Negro ' sets ' that the fur begins to fly . " Urged Golden : " Provide only desks in all the public schools of our state ; no seats . " Though the lawmakers passed up Golden 's suggestion , readers ordered 10,000 reprints of the Vertical Negro editorial .                     