@@487628

IN STRIKING contrast to the bitter public controversy over the segregation issue in the Southern public schools is the fact that integration of Negro students in Southern higher education is largely a fait accompli . This quiet revolution in the traditional patterns of race relations has been accomplished for the most part since 1948 . Prior to 1948 the number of higher institutions in the South  --  i.e. , the seventeen " separate-school " states plus the District of Columbia  --  which had admitted Negro students to hitherto all-white campuses could have been counted on the fingers of one hand . The University of Maryland Law School had admitted Negroes since 1935 as the result of a lawsuit ; the University of West Virginia had begun about 1940 to admit Negro graduate students , and one or two Catholic schools had enrolled a few Negroes . In the late 40 's , the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , which had already sponsored several legal tests against public institutions , returned to the attack with renewed vigor and skill . In 1948 Negro plaintiffs won @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ University of Texas and the University of Oklahoma . There followed other suits against the University of Tennessee , Missouri , Kentucky , Louisiana , North Carolina , Virginia , and Delaware , all of which resulted in decisions favorable to the plaintiffs . Thus by 1953 all of the state universities except five ( Alabama , Florida , Georgia , Mississippi , South Carolina ) had admitted Negro students to their graduate and/or professional schools . Due to recent litigation , two of these , Alabama and Florida , are fairly sure to enroll Negro students in 1956 . Various other public institutions , such as the state colleges of agriculture ands county or municipal colleges , either yielded to legal pressure or voluntarily admitted Negroes because they knew they could be required to do so . In the meantime various church-supported institutions and some of the private schools fell in with the trend . The result of all this has been that there are now approximately 125 Southern higher institutions , formerly all-white , which are today admitting Negroes . About 10 per cent of these integrating schools are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and publicly-supported institutions . As for location , the schools are divided about fifty-fifty between the border states and the former Confederate states , but the variations are high from state to state : one each in Alabama , Georgia , and South Carolina , up to more than a score in Texas . There is a sprinkling of junior colleges in the list , but more than three-fourths are on the senior-college or university level . As for the church-supported schools , they are about evenly divided between Catholic and Protestant , with Presbyterian , Baptist , and Methodist colleges heading the Protestant list in that order . FIGURES on the enrolment of Negro students are hard to come by , as most of the schools claim that " we do not keep any ' records by race . " However , on the basis of information obtained through personal interviews on many campuses and from other sources , it is possible to make a fairly ' satisfactory estimate . During the current academic term there are probably about 1,000 Negro students in the integrated public institutions and about an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The summer session , however , shows a much higher Negro attendance since this is the best time for the school teacher to pursue graduate work . In the regular and summer session combined , there will be upwards of 2,000 Negroes this year in the public institutions alone . There is wide variation from school to school . Quite a few , especially in the seaboard and mid-South states , have fewer than ten . Negroes , whereas the border-state and Southwestern schools tend to have much lager enrolments  --  say , fifty to one hundred or more in the regular session and upwards of 200 in the summer session . In the total picture the proportion of Negro students is still quite low  --  in most instances not more than 1 or 2 per cent . Until recently nine-tenths of the Negro enrolment in the public in-Stitutions was on the graduate and professional level . This was where the legal attack had been centered , for it was here that the inadequacy or even the absence of courses in the separate Negro colleges was most easily proved . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ professional schools , most of the states tried to hold the line at that level . However , since the momentous decision of the Supreme Court in the public-school cases on May 17 , 1954 , compulsory racial segregation is discriminatory per se / and is therefore unconstitutional . The new doctrine has already been applied in test cases brought by Negro undergraduate students in Louisiana and North Carolina . In other words , it is rapidly becoming apparent that no person can legitimately be excluded from any public institution on any level on grounds of race . Thus public institutions ' may expect a substantial enrolment of Negro undergraduate students in the next few years . State teachers colleges and women 's colleges , most , of which have escaped the integration trend because they are largely undergraduate schools , will now begin to appear on the integration list most frequently . Incidentally , there is a reciprocal process of integration of white students into Negro schools which can be mentioned only briefly . Most Negro institutions  --  there are a hundred of them  --  have had the color bar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A few have for many years quietly taken in an occasional white student . Now more than twenty of the Negro colleges either have or are willing to admit some white students ; one , West ' Virginia State College , has practically been " swamped " With 200 whites ; and many more will welcome them as soon as legislators and trustees realize fully that the segregation laws are null and void . The most remarkable thing about this revolution in Southern education and race relations is the fact that it has been accomplished so rapidly and so peacefnlly . In spite of fears and of dire predictions concerning bloodshed and the wholesale withdrawal of white students if ever a Negro was allowed to entera white university , the transition was actually made in a rather calm and prosaic fashion . There are still hostile white students , of course , but they have rarely shown their hostil ; ity in overt action . In perhaps the worst incident to have occurred during the transition , when someone threw a rock and smashed a window in the apartment of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a veterans ' apartment project at Louisiana State University , the culprits found themselves very much in the minority . Other white students patroled the grounds to prevent further aggression , and some of them made friendly calls on the Negro couple to indicate their moral support . During the first couple of years of they big change there was an attempt in several states to segregate the Negro student in various ways  --  in dining halls , libraries , rest rooms , and even in the classrooms . State officials took the position that the state laws requiring segregation were still in force , and they instructed the administrators of public institutions to enforce them . The administrators attempted to comply , but strikingly they found this to be difficult ; most students and faculty simply tended to disregard the strictures . And doubt as to their illegality was removed by the Supreme Court when it held , in a test case brought by a Negro student at the University of Oklahoma , that the Negro , having been admitted to a school , is entitled to the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious administrative discrimination remaining is in the area of dormitory facilities . While the overall picture is one of integration of the Negro students into the residence halls , there are several institutions which offer no dormitory space to Negroes or else house them in separate buildings . Usually the students have simply not pushed the question , but most administrators are well aware that in any legal test a federal court would rule in favor of the Negro . Anyone who has watched the integration process unfold can not help but be impressed by the evolution of administrators ' attitudes and policies . At first many presidents and deans were so jittery and over-sen-Dnalintaf &igs,a9S*; sitive about the whole business that they actually complicated , things . Now they seem to be more at ease , and they are taking pride in a new norm of equality of citizenship on the campus . As the president of one large state university put it , " The only sound policy is to let it be known that the administration treats all students alike . " He added , " There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tested out  --  the swimming pool . But the minute one Of them wants to use it , I shall certainly have to say that he has the right to use it . " It should be noted , however , that some of the presidents feel that the period of greatest strain is yet to come . They expect it when larger numbers of Negro undergraduates enroll . NEGRO students have participated in almost every type of campus activity , and quite a few have won , special recognition . In one university a Negro was elected president of the Men 's Dormitory Association , in another a Negro woman was elected president of her dormitory by her white coresidents , and in still another an elderly Negro graduate student who had won a high place in the hearts of the white students was elected orator for Honors Day . Negro students have also shared rather freely in collective social affairs such as picnics , dinners and dances given by the various class associations , honor societies , etc. , to which they belong . White students have been quick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social " contacts without feeling any serious threat to their sense of personal privacy . But , while the color line has been redefined , it is still there , for in the more intimate realm of dat ing , partying and fraternity life the social worlds remain distinct . The inferior segregated school background of many of the Negro students shows up in the new situation where standards are higher and competition is keener . As might be expected , the Negro student is furnishing somewhat more than his proper share of flunks and academic probations . Passing his - courses is his Number One anxiety , but he does little griping about grades because he feels that on the whole he is getting a fair break . He is aware of his academic handicaps and he is working earnestly to overcome them . His professors face an intensified version of the old dilemma of a uniform standard versus a merciful attitude toward those who suffer some sort of handicap . Some of the professors frankly admit that they are grading " sympathetically . " In spite of academic deficiencies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have won in de-grees n the " tough " professional schools of law and medicine , they have earned half a dozen doctorates in various graduate fields and several hundred masters ' degrees , especially in the field of education . Equally important , they have won the respect of most of their colleagues and teachers . The casual observer visiting one of the Southern coracial campuses would probably be struck by the naturalness and friendliness of the routine contacts between white and Negro in the classroom , coffee-break and bull sessions . Southerners in general like to personalize their relationships , and this " personal touch " adds to the ease of everyday - school interaction on the campus even though all concerned are quite aware of a certain superficiality about it . As one Negro student who had been to co-liege in the North before enroling in his own state university said , " At least it 's better than being treated as if you were just a physical object . " And so it has happened that in less than a decade the South 's system of higher education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ integration . The transition period is over , and coracial education is getting to be old stuff to the younger generation . Many problems remain to be solved , but there is a basic decency ? ? 7 what has happened so SAC far , and the general prognosis is good . There is still a sort of Mason-Dixon Line , of course , between the integrated campus and , the outside community , but even this shows signs of weakening . In quite a few cases , especially in the border states and the Southwest , movies , cafes and other enterprises on the fringe of the campus are dropping their color bars . Perhaps in five more years this whole business of segregation ' in places of public accommodation and arriugem en t will be well-nigh extinct . The dean of a theological , school in one of the large church-supported universities tells the following story . His school had admitted severalyoung Negro men . When the university football team was chosen to play in the nearby Big Bowl on New Year 's Day , one of these students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realized that the ' Big Bowl was not university property and that the city 's segregation law could be enforced , but he was determined that the student should enjoy his , privileges without embarrassment . He went to great pains to prepare the way . He called certain city officials ' , he got in touch with the proper gatekeepers and ushers as well as with the officer who would patrol the section where the Negro would sit . Yes , they would all be glad to forget the segregation ordinance . All went well until the half-time intermission , when a po : , lieeman in another section of the stadium spotted the Negro . He came over , looking just a little belligerent . " What are you doing here ? " he asked . " I am a student at ' X ' University , " was the reply . The officer seemed to doubt it , so the student pulled out his identification card . The officer looked at it , grunted , turned and started away . Suddenly he paused , then turned back toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do now . And all he did was to reach down and pat the Negro gently on the shoulder and give him a little smile . He said nothing , but everyone agreed that what he meant was , " It 's all Tight , son . I 'm really glad you can be here . " 