@@487621

The U. S. will conduct further thermonuclear tests in the Marshall Islands area in ' 1956 and the British will do likewise in the Australian desert . These facts , together with the recent Soviet tests , prompt the question : are the tests legal under international law ? The warning of the genetic dangers involved voiced by Thomas E. Murray of the A. E. C. and the U. N. 's decision to study , the radioactive effects of bomb tests were made subsequent to publica- , tion of Mr. Margolis 's article in the Yale Law Journal of April , 1955 . The Nation herewith publishes a condensed version of the article . THE HYDROGEN bomb shot set off by the United States on March la 1954 , was a shot heard ' round the world . Like certain of the physical results of this thermonuclear experiment , the political " cloud " and the legal " fallout " the explosion precipitated were not anticipated fully . A number of Japanese fishermen and several hundred Marshall Islanders were seriously injured ; one of the fishermen died from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explosion of their own at the United Nations by petitioning the Trusteeship Council for an end to the tests , or failing that for guarantees of strict safety measures . A growing crescendo of world opinion asked that these tests ( indeed all thermonuclear tests by all countries ) be discontinued , pending careful study of the extremely serious after-effects of such detonations . What was perhaps the grimmest warning from the scientists was that of Professor Sturtevant , one of the world 's leading geneticists , who calculated that at least ( and he made every effort to be conservative ) 1,800 of the 90,000,000 children born in the world last year were adversely affected genetically by radioti don from thermonuclear tests . " The true value , " he said , " could possibly be 100 times greater . " - T politicalaackaratifi , and-moral implications of these thermonuclear tests have loomed so large that little attention has been paid to the serious issues of law which the United States ' tests have raised . Yet some of the oldest and most widely - accepted principles of international law are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them , and freedom from interference with the lawful pursuit of maritime industries  --  as well as the more : modern principles of law embodied in the United Nations Charter . ' Freedom of the Seas . The United States has been conducting tests with atomic weapons in the Marshall Islands since 1946 , employing the atolls of Bikini and Eniwetok as its main proving grounds . Preparatory to the test series of March-April , 1954 , the so-called " danger area " surrounding these two atolls was enlarged , forming a rectangle of open sea around them of some 50,000 square miles . After the March 1 explosion and the exposure of the Japanese fishermen and Marshallese to harmful radiation and the continuous stream of reports from Japan describing confiscation of considerable quantities of fish by the Japanese government , the " danger area " was ' expanded several times in magnitude so that it encompassed some 400,000 square miles . Speaking in the House of Lords , Earl Jowitt , a legal authority of great stature , called attention to the dubious legal validity of such measures . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so enormous , " he declared , " at once brings this problem : that ships on their lawful occasions may be going through these waters , and you have no right under international law , I presume , to warn people off . " This principle , a cornerstone of international law which was laid at the latest as far ' back as Queen Elizabeth ( some scholars have traced its beginning to the twelfth century ) is the universally rz-eo &alized; one of freedom of the seas and freedom of navigation upon them . Indeed , traditionally , the United States has been among its leading champions and defenders , and , it is no coincidence that it occupied so prominent a place both in Wilson 's I'ourteen Points " and in the Roosevelt-Churchill " Atlantic Charter . " Three centuries of historical growth have given stature and form to the principle of freedom of the seas , and four distinct legal aspects are now recognized : a. freedom of navigation , b. freedom of fisheries , c. freedom to lay submarine cables , and d. freedom of aerial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " are absolute , except to the extent that international custom and treaties , have modified them in minor respects in order to meet the needs of an increasingly " smaller " and dynamic international society . Thus , freedom of the seas , not unlike constitutional guarantees of freedom , was never intended to mean , nor has it become , total absence of restraint . There are laws which govern the conduct of states and their nationals upon the high seas in , time of peace . Custom and treaties have established rules of the road , and laws govern jurisdiction over public and private vessels , collisions , repression of piracy , measures of self-defense , conservation of fisheries , jurisdiction over the three-mile maritime belt , and so on . International usage would also appear to be giving increasing recognition in recent years to the claims of states to jurisdiction over so-called " contiguous zones " beyond the three-mile territorial belt for purposes of enforcement of customs , immigration , sanitation , or police regulations  --  but these zones have rarely exceeded four leagues ( twelve marine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Pacific experiments , therefore , is whether these rules of law are compatible with the placing of hundreds of thousands of square miles of the .27. - LI- 1afaciat Pacific Ocean " off limits " to all but United States ships and planes . Such an arrogation of authority in peacetime , albeit only for several months at a time , finds no basis in international custom or in treaties which have been the only vehicles for modifying the , law of nations for centuries . The only treaty having the slightest modicum of bearing on the subject is the " Trusteeship Agreement for the Former Japanese Mandated Islands " which includes the ' Marshall Islands . Article 13 of this treaty , authorizes the United States as Administering Authority to close off any or all of these islands , including their territorial waters . But nowhere does the agreement say anything about the sea and air space beyond the islands ' territorial limits . The rights of other states and their nationals to use such areas of the high seas remain untouched and undimillished under this treaty . The U. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unquestionably more rigorous , legal framework within ' which the legal character of the Pacific tests should be measured is the United States ' treaty obligations . The U. N. Charter iVELIMCW1 upon Diackeesimr-JILAS* member-states who are administering " non-self-governing territories " ( including areas under trusteeship ) the obligation to accept as a " sacred trust " the promotion of the wellbeing " of the territories ' inhabitants " to the utmost " ; it establishes " the principle that the interests of the inhabitants of these territories are paramount " ( Article 73 ) . Article 6 of the " Trusteeship Agreement for the Farmer Japanese Mandated Islands ' is still more specific . The Administering , Authority must promote the " econontiic advancement and self-sufficiency of the inhabitants " ? a goal which is to be realized by encouraging " the development of fisheries , agriculture , and industries " and by protecting the inhabitants against the " loss of their lands and resources . " It must also protect the health of the inhabitants . These duties , it should be noted , are unqualified imperatives . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not diluted by the phrase " subject to the requirements of security " which qualifies several other key articles of the agreenient . ( The Pacific Trust Territory has been designated as " strategic , " the Only trusteeship area which has been pied in stet , a catettory ) The thermonuclear test Of March 1 , 1954 , exposed 236 Marshallese and twenty-eight United States personnel to radiation , as a result of an unexpected shift in the winds which placed Rongelap , Rongerik , and Uterik Islands in the path of the fallout . Months afterward , many of them were still suffering from lowered blood count , burns , nausea , and loss of hair . Nor were all of these injuries caused directly by fall-out . Some were affected by drinking water which had become dangerous . The loss of their lands has been almost equally painful for a far greater number of inhabitants . In their petition to the United Nations ( April 20 , 1954 ) the Marshallese pointed out that the Japanese took away the best portions of six atolls , that only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that Bikini had been taken away as well , and that other islands had been made radioactive by the thermonuclear tests and their inhabitants subsequently relocated . Marshallese industries have apparently suffered as well . The Bikini people , whose , primary occupation was fishing , have been removed to Kili Island where there is no fishing for seven months of the year because high surf makes ' it almost impossible to land on the island . Kili is now called " the island of hungry people . " , Such developments are hardly reconcilable with the provisions of the U. N. Charter , much less the express stipulations of Article 6 of the Trusteeship Agreement , quoted above . True , under Article 5 of the agreement , the United States has the right to station armed forces and erect fortifications there , and under Article 13 to close off part or all of the Terr-itory for " security reasons . " But these rights of the Administering Authority are coupled with duties toward the inhabitants of the area which are so clearly spelled out that their plain meaning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prided itself on its adherence to the fundamental principles of international law . We have tried to remain in the forefront of those states who insist on strict observance of treaty obligations . The facts surrounding our thermonuclear experiments in the Pacific are glaringly iskceda-t : . exit with the leading Ma9 role this country has played in defense of freedom of the seas , as well as our professions of loyalty to U. N. Charter principles which include " respect for the obligations arising from treaties and other sources of international law . " , The United States has no present intention of halting the Pacific tests , although we have promised to do everything possible to prevent further injuries or damage . The official justification for continuing the tests appears to rest on the politico-military argument that " no one could reasonably contend that the Soviets should be the only nation to conduct nuclear experiments , " to quote a United States delegate to the U. N. a year ago . And a further contention ' is that there is nowhere else within the jurisdiction of the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ danger . " In the absence of an international agreement on disarmament or , setting the sights lower , an agreement barring further thermonuclear detonations by all countries pending a U. N. investigation of their effects , the experiments will undoubtedly continue . If they do , this nation confronts the task of carrying them on in conformity with its legal obligations . Arguments of expediency couched in terms of defending the free world and human dignity become specious when placed against the ' clear requirements of the relevant rules of law and , by implication , of morality . The conclusion seems inescapable : the laws of humanity suggest and the law of nations requires immediate and permanent cessation of the thermonuclear experiments in the vast expanse o the Marshall Islands proving grounds . 