@@493870

THE WEEK TRUMAN AND THE VATICAN In appointing Gen. Mark Clark to be Ambassador to the Vatican , President Truman has followed a pattern painfully familiar in his public career : he has made a lot of trouble for himself needlessly , in that any benefits to be expected from the move could have been achieved just as well in another way , without challenging anybody . American Protestants are up in arms against the move , declaring that it vio lates the historic principle of separation of church and state . The charge is being made that the President is playing internal politics , trying to strengthen himself with the American Catholics , possibly in expectation of appointing a new chairman of the Democratic National Committee who , in contravention of the practice of recent decades , may be of another faith . There is talk of requiring all Catholic officials in this country to register as foreign agents . Finally , the appointment of General Clark contravenes an 1870 law that forbids any Army officer to hold a civilian post . Congress , which in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nomination , also failed to circumvent this law as had been requested . It is hard to believe that the President 's closest advisers can have welcomed his action . For many years , the United States had a representative at Vatican City , a personal spokesman for the President , and a renewal of this arrangement would have been accepted with little reWHO STEALS THE COMMON .. . A Senate subcommittee studying ethical standards in government has placed the blame for the recent " growth of influence peddling " not only on a handful of government officials but also on members of Congress , big-business interests , and " the moral standards of the country . .. . Low standards in the conduct of public affairs are a symptom of low standards in the country generally . " The 89-page report of the subcommittee , headed by Sen. Paul Douglas ( D , Ill. ) , was written after over 100 recommendations to set up a strict code of conduct in Washington had been suggested by many outstanding citizens who testified before the group . The committee points out that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods which bring immediate rewards " and that the forces which would drive public servants " from the straight and narrow path of virtue " center chiefly in the area in which there are " big economic stakes , where the decisions of legislators and administrators directly affect the business , or the property , or the income of particular groups or individuals . " Morality , the committee declares , is violated not merely by politicians and by the weak , but also frequently by the strong and powerful , who sometimes are able to have their antisocial acts approved by legislation or court action . The committee aptly remarks that " the medieval English quatrain about the way in which the common lands were enclosed and taken over by the nobility of England has also real meaning for our times . " The law locks up both man and woman Who steals the goose from off the common , But lets the greater felon loose Who steals the common from the goose . The RFC investigation demonstrated the challenge to the integrity of government through the acceptance by public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or businesses which seek favorable decisions from federal agencies . The Kefauver crime investigation brought out the penetration of organized crime into the American system of government through its control of American politics at the grass roots . Investigations of the US Maritime Commission have brought out the dangers which are inherent in a policy of discretionary subsidies handled by a regulatory commission ( " particularly by an agency which has for its sole clientele the industry which receives the subsidies " ) . Other investigations of lobbyists and of internal-revenue collectors , the committee declares , show that Congress itself has been " unduly complacent " in failing to " tighten its discipline in moral matters or to raise its ethical standard . " Senator Douglas and his committee recommend that Congress establish a Commission on Ethics in Government , that the Administrative Procedure Act be amended to include summary dismissal grounds for employees who accept gifts , transact personal business , or divulge information to unauthorized persons , that high-salaried federal officials be required to declare outside income in line with the recent proposal made by President Truman and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criminal laws to tighten them with reference to the giving or taking of bribes . for Western aid and alliance . Egypt presents no issue of economic exploitation , and no hope that a more self-confident nationalism would result in pro-Western policies . A strong argument can be made for the idea that a canal vital for world communication is under present international law and custom much more liable to international control than are a country 's oil resources . But , from the Western point of view , the crucial consideration is the irresponsibility and hostility shown by the actions of the Egyptian government . Egyptian ambitions are almost totally centered on getting other Arab countries to accept her as their leader in an obvious campaign against Israel , and less directly pointed against the West . There are many reasons why the United States should not allow this project to come to fruition . For one thing , the Egyptians are militarily useless to the West , since their armies are impotent . Politically , present Egyptian policies show no hope of being compatible with Western hopes for economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extremism has for a long time had headquarters in Cairo , and shows no sign of losing its hold . Whatever hopes there may be for bringing more reasonable Egyptians to leadership will not be furthered by giving in to the present set of Egyptian blusters and threats . Notwithstanding King Farouk 's healthy appearance , Egypt today is in much the position that Turkey was in 30 years ago . She needs domestic reform and a gradual deflating of her religious and other fanatic elements . The West should extend her help to advance toward these goals and a modest share of regional authority . If the Middle East needs a leader ? and the Israelis are not alone in denying such a need ? Egypt is definitely not it , from the point of view of Western interests . In view of this , it is best to proceed rapidly and drastically to deflate Egyptian ambitions . Western power in the Middle East may be fading , but is still strong enough to determine who shall share in the succession . THE NEW TAX BILL When the time finally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $5.7 billion , tax increase . President Truman , the father , was not passing out any cigars . He was expecting a vigorous , healthy $10 billion . The principle of " pay-as-you-go " has been enunciated by practically every major group in America . Few deny that a huge government deficit is loaded with inflationary dangers . But this wide ; spread conviction is not backed up with the courage necessary to carry it out . The tax bill originally passed by the House of Representatives last June would have raised $7.2 billion in the next year . While this was short of the Administration 's stated goal of $10 billion , it was a fairly good bill . The increases in individual- income taxes were based on ability to pay . Corporate taxes and capital-gains rates were increased in line with increases for individuals . And the withholding principle was applied to dividends and corporate bond interest to close one of the most glaring loopholes in our tax system . But the Senate proceeded to eliminate the increase in capital-gains rates , give a better break to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ withholding on dividends , write in numerous escape provisions on the excess-profits tax , and further open up the percentage-depletion and other loopholes so that more could enjoy special tax benefits . All this amounted to a loss of $1.7 billion in revenue . Efforts of some 15 Fair Deal Senators to improve the Senate bill , led by Senators Humphrey ( D , Minn . ) , Lehman ( D-Lib. , N. Y. ) and Douglas ( D , Ill. ) , were completely fruitless . As a result , the Fair Dealers voted against the Senate bill along with such reactionaries as Jenner ( R , Ind. ) and Malone ( R , Nev. ) to create one of the strangest coalitions of all time . The House conferees on the bill found themselves in a dilemma . According to reports , the Senate conferees took the attitude that the House should agree to the Senate version of the bill if they wanted any tax legislation at all . The House conferees capitulated , which caused the liberals in the House to vote against the conference report . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were sufficient to send the bill back to conference . The Conference Committee then made a few very minor concessions . Most House liberals admitted a defeat in principle but voted for the conference report in preference to having no tax increase at all . Indications are that President Truman will ask for another tax bill next year to make up for the inadequate revenues voted at the session that has just been ended . WITCH HUNTER SINGED Henry Wallace and Joseph Alsop last week wrapped the McCarran committee up in its own contradictions and tied the bundle with Budenz ' red ribbon . Committee members , bent on saving Budenz , insisted that Alsop 's and Wallace 's detailed evidence concerning Wallace 's Asian mission were only expressions of opinion to be placed beside Budenz 's uninformed opinion . But every newspaperman present left convinced that Budenz ' efforts to destroy State Department career man John Carter Vincent , Wallace 's aide on his trip , had been shown to be lies , sworn under oath . Budenz swore that , thanks to the influence of Vincent , known to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advanced the Communist cause . Wallace and Alsop , supported by a telegram from Gen. Clair Chennault , proved that , on the contrary , Wallace 's main recommendation , for Gen. Joseph Stillwell 's replacement by Gen. Albert Wedemeyer , was looked on by Communists with horror . The committee staff denied this , quoting double talk from the Daily Worker . They succeeded only in trapping themselves by arguing that Wedemeyer , their favorite general , was a Communist ally . Budenz , backed by powerful friends , may escape prosecution and punishment for perjury . But to impartial observers his word will be worthless from now on . DELAY IN ALUMINUM Mobilization Chief Charles E. Wilson 's admission before a joint session of the House and Senate Select Committees on Small Business that monopoly interests are retarding increased aluminum production is one of the most forthright statements on that subject since the US launched its million-ton aluminum expansion program one year ago . Wilson 's frankness indicates that he is aware of the real issues in one of Washington 's current open secrets : For almost a year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep the most promising independent , the Harvey Machine Company of Torrence , Calif. , out of the primary aluminum business . Last December , the Harvey Company was certified by General Services Administration to participate in the expansion program and given a letter of intent requiring it to proceed with construction of an aluminum reduction plant at Kalispell , Mont . Since that time , the Harvey Company has been buffeted about by a strange combination of forces in and out of the government . Early in its attempt to get into aluminum production to add to the supply of that vital military material , Harvey found private financing sources reluctant to lend it money . The First Boston Corporation , a major banking firm with interests in the aluminum industry , tried on at least one occasion to discourage private financing of Harvey . A large business concern of a sister metal industry tried to force itself in on Harvey as a partner in the Montana project . Harvey , was urged to accept this unrewarding offer by a member of the Defense Materials Administration who was previously employed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent troubles came as disbursement of its $46 million government loan was suspended pending investigation of a power shortage in the Northwest and charges by a newspaper columnist that Harvey had practiced certain irregularities in handling its World War II defense contracts . Statements by the US Attorney General , Howard McGrath , and the Secretary of the Navy , Dan Kimball , have exonerated the com pany , and Dr. Paul Raver , Bonneville Power Administrator , has assured Congress that there will be power for Harvey 's Montana project . The next step , release of government-loaned funds , must come from defense-mobilization authorities to permit Harvey to assem ble the necessary equipment and materials for the construction of its aluminum plant and complete its Montana proj ect . THE MATERIALS SCRAMBLE When the government 's program for allocation of scarce materials , the Controlled Materials Plan , was put into operation last July , the New Republic predicted that unless the CMP operated on a 100-percent " closed end " distribution basis ? controlling the total supply of strategic materials ? small businesses would find themselves getting less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an effect , it was noted , would mean a phenomenal death toll of the nation 's small producers ? and a corresponding expansion of the " bigs " of already big industry . The men masterminding the mobilization program at the time ? Sidney Weinberg , Lucius D. Clay and Charles E. Wilson ? had assured that the CMP would be " open end " ? controlling only a portion of steel , copper and aluminum ? in keeping with the policies of the " bigs . " Now a House Small Business Subcommittee , after holding hearings extending over a period of two months , has arrived at the same conclusion ? that the CMP should have been " closed end " from the beginning . That report states : on that basis would result in more even distribution , but because , with a more than $60 billion military-spending bill staring them in the face , there was no way to avoid it . Such vast expenditures will leave so little of the three materials not programmed in one way or another , that it would be useless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mass of purchasers . This , by itself , will not assure small business of continued operation through the emergency . Nevertheless , it relieves one sore spot . Small businessmen could sleep a little more soundly , though , if they knew they would have a strong and effective supporter inside the mobilization set-up . They had such a supporter in World War II when former Representative Maury Maverick headed the Smaller War Plants Corporation . There is no true counterpart of that agency in the present mobilization picture . However , as a result of a vigorous fight by a handful of Senators and Representatives , small business will soon have a Small Defense Plants Administration . ( An individual corporation , with sufficient power to do a real job for small business , was denied by the same group of men who killed a " closed-end " CMP from the start . Each of them opposed it in testimony on renewal of the Defense Production Act . ) The Small Defense Plants Administration was provided for in a judicious amendment to the Defense Production Act when it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as chairman of that agency Telford W. Taylor , the prosecutor at the German war crimes trials . Taylor has no strong recommendations as a defender of the little fellow , but the feeling among small business defenders in the Senate is that he is " promising " and should have a chance at the job . Taylor may well profit from the experience of Maverick and the tactics he employed to do the job during World War II . If Taylor does this , he may prove effective to small business , despite the serious shortcomings of the Act setting up the Small Defense Plants Administration . 