@@476286

ANY good scientists are indifferent critics of science . Among those who have most confused the public mind by representing speculations as facts are the astrophysicists . Following the bold trail blazed by the late Sir Arthur Stanley Eddington , they are ready at the wink of a variable star to tell what 's cooking inside the Sun , or just how the planetary system came into exist : ence , or what took place in the first staccato minutes of the entire material universe ? when stars were no bigger than marbles and the neutrons raged unchecked . These uninhibited , romantic pictures have now been topped by Worlds in Collision . Though in this work the physical canvas is smaller , it is a more dramatic one , because more humane . The author , Immanuel Velikovsky , m.n. , is no part of an astronomer . Perhaps his energetic reliance on selective folklore and mythology to establish the Earth 's astronomical and geological history serves us astrophysicists right , however little we may like it . But how is it possible that either author or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientists ? On page five of the book a challenge is hurled at " certain notions now regarded as sacred laws in science , " and the jacket echoes the same fighting text . There are no sacred laws in science , but perhaps some sacredness attaches to the scientific method , because it has proved so very successful in the laborious and brilliant achievements of over two centuries . Science is not mere common sense It is a severe and powerful way of thinking . VeTikovsky inclines to appeal every judgment of scientists and engineers to ancient authorities and texts , though the greatest minds of antiquity possessed little or no science ( we could use more of it now ? and a lot less exhibitionism ) . Seneca knew little about torsion and moment of momentum , and extant Mayan manuscripts are notoriously weak when it comes to Young 's modulus and the measure of kinetic energy in the earth 's diurnal spin . When the Macmillan Company accepted this book for publication that house could not have been mindful of their own long list of works by leading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with an author in physical science frequently take a respected publisher 's imprint as something of a guarantee . This is particularly important when an expert in search of reliable information steps out of his own professional field into a neighboring one . The Macmillan Company might properly have reasoned that , while the Homeric sweep of battling planets would attract readers and justify publication , some other firm with less conservative connections in the standard sciences might have been less embarrassed to sponsor such a drama . Free speech would not have been involved ; publishers reject books every day ? more ( perhaps ) is the pity ! Then too , the slings and arrows of outraged scientists would have been fewer if the book had not been heralded by an unprecedented splash of uncritical articles in important magazines , not written by experts in physical science . Scientific reviewers promptly refused to take the book seriously , because it seemed to them impossible that educated persons could . Here they were in error . Evidently there is a latent opposition between persons having a humane education and those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faults , has performed a service by focusing new attention on " disciplines in collision . ' ' urPosE a sparrow flutters past a tall build-ing , which thereafter is condemned and dismantled . A person who lacked all ex-perience in numerical reasoning but had intense sentiment for sparrows might argue that air currents from the bird 's beating wings had dangerously strained the tower . The only way to refute him within his own realm of verbal contention would be to quote precedents from prose , poetry , stage , screen , radio , and television of similar incidents when birds passed or were said to have passed buildings without having an appreciable effect on their structure . But suppose no precedent is known to the debaters . An engineer could still prove by calculation from quite different data the absurdity of the assertion . No alleged eye-witness testimony collected from old diaries or tales told by grandmother long after the event would convince him that the close approach of a sparrow ever endangered a skyscraper . He would be familiar with too much conclusive proof to the contrary , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ verbalist , to whom logarithms are anathema and the flow of words enchanting . What can happen when an inarticulate engineer , armed with weapons of modern mathematics and technology , duels with an opponent who is prepared to slug it out with footnotes ; precedents ; primary , secondary . and tertiary sources and commentators ; and legends which have frightened and delighted uncounted generations of barbarians and poets ? If the spectators who have the power of thumbs up and thumbs down know little mathematics themselves , the engineer must be cautious . He can not use his heavy artillery but must wait until his opponent ventures out of the verbal sanctuary into easy range of mathematical small arms . And the same engineer would find it difficult in a book review to meet a demand that he explain his proof briefly and in non-technical terms . The masses of the skyscraper and sparrow would be involved , and the elastic restoring force the building offers to any bending from the vertical , as well as the area of the sparrow 's wings and their frequency of beat , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air , and other recondite data . Worlds in Collision and the criticisms it evoked , though the analogy is by no means intended to be exact , reveal similar conflicts . When problems contain quantitative elements Dr. Velikovsky 's verbal treatments can not purge them . Where the physicist offers mathematical answers , on the other hand , the non-mathematical reader may have to make an allowance for the necessary digressions . II THE first excursion into mathematics concerns a matter of scale . For convenience in presenting this , I should first like to quote in shortened form a summary of the astronomical events propounded in Velikovsky 's book . It was made by one of our leading woman scientists , Dr. Cecilia Payne-Gaposchkin of the Harvard College Observatory , in a review in Popular Astronomy . The review must be described as definitely unsympathetic . We are asked she writes to admit erratic motions of the principal planets within historical times . We are asked to believe that Venus was shot out from Jupiter and practically made a direct hit on the Earth , and scored another bull's-eye @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to believe ) encountered Mars , who ( despite his lightweight standing ) propelled her into her present orbit , and proceeded to make two hits ( or near hits ) on the Earth on his own account , before retiring to his present orbit . If I read Dr. Velikovsky aright , he hopes to link the earlier Noachian Deluge with similar antics on the part of Jupiter . We have here an extraordinary achievement in a very difficult type of marksmanship ? four ( or even five ) hits in a couple of thousand years . It is not only impossible . It is ridiculous . Her word " markmanship " is altogether appropriate because these planets are so very small in proportion to the distances which normally separate them . The closest approach of Mars to the Earth leaves it 34,500,000 miles away , while the Earth 's diameter ( as the reader will recall ) is about 8,000 miles . Venus , which in these spring evenings of 1951 has been bright in the sunset sky , is very nearly the Earth 's size , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were a yard high and completely blank except for two periods , one at the top and one at the bottom . If the lower dot were meant to represent the Earth and the upper one Mars , the dots would be roughly in correct scale at the closest present approach of the Red Planet . SECOND objection concerns the deceleration in the Earth 's rotation , amounting to an increase in the length of the day of a thousandth of a second every century , and its relationship to ancient records of eclipses . In his article in this issue of Harper 's , Velikovsky clearly makes a muddle of this issue . Of course neither the ancients nor ourselves ever timed a total eclipse of the Sun to an accuracy of a thousandth of a second , or to a whole second for that matter . But because successful computation of very ancient eclipses would be proof that neither Mars nor Venus nor any other massive bodies have since come close to the Earth , the reader is invited to consider this question in greater detail . Velikovsky is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eclipses comes mainly from Claudius Ptolemy . " Several modern scholars ( notably Fotheringham ) have examined Grecian , Babylonian , and Chinese records and listed passages which seem to describe solar eclipses . A brief survey of astronomical publications reveals at least three recorded total eclipses of the Sun before ? 687 ( the supposed date of Velikovsky 's last catastrophe ) which have been considered by computers to fit the present motions . This evidence , reinforced by equally early records of lunar eclipses , proves or at any rate strongly suggests that no unaccountable disturbance of the motion of the Earth or Moon occurred in that year . A solar eclipse is likely to be underscored in historical records only if it is a total eclipse , for only then is it spectaoular . It is seen as total on each occasion from points on the Earth 's surface lying within a hand thousands of miles long and only a few score miles wide . The Moon 's shadow , as it brushes the Earth from west to east , determines the band . It is enough to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century , say ? for as a rule total solar eclipses repeat at the same geographical locality only at long intervals . The date merely serves to identify which computed eclipse has been recorded in a given instance . The place of observation is the really important element ; it establishes the longitude at which the band of totality crossed a given latitude . The observer knew where he was , whether or not he could measure the hour or the second . An increase in the length of the day subsequent to the time of ancient eclipses would be shown by the fact that they were observed at points farther easterly than uncorrected computation had in retrospect suggested . The lagging behind of the rotating Earth , as compared with a perfect clock calibrated to the rate of rotation at some particular date , would increase with the square of the elapsed time as the years pass . Time lost is never made up again , while the rate of losing increases continually . This is the equivalent in rotational motion of the high-school physics principle that the distance moved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ square of the time . Projected into the past , the Earth 's rotation is seen to have been a very little faster than its present rate . The formula just mentioned shows that the cumulative difference is only 20 seconds as we work back the first century , but in twenty-five centuries it is the square of 25 times greater , 12,500 seconds , which is three hours and a half . This contrasts with an increase of only 1/40 second in the length of the day in twenty-five centuries . In the calculation of an eclipse which took place 2,500 years ago , this difference would be expressed in a displacement of longitude . We might find that an eclipse which would have been observed in Spain if the Earth had always . been turning at its present rate is actually recorded not in Spain but far to the east near the Caspian Sea . This , in effect , is what actually happens , although the whole problem is much more complicated . most recent catastrophe suggested by Velikovsky , in the seventh century B.C. , resulted from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mars to the Earth , by increasing the planet 's gravitational pull at its lessened distance , would have disturbed the Moon 's monthly motion around the Earth , and the Earth 's motion in its own annual orbit . If . the Moon rode at a distance only a few per cent farther away than now , for example , its angular diameter in our sky would be too small ever to hide the Sun . As Dr. Payne-Gaposchkin says , the thirty-six-day month mentioned by Velikovsky is incompatible with any total solar eclipses at all . But nearly any cosmic disturbance would be enough to render our present knowledge of Earth and Moon motions inadequate for eclipse computations before the supposed interference . The discrepancy between observation and calculation would become greater the further back in time we go . Nonetheless , the variation in eclipse records described above is the only one which has been found after known " perturbations " produced by the mutual gravitation of the celestial bodies have been allowed for . The gravitational pull of the Sun and of each planet on the Earth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as these . The calculations are highly complex , achieving a product of successful intricacy which , in spite of the fact that it defies verbal analysis , is one of the most imposing demonstrations of the validity of celestial mechanics . Some idea of the degree of " intricacy " may be conveyed by Dr. Payne-Gaposchkin 's statement that lunar theory alone recognizes 155 major periodic terms and over 500 smaller ones , which must be added together in the equation for the Moon 's longitude , and about half as many in that for the Moon 's latitude . In comparison with this huge amount of observationally verified computation , the statements of astrophysicists ( mentioned at the beginning of the article ) about the origin of the universe , and so on , are but flimsy speculation . An-attack on those ideas would disturb few scientists , and in many cases the authors of such speculations are themselves the first to find the flaws . There is an unfortunate error prevailing among our all-too-prone-to-error intelligentsia that the Einstein theory required co ? plete scrapping of ? the earlier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Progress in celestial mechanics has resulted from slow evolution without revolution . Einstein 's theory of relativity changed the equations for the solar system only in exceedingly minor respects . All predictions of planetary motion in the almanacs continue to be computed from Newtonian principles . There is indeed no appreciable difference except at very high speeds of motion . Electrical attractions or repulsions of any consequence among the planets are certainly absent . Their possible existence was not overlooked by careful astronomers many years ago , notwithstanding an offhand suggestion to the contrary on page 387 of Velikovsky 's book . Dr. Velikovsky will confer a favor on astronomical computers if he finds clear historical records , hitherto overlooked , of earlier solar eclipses , of lunar eclipses , or of close approaches of Moon and planets to each other ( as they appear to us ) or to identifiable stars , even if they contravene our present understanding . Dogmas are not " protected " in science ? allowing a little leeway for perversities scientists share with their fellow men . ALTHOUGH some of Dr. Velikovsky 's statements relating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made himself familiar with several elementary considerations . A third and crucial objection might be based , for example , on the fundamental principles of orbital motion , which are a consequence of Newton 's laws . If Venus were opportunely diverted by Mars from an earlier elongated ellipse , as asserted , then whatever new ellipse each of the two planets traced , from then on , they would continue for many thousands of years to pass near the original point where their encounter took place . No such encounter near the Earth 's orbit or outside it can possibly have knocked Venus into her present circular orbit , which lies well inside the Earth 's . Nor can any such meeting inside the Earth 's orbit have sent Mars into his present exterior ellipse , which lies at all points well outside the Earth 's . Therefore ? unless a miraculous suspension of the laws of motion is involved ? it is certain that the supposed encounters did not occur . Moreover , an approximate arithmetical regularity called Bode 's law exists with respect to the distances of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The orbit of Venus is just the size to be expected under this rule . How did Mars give just the right bump to accomplish this ? A gap is shown between Mars and Jupiter . No planet ? only the asteroids ? circulates there . There has been serious speculation that a planet once filled the gap but exploded . Velikovsky might argue that in this hypothetical event astronomers accept the possibility of catastrophes in the solar system . However , celestial mechanics certainly can not reconcile the astronomically very " recent " dates he requires with a common point of origin for the supposed exploded fragments , the present asteroids . One also gets the impression , if a further example may be drawn from astronomical principles , than Velikovsky does not always discriminate between the variations of latitude which he suggests and the universally conceded effects of " precession . " For example , the reader is told ( p. 316 ) that either a change in the direction of the Earth 's axis ( among the stars ) or in the position of the poles ( on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Babylon . Precession , however , resembles the wobbling of the axis of a spinning top . The axis of the Earth , in about 26,000 years , marks out the surface of a cone with respect to the stars . This has no practical effects ; it does not change the cardinal points on the horizon nor the directions ol rising and setting of the Sun . In precession , the axis of neither the top nor the Earth changes , relatively to the spinning body itself . Hence precession does not change latitudes . For a change in latitude it would be necessary that the Earth 's crust slide with respect to the axis . To achieve the effects proposed by Velikovsky , the poles would be displaced to a substantial degree , though in the precise modern measurements displacements of more than a few yards have not been observed . To determine the detailed effects of a close encounter of planets would require very specific calculations , but any major shift in the Earth 's crust with respect to its axis , if it occurred within a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Velikovsky seems to admit , to vast dashings of oceans across the battered conti nents . Water , having little friction with the ground , would for a time retain its original west-to-east speed ( of rotation ) at many hundreds of miles an hour . The author perhaps does not fully appreciate what a sensitive indicator the oceans would be . Try it with a full dishpan in the back seat of your car . Another planet passing close , in addition , would alter the Earth 's precession while it rushed by , leaving perhaps a slowly decaying " transient " for long afterward ? a quick extra wobble of the pole with reference to the stars . None exists , which again is evidence against any astronomically " recent " disturbance . III NUMBER of other sciences offer testimony of a positive nature ? archaeology , for example . The supposed meetings of the Earth with Mars and Venus are described by Velikovsky as having occurred roughly between 1500 and 700 B.C. The pyramids were built long before that . Certainly no planet-wide cataclysms have knocked them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obelisks and columns still stand at Thebes which were standing then , though even moderate jerking of the ground would upset them on their narrow bases . When Joshua stopped the Sun the slowing-down of the Earth 's spin , and its later renewal , must have taken at least half an hour ? or over they would have gone ! There are many other ancient buildings and monuments surviving undamaged in cities which were flourishing before or during the same period ? in Greece , Sumeria , India , and elsewhere . Many of these were buried Later in gently drifting sand which modern " digs " have had to remove . Tombs dated from the fourth millennium B.C. were not destroyed by ocean floods in Ur ( of the Chaldees ) , close as it was to the Persian Gulf , nor in Byblus , on the Mediterranean . IN another field , a recent report by a paleobotanist , Dr. Ralph Works Chaney , directly indicates that the axis of the Earth has shifted very little with respect to the crust in the long time-interval he has studied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classified fossils in terms of the climate which permitted their growth . The results show that the contours of equal temperature on the Earth always ran pretty much along the present parallels of latitude . Due allowance was made for the cooling effect of high elevation above the sea , in the case of plants growing on plateaus and mountains . The inferred lines of equal temperature shifted toward the pole or equator as general glaciation receded or advanced , but they remained parallel to the present equator . This important finding must be counted as evidence that catastrophes producing large variations in latitude have not occurred since the Tertiary period began . ( The magnetic poles of the Earth , on the other hand , have been observed to shift by many degrees since observations of the compass needle were undertaken several centuries ago . This motion , still unpredictable , is slow and steady , and related to no cataclysm . ) The revival by Velikovsky of eighteenthcentury speculative catastrophism is not only impossible in astronomy but unlikely to prove useful in geology . Those ideas were superseded by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stands . A well-written , illustrated pamphlet , The Last Change in the Earth 's Axis , " by Fred G. Plummer , printed in 1894 for " Narada Branch , Theosophical Society , " parallels some of Velikovsky 's accounts of supposed changes in latitude . Both writers , for example , make much of the existence in Siberia of many corpses of mammoths , and insist that these beasts perished from freezing when their formerly hospitable and warm locale was suddenly transported into the arctic . Professor Glenn L. Jepsen of the Princeton department of geology , however , points out that the great treasure of ivory still preserved in the frozen tundras may be presumed to mark the accumulated elephantine tragedies of a million years . Looked at in this light , the mass deaths represent no more than a reasonable result of the normal vicissitudes of animal life everywhere . There is a new method by which the dates of death of animals , humans , and trees are determined by measuring the amount of radioactive carbon still present in their remains . It may lead to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Siberia . Radioactive dating of geological strata , of course , has already been accomplished . It gives no indication of a major terrestrial catastrophe from any cause whatever at any time during the past two billion years . This method of measuring the age of rocks relies on the lead-uranium ratio . Wherever uranium ore is found a certain isotope of lead is always found with it . Laboratory studies show that uranium is constantly breaking down into other atoms , and that one of the products of this radioactive process is lead of a specific atomic weight . Since one per cent of the uranium disintegrates in sixty-six million years , the ratio of lead to uranium increases with the age of the rock in a manner which readily lends itself to quantitative timing . If the rock were melted for a time by heat from a planetary collision , the lead would tend to drift away from its parent uranium in the molten crust . This would have destroyed the regular sequence of dates actually found by this method . WORLDS IN COLLISION produces On the lay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selected from a bewildering variety of times , places , cultures , and subjects ? and by frequent reiteration of fantastic conclusions . In a sense , no one can argue with a best seller . But expert scholars and scientists are not swept off their feet by dramatic presentation . When they analyze one by one the author 's interpretations of texts and historical evidence , such authorities as Otto Neugebauer , historian of mathematical science , and Ferris J. Stephens , Babylonian scholar , reject his findings . " By quoting certain selected portions of the Ammizaduga texts , " the latter remarks , " he declares that they prove that Venus was moving irregularly at the time these observations were made . As I consider the texts in their entirety I get quite the opposite impression . " That similar legends are to be found in widely separated lands and civilizations is by no means a proof of the occurrence of worldwide astronomical cataclysms . Local floods , droughts , freezes , earthquakes , and hurricanes make impressions on defenseless primitives deep enough to account for much parallelism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been less isolated from one another than we think . In selecting and emphasizing such lore , Dr. Velikovsky has given an impetus toward increasing intelligent interest in the problem of a world-wide common chronology for ancient times ? provided the studies are not handled with reference only to the proposition that Venus was once a comet . ( Dr. Velikovsky 's comet-Venus resembles no comet ever recorded by astronomy . ) If ( which is doubtful ) the definition of science recently given by Harvard 's president , James B. Conant , is complete , then the author of Worlds in Collision , is a scientist . " Science , " writes Conant , " is an interconnected series of concepts and conceptual schemes that have developed as a result of experimentation and observation and are fruitful of further experinientation and observation . " True , Velikovsky 's subject , like astronomy itself , does not permit much experimentation , and the " observations " are at second and third hand or worse . But the conceptual scheme is present to exaggeration in his writing , and the prediction is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the many irritants which this indefatigable comber-over of forgotten and difficult texts has tossed into the illiterate scientific scene .                     