@@488256

FOR a student of so-called " political science " a long summer spent traveling and teaching in the South was bound to be unusually interesting this year . Everywhere I went I heard anxious speculations about what will happen if the Supreme Court outlaws segregation in the public schools . The decision of the court , which has been - put off until November , will touch the region in its most sensitive spot . It is apparent that , the court-will not wrap itself up in Plessey v. , Ferguson , the " separate but equal " decision of 1896 , but will rule specifically on the validity of that decision . It has actually invited argument as to the historical meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment and as to the probable effect of any . judgment it may hand down , thus recognizing more ' explicitly than ever before the unavoidably political nature of its mandates . But this victory of the- " new jurisprudence , " it should be noted , may equally well result in calculated political caution . The question will soon be settled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the decision will be made . Even if the Supreme Court retains " separate but equal , " it will do so in - such away as to serve notice that separate but unequal must soon be forever abolished In the five cases brought before the court by the Associa-tion fOr the Advancement of Colored People on behalf of Negro parents in South Carolina , Virginia , Delaware , Kansas , and the District of Columbia the complainant - argued that even though the Negro schools were equal to the white schools , segregation on ground of race was in itself an act.of discrimma tion contrary to the federal Constitution . Since these cases were picked as ex -- amples  --  all too rare  --  of equal facilities , the main issue of segregation is not likely to be confused again , though the court may choose to delay its judgment for months-or years . While the court may reject the N. A. A. C. P. plea , it will probably order that the Negro schools must in fact be made equal within a certain reasonable period of time . In that case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , particularly in the deep South . Georgia , straining to pay $74 a head for its children as corn- pared ' with a national average of $123 , and spending 30 per cent more of this on the white than on the colored child , simply could not afford a fully equal dual system . From a financial point of view integration becomes politically preferable in the poorer states , especially now that segregation is increasingly on the defensive , Diehards like Governor Byrnes may threaten to close down the whole public-school system if the court decides on integration ; South Carolina may frighten us with a constitutional amendment that will erase , whenever the legislature so desires , the state 's legal responsibility to support a system of public schools , Georgia , Mississippi , and Alabama may follow suit hopefully ; but is the faithful poor-white democracy of South Carolina going to pay the whole cost of educating its children ? The cry will go up from poor communities for a state subsidy , and then the Supreme Court will be back in the picture . The gallery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ run be unacceptable Co the gallery itself . IS THE SOUTH prepared for integra-ti on of its schools ? For expert opinion I turned to the yearly Institute of Race Relations on the Fisk University campus at Nashville . The institute draws together leaders from all kinds of national organizations engaged with interracial problems and itself furnishes dramatic testimony to the possibility of full integration . The pleasure of white and colored people in mixing so easily was wonderful to observe , even if it could not be taken as entirely typical in view of the nature of the delegates ' work and their high educational attainments : , But even the toughTminded professional social scientists agreed with the rest that " the time is now as ripe as it ever will be . " Veteran workers were vastly impressed by the record and trend of the , last ten years . That record may be briefly summarized as follows : Last- year Negro votes in the South totaled about 1,350,000 , compared with 250,000 in 1940 and a courageous 70 , - 000 in 1920 The Negro vote in Arkan-sas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Virginia Was greater than the margin in each case that kept them in the Democratic column for Stevenson . The Texas Law School case of 1950 opened up professional and higher education to Negroes . A disappointing number of applicants , . however , have come forward , and there have been many attempts at evasion . These are being fought in pending cases . In the last ten years segregation has been legally forbidden in all interstate travel , but enforcement lags far behind , and intrastate travel may prove the October 31 , 1953 hardest nut of all to crack . So much depends on custom rather than law . I noticed , for instance , that those attending the institute at Fisk had to travel into town at different ends of the bus ( " white people to the front , " " colored race to the rear " ) , as required by the Nashville city code , and eat in different restaurants , as required by custom , unless they were of approximately the same color . , However , ten years ago the institute itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remote . A delegate this summer , a Canadian Quaker , went to a drive-in movie with a Negro woman journalist and was threatened by two youths who stopped his car ? " We do n't stand for this sort of thing down here in Tennessee . " But a telephone call from a bystander swiftly brought the state police , who actually asked the Canadian to charge the youths ? " You can carry what the hell you like , sir , in your car in Tennessee . " Ten years ago , everyone agreed , the police would have been very busy elsewhere . The average income of the Negro worker is still only 54 per cent of that of the - white worker , but the- figure is double what it was nineteen years ago . Though Southern Senators have blocked all moves for a federal F E. P : C. , the idea has made progress among local business men , who are convinced that " it must come sooner or later . " The example of the International Haivester Company has been formidable since 1919 it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its recent expansion into the South . In opening its Memphis plant in 194a the company explicitly announced that it would hire Negroes for the same work and the same pay as whites . Other firms settling in Memphis have followed suit , for instance Firestone Tire and Rubber ? and this in Memphis , where Boss Crump 's tenantry have kept themselves largely union free . At present " checkerboard " employment patterns  --  that is , no segregation in the actual work area  --  are found in New Orleans , Louisville , Memphis , and Baltimore . Field workers agree that most business men recognize the economic advantage of using the whole labor market and are held back less by genuine prejudice than by fear of being the pioneer in a particular community . The big national company moving into the South for the first time is less inhibited than the local manufacturer subject to social pressures . Many churches urge local firms and community organizations to resist this pressure . Also the C. I. 0 . organizers and unions brought in by the industrialization of the South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the fixing of wage scales If the A. F. of L. would discipline the Switchmen 's Union , and the Railroad Brotherhoods would discipline themselves , American labor would have won a notable victory over itself . One of the greatest changes running counter to Southern opinion has been the abolition of segregation in the armed forces . Admittedly the army exercises considerable tact in selecting which units to send where , but integration has been accepted as a fait accompli . The intense emotion generated by the Korean war made General Ridgway 's reversal of MacArthur 's personal policy of segregation in Korea - especially valnable as a sign of change . - LITTLE OF THIS , of course , has come about by chance . To get a clear legal issue before the Supreme Court has required a long and carefully planned campaign which was drawn up in outline as long ago as 1932 by the late Charles Houston , a Negro lawyer , then chief counsel for the N. A. A. C. P. The campaign reached a temporary climax m the recent pleas before the court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is still a long road to go . Integration means more than the formal 351 - ending of the laws or even the customs of segregation ; it means more than mere tolerance . If there have been no - lynchings in the South for three years now , there have been bombings a-plenty when the Negro has tried to occupy property in " white " neighborhoods . Moreover , it is by no means only a Southern problem ; the crudest discrimination and violence often greet the Negro migrant to the Northern city . Nevertheless , - the old stereotypes are becoming less clear-cut even among the most conservative Southerners Argument has broken out in the politest circles as to whether the Negro is in fact always lazy , unhealthy , fanatically religious , flatfooted , spendthrift , thieving , and lascivious . The Southern press by and large is preaching " constitutionalism " ? an acceptance of whatever the court may be misguided enough to hand down The international outlook of the " better elements " in the South , stemming largely from the old cotton market , is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ churches in the " most church-goingest nation in the world " is not negligible . Ministers in general are heartily sick of the hypocrisy of segregation in Christian churches  --  perhaps the Southern Baptists less so than the Methodists and Congregationalists . Confronting the fine hats and conformist manners of their congregations some ministers may hesitate to assert a human right against an existing law , but they will be lions for the truth with the law behind them , If the court moves to abolish segregation in the schools , the churches will be a considerable force for acceptance . Archbishop , Rummel 's opening of the Catholic churches of New Orleans to all races markedly lessens the chances of violence there . The National Council of Churches ( Protestant ) and the Catholic Welfare Council are unequivocal on the issue . Interracial clubs and projects have been sponsored by churches , above all by the Society of Friends , in many Southern towns Curiously , the race problem is merging more and more into the growing class problem , as American society becomes more and more stratified , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income level The educated American Negro , despite the insults he suffers , the limitations to his dignity as aman , is firmly attached to middle-class America and to the democratic creed of the Declaration of Independence and the Bill of Rights He is not a rebel against American democracy but its conscience . The Negro as scapegoat is being replaced by the " Red " ; instead of " nigger lover " an aroused Southern business man calls his enemy a " Communist . " No sane man would take bets on merely passive resistance in Georgia , Alabama , South Carolina , and above all Mississippi , but elsewhere ? I venture as a stranger to predict  --  there will be only isolated violence when the schools case breaks . Industrialism and rising standards of living have cut away much of the basis of the old conflict betwee.1 Negroes and poor whites . Of course the transition to racial coeducation will be difficult and marked by many personal tragedies , but by and large the South is waiting for its fate to be decided in Washington with notable calm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " that one overhears occasionally on small-town courthouse steps on market days has a kind of nostalgia about it . One old farmer , said to me sadly : , " I guess the old days of the ' Klan are gone . If the army could do it the teachers can . Guess there ai n't much we could do about it if we wanted to  --  and most of the young men do n't seem to care . " 