@@431476

IT is a university campus rather than a wilderness ? the gracious . sprawling , forested campus , of Indiana University that Hoagy Carmichael described so movingly in The Stardust Road . But the voice that sounds most strongly out of it today is the authentic voice of the American prophet crying in the wilderness , make straight in the desert a pathway for reform . The desert in this case is our current code of laws governing sexual activities and the background of Puritan tradition regarding sex under which this country still to some extent operates . And the voice is the voice of Dr. Alfred C. Kinsey of the Zoology Department , head of the Institute for Sex Research , an enterprise discreetly tucked away in soundproof rooms in the basement of one of the science buildings . The torrent of reaction that followed the publication of Dr. Kinsey 's and the Institute 's first book , Sexual Behavior in the Human Male , five years ago , and the widespread speculation and curiosity concerning his new book , Sexual Behavior iu the Human Female , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the peculiar , and peculiarly American , nature of the whole enterprise . Dr. Kinsey is by no means the first to break his way into this desert . For more than hall a century there have been pioneers before him , challenging older notions and demanding more light on the subject of sex . Sigmund Freud and Havelock Ellis probably stand as the two major figures . But Dr. Kinsey 's earnest . dedicated attempt to find out from the people themselves how they behave and what they think , to correlate his findings statistically without prejudgment , to regard even the most bizarre practice impersonally as merely another statistic , and to present his findings to the people as well as to the experts and professionals , is his own . And so , in turn , is the reverberation his work has caused . Two hundred and fifty thousand Americans bought the first Kinsey report ; a halfdozen other books about the report also became best-sellers ; and no one , least of all Dr. Kinsey and his hard-working , singleminded staff , has vet estimated the number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have appeared . There is reason to suspect that the impact of the second volume  | will be even greater than that of the first ? not merely because it deals with women , a perennially popular topic with both sexes , or because , as one wit put it , " any woman may be somebody 's mother , " but also because it is in many ways a more startling and a fuller book than its predecessor . Beyond that , it has gained momentum from the effect of its forerunner , which has already been cited in court decisions and quoted in textbooks as well as blazoned from one end of the country to the other . Only a handful of articles about the first volume appeared before publication . Close to one hundred national magazines , newspapers , and news services wrote Dr. Kinsey asking to see advance proofs of the second . With scrupulous fairness he offered the same opportunity to all : a chance to send an accredited reporter ? bound by contract to observe an August twentieth release date and to check figures with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four-day sessions at the university , sessions during which interviews with the Kinsey staff and proofs of the book were made available . Representatives of eight publications turned up at the first of these briefings , while reservations were still being made for the later two ; and if the concentration with which the reporters made use of their opportunities is any indication , this article should be only one of a flood of prepublication reports on the second Kinsey report . But perhaps typically , Dr. Kinsey has caused only a ripple on the campus from which his work emanates . Late in May , during the first briefing session , while the eight reporters from other parts searched their souls for the most newsworthy facts and ideas in the manuscript they were reading , the Indiana undergraduates attended intramural baseball games and studied for their final exams . A large number of them do not recognize Dr. Kinsey by sight . An even higher proportion do not know where the Institute is located . There are only three copies of his first volume in the college library , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . And the sole notice last May in the Indiana Daily Student , the campus newspaper , of the subject on which so much of the nation was hazarding so many guesses was a short item which quoted the titles of both the Kinsey books incorrectly and read in part : Sometime after August 20 , Dr. Alfred C. Kinsey of the Department of Zoology will release another book for sale . This one is entitled " Sexual Behavior of the Human Female . " This is the second book that Dr. Kinsey will have written since he began his extensive research on sexual behavior in 1938 . The other book , a best-seller , was titled " Sexual Behavior of the Human Male . " II IT SHOULD be said at once that the objections some people raised to the validit of the Kinsey interviewing technique will hold for the second book as well as the first . although it is based on a larger number of cases and the geographical distribution over the country is wider . Dr. Kinsey and his three research associates , Clyde Martin , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the women the same 300 to 500 questions they asked the men , with minor variations ( and found , incidentally , that they answered as readily ) ; coded the replies in the same manner ; rechecked later for accuracy in twice as many cases as they had for the first book ; and cross-checked in over three times as many cases as in the first book reports from hum - bands and wives . The interviewers maintain that the manner in which they put the questions ( which varies depending on the educational and social background of the person questioned ) and the checks on one question inherent in later questions , make it extremely difficult for anyone to deceive them . But it must be remembered that the major objection to the first book was not that many people deliberately lied in answering , but that selfdeception and faulty memory are far from infrequent phenomena in the human animal , as any psychiatrist can testify . However , the second volume depends to a lesser extent than the first did on verbally given accounts . The authors also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , diaries , correspondence , drawings , and amateur and professional fiction on erotic subjects to check against what the people said . Dr. Kinsey 's slowly accumulated 16,000-volume library on sexual behavior , including books on religion , law , biology , medicine , psychology , psychiatry , and the fine arts ? as well as the collections of  | pornography and erotica from classical times to the present , which made the news when he had difficulty getting some of the books from abroad through the United States censor ? has made possible footnotes tracing observations , attitudes , and laws on sexual practices through the ages and the nations . Dr. Gebhard , a young , Harvard-trained anthropologist , has provided other footnotes on animal behavior and customs in primitive tribes . Two research associates on legal study have contributed information on sex laws . The footnotes make the liveliest reading in the new book . It is fascinating to trace sexual mores and patterns of behavior from ancient Judaic law through medieval Catholic law into current Anglo-American law , and to realize how direct the line of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learns what an anonymous but inspired medieval writer considered the major " vapours of the Maidenhead " ; that petting , very similar to that practiced by humans , is frequent among porcupines ; and that among the extenuating circumstances in Talmudic law that make premarital coitus permissible is the case of a man falling off a parapet against a woman . The new book has also been helped by consultations with psychologists , psychiatrists , neurologists , gynecologists , sociologists , social workers , and others ? some of whom provided additional material and some of whom went over the manuscript . General observation of community habits and conversation has further broadened its scope . And because it is the second volume , it contains comparative data on the sexuality of men and women and findings on the nature of sexual response in general . In gathering material on sexuality , Dr. Kinsey and his associates used , in addition to the case histories they took , records from scientifically trained observers who studied human sexual activities in which they were not themselves involved ; studies and movies of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gynecological data ; anatomic data ; and records of physiological experiments on lower animals and , to a lesser extent , on human beings . And it is in this field , on the nature of sexuality itself , that the new book is most sensational and conflicts most sharply with certain widely accepted theories . III THERE is , the book declares , no basic physiological or anatomic difference in the sexual response of males and females ; the circumstances leading to homosexuality are not what , since Freud , we have been led to believe ; and there is no evidence that the development of sexuality in the individual follows the sequence sit is generally supposed to . The data Kinsey and his associates used in studying the basic nature of sexuality persuaded them that the end organs of touch , or erogenous zones , which are the chief physical bases of sexual response , are located about the same in men and in women ; that male and female genitalia , which " originate embryonically from essentially identical structures , " in the adult still contain corresponding parts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some in the other , serve similar functions in sexual response . The female does not respond physiologically more slowly than the male ; her supposed slower response is due to sexual techniques that do not recognize the nature of female anatomy , and to the fact that most females do not respond as rapidly or as intensely to psychological stimuli as the average male . The Kinsey findings on homosexuality indicate that the main factors leading to it are : ( 1 ) the human being 's basic sexual capacity to respond to any sufficient stimulus ; ( 2 ) the chance that leads a person to his or her first sexual experience with a person of the same sex ; ( 3 ) the effects of that experience , pleasant or unpleasant ; and ( 4 ) the powerful conditioning effects of the social code . Thus a man or woman who has had a homosexual experience , Dr. Kinsey suggests , may find himself rejected by persons of the opposite sex and be driven into exclusively homosexual activity . Contrariwise , the social pressure against premarital intercourse with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , . especially a woman , against whom the pressure is apt to be more strongly applied , into homosexuality . Carried to its farther conclusions , all this seems to indicate that , if the homosexual taboo were removed , our society might follow the pattern of ancient Athens or Shakespearean England in which bi-sexuality  | was an accepted form , and the society remained sound and productive . The blare of the trumpet , seldom long absent from this book , rings loud as Dr. Kinsey proclaims : " There is nothing known in the anatomy or physiology of sexual response which distinguishes between masturbatory , heterosexual , or homosexual reactions . . . . Unless it has been conditioned by previous experience , an animal should respond identically to identical stimuli , whether they emanate from some part of its own body , from another individual of the same sex , or from an individual of the opposite sex . " This leads to his third point : nowhere in his research did he find that the Freudian progression from self-stimulation to homosexual stimulation to " emotionally mature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ male or female . In fact , the whole concept of maturity and immaturity in sexual relations is omitted from the book . It is not the intention of this article to evaluate these conclusions , although ? as Dr. Kinsey acknowledges ? the entire book rests on the first of them , and by extension on the other two as well . Almost certainly they will attract the main attention of specialists who hold most strongly to opposing theories . Two further sections on the hormonal factors and neural mechanisms involved in sexual response may also draw fire from professionals in these highly technical and experimental fields . But equally certainly , these are not the parts of the book that will receive the most public attention . It is the Kinsey figures on frigidity , homosexuality , masturbation , and promiscuity in women , and specifically , since the cases were taken in this country , in American women , that most people are waiting to see . And in these figures it is safe to say there is something for almost everybody . IV FIVE thousand three hundred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the second are the case histories of 5,940 white females , 59 per cent of whom , judged by their own or their husbands ' work , belong to the upper white-collar or professional class , although only 47 per cent came from childhood homes of this class . Close to 2,000 more women arc represented in the total figures , but not in all the group breakdowns . These include Negroes , whom Dr. Kinsey omitted from the breakdowns because he did not feel he had a large enough sampling of educated Negroes in the upper occupational groups to give a fair picture ; and women in penal institutions . whose histories , the interviewers found , differed sharply from those of women outside . In addition , 3,000 more males have been interviewed since those in the first book . The ages of the women ranged from two to ninety , with the largest sampling in the group between sixteen and fifty . Only 8 per cent had never gone beyond grade school ; 17 per cent had had some high-school education but not college ; 56 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 19 per cent had done graduate work ? proportions which are themselves interesting as indicating the kinds of women the Kinsey interviewers met most frequently throughout the nation and found most willing to co-operate . The states that provided the most cases were , in order : New York , Pennsylvania , Illinois , Indiana , California , New Jersey , Ohio , Florida , Massachusetts , and Maryland . Four hundred and fifty-six of the cases were born before 1900 ; 784 in the first decade after the turn of the century , meaning that they reached maturity sometime during the nineteen-twenties . The women 's occupations ranged from acrobat to X-ray technician ; their husbands ' , for those who were married , from abortionist to YMCA staff . Although the largest number of women came from Protestant or reformed Jewish sects , there are 727 Roman Catholics and 108 strictly Orthodox Jewish women in the sample . " At its best , " Dr. Kinsey writes cautiously , " the present volume can pretend to report behavior which may be typical of no more than a portion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ white females living within the boundaries of the United States . " What , then , are some of the things he found out about these women ? IN CONTRAST to the male pattern described in the first book , age at onset of adolescence and social and educational background seem to make little difference in  | women 's sexual behavior . While religious background may hold a woman back from beginning a specific type of sexual activity , once she has begun , it makes little difference in the frequency with which she continues . The generation in which a woman was born is far more important in determining the forms of sexual practice in which she engages , though not their frequency , than an urban or rural background , the occupation of her parents , or the amount of schooling she receives . ( However , Dr. Kinsey reminds the reader that the sampling of women who never went beyond grade school is limited . ) There is greater variation in the frequency and intensity of sexual activity in individual women than in individual men . Extreme females @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two-thirds of the women interviewed did not respond to psychological stimuli anywhere nearly as strongly as the average man , 2 to 3 per cent responded more rapidly and more intensely than any man interviewed . Females as well as males may experience orgasm in infancy and pre-adolescence ( the ages at which the women in the sample first reached orgasm ranged from four months ? reported by the infant 's mother ? to between forty-eight and fifty years ) ; but seven times as many boys as girls indulge in pre-adolescent heterosexual sex play . And while most males reach their maximum sexual development somewhere in their late teens and begin to decline in their late twenties , most females reach their maximum sexual development in their middle twenties or early thirties and continue more or less on a level until their fifties or sixties . The average female does not have , or seem to require , as regular sexual activity as the average male . Women , both married and unmarried , are less promiscuous than men , and usually have far fewer different sexual partners of either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men of any age are primarily or exclusively homosexual . Animal contacts are much rarer among women than men . Masturbation is the second largest sexual outlet among women of all ages and the one in which women most often reach orgasm ; but heterosexual petting is the sexual practice in which the greatest number of women engage before marriage , and marital coitus the one in which the greatest number . engage after marriage . In contrast to males , more older than younger women masturbate . The greater a woman 's premarital experience of orgasm , from whatever source , the greater her chances of achieving sexual satisfaction from coitus with her husband . What may be one of the most striking of all Dr. Kinsey 's findings is that frigidity in women is steadily declining , and has been declining ever since the period , just after World War I , which saw a rise in the number of women who petted and engaged in premarital relations with men and a decline in prostitution . In one age group , the frigidity decline was as steep as from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ petting and premarital experience among women of all social classes was sharpest in the period between 1916 and 1930 and the figure has remained fairly constant ever since ? suggesting that , in the sexual field at least , the changes of the jazz Age have proved permanent . Less than half as many women born before 1900 had premarital coitus as those born later ; among women unmarried by the age of twenty-five , 14 per cent of the older generation and 36 per cent of the next generation had had sexual intercourse with men . Only 9 per cent of the total number of women interviewed appeared to belong to a group that would go through life without experiencing orgasm from any source , and only 2 per cent to a group that would never be erotically aroused . Among the married women , only 10 per cent appeared to go through marriage without reaching orgasm from coitus with their husbands ( although one woman did so only after twenty-eight years of marriage ) , and a steadily rising proportion said they were achieving orgasm from all their marital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the first year of marriage to 47 per cent after twenty years of marriage . Tabulated another way , Dr. Kinsey estimates from his findings that after twenty years of marriage , 85 per cent of all marital coitus is proving sexually satisfactory to the woman involved , and adds that the youngest group in his sample will probably end their histories with a still higher figure .  | V EVEN this decidedly incomplete summary of some of the figures in the second Kinsey book offers ample ammunition for the social historian , the moralist , the specialist , the commentator , the feminist , and the anti-feminist to do with as they will . Advocates of higher education for women can make what they like of Dr. Kinsey 's finding that " a distinctly higher proportion " of women who have been to college reach orgasm in a higher percentage of their marital coitus . Students of literature will discover that writers , as they often are , have been right all along : Mrs. Shandy* makes her unacknowledged appearance in this book when the female 's lower response @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussed ; and surely the Kinsey figures on the age in which women are most sexually active in comparison to men recall Mark Twain 's bitter reference to God 's horrid jest on the female sex in allowing their desire so far to outlast their husbands ' . Publishers who claim that women make up the bulk of the novel-reading public may be bolstered to find that while in general women respond erotically to few psychological stimuli , the reading of romantic fiction is an outstanding exception in which they far exceed men . Since the same applies to movies , the publication of the second Kinsey report may result in Hollywood 's increased attention to " women 's pictures . " and in less furor about 3-D . Anyone may point out that along with the figures on growing sexual satisfaction for women has gone the rise in premarital and extramarital affairs ; and many people will very likely be dismayed at the staggeringly low proportion of women questioned who had indulged in either who expressed any later regret that they had done so , or any intention of not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ separation of women 's sexual activities and the reproductive process , with all its emotional and social overtones , may bring other complaints . To these Dr. Kinsey has his answer . This book is not concerned with the subject of marriage , not even with the sexual factors in marital adjustment , a topic he hopes to get around to later . It is an attempt to investigate female sexuality and compare it with male . And it is perhaps unique in the field in its isolation of this single aspect of the human female . " In view of the historical background of our Judeo-Christian culture , " the book observes , " comparisons of males and females must be undertaken with some trepidation and a considerable sense of responsibility ... . Down to the present day there is more heat than logic in most attempts to show that women are the equal of men , or that the human female differs in some fundamental way from the human male . It would be surprising if we , the present investigators , should have wholly freed ourselves from such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , tried to accumulate the data with a minimum of prejudgment and attempted to make interpretations which would fit those data . " IT is a worthy and honest attempt . Yet no one , and certainly neither Dr. Kinsey , who is fired with true missionary zeal , nor his three young associates , who have taken the flame from him , can work with such devotion and concentration in the field of sex for so long without placing a high premium on sexual activity . If the second Kinsey report makes any censure , beyond the implicit underlying censure of certain sex laws and customs , it comes in when the book is discussing the 28 per cent of unmarried women the investigators found who had never had sexual satisfaction , and who were therefore incapable of understanding the sexual urge in other women and in men . Many of these women , Dr. Kinsey notes , are in responsible positions as teachers , school superintendents , directors of youth organizations and women 's clubs . Some are responsible for our most extreme sex laws . Some are doctors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he protests this state of affairs , he suggests again that it is probably no innate quality in these women but our social and moral code that has made them unresponsive and intolerant . " One-half  | to two-thirds our unmarried females , " he ids , " do understand the significance of sex and do not lead frustrated lives . " For Dr. Kinsey 's prime concern is with the individual . " Individual variation , " he writes , ' is the most persistent reality in human sexual behavior . " And the inherent message that runs most strongly , if tacitly , through his new book is the need for recognition of this fact and of varying individual needs . The book is , in effect , a plea for more tolerance and less certainty that some things are right or normal and others wrong or abnormal ; for reinvestigation of sex laws , reinterpretation of moral codes . And if some of the Kinsey findings seem to raise questions more serious for the structure of our society , based on the family unit , than the book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quite certainly , not Dr. Kinsey 's responsibility . He has blazed the trail , and the final evaluation of both his findings and their implications must be left for others . Possibly because Indiana is a border state , still conscious of the fact that the land near where the university now stands was once a depot for the underground railway , the sound of Dr. Kinsey 's voice periodically recalls the voices of the Abolitionists who , like him , raised the standard for what they considered basic human reforms whose far-reaching social consequences they did not directly concern themselves with . Or perhaps Dr. Kinsey feels he has given himself an out when he says , as he does in this book , that he does not believe that sexual satisfaction is the only , or even the primary , factor in a successful marriage . He further states that his findings indicate that the average woman marries to establish a home and a long-term relationship with her husband and to have children , rather than to find sexual gratification . But he asks that sex as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussion , and more investigation by professionals . NUMBER of sophisticated foreign critics remarked when the first Kinsey report was published that only in America would a scientific study of male sex habits , by a zoologist who had built up his previous reputation by his studies of the gall wasp , receive such excited attention and sell so many copies . In a sense they were right , although if references to the first Kinsey report in the foreign press from Europe to China , the fact that the book was translated into six languages , and the number of imitators who have sprung up in other countries prove anything , Kinsey has not passed without notice abroad . But it is perhaps typically American to accept so widely a scientist who turns from one field to an entirely different one and uses the statistical approach ordinarily reserved for far less intimate subjects . It is perhaps also American that such a study should be so determinedly of the people , b the people , and for the people . The first volume was accurately described by some reviewers as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the journalists who was reading the advance proofs observed , " badly needs an editor . " It is repetitious , dull in some passages , and sometimes confusing . But it is my guess that it will be as extensively read as the first was . There is a special reassurance for many Americans in the fact that these figures were collected from anonymous people like themselves and put through the impersonal calculations of an IBM machine to turn out results that are now presented to the same kind of people as those from whom they were gathered . Dr. Kinsey receives no money from his books . All the profits are plowed back into the Institute for Sex Research to make possible further studies . If anyone doubts the high purpose with which Dr. Kinsey pursues those studies , he has only to read excerpts from the first chapter of Sexual Behavior in the Human Female : It is the record of science that greater knowledge as it has become more available has increased man 's capacity to live more happily with himself and his fellow men . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right to investigate from the citizens at large is under obligation to make his findings available to all who can utilize his data . . . . As in other areas of science , the restriction of sexual knowledge to a limited number of professionally trained persons , to physicians , to priests , or to those who can read Latin , has not sufficiently served the millions . . . who need such knowledge in their everyday affairs .  |                     