@@493806

CAN DEMOCRACY WORK IN ASIA ? ASIAN UNITY is the great ambition of Pandit Nehru . Unity , he believes , will enable Asia to take its rightful place in and to keep out of a Third World War . Nehru 's search for a basis for Asian unity compels him to obscure and deny the moral conflict between freedom and Communism . It prompts him to oppose the United States as the only free nation powerful enough to bring about the alignment of Asia along ideological lines . It leads him down paths of appeasement . Yet if Nehru could help to bring China out of the Soviet orbit and into an Asiatic bloc , the neutrality of Asia might not be too high a price to pay for this vital transfer of allegiance . Is there any basis for Nehru 's policy ? The majority of Asian nations have burst the bonds of colonialism in five short years . Nehru sees in their common background the basis of their future unity . They have all suffered foreign domination . They all desire independence today . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progress . They all want to become industrialized nations overnight . They have all suffered from oppression by village landlords and money lenders . They are all moving toward land reform . They have all been governed by corrupt and dictatorial rulers . They all want honest and representative government . This is the second of a series on nationalism , Communism and democracy in India and the far East . The third will deal with the strength of Communism in Asia . ? THE EDITORS . In addition , Nehru asserts , the nations of Asia share " a passionate urge for freedom . " He insists , " they are developing or wish to develop democratic institutions . " For us this is the critical point , and at this point , Nehru seems to be tragically mistaken . It is true that Asia is linked by common problems . But are these problems to be overcome by compulsion or by consent ? On this central issue the divisions within Asia are as deep as those that threaten all the world . China and Viet Minh are dedicated to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Burma and Nationalist China are dedicated to compulsion directed by military rulers . India , Indonesia , Ceylon and the Philippines are moving towards democracy . Westerners maintain that these contrasts are basic and must lead to conflict . Nehru has held that they are superficial and do not preclude co-operation . His policy was challenged by the crossing of the 38th Parallel . It was undermined by China 's invasion of Tibet . kg Um ? mind that is developing within Asia , democracy starts at a clear disadvantage . In contrast to the purposefulness of the Communist governments , and the ruthlessness of the military regimes , the democratic governments of Asia lack direction and self-confidence . Democracy must always contain an element of self-doubt . In Asia , the self-doubt of democratic leaders approaches dangerous indecision . The recurring theme of Nehru 's speeches is : I have no well-defined program ; I can not see far ahead ; I sense the direction in which the masses are moving ; I move with them towards an unknown end . To See ado indecision as an expression of Nehru @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basic dilemma of the democratic leaders of Asia . With some reason we identify democracy and free enterprise . We take it for granted that our way is best of organizing society . In Asia that is far from clear . Asia 's primary needs are to raise industrial production , to increase agricultural productivity and to achieve efficiency and integrity in government . Private enterprise can raise industrial production only if there is present in Asia a vigorous capitalist class , or a large volume of foreign investment . Increased agricultural productivity requires mechanization and a consolidation of land holdings that peasants are bound to resist . Efficiency and integrity in government in the years before a tradition of public service is established require a discipline that democracy can not easily enforce . Colonial rule has not left Asia unprepared for democratic development . There are industries in Central India , a strong democratic tradition in South India and effective provincial governments in Bombay , Madras , the Central Provinces and Mysore . In general , however , in India as in most of free Asia , resources are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and there is no tradition of democracy that the majority of the people recognize and love . For us democracy and free enterprise are expressions of our national character and temperament . It is doubtful whether the character and temperament of Asia conform with ours . But even if democracy and free enterprise are accepted as the best means of organizing Asian nations , our own experience proves that they must take root generations before they bear fruit . It took the United States two centuries to develop modern capitalism . The productive power of our competitive economy derives from a long and continuous rise in the ? skill and initiative of managers , workers and farmers . Unlike Great Britain , where civil rights were curtailed in the critical years of the Industrial Revolution , we were able to develop capitalism and democracy side by side , because of the extraordinary circumstances of the frontier , an underpopulated continent , and substantial foreign capital . None of these conditions prevails in Asia today . In the same way , it took Britain three centuries to extend the franchise to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Americans are still denied the vote . Asia today will not wait for three centuries . Her main insistence is on speed of development . Before Asia stands an example of the swift industrialization of a backward nation ? the USSR . We may condemn it for its indifference to human costs . But Asians have not been led to hold life dearly . Asia is dominated by misery . Misery must cause impatience . For the impatient , compulsion becomes irresistibly tempting as the short cut . The Western-trained leaders of free Asia are committed to the patient methods of democracy . But it seems doubtful that the mass electorates to whom power is given , and the new leaders whom they thrust forward , will follow in the footsteps of a passing generation that sat at the feet of professors at Harvard and Balliol . In recognition of this weakness , the Western governments rely on nationalism as the counter force to Communism during the decades in which democracy takes root in Asia . But nationalism , while it delays the encroachment of Soviet power , is not inherently.democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Modern nationalism began in Asia in a response to Western liberalism . It took hold when nationalist leaders restored to the peoples of Asia their self respect . The nationalist method was to recreate Asia 's own traditions . In this sense it was conservative . At the same time it mobilized millions of people by voicing their demand for change . The movement was not concerned with consistency . It was individualist and coikctivist ; liberal and Socialist . It was a negative rebellion against foreign rule , rather than an impulse toward the positive objectives for which political parties seek power . It rejected all planning for the future as a divisive force within the unifying emotion of nationalism . In the Inlet nine since Asia achieved its independence two main trends have developed . Either the national movement which achieved independence has consolidated its power in a one-party state as in Pakistan , or , as in India , it has faltered , and begun to break up . In both cases it has lost popular support . For , lacking the disciplines of the Communist Party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when power at last is theirs . In colonial days they were martyrs proudly suffering imprisonment and poverty . Today they are often the new rich . In all free Asia the national leader of yesterday , the politician of today , as the villagers say , is a man with a lot of wealth and little sympathy who shares his sympathy and keeps his wealth . The Eastern Economist writes of India : With the transfer of power on August 15 , 1947 , the nationalistic impulse faded away . The attack on privilege went into operation up to the point where it could be proceeded with uninterrupted by the Right . The Princes gave in with almost no fight . The Zemindaris ' days are clearly numbered . . . . All this was possible without bringing the Right and Left into conflict , for both were in fact redundant . . . . In so far as the revolution has borne fruit its instruments have been leaders on the Right , aided by a Rightist-thinking civil service . . . . The Leftist element , symbolized by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being vociferous in thought . . . . That is the present state of the revolution . It has consolidated all that could be consolidated without disunity ? in the ruling party . There it has come summarily to a halt . The Party can not go Left because of the inadequacy of the Government machine to take over and administer anything more than it has on hand . It can not go Right because of a widespread emotional feeling for the ' underdog ' . . . . If the Indian Revolution ever had a revolutionary character , that character has now been lost . Ia the days of British rule , Nehru , P. D. Tandon and S. V. Patel fought shoulder to shoulder in the Congress Party . Today Nehru , the Prime Minister and Fabian Socialist , places unenforceable reforms on the statute books . Patel , the Deputy Premier and Rightist , maintains order , forming and breaking provincial ministries . Tan-don , the Party chairman and archaist , urges his countrymen to foreswear salt , honey , dairy products , all cooked food , leather-soled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold together through the coming election . At most , it may survive one more . In the West , a majority party is given purpose and unity by the presence of a constructive minority party . In India , as in most of free Asia , the minority consists largely of dissatisfied members of the majority party who have been denied patronage . In time they may form a second party , but it will hardly be one with well-defined political principles . Nehru sees his platform in " the Welfare State . " But this has little meaning , and still less when one of his leading supporters , Acharya Kripalani , adds , " The police state is the way to the welfare state . " The Socialist Party hopes to become the government of India if it is given time in which to grow . It stresses social mobility rather than Socialism . It has strength among the slum dwellers of Bombay , the miners of Bihar and the railway workers . But it lacks the resources and the ideas to win the villagers of India , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and file . On the anniversary of Gandhi 's death on October 3 , a Socialist leader , Mrs. Kamaladevi Chattopadhyaya , expressed the disillusionment felt by many Indians today : Passivity .. . has become the chief characteristic of our national life today . The other trend is archaism or revivalism ... an attempt to break away from an intolerable present by reconstructing an earlier phase which seems full of glory and triumph . .. . At the moment when the dominant leadership has become sterile . . . and the large mass has slippedinto passivity , the day seems to be with the revivalists . . . . They seized their chance when in the chaos of partition they murdered the creative genius Gandhi . . . . Ever since they have been moving from vantage to vantage , victory to victory , for the creative genius of the people burns low and dim . The revivalist movement was founded in 1925 . Partition has given it strength . Its aim is to arouse a consciousness of racial solidarity among Hindus . Hinduism is not a proselytizing religion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have founded a Moslem State in Pakistan and a Hindu State in India seems to be the answer . The front for the revivalists is the Hindu Mahasabha , a narrow group with influence but no real base , that seeks power through indoctrination within the majority group . Behind it is the RSS , whose members , clad in uniforms , drill once a day . Seven hundred thousand Hindus are organized in RSS cells . Another 500,000 are organized in youth groups , starting with six-year-old children . It was banned for 18 months for its role in Gandhi 's assassination . Now it is back , organizing its cells , keeping silent on its aims . A voluntary ban on the RSS by newspapers leaves Indians ignorant of its purposes and its strength . It seeks to rid India of Western influence , to drive the Moslems out of the country , to form a Hindu nation with a rigid moral code , drawn from the past . A Hindu state which denies all rights to 40 million Moslem citizens must be a reactionary and sterile dictatorship , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to maintain its power . Already the heritage of violence in India is appalling . The conflict between India and Pakistan is ruining both nations through its burdens of armaments , boycotts , tensions and homeless refugees . Pressure for war is high in West Bengal . New riots seem almost inevitable . In the long run , revolution alone may bring an end to communalism , as desperate men overturn every symbol of an intolerable status quo . Against the rising tide of communalism stands Jawaharlal Nehru , commanding surging crowds with such reckless courage that it is hard to believe that he will live more than a few years . He lacks the confidence of the civil service , the trust of the manufacturers , the support of his own party , which will discard him when it can . Yet he alone can inspire a loyalty to a democratic nation that transcends conflicting loyalties to community , caste , race and state . He alone can preside over hungry but peaceful millions who see in him a great man who sacrificed his wealth and happiness in order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reluctance to join the West we must ask whether we would prefer a dependent continent , mired in bloodshed and civil war . 