@@186480

There has long been wide agreement among newspapermen that a reporter who dabbles in politics tarnishes his sheen as a reporter ( see below ) . But on the broader question of a newsman 's obligations as a citizen , there has never been unanimity . Can a newsman take part in community affairs without compromising his position as a public critic ? <P> Of course not , says Alfred Friendly , managing editor of the Washington Post and Times Herald , in leading off a debate on the subject in the current Bulletin of the American Society of Newspaper Editors . " The responsibility that goes with the press 's privileged position is that of serving as an objective chronicler , watchdog , critic , and independent or extralegal check , " says he . By holding " at arm 's length " all requests for staffers to serve on charitable , civic and government boards , the Post has found that reporters ' " criticism is sharper , the praise is less inhibited and carries a greater impact . And the news about the agencies stays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Friendly , J. Edward Murray , managing editor of the Los Angeles Mirror-News ( circ. 307,858 ) , notes that most projects want a reporter not " as an individual , but as a representative of a newspaper . " Added Managing Editor Harvey Patton of the Detroit News : " As an old city hall reporter , I know that you are always being told things in confidence , and if a reporter belongs to a group and learns things in confidence , he ca n't do a good job as a reporter . " Editor Fred W. Stein of the Binghamton ( N.Y. ) Press extends the ban to employees beyond the newsroom : " A newspaper can be thrust into an embarrassing situation on a controversial issue by actions of one of its advertising men as well as by its staff writers or editors . " <P> To such arguments , Publisher Hugh Wagnon of Pocatello 's Idaho State Journal retorts : " Ivory Tower . " Although he draws the line at serving as publicity chairman , Wagnon is glad to work in other posts for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he argues , " that only by working with people , can an editor obtain that intimate , firsthand knowledge that makes for accurate reporting , and editorial comment and criticism that is easy , natural and fair . " Wagnon admits that the community-conscious reporter gets his sympathies involved with his projects , but concludes : " But you become a first-class citizen instead of a second-class citizen who leaves the work to George . " <P> Instead of taking a firm stand , most of the nation 's newspapers compromise and give George an occasional helping hand depending on the particular job . Boston Herald newsmen may not take pay for any community job , may not work for any group that is dependent upon publicity , but are encouraged to take part in civic projects outside these restrictions . Cleveland editors shy away from controversial community projects , but scramble to be identified with prestigious civic and philanthropic groups .                     