@@488257

This issue of The Nation appears on U. N. Day , the world 's only official international holiday . But the regard in which most of the world still holds the U. N. is currently of less moment than the forces arrayed against it in this country . Unhappily ours are the money , the prestige , and the real estate . The problem is beyond the U. N. 's power to solve . As Mark Gayn points out ( see page 326 ) , the world organization has become a domestic political issue . Extreme right-wing Republicans  --  and Democrats  --  have borrowed the hate-U . N. motif from the crackpots and are using it to rally reaction . The U. N. Charter comes up automatically for revision in 1955 , an issue ready-made not only for next year 's Congressional election but for debate and possible Congressional action in 1955 . And in the 1956 Presidential election the U. N. could well become a major issue . But if the attack on the U. N. is political , then its defense must be organized politically . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeared to do the job . Five years or more of witch hunting have taken their toll of the liberal movement in this country ; people hesitate to ring doorbells , join committees , sign petitions , Many organizations doing an excellent educational job are enjoined from political action by their tax-exempt status . Nor has it helped that the original concept of a bipartisan foreign policy has evolved into the concept of an authoritarian policy which it is heresy to criticize . To save the U. N. , these difficulties must be surmounted . They can be . The U. N. itself should be used as a means of mobilizing maximum liberal strength , just as its opponents are using it to mobilize reaction . On such an issue  --  the saving and strengthening of the U. N. ? the entire roster of democratic forces can unite .. It is within this context that Mr. Gayn 's plea to organized labor to rally to-the organization 's cause has real meaning . What is needed is leadership for political action . - Wisconsin Whirlwind The country has caught the clear accents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Democrat from Wisconsin 's Ninth Congressional District . What the press is hiding is that the election has significance far beyond the dissatisfaction with declining farm income . There is no question about the decisiveness of Lester Johnson 's sweep of the farm areas in the district which less than a year ago voted overwhelmingly Republican . But there is no question either about his sweep - of , the city vote , of which Republicans had been supremely confident . In the city of Eau Claire , the only large industrial center in the district , Johnson carried thirteen of the sixteen wards , including nine which had gone Republica last year . He came - Within forty votes of carrying Chtppewa Falls , his opponent 's borne town - and the district 's second largest city . The election can not be explained simply by Saying that the farmers a 're in rebellion against Secretary Benson . . , The pattern of general revolt against the Eisenhower Administration is too . obvious in the results . On the farms , in the villages , and in the cities , where Eisenhower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protest " vote against what is going on in Washington . They Did n't Like Ike The Republicans made the issue clear during the campaign . Senator Bridges came into the district to warn that the defeat of the Republican , Arthur Padrutt , would be " a stunning blow against the Administration . " Governor Kohler also campaigned for Padrutt , using the same therrie . Padrutt'sown campaign slogan was : " Give President Eisenhower a real helper on his team . " When it was over , Padrutt said : " The results show very clearly that the farmer arid laboring man do not like the present Administration 's policies and took this opportunity to show their displeasure . " He could have added , from a look at the urban results , that a lot of white-collar people joined tabor and the farmers in expressing their dissatisfaction . One of the most hopeful things about the election is its indication that people are beginning to become aware of the fact that their pockets are being picked . It indicates that people are fed up with the " bankers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public domain , and with government of , by , and for General Motors It shows that even in McCarthy 's home state the voters are tiring of the Senator 's medicine shows and are hearkening at long last to the really important domestic issues which the Administration is either bungling or evading . And finally it indicates that the legend of the President 's popularity is beginning to get shopworn around the edges . More Political Troubles Within the last few weeks the Eisenhower wing of the Republican Party has run into trouble outside of Wisconsin . With the appointment of the new Chief Justice , California has at long last been " liberated " from the strange brand of fusionist , or , more accurately , " con-fusionist , " politics practiced so successfully by Mr. Warren . California tips the political scales in the Far West ; its electoral votes are worth the combined votes of the other Western states . " Goody " Knight , the new governor , is a distressingly mediocre politician whose extreme right-wing politics will not be popular in Cali --  fornia . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clock to blow down a gorgeous political scandal involving labor racketeers , underworld big shots , and top Republican officials . In New Jersey the administration of Governor Driscoll has been seriously discredited by revelations of political corruption , and the name of the Driscoll-indorsed candidate for governor in the November 3 election has now cropped up in the New York scandal . More important , the Republicans took a merciless drubbing in the recent Connecticut municipal elections , despite the , fact that the state chairman urged Eisenhower Administration . California , New York , Connecticut , and New Jersey have been strongholds of the Eisenhower elements of the Republican Party ; they may not be in 1954 . But the ultimate beneficiaries of these recent developments may be , not the Democrats , but the go-it-alone right-wing Republican extremists . Settlement at Arma After at nine-and-a-half-week strike , precipitated when 158 I. U. E.-C . I. 0 . workers were fired in violation of seniority ( Strike at Arma by Herbert Orrell , August 29 ) , approximately 5,000 shop men , draftsmen , and engineers are now back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Island . For the first time in this country white-collar engineers , traditionally anti-union , pooled forces as a group with shop workers in a labor struggle . The outcome was mixed , but on the whole favored the strikers . The I. U. E. won reinstatement of its 158 workers and preserved its " bumping , " - or promotion , rights . The engineers won a small wage increase , the extension of their contract until , 1955 , and other minor concessions , but had to yield on certain procedural matters affecting future negotiations . A ' prolonged fight over overtime ended in compromise . 1 The big fact that emerges from the walk-out is that white-collar engineers , in common cause with , technicians and production workers , were able to hold their own against a tough and skilled negotiator for management . Their solidarity and steadfastness have strengthened engineer unionism and given a lift to the parent organization , the Engineers and Scientists of America . The story of Arma should hearten white , collar workers everywhere . Negotiating from Arrogance BY FREDA KIRCHWEY THE British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repair the damage done by his subordinates and his chief ally during his months of forced retirement . Certainly he wo n't do it merely by waving the big stick at Israel , Guiana , and Yugoslavia and snubbing France . His immediate job is not so much to insist on the pride and power of the Empire in its dealings with lesser nations as to stand up to the United States on major issues . The idiotic decision on Trieste must obviously be retracted , in effect if not in words , unless the Western Allies want to risk war on the Adriatic and a considerable diplomatic victory for Russia . While the application of gunboat rule in the Caribbean has won prompt support from a Republican State Department , it will be resented all over Latin America , even where discretion forbids open protest , as well as . in the colonial areas , the Middle East , and Asia . As for the harsh rebuke to Israel , this too carried a note of arrogant dictation which suggests that Britain has forgotten it no longer exercises a mandate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state . The reciprocal hostilities between Israel and Jordan are-ugly and threatening enough to have warranted consideration by the Security Council ; they do not by any stretch of the imperial imagination justify unilateral orders from Whitehall or Washington . No doubt all these issues called for consultation by the three foreign ministers in London , but not for decisions which could only reinforce the growing impression that wisdom and concern for peace were being sacrificed to a display of power for its own sake . So it seemed , at least , as the conference ended last Sunday . Nor was this impression weakened by the proposal to Moscow of a new four-power foreign minister 's meeting to discuss Germany and Austria . It should be clear by this time that another such meeting can only chew on stale crusts . Germany remains the key to any settlement between Moscow and the West , but the key can not be used to good effect unless both sides knoir what lurksbehind the door . This is the reason Sir Winston - has pressed for private , informal talks among the top @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deal that might emerge from talks tied to a tight agenda prepared in advance . What he is looking for are understandings on certain basic tenets and approaches . At a hazard , we suppose he wants the United States to convince Russia that it does not intend to march , or arm or finance or incite others to march , into Eastern Europe to " liberate " the area from Moscow and its own-Communist regimes . We suppose he wants to assure Russia and Poland that Germany will not be encouraged or permitted to try to get back its lost provinces by force of arms . On the other side , we imagine he wants Moscow to agree , on the basis of such assurances , to pull its armies out of the satellite states and permit their political future to be determined by political means . He maybe prepared to ask for an end to the more hostile forms of propaganda and espionage , and to persuade both sides to wipe out artificial political restrictions on trade . This at least is the sort of political truce and cold-war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principal 's acting behind closed doors , free from destructive sniping , domestic or foreign . If successful it would make possible a realistic settlement in Germany and Austria , with enough solid advantages all around to enable both to maintain prestige and disarm political enemies ready to charge a sell-out the moment a concession is hinted . IT IS hard to believe that Sir Winston has relinquished tho hope of making such an attempt ; hard both because he is a stubborn , self-assured person who likes , to have his own way , and because he is a master-politician who knows that the future . of his government is today in the balance . His forced absence  --  and that of Anthony Eden ? put Tory foreign policy at the mercy of the inept , reactionary Salisbury and the ever-cautious permanent officials at- Whitehall . Between them they allowed Mr. Dulles to shoulder the Churchill proposal aside , and by doing so they drove down the popularity-rating of the Conservative Party to a new low and equally raised that of the Labor opposition . If the Prime Minister hopes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can doubt that he does2 ? he can not afford to let his plans be twisted to suit the quite different political designs of the Republican Administration in Washington . The conference just ended seems to have done exactly that . Sir Winston knows the country wants a solid , honest attempt to reach a live-and-let-live deal with Russia , it is not interested in a demonstration that Britain still knows how to throw its weight around and still , reinforced by America , has weight to throw:But if he is to act on his knowledge he will have- to do it soon , before the chince of talking calmly with the Russians has been forever lost ; it may be too late even now .                     