@@241819

Armstrong Circle Theater : When the Brooklyn Museum started clearing out its west wing storeroom a year and a half ago , Dr. John Cooney , curator of Egyptian art , decided that a 1,600-year-old mummy of undistinguished pedigree had to go . First he suggested burning it , but a museum technician objected , as a Roman Catholic , to destroying a human body . Next Dr. Cooney tried to bury the mummy , and found that he could get no city burial permit . Then he tried to ship it out of town to a small museum , only to be turned down by Railway Express for lack of the physician 's death certificate that would have qualified him for the burial permit . When Dr. Cooney made known his quandary , he had no trouble hitting Page One . Last week , over-cutely swathed as The Complex Mummy Complex , Dr. Cooney 's story got into TV as the Armstrong Theater 's first comic dramatization-from-life . Stretched far too thin in an hourlong script , the joke was not nearly so funny as it must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it did make the 1,600-year-old hero the most popular mummy in Brooklyn . As callers swarmed on him , Dr. Cooney explained : " We still ca n't get rid of it . We 've had requests for it from all over the world , and it would take a Solomon to make a decision . Also , as a matter of fact , I 'm getting rather fond of it . " But when a colleague suggested that the museum display it in a show next fall , Dr. Cooney , keeping his standards high , retorted : " Over my dead body . " camera on a high crane zoomed from a great distance upon a spotlighted Betty Furness , making her Hollywood debut as a Westinghouse saleslady after a TV career spanning Studio One 's nine years in Manhattan and 308 dresses of her own . Aglow in a white linen sack with appliqued taffeta flowers , Betty brightened one commercial with Guest Star Conrad Nagel , who told how a washer-dryer combination had lightened his load at Malibu Beach . " With as many as ten guests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can imagine how many sheets and pillowcases we had , not to mention towels . " Studio One 's commercials were so colossal ( " We used every single bit of the whole studio , " said Betty ) that they had to be taped in advance so there would be room to do the rest of the show live . " Is n't that funny , " exclaimed Betty , " after they move us out here because the facilities are so much better ? " Unfortunately , Betty 's commercials kept being interrupted by long stretches of something called Brotherhood of the Bell , a pretentious melodrama about a conspiratorial fraternity in 1976 , which posed a question for the producers : Was it really worth making Betty pack those ten boxes of clothes and 18 pieces of luggage and leave her roomy apartment on Manhattan 's smart East Side ?                     