@@431549

 | Screen Test for Tomorrow 's Schools In A BRIGHT , windowless room about the size of the average classroom , Mrs. Mildred Vance , a pleasant , intense woman who has been teaching science for 16 years , is telecasting a science lesson to 554 sixth-graders . " There are many important factories in the world , " she says . " I 'll bet I know one you did n't guess a green plant . " One of three studio cameras focuses on a miniature evergreen , another on a card lettered , " Is a green plant a factory ? " In 17 classrooms scattered throughout Hagerstown , in Washington County , Md. , the students ' interest perks up . With eyes glued to television sets , they next see a typical breakfast scene . Mrs. Vance contin-.  | ues : " If there were no green plants in the world , what could you have to put on your breakfast table ? How about cereal ? No , you would n't have that because cereal is made from grain and grain comes from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cereal . Would you have cream ? No , you would n't . Oh , I know cows give cream , but what do cows eat ? Plants . Take away the cream , too . " One by one , sugar , orange , toast , bacon and pepper disappear from the table until all that remains is the salt and water . " Without green plants that is all you would have for any meal , " says Mrs. Vance . She then compares the structure of the green plant with that of an ice-cream factory , illustrating each point with pictures or laboratory displays . " Is a green plant a factory ? " she asks as she sums up her demonstration . All over town children raise their hands to discuss her question . She fades off the screen , and classroom discussion opens up . What is happening in these Hagerstown classrooms is part of a revolutionary five-year experiment in teaching by television . Although the project is only one year old , prominent educators have already termed it " the most significant thing going on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it could bring about the most widespread change in teaching methods since the public school was established and , in the process , provide one effective answer to the vital problem of teacher , classroom and money shortages . " To understand what we are trying to do , " explained Washington County School Superintendent William M. Brish , " it is important to realize that television enables us to do things that we could never do before . For example , the camera 's ability to blow up ' objects to any size gives every student a front-row seat or better . " This was proved to me as I watched a science lesson . On the studio monitor screen 20 feet away I had a better view of white salt crystals being formed than from my position only six feet from the actual demonstration . Television has also encouraged the development and use of new audiovisual aids to make learning more stimulating . " To hold children 's interest on television , " says geometry teacher James Davis , " you have to get away from the old way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a method of creating geometric figures by fastening elastic cords to hooks on a pegboard . " Now I do n't have to waste time writing and erasing on the blackboard , " he says . " I do n't take the chance of losing the students ' attention . " There is still a regular teacher in each Hagerstown classroom . " We are using television to supplement personal instruction , " says Brish , " not to supplant the classroom teacher . " It does not eliminate the textbook , nor does it do away with classroom discussion or the personal contact between pupil and teacher . At present each Hagerstown child  | receives only one or two subjects daily by television , and only 20 to 30 minutes of the hour devoted to each subject are televised . The television teachers are largely responsible for the planning and presentation of the lessons , while the classroom teachers take over the introductory warm-up period and the discussion afterward . This works out to the mutual advantage of both groups of teachers . The television teachers , free from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ homework , making up and grading tests ? can now devote all their time and special talents to planning the one lesson each of them telecasts per day . The classroom teachers have more time to concentrate on the subjects they will handle on their own . Teacher and classroom shortages are eased through more efficient use . Under traditional school organization it has been felt in recent years that there should be at least one teacher for every 3o pupils . With television , Hagerstown school authorities believe that this ratio can be modified . At South Hagerstown High School I saw 82 11th-graders comfortably watching a history lesson on four TV sets spotted around a large classroom under the supervision of one teacher . Before and after the telecast there were the usual discussion , recitation and review , similar to that carried on in the conventional smaller groups . As experimentation is still going on with various class sizes , it is too early to estimate how many teachers can be saved . But a report prepared early this year for the Ford Fund said that the use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teaching positions and more than 500 million dollars in salaries annually . How television will help offset the growing shortage of building facilities is already evident at the 50-room North Hagerstown High School . The 250 students taking televised courses there occupy the equivalent of five classrooms , three fewer than during 1955-56 . An added saving is realized by the multiple use of laboratory equipment and other materials . The same test tube , for example , can now be seen on dozens of television screens instead of by a single class . This project is the culmination of several months of discussion between the Electronic Industries Association , the Ford Foundation 's Fund for the Advancement of Education and school authorities interested in testing classroom television . Members of the Electronic Industries Association contribute the equipment and technical knowhow ; the Fund finances the training of teachers , the salaries of technical personnel , administration of the project and the cost of evaluating the study ; the community meets all other operating costs . When Washington County was chosen from 40 applicants , the Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Co. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eight schools ( two  | high schools and six elementary schools ) , and agreed to stand the cost of the line charges . Fifty teachers , principals and supervisors gave up their summer vacations to spend six weeks in a workshop with television and education experts . A pioneer spirit characterized the sessions as old concepts of education were reviewed and new ways of doing things were adopted . This school year , with the extension of the coaxial cable circuits to take in two more junior high schools and 13 more elementary schools , an additional 6200 pupils have been included in the experiment . By the 1958-59 school year all i8,000 students of Washington County 's 48 schools will be receiving televised instruction . What does the community think of the project ? The teachers almost without exception have been enthusiastic . There seems to be general agreement among them that science , geometry , arithmetic , music and art , because they lend themselves to the use of audio-visual aids , have been the most successful courses so far . Whether pupil marks in the televised courses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as one principal points out , " Because of the improved teaching more learning is hound to take place . " For the most part student reactions have also been favorable . The younger children , practically reared on television , accepted the new instruction as a matter of course . High-school students , long accustomed to face-to-face instruction , were at first inclined to be more critical . The inability to ask questions as they arise was the most frequent complaint , but as one i6-year-old said , " Maybe it 's better this way . Too many kids ask stupid or smartaleck questions just to show off . " " The television teacher expects you to get everything the first time , and if you do n't , it 's tough , " said one student in an firth-grade history class . But another observed , " I pay better attention now because the television teacher always seems to be looking me straight in the eye . " Parents in general reflect the attitudes of their children . Said one mother , " The children come home bubbling with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , " I 'm sure it 's going to teach our children to concentrate better , and how they need to ! " Will teaching by television place an extra burden on the taxpayer ? Washington County school authorities , aware that their project may be the prototype for all U. S. education , are watching expenditures closely to find out . Because of the anticipated savings in building facilities , material expenses and teacher salaries , it is more than likely that such a program will , in the long run , cost no more than traditional teaching . Clearly the Hagerstown program may have a profound effect on the present and future generations of our country .                     