@@487556

UNLESS the planet blows out its collective brains , our schools will survive . In their way they are just as indispensable to any organized society as food , shelter , and clothing . But will the schools that survive be good schools ? It is possible that they will have become the tools of a tyrannical power , their entire effort expended in anaesthetizing mind and emotion  --  and with what may be astonishing efficiency well before the bleak era portrayed in Orwell 's " 1984 . " But it is equally possible that American education will become what it was intended to be by some at least of its great founders  --  a mighty agency through which ordinary folk in an evolving democratic order actually determine together what they most want and how they can get it . ' If we assume that something ' of this kind is what ultimately is meant by good education , there is not a day to lose . The indifference of too many of us to what goes on in our schools and colleges is the strongest weapon of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the edge of a home-grown totalitarian counter-revolution . Parents simply can not continue to pay mere lip-service to an educational system in which , as in " virtue , " they all believe . Elementary and secondary teachers can not continue to be the yes-men of unrepresentative school boards or dictatorial administrators . Professors in their laboratories or studies can not remain smugly insulated from the threats to their integrity lurking in the shadows of every college campus . What , then can they  --  can we  --  do ? Based on the preceding articles in this series but extending beyond them , here is a minimum four-point agenda . The community must be brought into the life of the school and the school into that of the community at every vital point . In Pasadena more than a thousand citizens on more than a hundred committees have been trying to discover why their schools blew up about a year ago , to learn what the program of ex-Superintendent Willard Goslin was all about , and to salvage what they can . Why did Pasadena wait until after the majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to work earlier , had they opened channels of clear communication into the homes on every street , into business , labor , and religious organizations , Goslin 's temperate program of education , based as much of it was an validated findings in psychology and the social sciences , would probably now be moving forward at a brisk pace . Not all communities wait until the damage is - done . Cross-sectional councils of citizens are at work in several hundred cities from Pleasantville , New York , to Eugene , Oregon . Connecticut and Wisconsin are among the states that have studied their schools in dozens of grassroots discussion groups . At many of these , round-tables of teachers , parents , and university consultants thresh out new methods of learning , the teaching of controversial questions , recreational programs , school budgets  --  every small or large difficulty confronting the ordinary school . In some places ? Holtville , Alabama , is a famous instance  --  the school has become the nucleus of a community molecule : energy flows continuously in and out as children turn the environment into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ housewives ask the school for all sorts of help from canning to carpentry to human relations . There are dangers , of course , to guard against . For one thing , school-community programs and citizens ' councils are not always representative . Pupils are often ignored as fellow-planners . It is difficult to enlist the active interest of minority groups : Negro and Mexican American parents , and working-class parents generally , often stay away for fear they wo n't be welcome . And if some sections of the community are forgotten or reticent , others are too eager : professional patriots or intrenched chambers of commerce sometimes gain control , and in at least one suburban school studied by the writer the Communist Party moved in for a short but devastating time . For another thing , only great patience and skill in building group cooperation will hold the council together for year-to-year work . Unlike the typical parent-teacher meeting , where one finds much passive listening to " experts , " the community council will succeed only when the-school people learn not to talk down , and when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pervades every gathering . I suggest to the Ford Foundation that some of its money be used for launching a nation-wide movement for community-school programs and councils , for developing experts in group participation to help set them up , , and for conducting controlled experiments to test their effects . Meanwhile nothing except lassitude prevents Four Corners or Megalopolis from going ahead under its own steam . The teaching , profession II must unite in a strong and independent organization . No other large group of comparable training suffers so miserably from organizational anemia . If the teaching profession is to become strong , it will be by recognizing what other professionals , as well as skilled workers , learned long ago without benefit of physicists or biologists , who say the same thing about all objects of nature  --  that the whole is greater and more potent than the sum of its parts . Of about a million teachers of all kinds in the United States , scarcely half are members of the National Education Association , American Federation of Teachers , ( A. F. of L. ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Compare this total with the national unions of doctors , lawyers , clothing workers , automobile workers . The members of any one of these four groups have an average higher income , more security , and better protection against exploitative conditions than do the teachers of America . And even teachers who have joined a national organization remain comparatively weak . For all the commendable achievements of the N. E. A. , the plain truth is that on most matters of policy it is dominated by the administrators , who on too many occasions seem more concerned to placate their school boards than to further the interests of the teachers under them . The converse of this situation is that countless teachers , with notable exceptions , seem more concerned to placate their superiors than either to gain their own rights or to serve their students with adventuresome methods or rewarding courses . The A. F. T. also leaves much to be desired . It has failed thus far to devise a strategy that would break down the predominantly middle-class ideology and anti-labor bias of the great majority of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ salary and teaching load than with the formulation of sound educational philosophy or practice . It has even become the fellow-traveler of its traditional rival , the N. E. A. , and of groups infinitely worse , by its refusal to admit " totalitarian " teachers to membership  --  a refusal that has the effect of shooing teachers still farther away from any kind of classroom work that might be construed as critical of the status quo . Yet with all its weaknesses the A. F. T. offers the best immediate expectation of a nation-wide , autonomous union of teachers backed by millions of other skilled workers . While the policy of A. F. T. headquarters is sometimes opportunistic if not timid , it can already be challenged , successfully by its locals . Substantial gains were won by the striking Pawtucket , Rhode Island , local , despite the no-strike policy of the national body . At the convention in Grand Rapids , Michigan , last summer a large and vocal majority of delegates voted to grant no further charters to segregated locals . Other constricting features of official policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ahead is to get unorganized teachers to join the A. F. T. and then to strive for a thorough overhauling of policy to make it reflect less the brittle old-line unionism of the A. F. of L. and more the standards of a profession ready to defend courageous teaching , experimental methods , and the intellectual freedom enshrined in the Bill of Rights . Meanwhile teachers should join other professional organizations in greater numbers . Excellent ones dealing with almost every phase of educational theory and practice exist but are comparatively feeble . Nor should the N. E. A. be boycotted ; rather , its strong controls from above should be supplanted by stronger controls from below . Lastly , inter-organizational policies and programs are needed on such specifics as higher salaries and firmer tenure . Financial support for III American schools must be doubled or , more reasonably in terms of needs and capacity to pay , tripled . The most important means to this end is , without doubt , federal aid earmarked exclusively for public schools and colleges . How to get the necessary appropriation bills through a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has so far untied . But any hard-hitting agenda for schools for the people is missing its chance unless it considers several fresh strategies . One is for all professional organizations which seek federal aid for the schools to get together in a national Political Action Committee for Education ( P. A. C. E. ) . This committee should campaign militantly for the election of Congressmen firmly on . record as favoring bills of the kind introduced by Representative Graham Barden . The activities of P. A. C. E. would bring the needs of the schools into the spotlight of political attention , out of the shadows where they have been so easily ignored . It would be good strategy for P. A. C. E. to establish close connections with as many non-educational groups as possible  --  with the Farmers ' Union , for example  --  not only for the purpose of obtaining federal - aid but also to get more money for the schools in particular areas . In campaigning for increased school taxes or enlightened school-board candidates , the friends of education often fail to state their case persuasively , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislative struggles . Organized labor has an excellent record of support for the public schools , but in many cities it exerts no political pressure to make sure its children 's , interests are well served educationally . The heavy weighting Of school and college boards with business and professional persons could be overcome if labor and its friends showed sufficient concern . But such action would be far from enough . If the A. F. of L. , the C. I. 0. , - the Farmers ' Union , and the Railroad Brotherhoods really want American schools to be good schools , they must use some of their own funds to further that objective . For example , the falsehoods in just one of Allen Zoll 's widely read pamphlets ( " ProgresDecember 15 , 1951 sive Education Breeds Juvenile Delinquency " ) should be exposed through the distribution of a million other pamphlets summarizing the simple findings of research about functional learning . The A. F. of L. spends more money on radio time alone than Zoll 's last annual budget ( reported at $45,000 ) , while an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thirty years has been a leading exponent of John Dewey 's experimental theories , can barely survive on a budget one-sixth that size . These proposals do not preclude the cooperation of the National Citizens ' Commission for the Public Schools , the National Congress of Parents and Teachers , or other state and national groups . P. A. C. E. should invite their support , however , on terms that would not compromise its stand on non-parochial federal aid , academic freedom , or any other principle essential to the educational wellbeing of children in a free democracy , Instead of- retreating , the school system of America must take the offensive in advocating and testing new designs for education . The supply of such designs far outruns the demand . The archives of teachers ' colleges are stuffed to overflowing with good ideas that never get beyond the paper stage . I will select three . First , pilot projects in teacher training , supported both by foundations and taxation , are required to prepare leaders for the following ground-breaking tasks : to determine the great common denominators of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every normal person ( the Foundation for Integrated Education is indispensable in this work ) ; to provide every teacher with on-the-spot experience in the community and school environment , in other countries as well as his own ; to provide study and practice in human relations ( psychiatry , anthropology , social psychology , and close cooperation with UNESCO are all essential here ) ; and to examine painstakingly the differences and similarities among the chief contemporary philosophies of education , with a view to determining not only why they reflect great cultural cleavages but how a consensus may be sought as to which philosophy should undergird.schools of the people in fact as well as word . Secondly , extensive projects are needed at both ends of the school-life scale . Education is neglectful both of the pre-elementary years , and of the post-high-school and post-college years . Experimental nursery schools and adult learning centers should be established in every state of the union , with allocations of public funds substantial enough to guarantee that they need no longer play the role of educational " poor relations . " Nursery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the most crucial years of a person 's life are the first six , it is no longer legitimate to leave children under six so exclusively under parent control . Expert guidance in child development is a necessary supplement to home conditioning , even assuming that most public schools train effectively for parenthood , which of course they do n't . Post-school education is necessary because adult characters may be so warped by the monstrous influence of radio , television , movies , and the commercial press that they will be unable to distinguish falsehood from truth , right from wrong , unless ways can be found to teach them how to make the distinction . Adult learning centers , geared to community schools and sensitive to individual motivations , are an important but almost untried means of providing this kind of education . - Finally , schools need to experiment intensively with new ways of attacking controversial ideas . Utilizing all the research results available from such centers as the National Laboratory for Group Development , they should completely revamp their social-studies curricula to permit attack by cooperative methods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of young men and women on the threshold of maturity . Teacher-centered class work will then be replaced by group-centered interplay among students and teachers . Instead of assuming that answers to social , economic , and moral questions are written down in books , agreements as to their most promising solutions will be developed inductively with the aid of the maximum number of facts , back-and-forth communication among all members of the learning team , and the utmost encouragement of dissent and criticism . This means that democratic schools dealing with controversial issues ought to open their doors to their own severest critics , whether of the extreme right or of the extreme left . Even real fascists , if they can be found , and real Communists , if they can be found , should be brought into the classroom and invited to show haw they think , where they stand , what their facts purport to be . They should not , however , be allowed to propagandize their doctrines . The safeguard lies in the operation of all such experimental classes by panels of teachers representing a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present typical situation the teacher , being lord of all he surveys , can weight his own " objective " teaching with all sorts of subtle or obtuse biases , . where- as under the proposed system he would have to meet others of different convictions on equal terms . The pro-capitalist teacher , who now can indoctrinate his pupils with his own ideas wholesale , would no longer be permitted to do so  --  any more than the Communist , fascist , Socialist , Democratic , or Republican teacher . The public school , in this conception , becomes also a public forum for the consideration not just of some but of all proposals warring in our century for the allegiance of the people . If the conception can be realized , it will be the best possible answer to the Soviet apologist who reminds us , when we accuse his schools of warping and omitting , that our own do too .                     