@@493899

THE OPENING of government serv ? ice to outstanding men ? men of char acter , technical training and unusual intelligence -- is in my opinion the key to the problem of corruption in government . In a certain sense this problem is comparatively new . Fifty years ago the decisions of government did n't much matter . We Could get along pretty well without government , or with its functioning only in such stan ? dardized and accepted fields as delivery of the mails , the support of a modest navy and small army , the re- pudiation of any co-operation in international policy . James Bryce wrote in The American Commonwealth 60 years ago : " In a foreign policy . . . the United States has little to do . . . . The problems are far fewer and usually far simpler than those of the Old World . . and the likelihood of any danger from abroad is so slender that it may be practically ignored . " . Today all this is changed . The government 's vast welfare program will continue , under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Democratic or Republican , with its enormously increased opportunities for corruption . Vast military outlays will probably be necessary for many years to come , under a totally new foreign policy for which we have had but little experience in the past . All these aspects of a new world make essential the use of experts and of first-rate laymen in our public service . How . to get them ? There is no magic road , no automatic blueprint . We must change our way of thinking , inherited from an earlier , simpler age , stemming from Jackson's. day , when a spoils system could draw false moral sanction from the tenet of a new nation with a ' new democratic faith . If all men were equal , it was argued , any man , particularly in handling the simple problems which faced the public servant of the day , could resolve them as well as any other . Why not rotate and give each deserving Democrat his earned chance to share in the fruits of victory ? And , if , to oversimplify , the early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually agrarian , the Republican looked more to the city , to the manufacturing interests , grasped at the tariff , ran the country in the interests of business , believing that the business outlook particularly in the re ? construction days that followed the Civil War was the only sound approach , necessary for those expanding partner of politics . I have argued that any attempt to obtain competent men in public service will tend to insure a more honest performance . I do not mean , of course , that competent men are necessarily more honest than their less gifted brothers . But men of ability who are attracted into government service are motivated in many cases by their ambition to perform disinterested work , rather than to make larger salaries in the private field . The application of the present Civil Service tech ? niques to men destined for the higher classifications , both in jobs requiring administrative responsibility and special technical skills , has not , I believe , been as suc ? cessful as it might . The Civil Service tests can be made more flexible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the selection of outstanding men . As Sen. A. S. Mike Monroney wrote in the article to which I have already referred : . .. a career service to be effective must be freed from the red tape and gobbledygook that now surround too much of our Civil Service system . . New standards , simplified personnel procedures , in short a modern personnel system similar to that used in successful industrial operations , must be instituted . Opportunities must be extended to younger . men of ability by cutting out some of the undergrowth of complicated Civil Service rules and restrictions that destroy its efficiency and the ambition of able workers . He goes on to suggest that the Civil Service Com ? mission should appoint a special assistant whose job would be to create " a blue-ribbon civil service set-up . " Such an experiment has already been made with respect to lawyers in the government service with strik . ing results . When I was Solicitor General in 1941 , President Roosevelt established by executive order the Board of Legal Examiners within the Civil Service Commission , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and procedures governing the recruitment and examination of applicants for at ? torney positions within the government . This action was the result of a recommendation of a Committee on Civil Service Improvement appointed in 1939 by the President to make a comprehensive study of the problem . The Committee emphasized that " close con ? tact with the profession and the needs of the law of ? fices of the government " were " necessary for effective selection of legal personnel . " I served during the balance of my term ? as Solicitor General as Chairman of the Board and became thor ? , oughly conversant with its work . The Board was com ? posed of outstanding lawyers in government service , in private practice or engaged in teaching at law schools . Its work lasted over a period of approximately three years . It established an unranked register , held ap ? proximately 15,000 written and 3,000 oral examina ? tions . Although an adequate appropriation was voted by Congress initially , it was believed that the Board should have statutory approval before being granted funds in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Rep. Robert Ramspeck , at that time Chairman of the House Civil Service Committee , passed the House , but was disapproved in the Senate committee , largely , I believe , because of a misunderstanding of the scope and nature of the Board 's work . The American Bar Association and the Federal Bar Association endorsed its work and the legislation to continue it . The striking success of the new techniques adopted by the Board in bringing able lawyers into the gov ? ernment service was based on two , major policies . The first was its close co-operation with the bench and bar throughout the country . The members of the Board and of its small staff ( half a dozen men with an annual salary budget of less than $28,000 ) managed to enlist prominent lawyers and judges to conduct the oral ex ? aminations-39 federal and 26 state judges were among the 400 lawyers who carried out , without pay , this part of the program . Second , the examinations , both written and oral , were based on determining a candidate 's ability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ performing the duties of a position rather than the memorization of relevant information or the paper record of the in ? dividual . " The examiners were primarily interested in professional competence . To carry out this purpose the written tests , which stood at the threshold so to speak ? you had to clear this hurdle before reaching your orals ? were in part devoted to testing general , non ? legal intelligence ; and the legal questions were aimed at bringing out ability , imagination and judgment . It would be pretty hard to cram up on such non-mechanical and human values ! The oral tests giv.en locally , in the man 's own com ? community , follOwed out this approach . His past achieve ? ment could be valued ; he . was observed directly , ex amined for one or two hours , asked about subjects he knew or was supposed to ' know . If he had said in his written application that he had practiced law three years , he was questioned about his practice in detail ? had he ever tried a case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that his practice had consisted chiefly in filing papers in City Hall . If there . were any doubts as to his character they were investigated . The instructions to the state examination boards showed what the federal board was after . They did not rely on the blind guess of mechanical criteria .. Did the ' candidate have " the capacity to attack a problem in a professional manner and state a conclusion in clear ? cut-legal terms ? " The rating chart included such con ? siderations as " fluency , conciseness , precision , grammar . and sentence structure . " ( As a former bureaucrat this test seems to me of first importance , remembering the hail literate letters coming up for my signature , that had to be sent back , day after day . ) And I find this " instruction , which sounds almost subversive ' in the year 1952 , when we have learned to worship the twin gods of Orthodox and Second-Rate : " Intellectual and emo ? tional concern with contemporary problems are regarded as an asset rather than a liability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ambit of loyalty to democratic methods of procedure . " The examiners , you see , were after men of imagination and vision , men who could be independent when the time came . But , of - course , the search for such rare qualities must not exclude legal reasoning , logical organization , effectiveness in argument ? ment , theoretical and practical insight , thoroughness . In its report to the President ( June , 1945 ) the Board observed that arithmetical grading could identify such accurately measurable qualities as speed and accuracy in typing or competence in figuring . But it was quite a different matter to apply such formulas to " the com , plex and subtle factors which enter into the qualifications of a lawyer . . . . Skill in negotiating , judgment in de ? ciding upon a course of action , and ability to work with others can not be assigned numerical weights . " should mention one more important characteristic of these new and highly successful tethniques=the un , ranked register . Under existing Civil . Service pro ? cedures the official making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the register . This inflexible requirement has proved to be a nuisance . There is no reason to limit the choice , as long as you stick to an approved and carefully recruited list ; moreover it is essential that a bureau chief should be given wide dis ? cretion in choosing the sort of man he thinks would fill the position , within the broad protection of the register itself . The Board recognized that written examinations are not appropriate for the higher grades . Applicants for ? such positions have already made their records , achieved a , standing , won ( or lost ) a reputation . Many a lawyer today of outstanding reputation would have difficulty in passing a state bar examination which a youngster . fresh from the law school would take in his stride with ? out too much difficulty . The higher positions , the Board believed , should be largely filled by promotions through non-competitive examinations , chiefly oral . By corn ; bining the two methods ? highly competitive examina ? tions for the younger men , and promotions within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soy . ernment from the outside , preventing inbreeding ; and , at the same time the ideal of a career service sustained by promoting men at the top . What I have said applies not merely to lawyers , but to members of other professions engaged* in public work ? engineers , doctors , agronomists , social workers . At present the Civil Service administration appraises the applicant 's relevant past experience in assigning grades for past positions . By an Executive Order issued in February , 1947 , provision is made for " committees of examiners expert in their respective fields " for scien ? tific , professional and technical positions , and for boards of examiners for positions in the field services , If a position is peculiar to an agency , the Board is composed of employees in the agency ; if positions common to several agencies are involved , they are represented on the Board . Recent annual reports of the Civil Service Commission show progress in improving the selection of natural scientists , aided by the co-operation of about 700 scientists in the general field @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recruit college-trained personnel for the government . The Hoover Commission Task Force Report noted that since 1940 the number of field examining boards has been quadrupled , and " about 123 agency com ? mittees of expert examiners " have been established in Washington " to announce and hold special examina ? tions for positions peculiar to the agency . " The report endorses this trend , and recommends that it be extended generally , and particularly to " all high-level administra ? tive , professional and technical positions . " Finally , the Hoover Commission 's own report recommends that all applicants should be grouped into general categories " outstanding , " " well-qualified , " " qualified , " " unqual ? ified . " Appointing officers would be confined only to the limits of the highest category . Several of the Hoover Commission 's recommenda ? tions were embodied in a bill introduced in the last Congress and passed by the . Senate , notably the use of general category ratings for scientific and professional positions . A very interesting innovation is a provision that the Civil Service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the agencies undertake their own recruiting and examining . Such a change would tend to break up the immense centralization -- - and therefore inevitable standardization ? of federal civil service administration , and would make the service r more responsive to the needs of the departments . Many of the methods used by the Board of Legal Examiners 10 years ago have filtered into civil service . The applicant 's past experience in assigning grades for advanced positions is , for instance , appraised . But the records reflecting this experience are often sketchy . And no paper record is completely adequate , al ? though interviews with the applicant 's associates are sometimes used . But they can not be nearly as useful as the type of oral examination which I have described . The service is developing , becoming less rigid , relying less on the results of written examinations , often mis ? leading if not checked by oral tests and previous em ? employment records . Professional examiners and advisers are subc ; rdinated to the government personnel admin- istrators . Unlike the Board of Legal Examiners , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its strength and influence because it spoke for the profession , the new group of experts supply profes ? sional advice at lower levels , and the profession is looked to for suggestion rather than for control of standards . This difference goes to the essence . The techniques I have described worked well even under the crowded and pressing conditions of a nation at war . There is no apparent reason why they could not be set up in other fields of specialized service . The link between government and the professions , inherent in the plan , has not only the obvious advantage of in ? suring skilled judgment in selecting men after detailed oral examinations , but tends to create a subtler if less measurable good . It builds morale . Respect by the public for government service is enormously important . It is not strikingly evident at this particular moment . The professional esprit de corps that would result from a closer functioning between government and the pro ? fessions would be of immense value to the public service . Professional men worth their salt are proud @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and public respect are brought to the profession of gov ? ernment service , with the dignity which should accom ? pany the sense of work well done , and done for the common weal , the government will not attract really first-rate men . And not only are first-rate men needed in the growing complexity of . the world , but they are ready to enlist if their service becomes an honorable career where merit is recognized and encouraged . 