@@186379

Nations which get their independence by exercising a boundless nationalism often appear incapable of keeping their nationalism within boundaries . A case in point : the inchoate Republic of Indonesia , which can not govern itself but claims half of New Guinea . Another : Egypt , which had hardly said goodbye to the British before it was reaching out for the Sudan . But these claims hardly match those of the new Sherman Empire of Morocco , which until a year ago was a part-French , part-Spanish protectorate . Fanatical Moroccan nationalists have staked out a claim to a slice of northwest Africa roughly equal in area to Western Europe . Last week they were fighting for it . <P> Moroccan nationalists base their claim on the fact that 900 years ago the famed Almoravide Dynasty , from which they reckon descent , ruled all of northwest Africa from the Strait of Gibraltar ( its Moorish legions settled in Seville ) to dark Senegal and the swamps of the Niger . The new kingdom of Morocco occupies about a fifth of this old Almoravide empire . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ de Oro , a corner of Algeria , the huge French West African province of Mauritania , and a chunk of the French Sudan reaching a few hundred miles north of legendary Timbuktu . Except for the coastal strip it is sun-scorched desert , rich in minerals , which the French , since they finally subdued the tribes in 1934 , have mapped but have hardly tapped . <P> Civilized Sahara . The nomads of these countries have one chief thing in common with the modern Moroccans : the Moslem religion . It is being used to arouse the Moroccan people to a sense of the imperial grandeur awaiting them outside their back door . Stumping Morocco , Si Allal el Fassi , rabble-rousing leader of the national Istiqlal Party , cries : " Our culture is the culture of the Sahara . Our civilization is the civilization of the Sahara . Our religion is the religion of the Sahara . " Then , to excited thousands , he delivers his message : " The battle for the Sahara has begun . We must win it . I proclaim that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sahara sand . " <P> El Fassi 's battle for the Sahara sand is a picayune affair so far . Commandos of his liberation army , no longer needed to fight the French in Morocco , have been trucked down through the Rio de Oro and loosed in vast , sparsely settled Mauritania . Joined by turbaned camel riders who dearly love to fight , Moroccan irregulars have launched attacks on isolated French outposts , killed half a dozen French soldiers and burned a few French armored cars . North of Fort Trinquet last month there was a more serious clash in which , according to Moroccan reports , the French lost 22 men . Nevertheless , said huge , tanned Lieut . General Ren Cogny , French commander in Morocco , just back from the region last week : " I am not worried about the military problem . But what is serious is the political side of the story . "                     