@@492392

George Bernard Shaw , the theater 's most adroit lampooner of hypocrisy , would have been convulsed had he lived six years longer to see the predicament he caused on a Hallmark Hall of Fame telecast celebrating his centennial in 1956 . We were presenting his Man and Superman , a comedy dealing with a confirmed bachelor 's futile efforts to escape a girl determined to marry him . When the victim suspects he is trapped , he delivers a blistering tirade against the girl 's mother . " I protest against this vile abjection of youth to age ! Look at fashionable society as you know it . What does it pretend to be ? An exquisite dance of nymphs . What is it ? A horrible procession of wretched girls , each in the claws of a cynical , cunning , avaricious , disillusioned , ignorantly experienced , foul-minded old woman whom she calls mother , and whose duty it is to corrupt her mind and sell her to the highest bidder . " Well , now , television depicts mom as a monster about as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Fame is sponsored by the world 's largest manufacturer of greeting cards  --  and Mother 's Day is the most important holiday in the business after Christmas and Valentine Day . I had not thought of the commercial implications when , as the executive producer of the program , I suggested doing Man and Superman . My sole concern was putting on an amusing play , but a phone call from a higher-up in the chain of command reminded me the purpose of the program was to create good will for the sponsor . " lAre 're afraid of that attack on motherhood at the end of the second act , " I was told . " The speech must be cut . Hallmark ca n't antagonize every mother in the audience . " I was stunned . Nothing like this ever had happened before . " The speech is a high spot of the play and the climax of the act , " I said . " The show will fall apart if it 's taken out . Maurice Evans plays the role with such high style the audience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courtship . " " We ca n't take a chance on that , " the man said . " The speech must come out . The sponsor never will give in on this point . " " I ca n't either . The show must be protected from the justified blasts we 'll get with a watered-down version of Shaw . " After a good deal of further argument , the issue was submitted to Joyce C. Hall , president of the company , and John Oakson , director of advertising . Both promptly agreed to keep the passage in the script . Not one outraged complaint was received from the 20,000,000 people who saw the show . The only sensitive target punctured by Shaw 's harpoon was television 's excuses for banal programs . Apologists for TV have been maintaining for a decade that culture and controversial themes are box-office poison in a mass medium . This is a thinly disguised switch on the old chestnut that no one ever went broke in show business underestimating the intelligence of the public . If those clichds were true , the Hall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mortality six years ago . More than half the shows have been adaptations of Shakespeare , Shaw , and serious modern dramas ; yet the program has outlasted some .2.00 Westerns , situation comedies , quizzes and crime series on the three major networks . We have held firmly to the conviction that there is a large , appreciative audience for entertainment on a higher intellectual level than animated cartoons , and we are not unique in this approach to the dials on 50,000,000 sets . Playhouse 90 , Omnibus , the Goodyear Theater and the Du Pont Show of the Month also have discovered that superior shows are good business for the long haul . Television 's maturity still is retarded , however , by pressures that force everyone in the industry to make compromises with artistic standards . The public constantly hears such practices denounced as pandering to commercial expediency ( Continued on Page 50 ) and defended as necessary safeguards against subjects that offend certain groups of viewers . How valid are the arguments ? Come with me behind the scenes of two programs , one a distinguished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you 'll find the answer to the question and , more importantly , a practical solution for improving the caliber of TV . The success had to buck the severest pressures in the history of the business down to the final curtain . It was the Hall of Fame production of The Green Pastures on October 17 , 1957 , a revealing example of the genuine complications and false alarms involved in presenting a ticklish social issue to a nationwide audience with disparate backgrounds . The Green Pastures , by Marc Connelly , is a wonderfully warm , reverent concept of the Old Testament by Negro children living in the rural South . The children , assuming all the Biblical characters are Negroes , translate the narrative in familiar , realistic terms . There is a fish fry in Heaven for the angels , De Lawd is fond of " a good ten-cent seegar , " and evil is represented by crap games and knife fights . The play was awarded the Pulitzer Prize in 1930 , a distinction that usually stimulates brisk bidding for the TV rights . Until we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classic a wide berth for obvious reasons . Race and religion are the touchiest themes to discuss on TV or , for that matter , in a living room . Serious consideration had to be given to two legitimate objections to The Green Pastures that could be anticipated from viewers who were not cranks or bigots . The Bible belt , with its literal interpretation of the Scriptures , might resent whimsical portrayals of sacred figures . A generation marked by the Negroes ' struggle for civil rights had passed since the play was written . How would they react to a vehicle which had been criticized for depicting them as ignorant , superstitious people resigned to oppression ? George Schaefer , the producer-director , and I knew we were sticking our necks out in recommending a play that had to he handled as delicately as a time bomb . The Hallmark Company and its advertising agency , Foote , Cone and Belding , were even more aware of the dangers inherent in the play . Yet there was unanimous agreement that the rewards for bringing off a sensitive production of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began to mount as soon as The Green Pastures was put on the network schedule . A southern station affiliated with N.B.C . announced it would not carry the show . An important dealer in the South threatened to drop the Hallmark line . A Negro publication blasted us editorially on the supposition that the all-Negro cast would be cringing , servile Uncle Tom stereotypes . A news magazine hit us from the other direction , charging that we would destroy the chief charm of the play by straining to avoid the Uncle Tom treatment . Although the uproar rocked us , we thought it would pass in a few days like most commotions that blow up in the trade . That prospect was shattered just before we went into rehearsal . Gov . Orval Faubus called out the National Guard to prevent nine Negro students from enrolling in Central High School in Little Rock , Arkansas , precipitating a national crisis on the integration issue . We suspected The Green Pastures would not be watched with detachment as a gentle allegory . The response to it would be influenced by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation in Little Rock brought fresh pressures from many Negroes who were disturbed by reports that their race would be ridiculed by the play . To nip the rumors , I got in touch with prominent Negroes to assure them we had no intention of doing a satire . One of the calls went to Jackie Robinson , the baseball star , who had been suggested for a small part in the play , Robinson declined the hid  --  he did n't believe it was right for him  --  but he questioned me closely about the production . He became an enthusiastic rooter for us when he was convinced the characterizations were sympathetic and dignified . As soon as one fire was put out , another erupted . The day the cast of eighty assembled for the first rehearsal , someone turned on a TV set in the studio  --  and a program was interrupted to flash pictures of armed troops escorting colored students into Central High School through hostile crowds . That hardly helped the morale of performers already upset by the opposition of relatives and friends to the show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or lines that made anyone feel uncomfortable . Everyone was so jittery that rehearsals were held up continually to debate obscure points . One day we were running through a scene in which Abraham , Jacob and Isaac entered De Lawd 's office wearing long beards . Bob Hartung , the associate producer , suddenly groaned and clapped his brow . " People may read an anti-Semitic connotation into the beards , " he said . After a moment of incredulous silence , the idea of three Negroes being mistaken for Jewish caricatures triggered an explosion of laughter , but there was an overtone of hysteria in it . Suppose the idea did strike 10,000,000 or even ten people ? By the time the final script was hammered into shape , it had been subjected to more rigorous scrutiny than a millionaire 's disputed will . Dozens of clergymen and community leaders in the North and South were consulted on passages which might be misconstrued as comments on integration . N.B.C . ' s Continuity Acceptance Department , a supervisory agency to keep questionable material off the air , put every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Our own organization made further changes to forestall the most far-fetched complaints . For instance , 1 thought De Lawd 's smoking verged on irreverence , so the " seegars " were dropped . most of the audience and we 'd he left with all the headaches . A morality play could n't compete against movie celebrities , elephants and clowns . Todd 's party murdered us in the ratings-32.5 to 18.7 . And then the picture was brought into sharper focus by the returns from a more influential poll . Jack Gould 's review in The New York Times began : " TV last night had one of its most glorious evenings .... " Every critic in the country went overboard in the same vein . Some fifty newspapers ran editorials deploring the competition of the Todd claptrap and urged us to do the show again for people who had missed a rare experience . The heaviest mail we ever received was overwhelmingly favorable , including the South 's response . You 've heard the old come-on , " Brought back by popular demand . " For once it happens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pastures will be repeated by the original cast on March twenty-third . The conclusion to be drawn from the story seems clear to me . The prestige and discriminating audience that a sponsor gains by resisting pressures conducive to insipid programing far outweigh the dangers of kickbacks from controversial ideas . The Green Pastures unquestionably could have aroused the deep-seated prejudices of many people . But they respected the viewpoint of the show because it was presented with good taste , always an effective shock absorber . The TV audience has suffered the rehashing of trite material with remarkable patience . The one thing it will not tolerate is an offense to its sense of propriety . I should know . A violation of that rule almost ended the Hall of Fame series three years ago . Ironically , the storm was caused by Born Yesterday , a pure fun show with all the earmarks of a natural that could n't miss . The program was supervised by Garson Kanin , who wrote the play and directed the smash hit on Broadway and the successful movie . Paul Douglas , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We scored the coup of the season by getting Mary Martin to play Billie Dawn , a giddy blonde kept by a wealthy junkman who goes to Washington to buy a senator . A young reporter hired to give Billie a veneer of classy refinement does such a good job of educating her that she spikes the junkman 's scheme and leaves him to marry the youth . Billie 's illicit relationship with the junkman gave us qualms , although the play had a strong moral ending . Stockton Helffrich , head of N.B.C . Continuity Acceptance , summarized it as an honest comedy aimed at constructive and entertaining criticism of certain less-attractive aspects of modern life . " We then agreed to give Kanin complete control of the script , the only condition on which he would sell the TV rights . Delighted to have him at the helm , we sailed serenely down the river  --  and over the waterfall . The mistakes that racked Born Yesterday reflect interesting side lights on the special nature of the TV audience . Actually , there were only a half dozen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how can I forget it ? ? that we begged Kanin to change . Billie is furious with the junkman after a squabble and gives him a curt brush-off . " Come upstairs , baby , and I 'll calm you down , " he murmurs . Kanin argued that the line had gone over the heads of youngsters in the stage and movie versions . He also insisted that adults had accepted the double-entendre in the context of the play . I 'm not passing the buck for the repercussions of Born Yesterday . The regular staff failed to realize that TV has a more direct impact on an audience than any other form of entertainment . An individual sitting among 1500 people in a theater can identify himself with the crowd and guffaw at a " blue " line , but in the intimacy of his home he resents it as an affront to his family . All of us paid a heavy price learning that dramatic effects must be subdued on TV to avoid shocking viewers who are close to the action and dialogue , psychologically as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impersonated Peter Pan on her two previous TV appearances , and the audience resented her casting as a kept woman . Then , the show went on at the worst possible time , seven-thirty to nine P.M. on a Sunday . At a later hour on a weekday night we might have caught only scattered brickbats , but doing a spicy play on the one night of the week when families generally watch TV together was analagous to making licenses mandatory for baby carriages . There had to be a violent reaction . A veteran telephone operator on duty at Radio City that night told me the switchboard suddenly lighted up like a Christmas tree at one minute after nine . " It seemed as though everybody in the United States wanted to scream at the top brass for allowing Born Yesterday on the network , " she said . Then the letters came . The Mother Superior of a convent school in Chicago , guided by the Hall of Fame 's reputation for unimpeachable good taste , had given the nuns and students special permission to watch the show . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presley on the Ed Sullivan show at the same time were ( Continued on Page 57 ) March ! ? - ( Continued from Page 52 ) indignant at us . One recurring sentence in the letters really hurt : " l never expected this of Hallmark . " No one was more outraged than Joyce Hull . He read the riot act at a special meeting in Kansas City and laid down a flat rule that every show thereafter had to be suitable for the entire family . Every protestlf rom the public was answered with a letter of apology . Born Yesterday proved that nothing is black and white in television except the pictures . Artistic integrity , our lifesaver with The Green Pastures , brought the roof down on our heads when Kanin fought to retain the lusty quality of his play . Obviously there arc times integrity must be tempered with artistic caution to strike a balance acceptable to the public . The trouble is that the industry has developed such bulging muscles exercising caution that art seldom survives a conflict of the two elements . Most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fears by too many network and advertising executives . The middlemen of TV , whose advice to sponsors largely determines what the public sees , have a standard excuse for turning down fresh , provocative ideas : Clients must be protected against all foreseeable risks . They take the easy way out by copying shows which happen to be popular at the moment , setting off a chain reaction that makes half the programs on the air as undistinguishable as the hubcaps on an automobile assembly line . Viewers try to escape this dreary repetition of formats by flipping the dial , but sponsors who demand overprotec/tion are left holding empty bags . For the ' life of me , I ca n't understand what . product identification a company gains by sinking money into the twenty-third Western on the schedule or another feeble imitation of Dragnet . The play-it-safe gambit is justified by the networks on the ground that a sponsor who ruffles the public 's pet peeves is vulnerable to retaliation at the retail counter , That is , admittedly , a powerful argument when deciding on an annual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On the whole , though , I think sponsors arc much too sensitive to random gripes . If they try to placate everyone , TV will wind up showing nothing but old Mickey Mouse car toons  --  and the chances are there still will be howls from aelurophiles because Mickey always makes the cats look like chumps . Perhaps f can discuss the problem more objectively than most producers in the business since I 've been virtually immune to the worst type of pressure  --  coercion by a sponsor and his advertising agency . During the six years I 've been associated with the Hall of Fame there have been some serious disputes over the choice of presentations . The company almost always cast the decisive vote for ar 57 tistic standards even when it knew part of the audience might be lost . A few years ago Hall alone sided with Schaefer and me on doing The Yeomen of the Guard . Although a critical success , it had a rating of 11.2 , which proved that Gilbert and Sullivan were too esoteric for our regular following . For 350 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a challenge which only experienced Shakespearean producers have dared to tackle . The top echelon at Hallmark had strong reservations about the play , described by Jack Gould as " the 58 acid test of a sponsor 's courage , " but there were no recriminations when the vehicle developed loud creaks on the air , Actually the concessions by the company and ad agency have far outnumbered the compromises I 've had to make for business considerations . The middle commercial of the program , the sponsor 's most important sales pitch , was eliminated on three occasions to avoid disrupting the mood of the play . A contretemps , which ordinarily sends Madison Avenue into a tiny , came up on our Christmas show in 1956 . We were doing The Little Foxes , a grim story about an avaricious woman who cheats her brothers and alienates her daughter in her lust for power . When her invalid husband threatens to expose her conniving , she lets him die by withholding the medicine he needs to relieve a heart attack . The harsh scene was to be followed immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loved ones at Christmas . " The man from the ad agency blanched when he checked the timing of the action , but he never raised the question of changing the scene . He new , higher exclusive , " packed standard of service with pride " service went away quietly and rewrote the commercial . My purpose in relating these incidents is not to plug the Hallmark Company and the Foote , Cone and Belding Agency . It is to demonstrate that relative freedom from internal pressures is the key to good shows for the audience  --  and handsome dividends for sponsors . Although the Hall of Fame never has ranked among the Top Ten in the ratings that estimate the number of viewers drawn by shows , it is high on it tabulation that makes for more pertinent reading in financial statements . O Several months ago the Trendex service conducted a poll investigating the public 's identification of products advertised by the major programs  --  the reason for lavishing money and effort on them , of course . The Hall of Fame was fourth on the list with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is presented only six times a year . In other words , four out of five people correctly associated the show with Hallmark greeting cards . The first three programs were weekly affairs , each with an annual total of commercials ranging from 107 to 234 minutes compared with our fifty-six minutes . Motivation experts have coined a term , the gratitude factor , to explain why a show seen by a comparatively small audience sometimes is more effective than one with a high rating . Viewers are so ppreciative of a program with genuine Aarmth and substance that it leaves a ravorable impression extending far beyond its brief life on the air . Dip into your own memory and I 'm sure you 'll recapture the glow of the Mary Martin-Ethel Merman duets on The Ford Show in 1957 , Requiem for a Heavyweight on Playhouse 90 , the wonderful informality of Bing Crosby and Frank Sinatra on the Edsel Show , Leonard Bernstein 's jazz , cries on Omnibus and the new dimension Fred Astaire has given the dance in his appearances . Hall was aware of the gratitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to analyze sales figures . " I 'd rather grab and hold the attention of twenty million people than just reach thirty million . " he told me at our first meeting in 1953 . Two years earlier he had helped to give television the stature of an art form by sponsoring Gian-Carlo Menotti 's opera , Amahl and the Night Visitors , probably the finest artistic work written solely for TV . Now he was buying another cultural package to which everyone had given the back of his hand . This package offered the great Maurice Evans producing and playing the lead in Hamlet . Fifteen years in radio should have warned me that Shakespeare was synonymous with the kiss-of-death during the days when the real hot stuff was comedians wearing women 's hats and sister acts harmonizing The Beer-Barrel Polka . In 1950 I took a breather from radio to accompany my husband , Somer Al-berg , an actor who was touring the coun ? try with Evans in The Devil 's Disciple . As a gracious gesture , Evans added me to the troupe for crowd scenes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me TV needed more of the same . When I broached the idea to him he said he never looked at television . At my suggestion he watched a few shows one Sunday evening in his hotel room in San Francisco . He emerged from the ordeal visibly shaken . " I 'd sooner sell tickets to a side show than appear on that monstrosity ! " he declaimed in ringing tones usually reserved for delivering an Elizabethan epithet . Evans was more adamant than ever about TV when he went to England for a movie in 1951 , but I had a hunch his opposition could be broken down if he were given a chance to do Hamlet before the largest audience of his career . During the war his G.I. Hamlet , a condensation of the four-hour original , had been enormously successful , and I saw no reason why it would not be an exciting event on TV . After I had corresponded with Evans for a year , he finally consented to the proposition if he could have two hours for the show and could have George @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stage it . Up to that time no program had ever lasted more than one March hour , but N. B.C. was so eager to get Evans that its sales force was turned loose in search of a sponsor . I was in there pitching , too , but at every turn I ran into the same stone wall . " You 're out of your ever-lovin ' mind , honey , " the veterans told me . " The customers wo n't hold still for two hours , and for Shakespeare , yet . He 's put more people to sleep than goof pills . " The project was dying on the vine until Edmund Cashman , an advertising man , cornered Hall in a taxicab going from Radio City to Grand Central Station . The ride takes only ten mtnutes in the heaviest traffic , but Cashman is a fast talker . Hall bought the show . So did the public , in spite of mishaps that could have been ruinous . Just as Evans went into the soliloquy beginning , " Now lam alone , " a stagehand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full minute . ( Two nights later Milton Berle introduced the stagehand on his show as " TV 's most famous celebrity . " ) Hamlet was marred by several technical flaws , but Shakespeare 's soaring poetry and vivid characterizations were such a welcome relief from the usual run of potboilers that both the audience and the critics went into ecstasies . Hallmark persuaded Evans to do Richard II and Macbeth as two-hour specials , and the results duplicated the success of Hamlet . When the Hall of Fame was launched as a regular series in 1955 , Evans had so many stage and movie commitments that I inherited the job as executive producer . 1 like to think the program has made one highly significant contribution to TV in the last four years . It has exposed the fallacy of the rating system , the most insidious pressure keeping good shows from the public . I must confess I 've been disappointed frequently by the small audiences some of our shows have drawn . We 're not dilettantes dabbling in TV as a hobby . We 're pros who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we do n't work on the ulcer fringe of insecurity if we fail to get them every time . It 's no great trick to put together a show that is a cinch to run up a high score in the Nielsen and Trendex reports . The ingredients arc a Hollywood star , a story that appeals to children and a fat budget for an elaborate production . Just to prove we could pull the trick , we did Hans Brinker and the Silver Skates as a musical spectacle in February , 1958 , with Tab Hunter and Dick Button , the former Olympic figure-skating champion . It got our highest rating , a strapping 28.2 , but none of us wants to put on six Brinkers a year . The next program , with 18.6 , was a better showcase for the Hallmark Company because it carried a stronger emotional and intellectual wallop for the type of audience we have been cultivating . It was Little Moon of Alban , an original play by James Costigan , telling 59 of a girl 's struggle to regain her faith in God @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Post , called Costigan 's work the finest new play of the year , on or off Broadway . Those people in the business who arc guided only by the ratings would have scared sponsors away from it . In their blind subservience to the ratings , the play-it-safe boys fail to recognize that the figures make no distinction between the public 's active " buying " of a show and its passive acceptance of what is free and available . Every year at least twenty programs with higher ratings than Omnibus , Playhouse 90 and the Hall of Fame are canceled . Why ? Viewers were bored window shoppers who saw nothing that impelled them to go into the store and purchase the goods on display . The majority of unsuccessful shows are the victims of wrong pressures rather than poor judgment . There are bound to be conflicts when sponsors , advertising agencies and producers look at a show from different perspectives . I 'm supposed to have an ideal working arrangement , but it 's hardly a pressure-free , frictionless vacuum . We 've had bitter hassles in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my suggestion to do The Male Animal . He just does n't like the play 's attitude toward college administrators . By the same token , the agency and I have been turning thumbs down on Hall 's favorite play for the last four years . We have no secret formula ( or reaching decisions . At the height of an argument , someone asks , " What 's the best thing for the show ? " ? and artistic quality invariably is given top priority . If all the creative people in television were permitted to function under similar conditions , the public would see worth-while shows every night of the week . 