@@488247

THE WORLD press showed a passing interest in the return of the Porkkala Peninsula to Finland by the Soviet government . After all , it is news in the " man-bites-dog " class when , a great power returns a naval base to a small state . But the return of Porkkala is only the latest development in a strikingly successful peaceful coexistence relationship between the Soviet Union and Finland , that has grown from singularly unpromising beginnings . At this time , when the conditions of peaceful coexistence are the urgent concern of governments and public opinion , an ounce of Finnish-Soviet practice may be more illuminating than a ton of Western theory . Finland has an anti-Russian tradition that stretches , back to the pre-historic times when Finnish tribes repelled Slav raiders . During the " c ol on in 1 " and " dominion status " centuries of Swedish rule , the , Finns were ' in the firing line against Russia in innumerable wars . KONNI ZILLIACtIS , a prominent figure in the left-wing of the British Labor Party , is the author of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ After the Napoleonic wars , Finland became an autonomous Grand Duchy of which the Czar was the Grand Duke . Successive Czars scrupulously respected the constitution of their tiny Grand Duchy . The relatirs between therri and their Finnish subjects were excellent . Trouble began in 1898 , when Nicholas II initiated a policy of Russification . He met with tough and united Finnish national resistance . Russification stopped for some years after the abortive 1905 revolution . But it was in full swing again by 1914 . It is not surprising , therefore , that there was a Jaeger battalion of Finnish volunteers in the German army on the Russian front in World War I , and that a large section of the Right in Finland looked forward ' to their country becoming a constitutional monarchy under a German prince . President Paasikivi , now eighty-five years old , who was a leading supporter of this policy , has since said that he made a mistake but that it was then impossible to foresee that a great power could collapse as completely as Germany did in the 1914.1918 war . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secede from Soviet Russia . But that did not obviate a civil war between the Finnish " Reds " and " Whites , " in which the former received help from the Bolsheviks and the latter from the Germans . Today moderate Finnish opinion holds the civil war to have been a tragedy that could and should have been averted . In the thirties , the Soviet government became alarmed at Hitler 's threats and successive aggressions . They began to rearm and to urge ' their small Western neighbors to band themselves together in a defensive alliance against Hitler 's Axis . But Polish proposals to that effect to the Baltic states and to Finland , as well as French Prime Minister 's Barthou 's similar plan for an " Eastern Locarno , " were rejected . Then the Soviet government asked the Finns to fOrtify some of their islands commanding the approaches to Leningrad through . the Gulf of Finland . They offered , first , to supply the Finnish government free with all the material and , if desired , the technical aid necessary to do the job @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing and to turn over the completed fortifications to the Finns . These offers were rejected . The second World War began . It 561 became clear that it was only a question of time before Hitler attacked the Soviet Union . The Russians began to arm feverishly . By this time they had come to the conclusion that the then rulers of Finland would not raise a finger to stop German forces marching through that country to attack Leningrad . The heavily fortified Finnish frontier was less than twenty miles from the U. S. S. R. 's second capital . They believed the Finnish General Staff was blindly pro-German and anti-Soviet , composed as it was of officers who ' had fought against Russia in World War I. The Soviet leaders began pressing the Finns to agree to an exchange of territories whereby the Finnish frontier would be pushed away from Leningrad , and the Russians could fortify a couple of strategic islands on the Finnish side of the Gulf of Finland . The Russians offered two square miles on Finland 's eastern frontier for every mile the Finns ceded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reach agreement . According to the account of events given me by an old friend who was in the Finnish Foreign Office at the time , the majority of the Cabinet actually decided to authorize the Finnish delegation in Moscow to come to terms : But the minister whose duty it was to see that the necessary instructions were dispatched belonged to the intransigeant minority . The telegram was never sent . TWO wars followed : the winter war in which Finland fought alone , and the summer war in which it fought , reluctantly and in two minds , as the ally of Hitler . The Russians paid heavily in the winter war for the delusion that the Finnish workers would rise and welcome the Soviet force as liberators and class allies . Instead , the Finns fought magnificently , and unitedly . At the end of the summer war Finland was a defeated and occupied enemy of the Atlantic Alliance , its fate left by the Western powers to the discretion of its Russian conqueror . That was the fearful price Finland had to pay for assuming in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of isolation , and for believing in the summer war that as in the first World War Germany would first beat Russia and 362 then be beaten by the Western powers . The Soviet government imposed a peace treaty that deprived Finland of more than one-tenth of its population , territory ; and resources . Finland had to pay reparations in kind that imposed a seemingly impossible burden , and to lease Porkkala Peninsula , eleven miles from Helsinki , the capital , to the Russians for fifty years as a naval base . " The Russians , " a Finnish cabinet minister told me , " began by being tough and suspicious . They insisted on the prompt and meticulously exact fulfillment of all the onerous obligations we had been compelled to assume . But when they found they could rely on us to keep our word , they began to trust us . We , for our part , found that although they were hard bargainers ; the Russians 66nored their side of any bargain they made . The two sides began to respect and understand each other . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encouraged the Finns : In 1945 the Finnish Communist Party was strong in the trades unions and could command a lot of votes . The majority of its leaders were " moderates " or " national " Communists , and its official policy was to stand on its own feet and not solicit help from the Russians . But some leaders were all-out Stalinists . They told the Russians , " Give us a leg up and we 'll be in the saddle . " " At that time , " said ' my Finnish friends , " we were almost starving . If the Russians had told us they would give us food provided we took the Communists into the government and gave them certain key posts we could not have refused . Instead , they let us have the food ' on reasonable terms , with no political strings attached . That killed the possibility of revolution . And they told the Finnish Communists , ' No . We shall not help you into power . For if you have to carry water to ' the well , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed to the Finns to prove what their grand old man , Paasikivi , had been saying all along : " The Russian interest in us is purely military and defensive . Once they are satisfied , that it is a cardinal principle of our policy never to join in any combination of states hostile to them and to defend our territory and independence against any encroachment , they will not interfere in our internal affairs . " Nor did they . At the outset the Finnish Communist Party was a serious rival to the Social Democrats for trade-union and working-class leadership . The Social Democratic Party split : a small left-wing minority held that since Finland must pursue a policy of friendship and cooperation with the Soviet Union , they ought to work together with the Finnish Communists  --  and joined them in the Communist-led " People 's Front . " The Right:and-Center majority took the line that since they would have nothing to do with the Finnish Communists , it was no use attempting to cooperate with the Russians . - THE Social Democratic Party majority bitterly fought the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade-union leadership and whittled down their votes . In the process the majority found , to their surprise , that the Finnish Communists got no help from the Russians . And the left-wing Socialist minority became disillusioned with their Communist bedfellows and either drifted out of politics altogether or found their way back into their own - party . " Today , " said a Finnish Social Democrat friend , " we are united because the Right knows we can and should be friends with the Russians , and the Left realizes we ca n't cooperate with the Finnish Communists . So today we , like all other parties , take the Paasikivi line in foreign of-fairs . That is now national policy . But at home we are out to beat the Communists all ends up . We are doing it too . They have full political liberty . They still have forty-five deputies out of 200 in the Chamber . - The NATION But they are well on the way out . " In economic matters there has been a similar evolution . When the Russians found that the Finnish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they lightened the toll by prolonging the period of payment . When reparations were finally paid off , the Finns found themselves with engineering works and shipbuilding yards expanded far beyond their needs and dependent almost wholly on imported raw materials . The Russians saved what might have become an awkward situation by continuing to place large cash orders for the ships , machinery , etc. , that used to be delivered to them as reparations . Finnish-Soviet trade is now ten times what it was before the war and expanding rapidly . It is today more than three times greater than in 1925 . Under the new trade treatyit is expected to expand even more . But all this does not mean any weakening of Finland 's traditional ties with the West . For the country is a Scandinavian-type , modern , welfare-state democracy , with a powerful trade-union movement and Social Democratic Party . The Western powers very quickly ceased to regard Finland as an ex-enemy . They helped Finland , with credits fOr buying raw materials and machinery , to make her reparations payments . Britain still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S. R. runs a close second . The Soviet-Finnish treaty of friendship , cooperation , and mutual assistance that was signed in 1948 has now been prolonged for twenty years and indefinitely thereafter unless denounced by either side . The Finns do not regard it as committing them to fight in any war in which the Soviet Union might beengaged , but rather as obliging them to defend their own territory against any power at war with the Soviet Union , and if necessary , to accept Soviet help for the purpose . The Finns are devoutly thankful , that Sweden refused to enter NATO . The Swedes say , " If we had- yielded to American blandishments and pressure , and entered NATO , we should have had American bases on our territory . Then the Russians would have built bases in Finland , and we two would have been occupied by hostile great powers glowering at each other across the Gulf of Bothnia . " Both Swedes and Finns ardently wish that the United States , which in their view strong-armed Denmark and Norway into NATO , would let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form a " peace and third-way " group in their corner of Europe .                     