@@485129

Although on the whole I found the article " The Latin American Disease : From the Novels of Vargas Llosa " by Penny Lernoux The Nation , Nov. 22 to be interesting and deeply important , there were ... statements with which I took exception . Among the most personally disturbing of these was the judgment that Marquez 's El Otono del Patriarca is a " suffocating 271-page harangue against Latin American dictatorships and foreign capitalism , Joycean in its gargantuan paragraphs and with none of the charm or imaginative plot of One Hundred Years of Solitude . " Such a dismissal of the long-awaited major novel of one of the world 's outstanding novelists seems totally unreasonable especially when paired with . . , . an implied accusation that Marquez is now just a crude propagandist . . . . The " point " of the entire mention of Marquez seemed to be that he is more of a political activist now than a writer , and that he should shuck politics altogether if he wishes to continue to be considered an important Latin American literary figure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most criticized by Vargas Llosa himself . Charles Haddox views on Marx Brooklyn , N.Y . - Holy dialectic ! The Nation ? " The Nation comes in first . . . and the others follow " ? has sure backed a winner this time . I am referring to the review by Bernard Johnpoll Nov. 15 in which he gave us his illuminating views on Karl Marx . " He was at bottom a philosopher who dabbled in economics . . . " ( Capital ? ) " and politics " ( The First International ? ) . His followers , who insist on associating Marx 's writings with the vulgar concerns of economics and politics ( not the lofty spiritual ideals of Johnpoll ) , have lost touch with this " humanistic thinker searching for the causes of the human condition , " this man whose basic ideal " is a Utopia in which man is no longer alienated from himself . " Among those who have strayed from the Utopian idealism of the patron saint , we should ( regretfully ) have to include none other than Marx @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the temerity to write , three and a half years before the elder statesman 's death , that " for almost forty years we have emphasized that class struggle is the immediate driving power of history . . . that the class struggle between bourgeoisie and proletariat is the great lever of the modern social revolution . " Stephen E. Harris try again Austin , Texas American interference in the internal affairs of other nations . . . has bedeviled the nations of the world for many years . The references to this phenomenon in David Edwards 's " Italy and the Ironies of D ? tente " The Nation , Oct. 25 only update it . Three decades ago , it was manifest during the 1946 Presidential election campaign in Argentina , one whiCh the then " villain , " Juan Peron , won handily . Though perhaps grounded in a different international context , the situation in its domestic aspects was similar to that of Italy . In this instance , the U.S. Department of State took the side of the Union Democratica , a bizarre coalition composed of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , through the middle-class Radical Party , to the " leftist " Socialist and even Communist Parties . . . . Indeed , the U.S. Ambassador to Argentina , Spniille Braden , campaigned so intensely for the forces of the Union Democratica that the central campaign slogan for Peron became " Braden o Peron . " . , . Needless to say , the nationalist sentiments of the populace were aroused to the point of boiling over ; Peron won the election easily . U.S. policy faltered again , due to an attempt to graft international hostilities onto a poorly understdod domestic situation . Presidential Candidate Reagan has declared that he believes - the United States has a " right " to interfere in the internal affairs of another country in the interest of the " freedom " of-that nation 's citizenry If , at first you do n't succeed .. .. K. Wayne Wincey EDITORIALS ' The Best Hope ' ? A chronic anxiety now for thirty years , nuclear holocaust , has become a repressed element of the world consciousness , breaking through to awareness only occasionally and then seldom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utterly false confidence seems to prevail regarding nuclear warfare . Never in the last ten years has there been less discussion of it , less interest in it , less political agitation concerning it . Yet never since cold-war tensions began to ease has there been a greater chance that the bomb just might be set off . This false confidence has its specific roots in d  --  tente , in reports of the increasing destructiveness of weapons ( hence , we 'd all like to hope , their increasing disutility ) and in the widespread belief that nuclear war is everywhere " unthinkable " ? which helps to make it not thought about . Yet even though former Defense Secretary Schlesinger , whose stubborn habit it was to refuse to rule out American nuclear action , has been dismissed from the administration , there is good cause to reinitiate national and worldwide thinking about the potential for nuclear calamity . Nonproliferation agreements have been neither universal in their lists of signatories nor always followed by those who have compacted to limit the spread of nuclear materials . By 1985 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alan L. Otten of The Wall Street Journal , " the spread of nuclear reactors will likely see some forty countries in the possession of enough plutonium for a few nuclear weapons . " Of the forty , Ikle said , all but five will have the material for a few dozen bombs . And while the connection is not automatic , Ikle warned that " peaceful nuclear technology provides the means as well as the cover for acquiring the nuclear bomb . " The prospect of nuclear capability by Middle East nations , by South Africa , South Korea or Pakistan , is more than a bit unsettling . " We will not be able to regulate nuclear weapons around the world in 1999 any better than we can control the Saturday-night special , heroin or pornography today , " Otten quotes Thomas ' Schelling of Harvard as saying . " We will be coping with something that might well be not any international conflict , but the worldwide equivalent of banditry , hijacking and bank robbing . " Schelling spoke at a discussion among arms control experts from Harvard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Magazine . Among the participants was George Kistiakowsky , once a science adviser to President Eisenhower , who pronounced what may be the most chilling warning : " The probability of a nuclear war occurring in any twelve-month period ahead is actually increasing , " he said . " Arms races usually end up in wars . " Accidents can occur , and already have on a relatively low scale . Soldiers who are given arms inevitably itch to try their power . An ominous segment on CBS 's 60 Minutes this month showed 25-year-old Americans , crew-cut and psychologically screened , sitting in their underground stations waiting for the doomsday phone to ring . Each was armed with a revolver , instructed to study his colleagues for signs of crack-up . . . and to shoot if necessary . Then , too , there is that American plane , endlessly circling the skies with a four-star general and full staff aboard , ready to take command if the nation 's system for making nuclear war malfunctions . The world is perpetually on the brink . " Those , of us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and those of us who were pessimistic . . . have become much more so , " Schelling says . Matters have reached the point that George Rathjens of M.I.T. suggests the only way to avoid large-scale nuclear war may be to have a small one . " Perhaps our best hope is that we will learn a lesson from the first major disaster , so that our complacency will not lead us to many more such wars before the century is over . " Only Strangelove could top it . Sartre put it well : " Everything we'see and experience impels us to say , ' this ca n't last . ' And yet change is not even conceivable , except in the form of cataclysm . " No Meaningful Change Such is the way Rep. Jonathan Bingham , chairman of the Subcommittee on International Trade and Commerce , characterizes the State Department 's recently announced willingness to approve , on a case-by-case basis , " private humanitarian assistance " to Vietnam . Concessions to sanity from the State Department are so rare these days that even this crumb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem remains : the Department seems not to have heard that the war is over . In effect , the United States still maintains a near-total trade ban , with two main prongs : a freeze on Vietnamese assets held by banks in this country ( under the Trading With the Enemy Act ) and export controls based on the Export Administration Act of 1969 . Why the embargo ? State Department spokesmen say that " no policy is irreversible " and that it is operating on a wait-and-see basis . But as Representative Bingham notes , " policies develop strong inertia " ; the longer mistaken policies are adhered to the more difficult they are to - change  --  witness U.S. policy toward China . The current embargo policy toward Vietnam rests on a number of false assumptions or myths : ( 1 ) That embargoes impose real hardships . This may once have been true but it is true no longer ; the United States is not the sole world source of goods and services the Vietnamese might want to purchase . Moreover , whatever hardship the embargo may impose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the North . ( 2 ) Embargoes can assure payment for expropriated American assets . Not so . It was not true in the case of Cuba or in the case of China . In fact , countries that refrained from imposing an embargo against Cuba have been able , in some cases , to reach claims settlements . ( 3 ) It is said that embargoes prevent the embargoed nation from enjoying the fruits of U.S. production , but just now Vietnam probably lacks funds to make purchases here even if the embargo had not been imposed . A case of a sort can be made for the freeze on assets , since by some estimates Vietnamese funds held by this country are nearly sufficient to compensate American firms for their losses . But the embargo  --  if not the freeze  --  is stupid and unrealistic . Representative Bingham notes that the American Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong and the American Business Council in Singapore would like to see it lifted and support his measure , H.R. 9503 , which would do so . Ending the embargo would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on both humanitarian and economic grounds and would be interpreted as an augury of better days ahead in the Pacific Basin . EPA : The Firit Five Years Five years have passed since President Nixon yielded to growing ecological concern and by Executive Order created the Environmental Protection Agency . Evaluating the EPA 's record since then is a complex undertaking , for while no other federal agency has done more to improve the quality of the environment , the EPA has failed in some respects to be a vigorous , unwavering advocate of environmental protection . For EPA has had two masters  --  the Congress and the administration : As enforcer of Congressional law , the agency has done much  --  though not all it could have  --  to clean the nation 's water and air . The health of Lake Erie , the Willamette River in Oregon and Escambia Bay in Florida , to name just a few , have all improved radically since 1970 ? and for that the EPA deserves much credit . Automobile emissions are now federally controlled  --  and to the degree that they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . DDT , aldrin ' and dieldrin have been banned  --  and though their prohibition came years later than dispassionate prudence dictated , their removal from the list of acceptable pesticides is something for which generations to come will thank the EPA . Commendable , too , has been the agency 's tentative recommendation that the Department of Transportation forbid supersonic jets to use New York City 's and possibly Washington 's airports . Though its environmentalist critics validly charge that EPA has been less than fully vigorous in its enforcement of Congressional law  --  air and water quality deadlines have been postponed and missed  --  the fault has not necessarily been that of the agency 's succession of directors and employees . Even more than the federal regulatory commissions  --  which are symbolically independent of the White House  --  the , EPA has been forced to operate within a framework set by the Nixon and Ford administrations , and their commitment to ecological concerns has been less than overriding . Nixon 's impoundment of water improvement funds was emblematic . And the EPA has tended to follow the adminfstration 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tough environmental standards and initiate comprehensive federal recycling . Pro-business lobbying and influence have been a fact of EPA 's life  --  as well as a tempering counterweight to Con-gress 's most environmentally conscious members . American business interests have for the most part been shortsighted in their willingness to risk environmental hazards in return for continued profit . The EPA has not sufficiently fought that position in practice , though it often has in its rhetoric . On the agency 's fifth anniversary the temptation both to overvalue and undervalue its contribution must be avoided . Gladwin Hill , writing in The New York Times , quotes , for example , the comment of EPA Deputy Director John M. Quarles Jr. : " We 're over the hump on the most obvious ? environmental problems that confronted the country five years ago . " Residents of Los Angeles and the New York area , who still must breathe unhealthy and unpleasant air , would disagree . So would Americans who see the continued  --  though perhaps reduced  --  ravaging of the nation 's environmental treasures by both private and public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the EPA has failed to do its job . Particularly disappointing has been its refusal to present consistently specific environmental problems in a way to make clear that the nation 's entire priority structure must be changed  --  away from private and toward public transportation , for example  --  if the environment is to be authentically protected and improved . At the same time , the EPA has been able to get environmental issues into the press , and thus into public consciousness , as no private group could have done . Its administrators have consistently denounced the pernicious Chamber of Commerce notion that programmatic environmental protection is often too expensive to be worthwhile . Even by its failures , the EPA has crystallized and mobilized opposition , heightening environmental consciousness among those who feel its efforts inadequate . With appropriate Congressional prodding and an administration in 1977 committed to ecological sanity , EPA may yet fulfill its promise . The Vanik Report While members of Congress and President Ford wrangle ' over the specifics of this year 's tax legislation , they might do well to take seriously a report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) put it , " demonstrates that the 48-per cent corporate tax rate is , in reality , a hoax . " The report , prepared by Rep. Charles Vanik ( D. , Ohio ) and the staff of the Joint Committee on Internal Revenue Taxation , notes that in 1974 the average effective federal income tax rate for 110 concerns studied was only 22.6 per cent , less than half the official levy and down from 23.6 per cent in 1973 . For 1974 , the report said , eight corporations with profits totaling $844 million paid no federal income tax at all . Another eighteen companies with $5.3 billion in profits paid at an effective rate of less than 10 per cent . At the 48 per cent rate , the twenty-six corporations would have owed $2.95 billion . As it was , they paid only $220 million in federal income taxes . i Such tax evasion is as improper as it is legal ; the direct fault lies not with the companies but with the legislators who wrote and approved the loophole-ridden tax laws . Vanik found that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undue tax favoritism " were oil companies , banking concerns and utilities . The petroleum industry , for example , paid no net U.S. tax on its foreign source income  --  so valuable to them has been the current foreign tax credit loophole . Commercial banks have been able to lower their effective tax rate from 38.3 per cent in 1961 to 11,7 per cent in 1974 . Utilities have benefited from a wide variety of domestic loopholes . Vanik says they hardly need a further break , though an increase in the investment tax credit is proposed . Vanik 's finding that the 110 corporations paid more than $13.9 billion to foreign : governments and only $8.3 billion to the United States in corporate - income taxes reinforces the need for both an overhaul of the corporate tax structure and a comprehensive look into the nature of American multinational corporations  --  an investigation which should lead to their regulation in the national interest . The tax breaks these multinational concerns now receive is a measure of their power in Congress and the White House . Rather than quibbling over the tax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington should be worrying about these billions in lost revenues . Who the Hell ? Durham , N.H. The December best-seller in New Hampshire is a book with the unseasonable title , Who the Hell Is William Loeb ? It comes in cloth and paperback editions , each with a bright red cover and 472 pages of unadorned text . At a shopping center near Manchester , the state 's major city ; a paperback outlet sold 500 copies in two weeks : " The fastest selling book I 've ever been associated with , " said the manager . Another store scheduled an autograph party for Kevin Cash , the author , and disposed of one book for every two minutes he was in the building . In November , when the book was released , the weekly New Hampshire Times greeted it with the headline : " Who the Hell Is Kevin Cash ? " He is a Manchester native , as it turns out , a newspaperman who began as a copyboy on , the local daily before it was bought by William Loeb in 1946 . Cash @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Leader under the new management . ( At the time , he concedes , he had a drinking problem , ' and he now makes a point of sipping ginger ale at parties in his honor . ) Cash went to New York and worked variously , as writer and editor , for the Herald Tribune , the Journal-American and The Journal of Commerce . By 1972 he was back in New Hampshire , reporting the Presidential primary for Newsday . That was the year Edmund Muskie , until then the clear favorite on the Democratic side , lost his composure and apparently broke into tears in front of the Union Leader building . It was the turning point for Muskie 's campaign , and also for Kevin Cash , who decided to write a book about the publisher who could break a Presidential candidate . " I am a newspaperman , " he explains , " and this is a story which should be told . " He expected that he would finish the book in six months . Instead , it required three years of research and writing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Amoskeag Press . ( The manuscript was seen by eleven publishers , Cash says , each of whom quickly passed it on to the next . ) He . retained a law firm to review the manuscript ; he hired an editor , a production assistant and an accountant ; and he contracted with a Vermont printer to produce the book , which Cash designed " on the block " in the manner of an old-time newspaper editor . The sole stockholder in the Amoskeag Press is Kevin Cash , and he turns aside questions about his finances . " I did n't write this book to make money , " he says ; " I wrote it so the people of New Hampshire could answer the title question . " What makes William Loeb a subject of such fascination to New Hampshiremen is that he has dominated their journalism for an entire generation , and has made a very good stab at dominating their politics . They have little choice but to accept Loeb 's version of events . New Hampshire 's geography and demography make it impossible that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Leader , nor any significant competition from the broadcast media . And what makes this situation important nationally is the fact that these same New Hampshiremen , because of their early primary , have a disproportionate influence in choosing Presidents . It can be persuasively argued , for example , that the Union Leader was the shoal upon which the hopes of Edmund Muskie ( in 1972 ) and Nelson Rockefeller ( repeatedly ) were wrecked . The traditional adjective for William Loeb is " arch-conservative . " In truth he is a Bull Moose Progressive : jingoist , imperialist , trust buster and advocate of the frontier virtues . That is his political philosophy ; his ethics , in Cash 's portrayal , are starkly different . The book reads like a Russian novel . There are feuds handed down from father to son , pistols on the table , secret marriages ; even a mysterious drowning . All of which should have nothing to do with a study of the Union Leader 's role in New Hampshire life . Yet if there is anything consistent about William Loeb , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or unwilling to separate his private affairs from his editorial policy . That too is in the Russian tradition . Indeed , as when reading Dostoevsky , one longs for a visual outline , the better to follow the labyrinthine turns of the anti-hero . Cash says that he distributed his entire first printing of 10,000 copies to bookstores ( almost all of them within New Hampshire ) in nine days of November , and that he then ordered ' 20,000 more . Since the official publication date was December 9 , all this was done without the benefit of a single review . As for the Manchester Union Leader , it hasneither reviewed the book nor mentioned it in any other way , even refusing to accept ads for it . The Associated Press therefore telephoned Loeb at his home in Prides Crossing , Mass . " Any comments that I have , " he told the AP , " will be made in court . " Daniel Ford                     