@@494518

A New Approach to Disarmament by HUBERT H. HUMPHREY AFTER 10 years of negotiations , all efforts to .. , thieve a reduction and control of the world 's armaments have ended in failure . Why ? The most common explanation is the lack of agreement on the admittedly critical substantive issues . Clearly the major powers have not been able to agree on what weapons should be reduced or eliminated , how the agreed reduction should be enfprced , what kind of an inspection system should be devised to guard against surprise attack , and what should be done if violations of the agreement should occur . No items on our foreign-policy agenda merit a higher priority than do solutions to these substantive issues . They are ones which have for the past year absorbed the attention of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Disarmament of whiCh I am the Chairman . It is my hope that recommendations resulting from the study will contribute to a solution . There exists , however , another aspect of the question which , although seldom discussed in hearings or articles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used in dis-armament negotiations by the major powers . Methods can prevent or encourage agreement . Failure to appredate this point can also jeopardize the world 's chances of finding real security against the threat of a third world war waged with deadly nuclear weapons . Disarmament negotiations have ignored fundamental principles used successfully in other types of negotiations not too dissimilar from disarmament talks . Although the proposals of the major powers have changed or shifted in recent years , the methods have remained basically unchanged . In short , they have become obsolete . New approaches are needed which may offer brighter prospects for reaching agreement than the methods in the past . Methods of the Past Disarmament negotiations until 1952 were carried on almost exclusively through two commissions of the United Nations . One was called the Commission on Conventional Armaments and the other the Atomic Energy Commission . Each Commission considered the problems of disarmament relegated to it independently of the other . Little attempt was made to co-ordinate the work of the two Both Commissions had a relatively large membership : one 11 nations , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ session . Neither had the benefit of permanent staff assistance except the assistance which each individual country brought to the meetings . Neither could discuss world political and security problems which were related to disarmament . In 1950 , President Truman proposed that the two Commissions be merged into a single disarmament commission . This suggestion was adopted by the United Nations and a new United Nations Disarmament Commission was created . Although the change had the advantage of joining discussion on all , types of weapons , it retained the other features of the earlier Commission 's methods . That is , all sessions were conducted in public , the membership remained at 12 , and political questions continued to be excluded from the agenda . The United Nations General Assembly , in 1953 , made another modification in the method of disarmament negotiations . This change was aimed at the size of the Commission and at the public nature of the talks . It was argued at that time that with the talks conducted in public the negotiators appeared to be more concerned with the public-relations value of what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help achieve disarmament . The size of the Commission membership was criticized on the ground that it was too large for effective consultation . Many of the members of tie United Nations also felt that the negotiations should more properly be limited to the major powers . The result of these criticisms was the decision by the General Assembly to create a subcommittee of the Disarmament Commission . The subcommittee would be composed of the five major atomic powers ? the United States , the SoviefUnion , the United Kingdom , France and Canada . These nations were to make a renewed effort to reach agreement and they were to follow semi-secret procedures . In other words , the subcommittee would meet in private and release only periodic information on how the talks were progressing . At the end of a session of negotiations the verbatim records were to be made public . This procedure has been followed by the subcommittee from 1954 to the present . The funct4on of the Disarma. - ment Commission has been limited primarily'to receiving the reports of its subcommittee and forwarding them to the General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ injected into dis armament discussions . One was the meeting of the Heads of Government ? the Summit Conference in July and the Foreign Ministers ' Conference in October . The second has been the exchange of letters between President Eisen-hower and Premier Bulganin . Both of these efforts have been primarily a public exchange of views . They can not be called negotiations . As such they undoubtedly focused world opinion on the disarmament problem , helped to build up public pressure on the major powers to reach agreement , and possibly reduced international tension in some areas . As a means of resolving the issues of disarmament , however , these methods are ineffectual . The solution of the issues ultimately can come about only through negotiation . This principle underlies many of the following comments , criticisms and suggestions regarding the methods of achieving arms control . My suggestions on new methods which might be tried are divided into seven categories . The suggestions in each might be tried , without reference to the others ; but all seven areas could be worked into a total plan for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations Subcommittee on Disarmament in its three years of deliberations has followed no particular agenda and has adopted a minimum of procedures . Such procedures as are followed were set forth by a member of the United Nations Secretariat at the subcommittee 's 22nd meeting : ... that the Chairmanship should be rotated in English alphabetical order ; that there should be no specific rules of procedure but that all decisions of the subcommittee should be taken by general and unanimous agreement ; that the record should be verbatim in three languages . . . ; that the interpretations should be simultaneous .. . ; that the meetings should be strictly closed and private , with the possibility tha ; occasionally the representatives of the subcommittee might meet even without a record being made by the Secretariat , if that were desired . This very loose arrangement of no agenda and a minimum of rules has had the advantage to date of allowing the nations represented on the subcommittee to cover a wide range of the issues of disarmament . The principal technique pursued in the negotiations has consisted of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ followed by the exchange of questions and answers on particular points made . One meeting might , and did , cover several separate topics . The next meeting , might cover some of the same topics , omit some , and include new ones . There was no attempt to restrict the discussion or to , deal with one topic solely until all facets , had been explored by all the ' parties present . This procedure , although resulting in no definite agreement , did move the Western nations and the Soviet Union closer together on a number of issues . It has served auseful purpose . Future negotiations , however , ought to be more orderly . One of the main reasons why they ought to be more orderly is that neither side wishes to commit itself to any area of arms control without knowing what position will be taken on other areas . The United States , for example , has maintained that it can not agree to a ban on nuclear weapons tests without knowing what the Russians will agree to on conventional weapons and an inspection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they do not propose to agree on an inspection system until they crow what will be the agreed upon reductions of armaments and armed forces . Thus the negotiations go around and around , not having any one place to start and certainly no place to end . A way out of this dilemma is to adopt an agenda which permits each major issue of disarmament to be discussed separately until a tentative agreement has been reached . For example , the negotiators might first delineate the broad major issues of disarmamelt , such as the control of nuclear weapons , reduction of conventional armaments and armed forces , inspection systems , enforcement and the stages of disarmament . Another issue which might be included is the relationship of disarrnament and political settlements . The negotiators would then agree to discuss each issue in a specified ' order . Each issue would be broken down into its component parts . To illustrate , under inspection systems the negotiators would need to decide on the extent to which aerial surveys , ground inspection and budgetary controls would be used , how each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inspection , i.e. , factories , air fields , military installations and so on . Agreement on each issue would be tentative in the sense that it would not require formal ratification until the other issues had been defined and discussed and agreement reached . This approach was used to conclude an armistice in Korea . At that time the position of the United Nations Command was that the proper order of business was to establish first the general topics which both sides agreed to discuss and in an agreed upon and specified order . In the armistice negotiations it was difficult at first , according to Admiral Joy , one of the chief negotiators for the United Nations , to adopt an agenda which did not state conclusions . After several sessions , however , the Communists finally acquiesced . If this approach were followed , disarmament negotiations could be far more specific and detailed and much more to the point than they have been in the past . It would not be possible to skip from inspection to weapons control to stages and back to inspection without ever having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time has come to have an agenda in precise form . The cause of disarmament would be enhanced if this course could be adopted . Privacy of Negotiations World diplomacy , until the end of World War I , was conducted in such a shroud of secrecy that the public , particularly in the United States , reacted violently . We resolved that the motto should be " open covenapts openly arrived at . " Recently , however , many of those skilled in international affairs , believe the motto requires modification on the order of " open covenants privately arrived at . " Almost all negotiations in our public life are conducted on this basis . Labor and management meet behind closed doors , but when agreement is reached that agreement is made available to the public . If the negotiations were conducted in public , it would be infinitely more difficult to conclude a contract . The Congress of the United States conducts most of its business in public ; but when a committee meets to mark up a bill , approve a report , or resolve differences between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goes into executive session . The United Nations Subcommittee on Disarmament , therefore , should consider conducting its business in somewhat less public view than it has . True its meetings are closed but after each day 's discussion a release is made to the press ; the verbatim records become public upon the adjournment of each round of meetings ; and there is a strong tendency , particularly on the part of the Soviet Union , to leak to the press on the progress of the meetings . In recent negotiations , however , the Soviet Union has been less inclined to indulge in such leaks . There , is hope , therefore , that more private and responsible negotiations may be held . The present rules already provide that private meetings without a verbatim record could be held . They have been used seldom . It does seem , however , that if the major powers did not have to worry constantly about the public-relations value of every sentence uttered , every question asked and every answer given in disarmament negotiations , that agreement might be promoted . Need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chances for success in disarmament negotiations would be to have a neutral middleman or conciliator appointed to preside over the negotiations . Again there is a parallel in labor-management relations . Occasionally when the representatives of labor and management reach an impasse they have a neutral person present . Sometimes the presence of such a person facilitates reaching successful agreement ; sometimes it does n't . What it does do and might do in disarmament negotiations is to keep the two sides on the point , and to keep the propaganda factor down to a minimum . A neutral chairman in disarmament talks should have no authority except to preside at the meetings and to exhibit an impartial attitude . He would have to be acceptable to both sides . He certainly could not be from any of the nations represented on the subcommittee . He might come from a so-called neutral country in Asia , such as Inclia or Burma , or he might be appointed by the United Nations Secretary-General . The British and the French have often tried to produce a synthesis of the views of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has found this effort ' at impartialityto be totally unacceptable . The conciliator , if one is tried , must be that in every sense of the word . ? Closely related to the need for a conciliator is the matter of staff assistance for the . Disarmament Subcommittee . It was pointed out earlier that the subcOnunittee does not have a professional disarmament staff of its own . The reports and technical studies are prepared by representatives of the nations on the subcommittee . Just as the cause of disarmament may be furthered by the appointment of a neutral Chairman so might it be ? furthered by the creation of an impartial and objective United Nations technical staff . The reports prepared ? and they should deal with legal , scientific and military questions ? should be as objective as ' possible . A United Nations staff should be able to consider the problems of the various nations more impartially than the staff assigned to the member delegations . It would , hopefully , help to create mutual trust and confidence among the five powers . Finally , such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an international secretariat soon after a disarmament agreement was reached . Disarmament involves highly complex and technical problems and it is important to have skilled men and women with an impartial attitude to assist in their solution . After each session of the subcommittee , a report is drafted and submitted to the United Nations Disarmament Commission . These reports have emphasized the areas of disagreement between the Western powers and the Soviet Union . A report has yet to be issued which contains areas of agreement , yet representatives of the United States have often mentioned that the views of the two sides have come closer together . If the major powers could spend as much time drafting reports to the Commission on areas of agreement as they spend in stating their remaining differences , the chances fora successful outcome of the negotiations might be increased . A rule requiring the Disarmament Subcommittee members to state areas of agreement as well as disagreement would also help to prevent one side from shifting its position radically between sessions when it appears a reconciliation of views is imminent . Subcommittee Membership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the five nations on it are the five atomic powers in the world . It is they which must find a way to control nuclear weapons to eliminate the menacing threat of a nuclear war . In other respects , however , the membership does not make so much sense . Some of the nations which would be greatly affected by a disarmament agreement are not members of the United Nations and thus not in a position to be , involved directly in disarmament negotiations , West Germany is included among them . Communist China , for very good reasons , does not belong to the United Nations ; yet , that country has the largest standing army in the world . The United Nations is composed of many countries in Asia , the Middle East and Latin America but not one of these is represented on the Disarmament Subcommittee . It ? is assumed that if the five powers ever reached agreement on the control and reduction of armaments the rest of the nations would be so relieved that they would accept the terms of the agreement with little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which if not valid , could jeopardize seriously the success of disarmament negotiations . In addition , in a few years or months , the number of nations with atomic weapons is likely to increase . It seems necessary , therefore , that a way should be devised to increase the participation of other nations in disarmament negotiations and to heighten their responsibility for success or failure of an agreement . The State Department ought to explore the various possibilities of how this participation might be obtained . Individual nations might be encouraged to submit proposals to the subcommittee for its consideration . Groups of nations might meet together , perhaps on a regional basis and under the auspices of the United Nations , to confer on ways of bringing the world closer to effective arms control . Recommendations from such conferences could then be forwarded to the Disarmament Subcommittee . They could have the advantage of increasing participation and responsibility for disarmament among all nations without causing the negotiations among the major powers to become unwieldy through enlargement of the membership on the subcommittee itself . Scope of Disarmament Talks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outstanding unresolved political disputes among nations . Yet the meeting at the Summit and the 1955 Foreign Ministers Conference , both extremely brief conferences in view of the problems on the agenda , constituted the only recent attempts to resolve political and disarmament problems simultaneously . ( Political questions are excluded from the UN Disarmament Subcommittee ) . The Executive Branch has maintained in the past that substantial disarmament can not come until political settlements occur . But we make no systematized effort to resolve the political issues , nor has there been much attempt to define what these issues are . Some doubt exists as to whether political settlements must be a prerequisite to the achievement of a disarmament agreement . To the extent , however , that the executors of our foreign policy insist on the , prerequisite , negotiations on disarmament and political issues should bear more of a direct relationship to each other . This might mean greater use of regular diplomatic channels to proceed with the political questions . Consideration might also be given to enlarging the jurisdictional scope of the United Nations Disarmament Subcommittee so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conduct of our foreign policy . The above suggestions are not earth shaking . They are not offered as a panacea for the world 's problems on disarmament . On the other hand , the methods ' used thus far to achieve disarmament leave much to be desired . They have not produced results . They are not relied on in other types of negotiations which are carried on in public life . The stakes of a continued arms race versus a controlled reduction of armaments are such that every proposal and every approach must be studied carefully and tried by those who are responsible for the negotiations . Present methods , if continued , while not necessarily doomed to failure , do not show prospects of producing or facilitating agreement . Other methods must be found . 