@@487624

THE ADMISSION December 14 of sixteen new U. N. members was clearly a victory for the principle of universality , and thus for the United Nations as such . It was a diplomatic coup for the Soviet Union , which will claim credit for the achievement . The Nationalists on Formosa , precipitating the defeat of the larger New Zealand-Brazil proposal covering eighteen nations by its veto of Outer Mongolia , took a step which is best described as suicidal . And the United States suffered a diplomatic debacle for which Henry Cabot Lodge , Jr. , and John Foster Dulles must bear full responsibility . ( Incidentally , it would seem that India should get much credit for the sixteen-nation deal . According to Senator Flanders of Vermont , visiting in New Delhi , the sequence was as follows : After the collapse of the original eighteen-nation resolution Krishna Menon , India 's representative at the U. N. , cabled Premier Nehru . He in turn prevailed upon Khrushchev and Bulganin , who were still in India then , to order the Soviet delegation to propose the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ) Consider the circumstances leading up to this dramatic coup de theatre . The question of new members was of long standing : no applicant had won admittance since 1950 . In those five years , the U. S. S. R. had consistently vetoed the applications of candidates supported by the West , insisting that its own candidates would have to be accepted , at the same time ; and the U. S. , on its part , had as adamantly opposed any such " package deal . " It was therefore old stuff when Molotov suggested , in his opening speech ' to this session of the General Assembly , that sixteen nations be admitted in a package deal . But by now general sentiment had built up for breaking the deadlock . The Canadians suggested that Japan might well , be added to the list . Mokow had previously opposed Tokyo 's candidacy , arguing that the U. S. S. R. and Japan were still technically at war . Now they offered no opposition . Then on , September 26 Spain applied for membership , and Ambassador Lodge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By a standing U. N. resolution Spain was specifically barred from membership for so long as the " Franco Fascist government " might remain in power . The bloody Franco regime could hardly be termed either peace-loving , democratic or representative of the people of Spain . The U. S. nevertheless had entered upon miliDefeat for the U.S. tary deals with Franco and now supported his cause  --  even where it appeared that the move might stop the package deal . Unexpectedly the nations concerned  --  including the Soviet Union  --  failed to balk even at Spain , and the Canadians formulated a resolution to authorize the entry of eighteen new nations . But on November 10 the U. S. informed Canada that it would not agree to the proposed package deal , explaining that it opposed the candidacy of Outer Mongolia . The Latin Americans , desirous of having Italy , Portugal and Spain in the U. N. , deserted the American camp . On November 12 it was reported that Britain stood ready to give blanket support for the entry of all eighteen applicants . The next day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S. would abstain from voting on the applications of Albania , Bulgaria , Himgary and Rumania . He added : " It is obvious that Outer Mongolia can not make the grade , " explaining that his soundings of opinion in other delegations had led him to that conclusion . But the U. S. had finally ended its long opposition to the admission of new members en bloc . On November 14 a Soviet spokesman , looking at Lodge 's press conference of the day before , said flatly , " It is eighteen or nothing . " IN THIS critical situation Nationalist China , the U.S. 's protege , came forward to announce that " if necessary " it would veto the application of Outer Mongolia in the Security Council . The world was told that Chiang Kai-shek had made this decision despite the earnest urging of , President Eisenhower not to block the package deal . The world was ? left to assume that'Mr . Lodge , who had committed his prestige to barring the entry of Outer Mongolia , was definitely not trying to play Chiang 's game @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the circumstances that the Chinese Nationalist government on January 5 , 1946 , had extended full diplomatic recognition to the Mongolian People 's Republic ( Outer Mongolia ) ; and that the voting of August 29 , 1946 , in the Security Council on Outer Mongolia 's membership application was-six to three in favor  --  with the U. S. voting agaznst , and Nationalist China voting for . On Deceinber 13 , 1955 , Formosa 's delegate vetoed Outer Mongolia and wrecked the first package deal . With the principle of universality now so strikingly affirmed , Japan 's candidacy will now almost certainly be paired with that of Outer Mongolia , with Moscow gratuitously given a potent lever lot its negotiations with Tokyo . The desperate Nationalist gamble has alienated support that Formosa previously enjoyed in the U. N. , and promises to bring to an issue earlier than would otherwise have been the case Formosa 's own right to be in the U. N. The U. S. , for its part , has actually injured the chances of Formosa 's continuing in existence as one of " two Chinas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where it could usually count on sympathy and cooperation  --  in Latin America and the British Commonwealth . This is the high price that the American people are called upon to pay for the State Department 's playing politics to the domestic right-wing gallery . The Shape of Things The Two-Way Squeeze The " economic pressure " that is the stock in trade of the White Citizens Councils can be a two-way squeeze ? especially in those sectors of the South where Negroes , by their labor and by their spending , provide so much of the economy 's life-blood . However menial their jobs , however small their individual purchasing power , if all the Negroes of a Deep , South town or county were to stay home for even one day , that area would be paralyzed . In Montgomery , Alabama , recently an impressive demonstration of this latent strength occurred when the Negro community  --  some 40,000 strong  --  declared a boycott against the city bus lines . The incident provoking the ban was the arrest of a seamstress who refused to give up her seat at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had twenty-two Negro passengers George G. Kirstein , Publisher Carey McWilliams , Editor Victor H. Bernstein , Managing Editor Robert Hatch , Books and the Arts Freda Kirchwey , Editorial Contributor J. A. del Vayo , European Correspondent ? Harold Clurman , Theatre B H. Haggai , Music Alfred Maund , Copy and Makeup Mary Simon , Advertising Manager Martin Solow , Assistant to the Publisher Staff Contributors : W. Macmahon Ball , Carolus , Maxwell Geismar , Keith Hutchison , Harvey O'Connor , Andrew Roth , Howard K. Smith , Alexander Werth , H. H. Wilson . The NATION , Dec. 24 , 1955 , Volume 181 , No. 26 The NATION , published weekly by The Nation Company and copyright , 1955 , in the U. S A by The Nation Associates , Inc , 333 Sixth Avenue , New York 14 , N. Y. Entered as second-class matter . Dec 13 , 1879 at the Post Office of New York , N. Y , under the act of March 3 , 1879 Reentered as second class matter at the Post Office , Montgomery , Alabama Printing Office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year $7 ; Two years $12 ; Three years $17 Additional postage per year Foreign and Canadian $1 . Change of Address : Three weeks notice is required for change of address , which can not be made without the old address as well as the new . Information to Libraries : The Nation is indexed in Readers Guide to Periodical Literature , Book Reyiew Digest , Index to Labor Articles , Fublic Affairs , Information Service . Dramatic Index . 5,16 and fourteen whites in his thirty-six-seat bus , and he ordered the woman and others to move back to " equalize " the seating . Such incidents have been all too frequent in " the Cradle of the Confederacy " : last summer a fourteenyear-old Negro girl was dragged off a bus by three policemen and taken in handcuffs to jail because of a refusal to relinquish her place to a white , man . A bus driver left his vehicle to beat up a mentally deficient Negro who had " bothered " him from the sidewalk . Drivers have been said to carry guns in their cash boxes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Because of the stored-up resentment these caused , no organization or leader can be said to have inspired the boycott . " The leaders were led , " said one Negro minister . " It was a vertical thing , sweeping through all our people . It was the most amazing thing I have ever seen , and the most heartening . " On the first day of - the boycott , December 5 , motorcycle police escorted buses on their routes and patrolmen were stationed at major stops . But the-buses rolled along , as empty as husks , while long lines of Negro workers trudged with quiet purposefulness to their jobs . Parents formed car pools to get their children to school . The Negro taxicab companies offered a special " rate of a dime a person to any place in the city . Bus-line officials admitted that the boycott was 95 per cent effective . That same day , the arrested woman was convicted and fined $14 . Her attorneys announced their intention to appeal the verdict with a clear view toward getting a federal ruling on the constitutionality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overflowed the ' auditorium and lawn of a church and voted to continue the boycott until the bus line agreed to halt the " intimidation , embarrassment and coercion " of Negro patrons . This dramatic display of unity may well inspire the Negro residents of other Southern cities to similar action . But whether it does or not , most observers agree that it has severely discouraged the White Citizens Council 's recruiting drive in Montgomery . The Lamb Case Edward Lamb has now been cleared of charges of subversive activities by a Federal Coinmunications Commission examiner who recommends that his television licenses be renewed . As the first publication Ito call attention to the importance of the issues in this case ( see The Natzon , June 12 , 1954 , with subsequent comment on February 5 , 1955 and July 2 , 1955 ) , we join in the general editorial commendation that has greeted the report and findings of Herbert Sharfman , the F. C. C. 's hearing officer . One aspect of the case , however , has escaped general notice . The F. C. C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Communist Party or that it had evidence of such membership . Later this charge was withdrawn and a The IstAwairm new one substituted , namely , that Lamb had been known to associate with Communists . It is now quite clear that , at the time the new charge was substituted , officials of the F. C. C. had not interviewed a single one of the thirty-nine witnesses who subsequently testified against Mr. Lamb . Nineteen of these , incidentally , were professional witnesses or informers . In other words , the F. C. C. was apparently willing to file the most serious charges against one of its licensees without having examined any of the witnesses later produced in an effort to substantiate the charges . Were these witnesses , one wonders , even known to the F. C. C. at the time the charges were filed ? Or did the F. C. C. first file the charges and then seek out the testimony of professional informers to substantiate them ? One of the witness was Louis Budenz , on whose capacity for " total recall " Mr. Sharfman has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we can determine , the Lamb case is the first action in which a government agency has initiated perjury charges against one of its own witnesses  --  in this instance the witness Marie Natvigbefore concluding its own case . Turning Point or Point of No Return ? Our cold warriors had better give their undivided attention to the meaning of Operation Sagebrush on which Mark S. Watson reports in - this issue ( p. 550 ) . Sagebrush completely demolished the pleasant myth that tactical atomic weapons can be used to pin-point an attack in such a fashion that the destruction need not encompass civilian centers . The moral implications of the maneuvers were at least as important as the strategic . In his dispatches to ' the Baltimore Sun from Fort Polk , Mr. Watson expressed the opinion that in the last five years we have witnessed a revolution in American thinking on the use of nuclear weapons . From horror and revulsion , we as a people gradually came around to the point where the suggested use of nuclear weapons aroused " no appreciable opposition among civilians . " But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of no return ? Or does it mean , rather , that we have reached a turning point at which public opinion may now swing back to the horror and revulsion which prevailed in 1945 and 1946 ? In. a telecast on December 8 , Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen told his vast audience that Christians would never be justified in using nuclear weapons in an , aggressive war . Moral justification for use in a defensive war would depend , he said , on three conditions : that no other means of defense were available ; that the attack was of a wicked and unprovoked variety ; and that the use of nuclear weapons would be limited to purely tactical purposes . But he hastened to add that Operation Sagebrush had demonstrated that his third , and vital , condition could no longer be met ; and he concluded , quite sensibly , that one could no longer find moral justification for the use of nuclear weapons , Doc , assither 24 , 1.9.55 in any war . Is there a sign here that public opinion is indeed reverting ? If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war itself must be rejected as an instrument of national policy ? Horizontal Benificence It is not every Christmas season that the sum of $500,000,000 is - showered on 615 privately supported liberal-arts colleges , 3,500 voluntary non-profit hospitals , and a host of privately supported medical schools . Santa Claus has never been regarded as a pauper but now he must be thought of as a billionaire . Such is our diversity as a people , and so sensitive are the reflexes which this diversity has bred , that the trustees of the Ford Foundation , if only to avoid a kind of civil war , have adhered to democratic folkways in allocating grants . Within the fields chosen , there can be no complaints based on oversight or discrimination : Catholic , Jewish and Protestant institutions have been treated with mathematically exact fairness . In George Orwell 's formula , none has been permitted to think that he is more equal than any other . Based not on special but on general needs , this horizontal beneficence makes up in fairness and generosity what it may lack in imagination and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fairly voiced is that a sum of this magnitude , free of the restraints that are invariably attached to appropriations , of public funds , might have been used to finance specialized projects of the kind that usually suffer from lack of funds but are often capable of returning the largest social dividends . But this is not a season to be captious . A gift of this magnitude , horizontally distributed , should , one would think , silence the silly carping about the Ford Foundation . But its critics have rare imagination and their capacity for ingratitude must not be underestimated . They may yet turn out to be the dogs who bit Santa Claus . Bandung Bedfellows The spectacular antics of Messrs . Bulganin and Khrushchev in India imposed a news blackout on the visit of His Majesty King Saud of Saudi Arabia , who arrived in New Delhi on November 27 . The first Arab king to visit the new India , Saud was accompanied by a party of 204 persons , including nine princes , five ministers and five officials of ministerial rank . Received with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Indian taste , bestowing costly gifts on his hosts and leaving $2,000 in tips for the servants in the Raj Bhavan . ( Governor 's Residence ) . In the wake of the Bandung conference , which he attended , the King became quite " anti-colonial , " and his anti-colonialism has become more vocal as his dispute with the British over Buraimi oil has sharpened . Like Nehru , King Saud is displeased , also , with the Baghdad pact . A chain of nations , including Indonesia , India , Burma , Saudi Arabia , Egypt 547 and Syria now stand in oppOsition to , if not in formal alliance against , this favorite among Mr. Dulles ' projects . Bulganin and Khrushchev left India in a blaze of publicity but King Saud departed on December 13 , after a seventeen-day , tour , so quietly that the event produced scarcely a ripple in the new of the week . But it should be noted in retrospect that , according to Indian dispatches , he had sought India 's support in his dispute with Britain over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fortune article an the meaning of human life , Henry Luce proposes that man 's role for the future is as " a collaborator with God , in the whole of evolution . " This concept of " collaboration with God " he says , would almost perfectly define " the American religion . " Mr. Luce is well known for his acute sense of history and it is surprising that he does not recall what happens when a people enters into partnership with the Almighty . Elsewhere in the piece Fortune 's editor-inchief compares what he calls The American Organiza-tion with the much less puissant Roman Empire . The /ate Caesars also fancied themselves as collaborators with Olympus , and it was some time before they heard the laughter of the gods .                     