@@487581

A CHARACTERISTIC feature of the political life of Communist countries and their satellites is the lively traffic in visiting party leaders and cultural missions . Until quite recently , however , there was a striking lack of such exchanges between China and Outer Mongolia ( the Mongolian People 's Republic ) . It was Chiang Kai-shek , not the Chinese Communists , who in 1945 recognized Outer Mongolia 's independence of China  --  an independence that had existed in fact since the last Chinese war-lord army was driven . out in 1920-21 . After the Communists brought the whole of mainland , China under their control in 1950 , their diplomatic relations with Outer Mongolia . remained lethargic . But in the last two months a great stirring of activity has been noted . Tsedenbal , the new Mongol Premier , went to Moscow to join the Chinese-Russian discussions in August and September . On his way back . from the-conference Chou En-lai , the Chinese Premier , stopped at Ulan Bator , capital of Outer Mongolia . Soon afterward Tsedenbal went to Peking , accompanied by other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announcement of the dispatch of a large Chinese cultural mission to Mongolia and of a ten-year pact or cooperation between Mongolia . and China . Good reasons exist both for the slow development of relations between Chinese and Mongol . Communists and for the present acceleration . Mongol nationalism confronts Chinese and Russian Marxists with problems that are unusual in their doctrinal aspects and not easy to handle administratively or politically . In the first place , there is the continuing division between Outer and Inner Mongolia . Outer Mongolia is a satellite state . It was as much a satellite of czarist Russia from 1911 to 1918 as it has been a Soviet satellite since the Russian Revolution . But while it functions as a satellite it is in form and structure a sovereign state . Inner Mongolia is not sovereign even on paper . For a long time it was divided into a number of segments , each attached to a . Chinese province . Under the Chinese Communists a " pro-Mongol " policy has been initiated of detaching Mongol areas from Chinese provinces and putting them together again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process is not , however , and never can be complete . Chinese colonization of Inner Mongolia has gone so far that it is now impossible OWEN LATTIMORE is director of the Walter Hines Page School of International Relations of- Johns Hopkins University and the author of many books on Asia , BY OWEN LATTIMORE to draw the frontiers of an Inner Mongolian area large enough to have an economic base of its own without including Chinese colonists to a number probably exceeding that of the Mongols . In the second place , the juxtaposition of Outer and Inner Mongolia inevitably suggests a " pan-Mongol " movement to unite in a " Greater Mongolia " all areas contiguous to each other that are still inhabited by Mongols . This could be done " ambitiously " by including Buryat Mongolia  --  a part of the Soviet Union  --  and outlying Mongol areas in Sinkiang Province , and perhaps even by demanding the withdrawal of Chinese colonists from some of the marginal settled areas of Inner Mongolia . Or it could be done " conservatively " by abandoning outlying Mongols and uniting simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unmistakably Mongol in population , language , and other cultural characteristics , and pastoral rather than agricultural in economy . Pan-Mongolism , however , is not so simple as it has been made to sound by of its advocates . The interests of China and Russia are involved . The interests of these two countries , as countries , are not necessarily identical even though their rulers protess the same ideology ; and even if the rulers agree that the interests are identical they may not , because their countries are in different stages of development , find it easy to agree on the rate of speed at which a policy accepted by both should be implemented . There is also the fact that pan-Mongol sentiment has never been as strong in Outer as in Inner Mongolia . Because Tnner Mongolian nationalists have for half a century  --  since long before the influence of Marxist ideas , that is  --  looked toward Outer Mongolia as holding the stronger position , it has always been they rather than the Outer Mongolian nationalists who have wanted to join the two areas . While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has also had opponents , whose traditional argument is that the Mongols of Inner Mongolia , because of their long contact with the Chinese , are not homogeneous enough with the people of Outer Mongolia . There is support for this argument in the circurnstance that some of the most fiery leaders of Inner Mongolian nationalism have come from communities which practice agriculture in the Chinese manner , and sometimes speak Mongol badly or not at all , but are inspired by a " nationalism of resentment " because their people have been economically victimized and politically discriminated against by the Chinese  --  especially Chinese frontier war lords . Interacting with the problems created by ? the division between Outer and Inner Mongolia and by the uneven history and development of Outer and ' Inner Mongolian nationalism is the awkward fact , which must be causing a great deal of concern to both Russian and Chinese ideologists , that all Mongol nationalism is bitterly anti-Chinese . Inner Mongolian nationalism originated in resistance to Chinese colonization . Outer Mongolia first looked toward czarist Russia in 1911 because of fear of China @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little difficulty in keeping control of Outer Mongolia as a buffer protecting the Siberian frontier for the simple reason that , while many Mongols feared the Russian kind of revolution , even more feared domination and colonization by China  --  and , for a while , the third possibility of conquest by Japan .. HESE considerations are enough to explain why the Soviet and Chinese governments , although they could be expected on ideological grounds to follow a common or at least a parallel policy toward the Mongols , have moved slowly . They had , moreover , to overcome the disadvantage of a bad start at the end of the war with Japan in 1945 . Outer Mongolian troops  --  not Chinese , either Communist or Nationalist  --  liberated most of Inner Mongolia from the Japanese . At such a moment the traditional Outer Mongolian attitude of suspecting that there might be a catch in union with Inner Mongolia was mellowed by the feeling of victory . Some of the Outer Mongolian detachments brought with them pamphlets containing propaganda for all-Mongol unity . Some of the military commanders , especially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and led the young Inner Mongolian nationalists who held office in these regimes to expect that they would eventually be taken over by Outer Mongolia . Within a year , however , everything changed , and very abruptly . The Chinese Communists were cutting across Inner Mongolia to get into Manchuria and set up a position against Chiang Kaizshek . Outer Mongolian troops were withdrawn from the area ; and though they carried off many young men- with them , supposedly for purposes of indoctrination , they abandoned the local regimes they had helped to set up . To all except the handful of Inner Mongolian Communists who were working with the Chinese Communists the explanation seemed obvious : the Russians wanted to avoid the appearance of intervention in China , even indirect intervention through Outer Mongolia , and had therefore ordered that contact be broken off between Outer and Inner Mongolia . The Inner Mongolian nationalists concluded that Outer Mongolia , as a satellite , had to subordinate its policy to Russia 's and that in their own country the Mongol interest would be overridden by the Chinese Communists , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kuomintang . Against this background it is not hard to understand why the development of relations between Communist China and Outer Mongolia has been held up , even since the fall of Chiang Kai-shek . It is not so easy to explain the sudden animation recently reported . Why should there be this new and higher priority on cordial relations between Mongols and Chinese ? IT IS clear that the starting point was the participa-tion of Tsedenbal , Outer Mongolian Premier , in the Russo-Chinese conference at Moscow , and therefore that the steps taken since to increase economic and cultural relations between China and Mongolia are part of the implementation of some important joint , decision by China and Russia . This underlying decision was probably an agreement , not yet announced , to build a railway link from Siberia through Mongolia to China . A program of this kind would require careful political preparation , The Mongols are traditionally suspicious of railways , especially those linking them with China , because wherever railways have entered Mongol territory in the past the numerically weak Mongols have been drowned in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it suited Russian policy to respect this Mongol dislike of railways . Outer Mongolia served as a wide buffer for the Siberian frontier , difficult for a Japanese army to cross . Only one railway penetrated northeastern Outer Mongolia for a short distance , to facilitate the deployment of Russian forces in case of Japanese attack . Since the war , however , a line has been built from the Trans-Siberian to Ulan Batur , and there can be no doubt that it will eventually be pushed south to Kalgan , on the edge of Inner Mongolia , to link up with the North China rail net . This link between Russia and China will be part of an even more grandiose program . Earlier this year the Chinese announced that they are pushing through a railroad into Kansu and on across Sinkiang , to link up with the Russian rail system in Soviet Central Asia . The blueprint is unmistakable , and it is not too early to ponder the consequences . Russia has now only one line of rail communication with China , through Manchuria . When that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ third , still deeper in the heart of the continent , through Central Asia , the whole economic structure of China will be given a right-angled turn away from the coast , the seaports , and international oceanic trade and toward Siberia , Central Asia , and eventual integration into an industrialized Eurasia . - In his National Press Club speech of January , 1950 , Secretary of State Acheson declared that Russia is engaged in " detaching " from China and " attaching " to Russia the northern areas of China . " This process , " said Mr. Acheson , " is completed in Outer Mongolia . It is nearly completed in Manchuria . " He went on to include Inner Mongolia and Sinkiang , and to say that " this fact that the Soviet Union is taking the four northern provinces of China is the single most significant , most important fact in the relations of any foreign power with Asia . " Mr. Acheson could hardly have been more wrong , and if American policy should rest complacently on the belief that he was right , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things have happened in Asia that we have not been told to expect . What Russia and China are actually doing is to attach themselves to each other by rail communication and industrial development in the northern frontier areas . Ideology apart , the consequences of that attachment , in mobility and in factory horse-power , are going to be not less momentous than were those of the great railway-building era that attached the Pacific coast of the United States to the Atlantic coast . Roads of the Ex-Communists Rome ITALY too has its share of writers who once were Communists or philo-Communists and who are so no longer . There are also some painters , some experts on the theater and the cinema . Some are well known , others not ; all of them belong more or less to the same generation  --  they are men between the ages of thirty-five and forty-three . Their talents are not inferior to those of other illustrious refugees from communism , such as Stephen Spender , the novelist Richard - Wright , or the film director Edward Dmytryk . In Italy , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as novelist , can be considered analogous to that of the French , the English , and the American writers and artists who accepted and then repudiated communism . The difference between Italians and.non-Italians was evident even at the moment of joining . For the confessions of the non-Italian Europeans and Americans show that while each individual had his personal reasons , all were obsessed by more or less similar hopes and torments. - The societies of France , Great Britain , and the United States are both capitalist and liberal . In all three , that is to say , the human values of liberalism are combined with the social disadvantages of capitalism , and-can even appear to be indivisible . Thus inequality , , in particular the feudal relations between capital and labor which still survive in all three countries , can seem to be the necessary condition for liberty ; and the gradual conquests of the thousaid-year struggle of man against the despotisms of the organizers of capitalism can be regarded as no more than the class conquests of the bourgeoisie in the course of its revolution . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ELIO VITTORIN1 , one of Italy 's most distinguished novelists , has had wide critical acclaim in this country as well . His books include " In Sicily " and " The Red Carnation . " This article was translated by William Murray , who writes frequemly for The Nation from Rome . - BY ELIO VITTORINI romantic in modern culture  --  the nostalgia , for example , for the presumed spiritual unity for which every romantic thinker envies the Middle Ages and which Marx unfortunately did not know how to eliminate from his own doctrine ; or the idealization of the ability to believe absolutely  --  to accept , not to doubt , to renounce criticism and inquiry  --  elements that cater to the need , to which the very young so often find themselves a prey , to believe at whatever cost in something superior to themselves . Then , too , there are the ills common to every reactionary period ? the feeling that we are small and helpless in the face of our duties as human beings , that we are bound by our defects and can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the consequent tendency to put ourselves ' in the hands of some organism which need not humor our whims and can make us , at last , with the incorruptible virtue of a force outside ourselves , honest and good . One might have expected these aberrations to be typical of the youth who were converted to fascism in Italy . They turn out instead to be operative in the very countries where the habit of exercising civil liberties has been established for generations . It is in such countries as France , Great Britain , and the United States that freedom of speech and the freedom to change residence can be considered insignificant . The human importance of such freedoms is overlooked by those who have not known . their lack . ' Cis in Paris or in London that we hear them termed " delusions . " The Communist worker in France , and even more in Great Britain , where he is rare , or in the United States , where he is very scarce , has likewise an anti-liberal bias . He is a worker of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as Marx intended  --  but philosophy in the tradition of Nietzsche or Dostoevsky rather than in the great humanistic tradition which lies at the core of the Mandan expression . The writer or artist who clings to communism in France , England , or the United States does so precisely because he sees in the Communist effort ? and much more in the effort of the Soviets , of the                     