@@476836

is the old story of John D. Rockefeller 's giving away kerosene lamps to the Chinese coolies , to establish an assured demand for his products . For Automation , as an absolute first condition , requires the establishment of a fairly predictable , stable , and expanding market . For example , to apply Automation to the manufacture of kitchen appliances such as ranges , dish washers , and automatic washing machines would require an organized market for second-hand appliances . It might even be necessary for the manufacturer to stop selling appliances entirely and instead sell the housewife a five-year service policy , with the appliances on loan or at a nominal rent ; at the end of five years they would then be replaced by new appliances ? thus making possible a predictable production schedule . Nor is this idea as outlandish as it sounds : a study made for one appliance company concluded that the " service contract " would work , if only a manufacturer existed who knew how to make good on it . Automation requires that management find out the basic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , its demand expectations , the variations between different products and different product lines . It requires hard work on product planning , pricing , product design , and product service . Indeed Automation in many cases requires a complete " re-thinking " of the product . It certainly requires deliberate planning for technological change ? that is , directed efforts to make products systematically obsolete by bringing out better ones on a pre-set schedule . It requires new concepts and new methods of information and measurement . And it requires exceptionally clear thinking about the design and structure of the entire business ? its goals , its environment , its resources , and its organization . WHAT MAKES IT WORK T HERE are three basic principles which make up the logic of Automation . Wherever the three are actually used there is genuine Automation even if there are no automatic machines , no electronic controls or computers , no " mechanical brains . " Unless they are understood and consciously applied , Automation will not work . The first of these is the principle of economic activity as a process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shop , the integrating principle of work was skill . In Henry Ford 's concept of mass production the organizing principle was theproduct . In Automation , however , the entire activity of the business is a whole entity which must be harmoniously integrated to perform at all . A process knows neither beginning nor end . It may have stages but it does not divide into parts as such . From the ultimate consumer back to the first supplier of raw materials it has to be seamless , so-to-speak , yet at the same time conform to the second principle : that of pattern , order , or form behind the seemingly random and unpredictable flux of economic phenomena . If a business is to be considered a continuous process , instead of a series of disjointed stop-a ? d-go events , then the economic universe in which a business operates ? and all the major events within it ? must have rhyme , rhythm , or reason . Without this underlying structure of forms in the economic universe , Automation would be both inconceivable and incapable of achievement . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might be found in the rate and distribution of incoming orders . They might have to do with the " mix " in the demand for different products at different times . They might concern the speed with which the market becomes ready for new products . They might relate to personnel problems such as absenteeism , sickness , turnover , or employee performance . Even changes which appear unpredictable , such as changes in fashion , should be found to follow a clear ( perhaps even a strict ) pattern if properly analyzed . Finally Automation has a principle of self ? regulating control which derives from its nature as process . As every true process must , it contains the means of its own regulation and correction . It must be able to maintain the equilibrium between ends and means , output and effort . And it must be able ahead of time to set standards of acceptable performance , which it then can use as pre-tests and as governors . In electronics this is called " feed-back " ? that is , a control in which the process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ businessman has of course long been familiar with one such control : profit ? the simple , though crude , device that uses the results of economic activity to control its future direction and the quantity of new resources devoted to it . In these basic principles , Automation is little more than a projection into the economic sphere of philosophical beliefs that have become dominant in the past fifty years . The idea is distinctly characteristic of the twentieth-century thought that a diversity of " patterns , " " processes , " or " forms " ? each capable of logical expression , logical analysis , and systematic synthesis ? underlies all phenomena . It is the common contribution of the founding fathers of modern scientific philosophy like Poincare , Bohr , and Planck ; Willard Gibbs , Mendel , Hunt , and Malinowski . It was clearly understood-by Henry Adams . It might , with considerable over-simplification , be called an " organic " philosophy ? if only to distinguish it from the strictly mechanistic approach on which Henry Ford 's concept of mass production was based . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know anything about the philosophical foundations of Au titillation , let alone to be a philosopher or scientist himself . It is not even necessary for the experts in Automation within a business to know these things . But it is absolutely necessary for both the businessman and his Automation specialists to understand clearly that Automation is not a box of tricks or a bagful of gadgets . Automation is a methodology , with all the strengths and limitations that the term implies . IF AUTOMATION were a simple matter of technology , or replacement of human labor by machines , its social impact would be precisely what Walter Reuther predicted : large-scale displacement of workers . It might still be arguable whether this displacement would result in mass unemployment , as Reuther says ; the fact that during the next twenty years our working population will grow but slowly ( as shown in the preceding article of this series ) makes it implausible that there will be chronic unemployment , even if Automation comes very fast . Still , as long as Automation is seen as a mere matter of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worry about . But considered in its larger dimensions , as we have been considering it here , Automation 's most important impact will not be on employment but on the qualifications and functions of employees . There may actually be no workers on the production floor of tomorrow 's " push-button factory . " There are practically none today in . a power-generating station or an oil refinery . But at the same time incredibly large numbers of men will be required , behind the scenes in new , highly skilled jobs as machine builders , . machine installers , repair men , controllers of the ma-chinery and of its performance , and " programmers " to prepare information and feed it into the machine . In addition , large numbers of highly educated men will be needed in new jobs as designers of machinery , draftsmen , system-engineers , mathematicians , or logicians . Finally , large numbers will be needed for new managerial jobs requiring a high ability to think , to analyze , to make decisions , and to assume risks . And this increase both in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them may well be the largest of all the social impacts of Automation . MANY people seem to fear that Automation will downgrade the worker by making him a slave to a mechanical monster . " I have charge of one of the large electronic computers , " a young engineer said to me a few months ago . " 1 am constantly appalled by the number of people who seem to think that the machine has charge of me . " One look at the industries that are virtually " automated " now , such as electric-power generation or oil-refining , should show that they have plenty of employees , that they pay the highest wages , and that there is little room in them for unskilled or untrained labor . Mass production upgraded the unskilled laborer of yesterday into the semi-skilled machine operator of today ? and in the process multiplied both his productivity and his income . In just the same way , Automation will upgrade the semiskilled machine operator of today into a highly skilled and knowledgeable technician ? multiplying his income again . Norbert Wiener . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conceptual thinking that ' underlies the new technology , has predicted that Automation will lead to " the human use of human beings " ? that is , to our using man 's specifically human qualities , his ability to think , to analyze , balance and synthesize , to decide and to act purposefully ? instead of using him , as we have clone for millennia , to do all the dreary work machines can do better . There are two reservations to the prediction that Automation will not cause large-scale labor displacement . First , Automation will mean a sharp cut in employment for routine office work . There machines will indeed replace men and women . But this , in total numbers , is not a major segment of the working population ; it is largely composed of young , unmarried girls fresh out of school , who are in short supply today and will remain so for at least ten years . " Fhis has always been a labor force with a very high turnover , where it will therefore he possible to introduce Automation without laying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a progressively slower rate the employees who quit . ? The second reservation is that Automation will involve a considerable shifting of men to new jobs with new employers . For instance , there will be a tremendous demand for men to build machinery and equipment , but this demand may not arise for them in the same company that employs them now . Thus there may be considerable " dislocation unemployment " in a particular industry , and it may extend to a whole area that one industry dominates . But the most important of these dislocations is likely to be a shift of employment opportunities to smaller business . In the first place , Automation should strengthen the competitive position of the small company , if only because mechanical machine-setting enables the small organization to offer a more complete and diversified range of products at a competitive cost . Secondly , Automation will create opportunities for countless small businesses to specialize in servicing equipment . One indication of the growth we can expect is shown by the small but highly expert tool-and-die makers who serve the automotive industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small shops make a higher profit on their capital and enjoy greater stability than General Motors . Socially , the shift in job opportunities therefore should be healthy . But it will still impose on management a responsibility to plan systematically for the retraining and placement of workers during the shift to Automation . Union leaders , too , should similarly accept responsibility for the changes in their rules that will be necessary . Even such sacred cows as seniority or apprenticeship restrictions may have to be slaughtered . It is a good sign that sonic managements ? notably General Electric ? and some unions ? notably Reuther 's United Auto Workers ? are already at work on these matters . The really serious social problem is not employment but the need to upgrade whole segments of the population in very short time . Automation requires trained and educated people in unprecedented numbers . The quantitative need alone will be so great ( as the precedingarticle of this series showed ) that the eight or ten million college students we can expect fifteen years hence will be barely sufficient . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will need seven thousand college graduates a year , once it is automated , just to keep going ; today it hires three hundred annually . But the need is above all qualitative ? for better educated people . The " trained barbarian , " the man who has acquired high gadgeLeering skill , will not do . Even in routine jobs , Automation will require ability to think , a trained imagination , and good judgment , plus some skill in logical methods , some mathematical understanding , and some ability well above the elementary level to read and write ? in a word , the normal equipment of educated people . Under Automation , a school could do a student no greater disservice than to prepare him , as so many do today , for his first job . If there is one thing certain under Automation it is that the job ? even the bottom job ? will change radically and often . NEEDED : EDUCATED MANAGERS T HE GREATEST educational need may well be in management . Of course there will always be need for " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " in business enterprise , at least as king as we eschew state planning . But in an automated business the " intuitive " manager is obsolete ; and " experience " under Automation will not be a very reliable guide . To be a manager in an automated business , of course , a man need not have a formal education , let alone a degree ; indeed it would he hard to find an institution of learning where he could acquire today the education he needs to be a manager tomorrow . But , in the sense of being able to handle systematic knowledge , he will have to he highly educated . This educational job will have to be done , to a very large extent , in and by the business itself ; and large companies in particular will have to become educational institutions ? and interest themselves in formal education ? even more than they-do today . For the foreseeable future , there will simply not he enough new people with the new knowledge and skill required to fill the new jobs ; and this will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and file , office work , tech-'ilea/ and professional work , managerlal work . On every level , adult education ? largely on the job ? will be needed . THE NEW STABILITY N ANY case , whatever dislocation Automa- tion produces will take place in the period of transition from the old to the new , and it will be temporary . Permanently , Automation should introduce a new stability into the economic society . For Automation will have to stabilize the two factors which have hitherto both caused and suffered the greatest instability : capital investment and employment . Piecemeal capital investment ? to replace a machine here , to make an operation more efficient there ? is simply not possible under Automation . Nor is it possible to make capital expenditure entirely dependent on cash income and business conditions , lopping them off as soon as sales or prices fall and hectically pushing them up in good times . The whole plant , under Automation , must he conceived as one integrated piece of machinery . No one part can be replaced , unproved , or changed without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once a capital project has been started it has to be carried through , on a timetable pretty well fixed in advance . If the project is abandoned midway , the sums already invested may be lost entirely . This obviously creates new and serious risks . Obviously it will raise still higher the demands on management 's ability to make long-range decisions . But at the same time it also means that a sizable portion of our capital spending will increasingly be carried out independently of the business cycle , and this in turn will stabilize the cycle . It will hardly eliminate economic fluctuations altogether , but it should prevent the extremes of boom and bust . Probably we are already feeling these effects . Both the " inventory recession " of 1951 and the recession of 1954 were expected by the great . majority of businessmen to turn into long , hard down-swings . Yet few businesses stopped their capital expenditures programs ; few even cut them back . The reason they gave for this totall , unprecedented behavior was that capital investment programs are integrated and long-term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ begun , even to major cyclical fluctuations . As a result , neither recession went very far . Automation should bring even greater stability to employment . In this area lies one of its greatest opportunities , but also one of the hottest political issues of the coming years . Management today still proceeds on the assumption that " labor " is a current expense which fluctuates , on the whole , with volume of production . Already this concept may be obsolete ; in most large companies one-third or more of the employees are salaried ; and of the hourly employees , a half or even two-thirds , in many industries , have to be kept on the job as long as the plant is open , regardless of output . Under Automation , however , the traditional concept will be untenable , if not dangerous . Labor under Automation must be considered a capital resource , with wage costs being treated virtually as fixed costs . The essence of Automation is its inability to adjust production to short-range economic fluctuations , except within narrow ranges . The number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the investment in the skill and training of workers will be much too great for the enterprise to disperse them , except in a situation of extreme peril . Automation thus creates the opportunity for a high degree of employment stability ? an opportunity that comes none too soon , since the social pressure for such stability has long been building up . This is partly a result of the American economy 's success in making the worker " middle class " ; the most potent emotional symbol of middle-class status has always been the " salary " in contrast to the " wage . " In part it is also the result of the disproportion between the rapid increase in total population and the slower increase in working population , and of the resulting labor pressure . But , in any case , the demands for stabilized employment and predictable income are certainly not inventions of the " power-hungry union bosses . " They are the most important goals of the American worker . GUARANTEED ANNUAL WAGE T H I S is the background of Walter Reuther 's demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely to be the storm center of American labor relations in the years ahead . But the " Guaranteed Annual Wage . " in my opinion , will not do the job . Any such absolute guarantee of income for all , or most , of the men on payroll could simply keep management from hiring new workers . It could actually create unemployment , and on a large scale . The horrible example is Italy 's experience with a state-imposed guaranteed annual wage . When the law was adopted in 1947 a virtual ban on laying off or dismissing any employee with more than a year 's seniority was necessary ; it probably prevented Italy from going Communist during those crucial clays . Today the same law is the cause for a very large part ? maybe a quarter , if not a third ? of Italy 's chronic unemployment , the worst in Europe . For very few employers will hire new workers . Even if he has to meet a tremendous demand for his product , an employer will prefer to pay ten hours ' overtime each week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italy 's ubiquitous motor-scooters has done ? rather than bring in new people ; for , once hired , they stay on the payroll forever , regardless of future business . Or the employer , like Italy 's largest power company , will string out a five-year building program over ten or fifteen years rather than hire new crews , despite a crippling power shortage and constant " brown-outs . " In fact , no Italian employer could easily take on additional workers as long as his present employees do not want to share ? and inevitably dilute ? their own security . Everybody in Italy , the unions included , knows perfectly well that the guaranteed annual wage has become a deadly disease . Yet no one , not even the secretary of the Manufacturers Association , dares criticize it in public ; for , being " security , " it has become untouchable . Yet , in most industries here , there is a way to give a high degree of employment stability ? amounting to an all but absolute guarantee for the bulk of the employees . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the twelve-months ahead , based on the worst experience of the past , With the stability in production which Automation requires , this prediction would be increasingly reliable for workers in the majority of manufacturing and service industries . It should enable most of them to budget on an insurable promise of at least two-thirds of a full year 's income for the year ahead . To work out such a predictable income and employment plan ? or at least to find out whether it is possible ? ought to be a major management task even if Automation had never been heard of . Failing in it , management will have no defense against the demands for a " Guaranteed Annual Wage " ; it will not even have the facts to rebut the union 's argument . Certainly any promise of employment stability should at first be modest , but the aim should be to improve as experience is gained . Management should hold itself committed to this goal ? and primarily because the business demands it , not just because the union demands it . Above all , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and union leadership seize Automation 's opportunity for making income predictable and for stabilizing mass purchasing power . HOW FAST WILL IT COME ? T H E Automation Revolution is here , and it is proceeding at high speed . But it will be many years before it permeates the entire economy . Most businesses will not convert to Automation overnight but will go at it piecemeal , which will not be easy . It will require more capital than wholesale Automation , and it will entail greater risks . But the mental strain will be less . Fewer people will have to " re-learn " fewer things ; and they will have more time to do it in . While it is a major revolution , Automation is therefore not likely to be dramatic ; there will be no point when one can say : " This is the year when the American economy went into Automation . " But only the speed of Automation is uncertain . There can he little doubt that the direction of our progress is toward it . There can be little doubt that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of skill , employment security , standard of living , and opportunity . Above all , there can be little doubt that " Automation " is not " technocracy " under another name and that the " push-button factory " is not its symbol . Automation is not gadgeteering , it is not even engineering ; it is a concept of the structure and order of economic life , the design of its basic patterns integrated into a harmonious , balanced , and organic whole .                     