@@309619

The Australian aborigines wear practically no clothes , grow no crops , live by hunting and berry picking . Their major art consists of rock pictures of spirits called Wondjina . First painted centuries ago , the paintings are " touched " ( i.e. , repainted ) by the natives each season to bring on the rain . But at Munich 's Ethnographical Museum last week hung copies of a much older and almost unknown aboriginal art . discovered by the museum director , Andreas Lommel , in the Kimberley district of Northwestern Australia . Smaller , more naturalistic and far more elegant than Wondjina art , they date back at least a thousand years . <P> Lommel found the ancient pictures in the hills surrounding a vast ranch far out in the bush . In the outback country he found a shifting population of aborigines . The old people led him along circuitous trails to their usual Wondjina pictures , and " touched " them for him ( Lommel swears the rain came each time ) . But forging farther afield himself , Lommel came to other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knew nothing about . <P> Averaging about the size of a card table , they were in high , far , pleasant places on the undersides of overhanging rocks . They resemble Stone Age art found in eastern Spain , the Tassili mountains of North Africa , in India and Indonesia . They depict tall , slender , square-shouldered people quite unlike the present-day aborigines . Sharply designed and hauntingly evocative , they suggest a lost civilization with its own unnamed gods and elaborate ritual . Some paintings show boomerangs , the aborigine 's weapon , but boomerangs were used in several parts of the prehistoric world . Lommel has not the slightest notion what the pictures signify , but believes they prove Australia must have been in contact during prehistoric times with other continents . Possibly the rock pictures were made by some ancient migratory tribe from Indonesia , which either perished , moved on , or was absorbed .                     