@@494703

R. KHRUSHCHEV 'S original strategy of Peaceful Coexistence has now been supplemented ? though not supplanted ? by his new technique of Crisis Creation . This method of artificially provoking a war crisis at " places of his own choosing , " and then trying to exploit the universal fear of war in order to gain a diplomatic advantage , was first rehearsed against Turkey in the " Syrian crisis " of the fall of 1957 , under the fresh impression of Sputnik and of Russia 's implied capacity to deliver inter ? continental rockets . It went through a much improved repetition in the " Quemoy crisis " of the past month , which served the dual purpose of switching the spotlight away from the Middle East ( where this summer 's crisis did not start on Soviet initiative and did not issue to the Soviet 's diplo ? matic advantage ) and of using pressure on a point of American military and political weakness in order to force our government into diplomatic dealings with Communist China . And now the method is to be used right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fronts have long been quies ? cent but where a clash would be potentially more dangerous than anywhere else because of the direct involvement of the great nuclear powers . The opening threat was delivered in Khrushchev 's farewell speech to the Polish delegation which had been touring the Soviet Union , and was promptly supported by Mr. Gomulka . The Soviet Government , he an ? nounced , because of the alleged violations of the Potsdam agreement by the West , no longer feels bound by the agreements on the four-power ? status of Berlin ( which in fact were concluded before Potsdam and re ? affirmed four years afterward at the end of the blockade ) , and considers itself entitled to hand over its rights in Berlin to its East German satellite . Herr Ulbricht could then try to force the Western powers to come to terms with him by interfering with their access to Berlin ; and lest anybody in the West should think of shooting his way through , Khrushchev added that any attack on his East German " allies " would be considered as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further clarified when the East German Premier , Herr Grotewohl , in a peace-loving statement two days later expressed regret that Western reaction had concentrated on the threat to Berlin ; he explained that the future of the Western allies ' access to the German capital was to be negotiated as part of a wider settlement for Germany . Explicit threats , clearly , will come only in alternate speeches , like shells on Quemoy on alternate days . The point of the whole operation is not so much to force us out of Berlin at this stage , but to make us recognize the East German Government ? and with it the status quo in Eastern Europe . The analogy with the use of the Quemoy situation to promote the recognition of Com ? munist China is obvious ; and in case anybody might have overlooked it , even before Khrushchev 's speech , the East German party boss had spoken of Quemoy and West Berlin as being equally politically absurd and mili ? tarily untenable . It is worth inquiring why there has been this general return to threats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past year . No doubt the new consolidation of Soviet control over the " Socialist camp , " and Khrushchev 's own final victory over his domestic rivals have been factors in the change : he could not have afforded it before . No doubt , too , the Soviet advances in missile technique and the belief that they have turned " massive retaliation " into an empty phrase have been an important consideration . But probably the decisive reason is that the earlier Soviet version of the strategy of co-existence , if judged from the viewpoint of its principal objective , has been a failure . That objective was from the start , openly and unmis ? takably , to obtain Western recognition of Communist conquests in both Europe and Asia ? recognition not merely as a military fact that can no longer be changed by military force , but as an irreversible political fact . That is what Khrushchev and his propagandists have meant all along by " ending the Cold War " ; that is what he wanted a summit meeting to achieve ; that is what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ History " and in the military balance of power . Yet he has been unable so far to persuade any major sector of Western democratic opinion to accept that view . For apart from the perma ? nent minority of Communists and their fellow-travellers , even critical opinion in the West has continued to draw a sharp distinction between those Communist regimes which have taken power by the force of a homegrown Communist movement , as in China , North Vietnam and Yugoslavia , and those which have been imposed by alien military force , as in most of Eastern Europe . The former have long been widely accepted as at least practically irreversible , and that is why the formal diplomatic rec ? ognition of Communist China by this country is now only a question of time . But the latter continue to be regarded , after the Hungarian tragedy even more than before , as something unnatural and basically intolerable , which we must continue to strive to change by political means short of war . For that reason , the Western governments have been able , with broad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terms ; and it is these " Western delaying tactics " with regard to a summit meeting which Khrush ? chev himself has given as his reason for reverting to threats . For as Walter Lippmann has just suggested , Khrushchev ' may genuinely believe that the Western re ? fusal to recognize Stalin 's conquests as permanent implies the intention one day to reverse them by military action ; he concludes from this that the Western position is based on a serious misreading of the facts of the balance of power ; and from there it is an easy step to trying to de ? monstrate to us what he sees as the realities of power by his own version of brinkmanship . Khrushchev 's new threats , then , are for the time being at least not an ex ? pression of a wish to resume the offensive ; in fact , his methods are rather more cautious in areas where condi ? tions favor a Soviet offensive , such as the Arab Middle East . He is threateningly advancing to the brink in order to protect his weak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany . The threat , of course , is only part of the operation . Along with the stage thunder of Crisis Creation , the soft music of co-existence continues to play on the twin themes of the new variant of the Rapacki Plan and a Four-Power meeting to prepare a peace treaty with Germany . Both offers are , in fact , more reasonable than any of their recent predecessors . The second edition of the plan put forward by Polish Foreign Minister Rapacki asks that in a. first phase only no new nuclear weapons should be introduced into Central Europe ? i.e. that neither the Bundeswehr nor the Warsaw Pact armies should get them ? and proposes that the second stage , with its ban on all nuclear weapons in the area , should only come into force together with an agreement on control and a reduc ? tion of conventional forces . The proposed peace treaty admits that the four original occupying powers might first discuss the international status of Germany among themselves , before calling in the representatives of the " two German states . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German reunion , even if agreement on the future international status of Germany should be reached at such a conference , and that his offer is accompanied by solemn Soviet pledges " never to aban ? don our ( East ) German ally " ? which seems to exclude in advance any agreement on a guaranteed neutral status for a reunited Germany . While Russia maintains that attitude , West Germany must clearly remain our ally , and it will be impossible to deny it nuclear weapons in the long run unless this is done as part of a general agreement to limit the atomic club to its present members . Both the new version of the Rapacki Plan and the pro ? posal to negotiate a German peace treaty certainly offer scope for constructive Western counterproposals . We might well accept the first stage of the new Rapacki Plan ? the nuclear standstill agreement for Central Europe ? on a temporary basis , pending agreement not only on control and reduction of conventional forces , but on sub ? stantial progress with the German question within a rea ? sonable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of peace for a reunited Germany which would most contrib ? ute to European security ? frontiers , arms limitations , neutrality ? while refusing to commit ourselves to them unless the road could be cleared to the creation of a united Germany in freedom . But while such counterproposals would go far to meet Russia 's legitimate security interests , they would necessarily deny the essential immediate ob ? jective of the Soviet moves ? the recognition of the East German Communist regime . For such recognition would be compatible with our interests and principles in one case only ? if it was clearly the immediate prelude to the elimination of that regime by agreement . Of course , Khrushchev may believe that he is now strong enough to force that recognition on the West against our interests . But if his threat to Berlin is really based on such a calculation , and not merely on bluff , it is almost certainly mistaken . Militarily , West Berlin is even less defensible than Quemoy ; but the East Germans would not even dream of attacking the allied garrison there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Econo ? mically , the city with its two million inhabitants certainly remains vulnerable to a blockade , or to minor harassments short of a full blockade ; but for obvious political reasons the Soviets and their East German subordinates ' do not wish to repeat that experience ; pressure this time is directed against the allied communications with Berlin rather than against the supplies of the civilian population . But they can not prevent the relatively minor airlift which would be sufficient to keep the garrison supplied unless they take risks of interference with allied planes from which even Stalin recoiled ; they have not the faintest chance of driving a political wedge between the Western powers and the Berliners ; and above all , their own East German hinterland is politically infinitely more vulner ? able to our countermeasures than is China . The East German regime has no popular support , and if it tries to whip up a crisis atmosphere it is liable to produce panic and possible serious political unrest . A state whose population is steadily declining because its subjects are deserting it at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its enemies . Even without a counterblockade , the proclamation of the Western pow ? ers ' irreconcilable hostility to the Ulbricht regime in reply to any threats might shake the pseudo-state to its foundations . What we should now do , apart from the obvious tech ? nical preparations for all eventualities , is to prepare our political reply . The moment Ulbricht &; Co. try to inter ? fere with allied communications , the Western govern ? ments should solemnly announce that their refusal to recognize the East German Communist regime is not a diplomatic technicality , but an expression of the fact that they regard the existence of this regime , imposed by Russia in defiance of international agreements , as an in ? tolerable provocation , and its leaders as enemies both of their own people and of the West ; that they will not deal with these odious puppets but remain inflexibly deter ? mined to get rid of them by peaceful means ; and that they are ready to negotiate with the Soviet Government , and even with an alternative provisional government of Eastern Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provided only this one obstacle to a settle ? ment is removed . It does not take much imagination to foresee the effect such a proclamation would have not only on the people of Eastern Germany , but even on its civil service whose members know from fairly recent experience the wisdom of deserting a sinking ship in good time . Indeed , if the West shows any indication that it will respond in this way , it is unlikely that the threat to Berlin will ever mate ? rialize . The East German rulers know their own weak ? ness , even if Mr. Khrushchev does not . ADHIL JAMALI , former foreign minister of Iraq , has been sentenced to hang by a military court in Baghdad . We are not in a position to comment on the trial or the verdict . Yet would not Premier Qassem be well advised to commute Jamali 's sentence ? To Westerners , Jamali was more civil servant than politician . A commutation would be a positive sign of the Iraq Revolution 's strength and stability , as well as being in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uprising in Baghdad , we were dis ? mayed by Ambassador Lodge 's choosing the UN as the forum for his melodramatic attack on the Iraq Revolution , which he based almost entirely on an erroneous report of Jamali 's dead body being dragged through the streets . Now , we are more than disturbed at the apparent lack of interest in Jamali 's fate by his American " friends , " Some Arabs have commented on the silence of these " friends " as evidence of the cynicism of the professional pro-Arab Americans . Now that the Iraq Revolution is respectable , they argue , Americans are uninterested in Jamali , the man . When Jamali was in power , he was praised as the Iraqi friend of the US . Invited to the White House , given an honorary degree at Columbia , applauded by the oil interests , he is now apparently expendable . It is even said that pleas for clemency by Americans will injure Jamali . The fact is that our policy makers often can not distinguish between interference in the internal affairs of a country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . IN HIS Colombo Plan address in Seattle , Mr. Eisen- - 1-  hower spoke of " additions " and " adequate resources " for the Development Loan Fund ? the sole US mecha ? nism for granting low-interest loans to less-developed countries . What does this mean ? He has given no green light to such men as Mr. C. Douglas Dillon , Under-Secretary of State for Economic Affairs , who have in mind some form of permanent financing for the Fund and who hope that the President 's January Budget Mes ? sage will include a DLF appropriation request of as much as $5 billion . We shall soon know whether Mr. Dillon or the economy-minded Director of the Budget has had the last word . But if Mr. Dillon and his friends lose out , the fight must not be given up . It will be up to Congress to reverse the decision . It must do this not because it is " spend ? thrift , " but because we can not afford parsimony . For ex ? ample , the last two years of this Administration are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Year Plan . They are the years also during which the economies and political structures of Indonesia , Pakistan and Burma will undergo the most severe trials . Indeed , in the histories that are to be written , the next 24 months may appear to have mattered more than decades thereafter . WE COMMENTED two weeks back on some of the demonic automotive designs being prepared for us by car manufacturers and hinted that if the contraptions got much lower and longer there could be a renaissance in the bicycle industry . There is additional support for this theory in the fact that garage operators of New York have finally rared up and announced that they will charge 15 to 30 percent more for parking the 1959 monsters . They complain that the trend to bigness has cut their garages ' capacity 15 percent in the last four years , while the vulnerability of the new shapes to bumps has caused their insurance rates to go up . Another complaint comes from the Automatic Car Washers Association , which says that its equipment ca n't get in and clean the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been wid ? ened so it wo n't get on the platforms at all . It is old hat , of course , that the cars wo n't fit into many home garages ? to which such designers as Harley Earl , who works for General Motors , reply that the sick consumer does n't want his new car inside the garage ? he wants it outside , impressing the neighbors . IN THE WAKE of the election , the stock market soared to new all-time highs , surpassing not only 1929 but even the effervescent surge of 1956 . The man who seeks to understand these ups and downs frequently dies a pauper . Nevertheless , it is difficult not to make some speculative guesses about what has been happening . Un ? doubtedly , rising stock prices reflect in some degree con ? tinuing economic recovery . To say the least of it , in ? vestors do not expect Democrats to interrupt that recov ? ery . The natural tendency of a liberal Democratic Con ? congress to spend money on public housing , school construc ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happy fiscal anticipations for many businessmen in many industries , however often they vote Republican . When all of this is said , the market still has its puzzles . One is the number of issues selling at prices as high as 40 times earnings , a ratio which would seem to discount and overdiscount most conceivable rates of growth in sales and profit . Such symptoms may point to the behavior which Lord Keynes identified long ago , the tendency of many operators to act on the basis not of what they believe but of what they believe that others believe . Which is to say that when speculators ? and there are some still around ? are convinced that general opinion anticipates higher prices , prudent behavior on their part implies buying stocks even though they personally differ from the market 's judgment , this being one more ex ? ample in economic life of the self-fulfilling prophecy . There is this much comfort in the current bull market which no dispassionate observer could have taken in 1929 : people who buy stocks today must put down 90 percent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? ments are far sterner ; and public regulation is detailed and pervasive . Thus , although it is still perfectly possible to lose one 's shirt , at least the laundry 's rules are now publicly posted . T HY WASTE space on Nixon , a California correspond ? " ent asks : " Dick is a dead duck , Viva New York ! " Now if Dick were a duck , that would be true : a winged duck is a doomed duck . But Dick is not a feathered thing , he is a chameleon . And chameleons are endowed , Webster says , with the " power of living for long pe ? riods . " They also " can shoot out their tongue for a distance nearly equally their length . " Mr. Stassen may wish to step on him ; Mr. Rockefeller may think he has stepped on him ; and California Democrats may hope they have buried him . But lo , he lives ? " remarkable , " as Webster adds , " tor the changes of color of the skin , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the animal , as well as on surrounding condi ? tions . " SINCE we have often said that every voter should get in some good licks for the candidate of his choice , we hasten to correct any impression that we approve the methods which elected Dr. Dale Alford to Congress from Arkansas ' Fifth District . Dr. Alford , a respected oculist and schoolboard member , was announced as a write-in candidate , but the affixing of his name to the ballot re ? quired no pencil work on the part of voters ; it was an outpouring of saliva , applied to ready-made stickers , that provided him with a majority of 51 percent in a poll of more than 61,000 . Because of the iron grip in which Governor Faubus currently holds the state of Arkansas , we think it un ? likely that the methods which displaced Congressman Brooks Hays as the representative of the Little Rock area will be challenged locally . Mr. Faubus ' Attorney General ruled the use of a sticker valid before the election ; and the temper of the Arkansas Supreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Jim Johnson , the racial extremist whom Faubus ( then running as a moderate ) defeated for Governor in 1956 . Johnson dis ? placed a two-term justice to become the nominee for the post in this summer 's Democratic primary . Yet we think the facts about this election should be widely known and deeply pondered , particularly by Southern Congressmen who in the past have regarded their party primary as decisive . The facts are these : Under Arkansas law , a candidate may announce him ? self any time up to 24 hours before a general election . ( Alford announced eight days before the vote . ) Under the party plan of the Democratic Party in Ar ? kansas , every candidate who offers himself in the primary must sign a pledge to support all of the party 's candidates in the ensuing general election . Faubus signed this pledge when seeking the Democratic nomination for Governor last summer . So did Brooks Hays when he became a candidate to represent the Fifth District in Congress for his ninth term . In addition , Faubus and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other 's cam ? paigns . But the manager of the surprise entry of Dr. Alford was Claude Carpenter , who together with Kenesaw Mountain Landis Matthews had served as the Governor 's executive assistant in the Mansion during the days of negotiation preceding the Faubus-Eisenhower meetings in September , 1957 . Subsequently , the Governor secured him the post of Attorney for the state Public Service Cor ? poration , and he was likewise head of fund-raising for the state Democratic Party when he took leave to defeat Brooks Hays . Also , immediately after Dr. Alford 's announcement , the opening sentence of a letter sent from his headquar ? ters to all election officials in the state , asking their co ? operation , read : " Governor Faubus and this District need . . . . There is likewise evidence that the Governor himself , under cover , personally intervened on behalf of Alford . When queried about his pledge , he was quoted as saying he knew nothing of it ; when asked whether he supported Brooks Hays , he said he did n't vote in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the eye doctor 's poll workers ( who appeared somewhat myopic with regard to the statutory limit restricting their operations to a hundred feet from the polls ) consisted of two parts . The voter was instructed to " detach here " the section reading : " Paste sticker on your Ballot and elect Democratic Write-in Candidate for Congress . " The side which , when stuck on the official ballot , con ? stituted a vote , bore : ' Dale Alford X " and a union label . In estimating the potency of use of a sticker , weight must be given to the fact that in a considerable number of polling places , in Arkansas , no provision is made for secrecy of the ballot . The voter presents himself at the local fire station or other polling place , shows his poll-tax receipt , gets his ballot , lays it on any hard surface that presents itself , marks it , puts it in the box . In a community that feels strongly enough about an issue to engage in a write-in campaign , public failure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Such is the new method of electioneering practised this November in Arkansas . The old methods , in forms familiar ever since Frank Graham was defeated for the Senate in North Carolina , were there too : a smear sheet , presenting the " Nigger-Lover " charge in pictorial form , showed Hays seated between two Negro bishops in Chi ? cago this past summer , where , as president of the South ? ern Baptist Convention , he had accepted an invitation to speak before the Negro Baptist Convention ; in con ? travention of state law this piece of campaign literature bore no indication of its sponsoring organization . But comparable items have been a feature of previous op ? position to Mr. Hays ' ? and other moderates ' ? candi ? dacies ; the electoral sticker is something new . Since we believe that inside the state there will be no immediate reaction to the methods of the Alford election , we will follow with interest the Wash ? ington reaction to the appearance of Arkansas ' new Congressman . We rather expect that he will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barber shop to the guards ' desks at the doors . Mr. Hays ' popu ? larity has been such that one Capitol employee unabash ? edly went out and got drunk on hearing of his elimina ? tion . But what we want to know is what the Democratic Party in the House of Representatives is going to do about giving Committee assignments to the man who caused one of only two defeats sustained by Democratic House members running for re-election . The key will be found in the Speaker 's attitude . Less than three weeks before the November 4 vote , since he was then running unopposed in the general election , Mr. Hays , who was well up on the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a member of the new Space Com ? mittee , had visited Mr. Rayburn in Bonham , Texas , to plan for the up-coming session . This sorry business calls for reflection on the deterio ? ration of Southern political life in the last five years : In 1954 , Orval Faubus ran for his first term for Governor as a moderate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Little Rock 's good people ( his wife is a UDC and a DAR ) became a member of the school board about a month before the board unanimously adopted its plan for the desegrega ? tion of Central High School ; he did not assume the posture of a segregationist until just before Governor Faubus called out the National Guard two and a half years later ; In 1957 , as Faubus prepared to run for his third term , Little Rock became a source of world headlines . damaging the free world everywhere ; In 1958 , Arkansas ' Fifth District was the scene of the invention of a campaign device making possible a quickie election from which not only reason but even literacy had been eliminated ; In recent months , the rate of out-migration of people from Arkansas ( some of it undertaken to insure school ? ing ) has accelerated ; the rate of in-migration of in ? industry to Arkansas has approached nil .                     