@@487663

THAT ALL economic signposts now point toward a considerable decline of output , income and employment in the United States is universally recognized . The stock market has acknowledged the fact in its own unmistakable fashion ; all organs of economic opinion have expressed it in more or less explicit terms ; even the stubborn Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System is apparently willing to concede that inflation is no longer the foremost threat to the economy and has made a reluctant move toward cheaper money . Yet this remarkable consensus of speculators , economic commentators and government officials is quite deceptive : it refers to no more than the sheer surface of the matter and applies only to the shortest-term economic outlook . Behind the consensus lurks a wide divergence of views on the nature and significance of the impending setback , on its probable extent and duration and , accordingly , on the longer-range prospects for our economy and our society . The most complacent school of thought , of which President Eisenhower , Federal Reserve Chairman Martin , Secretary of Commerce Weeks and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might be called the " breather " doctrine . This philosophy reflects the conviction that none- of the generally registered storm signals gives cause for serious concern , that the economy is firmly launched on a long-term upward movement , and that what we are currently facing is merely one of those unpredictable random disturbances which go as fast as they come and which represent no more than a short interruption of an indefinitely lasting prosperity . The rationale for this buoyant outlook is by no means readily established . If there is one , PAUL A. BARAN , pi ofessor of economics at Stanford University , is the author of the recently published The Political Economy of Growth ( New York , Monthly Review Press , 1957 ) . December 21 , 1957 it would have to be sought in some vague notion that in 1945 we entered an altogether " new era " to which " old-fashioned " historical and economic reasoning no longer applies . Consequently our future is to be read in a trend line projecting ad infinitum the experience of the postwar boom . That is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not merely as a description of what occurred under the extraordinary circumstances of a " hectic decade , but a compelling principle determining economic development for a- long time to come . It goes without saying that there is not much virtue in this kind of extrapolation ; a " theory " based upon it simply assumes at the outset the answer that it is supposed to provide , and thus begs the urgent question on the likely course of future events . No less optimistic , if much more sophisticated , is , the position held primarily by a number of prominent economists . While subscribing " in principle " to the traditional view of the inevitability of economic crisis under capitalism , this influential group nevertheless supports the prophets of the " perpetual boom " , by contending that the capitalist society of today has mastered at last the art of dealing with depression and unemployment , and therefore no longer needs to fear the recurrence of major slumps . This confidence is based on two distinct lines of reasoning . In the first place , the struc tural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course of the last twenty-five years are considered to have greatly reduced the " depression-proneness " of our system , and accordingly have enhanced its intrinsic stability and resilience . Secondly , the so-called Keynesian revolution in economics is supposed to have provided the fundamental insights needed for economic stabilization ; modern theory of income and employment , having gone a long way towards a clarification of the factors responsible for short-term changes in the level of economic activity , is relied upon to specify the measures necessary to cope with both deflationary and inflationary situations . It is primarily the former argument ? pointing to the presence of so-called " built-in stabilizers " in the economy ? that has made a strong impression on public opinion . Yet , whatever truth the argument may contain , the over-all claims made in its behalf would seem to be rather extravagant . Indeed , what are those " built-in stabilizers , " and what can be reasonably expected from them in case of need ? For convenience 's sake , we may group them under three headings and consider each . FIRST @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the thirties and developments since World War II which have greatly modified the financial framework of business activity . The supervision over the stock exchanges exercised by the Securities and Exchange Corn-mission has greatly limited , if not entirely eliminated , trading in " South Sea bubble " shares in American security markets . The Federal Reserve Board 's control over margin , requirements has curtailed speculative activities in Wall Street and thus markedly reduced the vulnerability of dealers and investors in stocks and bonds . Neither a flood of forced sales accentuating and accelerating a downward movement- of stock prices , nor a wave of suicides by hapless financiers , need now paralyze business and consumer 467 spending . Perhaps even more important , the banking system at the present time is in a very much stronger position than ever before . The succession of bank failures and subsequent bank mergers that had marked the thirties and gained momentum during the last decade disposed of a multitude of rickety banks and substituted for them a relatively small number of ' strong , competently managed institutions . Also  --  and this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bear very little resemblance to what they were , say , in the twenties . Instead of highly dubious foreign debentures , they now include gilt-edged securities issued by the United States Government ; F.H.A. and V.A . guaranteed mortgages have replaced farm and real-estate loans that went into default as soon as the drop in farm income and employment deprived debtors of their ability to maintain payments . The consumers ' debt held today by the banks can be considered to be a fairly sound portfolio ; even in worst times the majority of installment buyers usually continue to meet their obligations . And the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 's guarantee of small and medium-sized bank deposits all but rules out a run on the banks on the part of alarmed bank customers . If one further takes into account that , as a result of seventeen years of nearly uninterrupted prosperity and spectacular growth of big business , most large and important firms have now sufficient reserves to withstand quite a lot of stormy weather , there is all the more reason for discounting the danger of a major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our economic system . Thus the first category of " built-in stabilizers " ? those having to do with the maintenance of liquidity under conditions of a business downturn  --  undoubtedly represents a significant prop to stability . It would be a fallacy to believe , however , that the existence of this prop precludes , or even reduces , the possibility of a major depression . What it probably does safeguard against is the kind of cataclysmic financial panics which marked the nineteenth cen-468 tury and ushered in the Great Depression of the early thirties . To be sure , the avoidance of such panics and of their chain reactions could well change the , course of the crisis itself , may even render it less acute , but , there is nothing here to prevent depression or even to lessen signif- ' icantly its over-all impact on income and employment . THE SECOND group of " built-in stabilizers " comprises farm-price supports and public ( as well as union-financed ) relief payments to unemployed . The social desirability of these arrangements is obvious . By maintaining a rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices , and of workers rendered jobless by spreading layoffs , they can mitigate the depression-caused contraction ' in consumers ' expenditures . As a result , the over-all drop of income and employment is bound to be smaller than if these provisions did not exist . Yet the difference is unlikely to amount to much . Long before " built-in stabilizers " were discovered , some poor relief was doled out by local authorities and charitable organizations ; it never was able to affect markedly the course of a depression , let alone to prevent one altogether . Still , just as there is strong reason for expecting that our ' first group of " built-in stabilizers " may eliminate the **36;1595;TOOLONG aspect of depressions , so it can be hoped that the second group may somewhat reduce the suffering and privations traditionally associated with economic crises and unemployment . This brings us to the third ( and last ) variety of " built-in stabilizers , " which relates to the volume of government spending and the structure of government revenues . The relevant argument runs approximately as follows : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions prevailing in the economy , but by a set of more or less independent decisions and commitments . Thus outlays for the maintenance of the military establishment , interest payments on the national debt , costs , of public administration and the like will remain unaffected by changes in the level of national income , in fact may even increase as national income declines ( through increased payments to unemployed ) . Not so the government 's receipts from taxation , which are bound to shrink if business as a whole enters a period of contraction . What is more , if the tax structure is progressive  --  that is , if higher tax rates are applied to higher incomes than to lower incomes  --  a decline of total taxable income must lead to a more than proportionate drop in aggregate tax payments . Consequently , a mechanism exists which automatically produces a gap between government expenditures and government revenues , thus creating a deficit in the government budget . This , in turn , means that in a depression the government would necessarily add to the income stream more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a pump-priming effect on the economy . Needless to say , this effect can only be appreciable if the government 's tax receipts and expenditures are large , that is , if they constitute a significant share of national income . Since such is now the case in this country ( it was not in the late twenties ) , this particular " built-in stabilizer " enjoys a great deal of prestige among those who believe that a major depression is out of the question at the present time . THERE IS certainly nothing wrong with the underlying reasoning ; however , it provides much less ground for optimism than might seem at first blush . It boils down to the proposition that given a large and stable volume of government outlays , the decline in private income and expenditure will be offset to some extent by the maintained spending on the part of the government . Obviously , the crucial question is the ' magnitude of this offset ? and it is self-evident that this could not amount to more than a fraction , and a small fraction at that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In other words , this " built-in ' stabilizer , " like the others , may be counted upon to serve as a brake on the downward movement , to cushion somewhat the fall . None of them , singly or jointly , can The NATION be reasonably expected to prevent a depression , significantly affect its scope or markedly shorten its duration . But what about the other current of thought , the one that relies not upon our " built-in stabilizers , " but upon faith in our increased understanding of the economic process and in our better insight into the causes of economic crises and the requirements of counter-cyclical policy ? Could not the government make use of the achievements of modern economics , and adopt such measures as may be needed not only to prevent a depression , but to assure a steady expansion of output and income ? Considered abstractly , this view appears to be entirely plausible . Indeed , the factors responsible for the current decline , and which are likely to cause further contraction of business activity , are by no means shrouded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gives every indication of drawing to a close . With productive capacities in nearly all industries exceeding current requirements by a considerable margin , businessmen become increasingly reluctant to expan , d further their plants and facilities . Similarly , with many prices stabilized and with others ( particularly those of raw materials ) seriously weakening , there is not only no inclination to enlarge existing inventories , but rather an increasingly pronounced tendency to reduce them . Aggregate investment is thus headed downwards , and in 1958 is likely to be considerably lower than it was this year . At the same time our export surplus , which in the last few years constituted an important offset to domestic savings , has begun to shrink . For this there are many reasons : the expansion of imports has been lagging behind the steady increase of exports ; revenues from holdings abroad are catching up with new capital investment in foreign countries ; the United States Government 's foreign aid has been steadily declining . As a result , foreign countries are less and less in a position to find the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forced to take recourse to exchange controls and import restricDecember 21 , .1957 tions of all kinds to maintain their balance-of-payments equilibrium . Contrary to the opinion frequently encountered under such circumstances , it is immaterial that consumers ' expenditures have remained high . Under more or less normal conditions  --  such as those prevailing at the present time  --  consumers ' spending can be counted on to constitute a fairly stable proportion of disposable income . But for this spending to become a dynamic factor , causing upward or downward changes in general business conditions , there must be a shift in the proportion ; in other words , there must be an increase or a decrease in the share of disposable income devoted respectively to spending and saving . Not that such shifts do not occur , both in the long run ( slowly ) , and in the short run ( suddenly ) . Yet there is no indication at the present time that such a change is likely to affect the short-term economic prospects . From such scattered and obviously preliminary information as is available , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to borrow heavily ( i.e. to reduce their aggregate savings ) in order to ' finance purchases . Nor would it seem that Santa Claus this year is digging his hands deeper than usual into the consumers ' pockets . WHILE AN upward shift of consumers ' spending ( as a proportion of disposable income ) appears to be rather unlikely , there is at the present time a serious possibility of a downward shift . The fact that a very large share of current consumers ' spending is earmarked for durable goods undoubtedly represents a dangerous " built-in destabilizer " of the economy . Purchases of such goods ? as different from those of food , liquor , tobacco and the like  --  are by their nature postponable , and a feeling of waning job security , of uncertainty about the future , or merely an expectation of significantly lower prices , may easily reduce the aggregate outlays on houses , deep freezers , washing machines and TV sets , correspondingly increasing personal saving ( as a proportion of disposable income ) . IN THIS SETTING , there are three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Residential construction , which has been holding up remarkably well , from now on will be subject to two opposite pressures . As growing unemployment and the expectation of lower prices will tend to curb its expansion , or even to push it below present volume , so cheaper and easier mortgage money may well give it an important shot in the arm . This significant corner of our economic landscape calls for careful observation  --  although it can hardly be expected to offset by itself the deflationary pressures generated in the investment and export sectors of the economic system . 2 . Technological developments giving rise to important new products or forcing wholesale scrapping of existing facilities , may lead to a new burst of private investment . While the possibility of such developments can not be gainsaid , they would not seem to be very probable at this time . While science is undoubtedly making spectacular progress , most of what may become the commercial technology of tomorrow is still in the blueprint stage today . Neither the exploitation of atomic energy for peaceful uses , nor the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is likely to give rise to major capital outlays in the most immediate future . The powerful urge ( and ability ) of monopolistic , business first to amortize its vast investments undertaken since the end of the war will undoubtedly prove a serious deterrent to rapid 469 adoption of new equipment and new techniques for many years . 3 . Thus the only sector of the economy that could stimulate the waning energies of the " free enterprise system " and at least temporarily banish the ghost of a serious depression , is the government . The exact shape of the combined government budgets ( federal , state and local ) for the calendar year 1958 can not yet be foreseen . Yet no major increase in government spending seems to be in ' the offing . A considerable number of local bond issues were defeated at the polls last November ; municipal authorities complain about difficulties in securing funds they need , and total outlays on roads , schools , hospitals and the like are likely to remain in 1958 about what they were this year . While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be assumed , the possibilities of such an increase are narrowly limited by the nature of the program ; the increase , moreover , may well be offset by contraction of military spending in other directions . Under the circumstances , a tax reduction would be the only " shot in the arm " to be expected from Washington , yet tax cuts seem still to be anathema to Congress and the Administration alike . And in any case , even if cuts should come they would likely be too late to avert the slump . One thing is very clear : neither Keynesian economics nor any other imaginative principles are guiding those who are responsible for the conduct of our national affairs . Neither the growing excess capacity of our productive plant nor mount= ing unemployment suggests to our " leaders " the ' possibility of massive slum clearance in our cities , of wholesale revamping ' of our scandalous educational system or the opportunity of effectively aiding ( at last ! ) India and other backward countries in their desperate struggle against disease and starvation . The Republicans stick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , worshiping daily at the altar of the balanced budget ; the Democrats demagogically and recklessly advocate more spending for military purposes and accelerated preparation for war as the only protection against the gathering storm of depression . All pipe dreams about the welfare state are reserved for election years ; when it comes down to practical business , not insights and ideals but interests and expediencies run the show .                     