@@491357

Who Will be Drafted This Time ? By SAM STAVISKY U N the winter of 1949-50 , Maj. Gen. Lewis B. Hershey , Director of Selective Service , appeared before the House Armed Services Committee to plead for the extension of the peacetime draft , due to expire the following June . The war of nerves with Russia had simmered down to no more than lukewarm . The armed forces , on orders of President Truman , were reducing costs and manpower strength and the Army had n't asked for a single draftee in just about a year . A Massachusetts congressman had taken to the air to denounce the peacetime draft as " a step in the direction of Fascism . " Three Administration stalwarts , including the chairman of the committee holding the hearings , had publicly predicted the demise of the draft . Washington 's wiseacres opined that the draft must be ditched lest it prove a political albatross in the coming fall elections . Dignitaries of the Defense and State departments had already presented the Administration 's arguments when General Hershey was called on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over a hulking frame , squinting eyes peering through old-fashioned gold-framed glasses , a shock of reddish-tinted gray hair rising from a crew cut , General Hershey does n't look like a general  --  not even when he doffs his mufti and appears in uniform . He does n't talk like a general either . In characteristic homely phrases , General Hershey brought the global arguments for the draft down to township level . " The fireman on his chair in the engine house is not a glamorous figure . He looks like a load on the taxpayer 's purse , " Hershey said . " The same fireman , though , up on his ladder in the blaze is understood . And when , by his presence and timely arrival at the fire , he puts out with his hand extinguisher a blaze that might be a seven-or eight-alarm affair , he is most useful , if not most glamorous . " Such is General Hershey 's concept of the Selective Service System  --  a national fire department , with a network of volunteer firehouses in every community of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alarm goes off . This fire department , said General Hershey , is a form of cheap insurance . It cost $8,500,000 for minimum coverage in the peacetime year of fiscal 1950 . " But like insurance , " he warned Congress , " it must be bought before the benefits come due . " Last summer  --  six months after General Hershey 's plea for renewal of the insurance policy  --  the rush of events terrifyingly demonstrated the logic of his argument . On June twenty-fourth , American time  --  June twenty-fifth , Korean time  --  a fire broke out in Korea . On June twenty-seventh President Truman announced that the United States would take steps to isolate and extinguish the blaze . On June twenty-seventh and twenty-eighth Congress , after previous reluctance , voted to extend the draft for a year . Within a matter of hours the Selective Service System and its 40,000 firemen  --  all but 3600 of them unpaid volunteers  --  were alerted to meet the Army 's hurried call for draftees . By the end of 1950 Selective Service sent 210,000 draftees into the Army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for active service in the armed forces . Today , Selective Service is an integral part of our defense structure . The draft is the key to building up to the President 's announced goal of a 3,500,000- man military force . To attain this record peacetime level , at least 1,000,000 men will have to be drafted within the next twelve months . To maintain this force , more than 1,000,000 more men will have to be drafted each year thereafter . A Vast , but Unavailable , American Army AT first glance , it would appear to be relatively sim- ple to draw the required 1,000,000 draftees from our reservoir of 7,500,000 men nineteen through twenty-five , the age bracket covered by the present Selective Service Act . However , 2,700,000 World War II veterans in this age bracket have been exempted by law from draft liability . Another million fathers and men with dependents have been deferred by presidential order . About 865,000 non-veteran college students have been granted postponement of induction or deferment . A million men have already been examined and found to be physically , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deducted from the reservoir of potential draftees are some 300,000 young men who 've enlisted in the armed forces ; 275,000 who joined the National Guard , Reserves or ROTC ; 175,000 given occupational deferments ; 40,000 granted deferments as ministers or divinity students ; 10,000 conscientious objectors , and 5000 aliens . From the remaining 1,130,000 men classified as 1-A , Selective Service experience indicates that 30 to 35 per cent will be rejected as failing to meet armed-forces induction standards , so that out of the over-all reservoir of 7,500,000 , only between 750,000 and 800,000 draft-age men will finally be inducted into service under the present law and regulations . In addition , the pool is augmented every month by the influx of 87,000 youths-1,050,000 a year  --  reaching the draft age of nineteen . Half of these can be expected to be inducted into the military service . Draft Director Hershey believes that under the present restrictions , Selective Service can not pro- duce the requisite 1,000,000 draftees should Congress decide to fix July , 1951 , as the target date for the 3,500,000-man military level . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as was suggested at the Pentagon , before the Korean war took its disastrous turn , the present Selective Service Act might just be able to squeeze out the required number of draftees , Hershey says . In any case , Congress is under heavy pressure from the military high command to make certain , by amending the draft act , that there will he an adequate reservoir of men available not only to reach the 3,500,000-man goal but also to supply it thereafter . Two approaches to the problem have been suggested by General Hershey , one of which is likely to be the basis of any major change in the Selective Service Act : Plan No. 1 : Extend the 19-through-25 draft-age liability to include eighteen-year-olds . Extend draft service from the present twenty-one months to twenty-four  --  although it may be necessary to lengthen the period of service to thirty months . Continue to exempt World War II veterans and defer men with dependents . Limit student deferments to a bare minimum and stringently restrict other deferments . Liberalize the acceptability standards of the armed forces . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' consent . Permit eighteen-year-olds to enlist without parents ' consent . Draft all nineteen-year-olds , except the unfit and the cases of extreme hardship , and give them one year of basic military training . After the first basic year , 100,000 of the draftees , selected annually by nationwide tests , would be permitted to enter college , provided they enrolled in the Reserves for ' six years . The others who have served one year will be given the option of serving one more year in the armed forces and five years additional in the Reserves , orof serving three more years in active military service . General Hershey 's biggest headache is the problem of student deferments . Selective Service estimates that 865 , - 000 nonveteran male college students have been granted a postponement of induction for the current school year . The draft law specifically provides a postponement of induction for any college student until the end of the academic year . Present regulations also permit local boards to grant additional deferments to those students who , having used up their postponement of induction , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such deferment , the student must be in the upper half of his class scholastically . The nation 's educators do n't like the present arrangement , but ca n't agree among themselves as to the best solution to the problem . The larger universities are for the most part backing up a no-deferment plan proposed by Pres. James B. Conant , of Harvard . He would have all young men put in two years of military service at theke of eighteen or upon completion df high school . Those physically unable to serve in uniform would be placed in jobs in the national interest . The smaller colleges fear such a drastic step would mean the death knell for some of the schools for the lack of students . The heads of the smaller colleges feel that the Conant plan would force the armed services to undertake their own professional and scientific training programs , and that the big universities would get the lion 's share of such a program , as they did with the Army 's ASTP and the Navy 's V-12 programs during World War II . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the approach proposed by six Selective Service advisory committees  --  onagricultural and biological sciences , engineering , humanities , healing arts , physical sciences and social sciences  --  headed by Dr. M. H. Trytten , of the National Research Council . The Trytten plan provides a national screening test for all college candidates . Those passing the test would be eligible for deferment upon being accepted for enrollment by a college . The deferment would be continued annually , so long as the student maintained good grades , through undergraduate and graduate school . Upon completion of his school training , the deferred student would be required to give service to the country , in uniform or not , unless he gets into a job essential to the national health , safety or interest . Proponents of the Trytten plan point out that the proposal is flexible . The number of men made eligible for college deferments each year can be controlled through lowering or raising the passing score of the national screening test . State or college quotas would assure distribution of the deferred students among all schools . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hershey makes no bones about his stand . The American people are being sold a " lot of baloney " about deferment for scientific students , he recently declared in a typical hot statement of opinion . " Sure , we 've never had enough scientific people , " snorted the draft chief , " but we 've never had enough men over there ( in Korea fighting either ! " Hershey would just as soon not give deferments to students . Though he is willing to concede that a small number of scientific and professional students might be deferred he has serious doubts about the wisdom of selecting for deferment the men likely to be tomorrow 's leaders . He also feels that any student deferment raises the question of justice to the high-school graduates who can not afford to attend college . Last , fall , the local board at St. Matthews , South Carolina , . resigned in a body as a protest against deferments for the " rich " boys who could escape induction by enrolling in a university . Congress is certain to go into General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? the rejection rate for draftees sent to the Army for induction . Last summer the Army began turning back 58 per cent of the draftees from local boards . Hershey denounced the Army 's standards as unrealistic . He believes that no more than 20 to 25 per cent of the draftees ought to be rejected as unfit , that some useful duty can be found within the armed forces for the 4-F 's . " There are people who have bad feet , but they 've had great hearts , and they 've dragged those feet to all sorts of places , " cried out Hershey . He publicly raged over rejections for emotional instability . " I 've always felt that six out of ten were faking , " Hershey commented . " A lot of people have made a success in life by being unstable when they want to be . " The draft director writhed over the 15 per cent rejected for failing to pass the mental-qualification toot , measuring literacy and capacity to learn . Hershey sees this test as an invitation to evasion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down in taking this test , " growled the general . " I 'm just saying that they do n't try to get up . " Since Hershey 's blast , the Army 's over-all rejection rate has dropped down to the mid-30 's . Selective Service attributes the decline to a more reasonable attitude on the part of the Army . The Army credits the decrease to an improved caliber of draftees . Hershey-thinks that the rejection rate is still too high and unrealistic . General Hershey and other military-manpower officers will urge the Eighty-second Congress to end the recruiting rivalry among the Army , Navy , Air Force and Marine Corps . Only the Army started out to make use of the draft . The other services continued recruiting of volunteers . By law , the Army has been forced to accept via draft many men found unacceptable by the other services . Hershey would end voluntary enlistments by draft-age men and handle all recruiting through Selective Service  --  a suggestion frowned on by Navy , Air Force and Marine Corps , but heartily endorsed by the Army . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be drafted , the indications are that his purpose " in this was to stir up congressional thought on the entire question of broadening the draft . Congress is n't likely to permit the draft of World War II veterans , except in dire emergency . There 's also little sentiment in Congress for drafting fathers , except as a last resort . Hershey feels that dependency deferments , along with occupational deferments , will dwindle to minor problems as long as the top age for draft is kept down to the present limit of twenty-five . Hershey opposes including men between twenty-six and thirty-five . This group includes 10,000,000 men . But according to Selective Service estimates , only 170,000 of these men would be cleared for service under present standards . However , should military-manpower needs be raised above 3,500,000 , some , perhaps all , restrictions would have to be lifted . Congress also will have to decide whether or not it wants more special-requirements drafts  --  like the doctor-draft law  --  hurriedly passed after the war in Korea started . This act required the registration of doctors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ age of fifty . It has been initially used to induce voluntary enrollment into the military service by those physicians , dentists and veterinarians who were deferred in World War II so they could complete their education , and saw little or no service in uniform . Some manpower experts believe that special drafts would provide the quickest means for the armed forces to get highly skilled manpower when needed ? for example , electronic engineers . Hershey , opposing special drafts , feels the military can obtain , or train , the specialists it needs through the regular mass draft . The way Hershey sees it , the special draft is discriminatory legislation  --  mass draft is more democratic .. The democratic way of life and its preservation are by heritage and conviction the keystones of Lewis Blaine Hershey 's philosophy . The one-time Hoosier farm boy and schoolmaster is a small-d democrat  --  albeit a ruggedly individualistic Republican  --  who holds a deep respect for the " plain folks " who make up the communities of America . In fifteen years of planning and directing the nation 's Selective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to give the local boards the responsibility of determining which of their neighbors should serve in uniform , which on the home front . It 's an awesome responsibility . " It makes you feel like you 're playing God , " a local-board member wrote Selective Service Headquarters . Such responsibility , Hershey feels , belongs with the people and not with any hoard Of experts in a Washington ivory tower . He has fiercely fought hack against attacks on local-board autonomy . " The only reason we can defeat other people , " the draft director once told a congressional committee , " is that here the People have the authority to act , and the other people will get orders from some central authority . " The Director of Selective Service Passionately believes that the United States must keep its military strength firmly rooted in citizen soldiers to preserve its democratic traditions and institutions . The selectee 's period of military service is " a tax every man owes for the privilege of living in the greatest country on earth . " He believes the Korean-Chinese war  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ averted had the United States been Militarily strong . " No one knows whether strength would have prevented war , " he recently told a conference of businessmen , " hut it is time to realize that weakness does n't prevent it . " For his steadfast espousal of preParedness , General Hershey has been at various times denounced as militarist , marplot and warmonger by sundry Pacifists , politicians , " liberals , " and leftists . He shrugs off such criticism and Plunges ahead on his crusade . " Rather than war , 1 would have peace even at a Pistol point  --  with the other guy looking into the pistol , " Hershey told a convention of travel agents in Washington recently . That remark , made a few Years back , would have touched off a hysterical outburst by those who used to call the general a flag-waving jingo . Today , with the world under the ominous shadow of the hammer and sickle , the remark is generally taken for granted as sound advice . Hershey is ever ready to propound the gospel of preparedness and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without doubt the talk ingest top official of the Federal Government . He makes half a dozen speeches a week , and seldom turns down an invitation , no matter how small the audience . In a typical Week General Hershey addressed the Kick-off Luncheon of National Em-Ploy the Handicapped Week , the breakfast conference on Religion and World Food , the dinner meeting of the Personnel Management Committee , a luncheon of the Georgetown University Medical School Alumni , a luncheon of the Junior Chamber of Commerce and a session of the American Council on I Education . Equipped with a sharp wit , General Hershey can titillate or roil his listeners with equal facility . " Prospectives ! " the Selective Service chief declared , in beginning an address to a group of draft-age men , " Tonight I feel very close to you . " The remark drew a big guffaw . A few hours later Hershey 's brand of humor aroused indignation among the Army 's ranking recruiting officers . The Army had insisted that its mental-qualification test for draftees could n't be deliberately failed by would-be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flunk that test , " acidly retorted Hershey , " but I have more confidence in the American people . " Even on the air Hershey eschews script or notes . The Hoosier is a rambler who spices his talks with folksy stories and anecdotes suited to the audience . Often he leaves sentences hanging in mid-air and wheels off onto another thought . This he does by deliberation . He feels that what he has to Ray leaves a more lasting impact when he allows his hearers to use their imaginations to finish up his sentences . While rambling , Hershey periodically jabs or socks the audience with his key ideas . " When talking about critical occupations , " asserted Hershey recently , in a discussion of occupational deferments , " let 's not lose sight of the most critical occupation of them all  --  the fighting man . " Perhaps the most effective of the general 's platform weapons is the startling brevity of his speeches . He pulls to a halt well before the audience expects it , while the listeners are still hanging onto every word @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traveled with his GOP-campaigning dad . Somewhere along the Hoosier hustings , young Hershey heard ? and never forgot  --  the story told of Tom Watson , the South 's famed orator . After making his debut on the political platform , Watson asked a seasoned campaigner what he thought of his maiden speech . " Oh , it was pretty good , son , " replied the old-timer , " but you missed a couple of good chances to stop . " In the nation 's capital , where high-level officials too often seek to escape an unfavorable public reaction by speaking off the record , the man who runs the draft scorns these timorous tactics . Hershey 's reputation for sensational candor is such that when  --  because of the military situation in Korea  --  reporters were not admitted to his address last fall before the National Guard Association , a false rumor sprang up that the White House had clamped the lid on the general 's public utterances . Hershey has eagerly accepted challenges to debate ever since he was a skinny , redheaded schoolboy taking the affirmative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used to take on all corners , until he came to Washington and made an implacable foe of the late Sen. Ernest Lundeen , of Minnesota , by verbally thrashing the legislator on a nationwide air forum . Ever since , Hershey has tactfully avoided public debate with members of Congress . However , he encourages his staff aides to argue issues with him . Often Hershey will take the role of devil 's advocate in order to get all the points laid out on the table . When in a reminiscent mood , Hershey explains that his Love for argument stems from his original ambition to be a lawyer , not a soldier . He never lost his hankering for the legal bar in his nearly forty years in the armed forces , and for many years he practiced " guardhouse " law in courts-martial . Legend has it that he lost his first case as trial judge advocate ? prosecutor ? even though both defendants pleaded guilty . Even so , he soon became a much-sought-after counsel for defense . Even today he helps out an old friend or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conferred on this self-styled " frustrated lawyer " an honorary doetor-of-iaws degree . The seemingly tactless way in which he purposely arouses controversy on the emotional issues wrapped around the draft makes General Hershey a familiar national-headline name , but hardly a popular hero . As Mr. Draft , he is blamed by the public for the mistakes and abuses that crop up individually and locally . From time to time he is accused of being anti-Army , anti-Navy and anti-Air Force , antilabor and anti-industry , antiveteran and antifamily , antistudent and antiscientist . It all boils down to the fact that Hershey is prodraft and antideferment . Hershey does n't worry much about his popularity . He figures he 's bound to displease a lot of people , and that it 's a waste of time trying to mollify any one or several groups . " I 'm in the position of the sick woman who complained about her husband 's cooking , " the Hoosier once explained . " The husband told the wife not to worry about the food because she was going to die anyhow . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him , because the Hoosier general likes people . Washington officials who 've fought hardest and longest with Hershey over manpower policy universally are fond of " the old sonofagun . " Legislators who have fought the draft confess admiration for the champion of the draft . A group of World War II ex-servicemen who gathered around the general at a veterans ' convention  --  curious to meet the man they felt had sent them into the war  --  quickly became entranced with the general 's repartee , and wound up by asking for his autograph on their " Hershey bars " ( service stripes ) and draft cards . The Selective Service staff  --  clerks , elevator operators , as well as division chiefs  --  are devoted to The Boss . He will stop to chat with them in the corridors or in the lunchroom next door , where he lunches on cheese and gobs of ice cream . The general considers them all members of his team . He refused to accept an air-conditioning unit for his own office until the entire Selective Service building was similarly equipped . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ night and puts in several hours in his den . On the wall of the den , as a reminder that he keep his directives as clear and simple as possible , is the telegram sent him December 17 , 1941 , by A. M. ( King Tut ) Tuthill , Arizona draft director : JUST RECEIVED INSTRUCTIONS AS TO SCREENING ClltECENOEING EXAMS STOP MY GOD REPEAT General Hershey is the kind of family man who will turn down ' the opportunity to appear on a national-network program in order to attend the birthday of a grandchild . He and Mrs. Hershey  --  the former Ellen Dygert , his high-school sweetheart , with whom he eloped in 1917 ? live in a small English Village cottage in suburban Bethesda , Maryland . There the draft director enjoys raking leaves and exchanging back-yard banter with the neighbors . The Hersheys have four children , all married , Kathryn , Gilbert , George and Ellen Margaret . Both boys served with the armed forces in World War II . Gilbert , a marine lieutenant , also saw action in Korea . An expert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found at home , on any week end , baby-sitting for one or several of his six grandchildren . Lewis Blaine Hershey , son of a Swiss family which migrated to Pennsylvania in 1709 , was born on September 12 , 1893 , and raised in Steuben County , in the rolling lake country of Northeastern Indiana . At seven , he 'd lost both mother and grandmother , and spent a great deal of time with his father , part-time farmer and part-time politician . Young " Red " Hershey was a few days shy of seventeen when he began teaching grade school with the intention of earning tuition for law school . Meanwhile , he attended Tri-State College at Angola , the county seat , earning degrees in arts , sciences and pedagogy in three years . " Red " was only seventeen and a half , six months under the legal enlistment age , when he managed to enroll in the National Guard at Angola . According to local lore , yoling Hershey was a recruit who never missed drill night , no matter how foul the weather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in with muddy boots . Red explained he 'd trudged through six miles of sleet and muddy roads to get to the drill hall . " But you live on a farm and should have come on horseback , " scolded the officer . " Why , sir , " responded Hershey , " I would n't ever take out a horse on a night like this ! " Hershey 's guard company was mustered into service for the Mexican border clash in 1916 , and soon after for World War I , but never saw action . He decided to pursue the life of a professional soldier , rather than the law , while serving in France . He won a commission in the Regular Army and became an artillery officer . Although he lost the sight of his right eye in 1926 , when hit by a mallet while playing polo with his regimental team , Hershey made rapid progress . At the age of forty he became one of the youngest students at the War College . Two of his classmates were Omar N. Bradley and William F. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1936 , Major Hershey was assigned to Washington to be secretary and executive officer of the Joint Army and Navy Selective Service Committee . Ever since , General Hershey has been the man behind the draft . Although he has retained his Army status  --  curre ntly as a retired officer recalled to active duty  --  General Hershey is the independent head of an independent civilian agency reporting directly to President Truman . He draws the pay of a major general , which , with longevity , subsistence and rental allowance , amounts to $13,761 a year . Through all the years , in the Army and in Selective Service , General Hershey has unswervingly campaigned for the twin keystones of his philosophy : democracy and preparedness . To Hershey , the two creeds are inextricably interwoven . " A free society , " he says , " is not possible  --  and never has been possible  --  without men willing to fight to gain it , and having gained it , without men who are ready and willing to protect and keep it . " is a series of decisions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years later , I can see how my words took root . Ralph is an active member of the debating societies these days , still a little rough at the edges , but coming along handsomely , and last year he made the dean 's list . But that morning , as I rose for my next class , I felt barely confident enough to cock an eye at the robin and murmur , " Say a prayer , kid . " The robin must have known it would all work out , though , for he cocked an eye right back . I 'm not always that lucky . Sometimes a student 's difficulty goes all the way back to his early years in grammar school , especially in the field of English . That 's when the near impossibility of dragging such a boy up to the college level is enough to tear a teacher 's heart out . One experience I had threw me off balance quite a bit , though looking back on it now I can laugh . At myself . A big fellow who bad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ won battle honors not even marine sergeants often attain , was reduced to a jelly by the mere thought of writing a simple English theme . Illustrated grammars I gave him , private sessions after class , word-for-word revisions , nothing seemed to help . One of his better sentences sticks in my mind : " These here data was ratificated by the captain as not haven been pertainant to the platoon whom nobody had command during the engagement of . " They try , you see . Finally , after months of plowing through his pitiful prose without finding any signs of improvement , I called him in and explained , as gently as I could , that the stuff he wrote just was n't English . His face fell . He told me how hard he worked to make the grade . Five hours , sir , five full hours every week end just on the English theme . He even broke dates with his girl for my sake . His voice rose . His face began to work . Suddenly he roared , " Whaddaya mean it ai @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to belt me one , but instead he broke down and wept . You have no idea what it 's like to see a former marine sergeant weep . It unnerved me . " Well , it ai n't , that 's all , " I mumbled in confusion , and got the hell out of there . To Each generation of college men , most of whom are really not yet men , but only boys at manhood 's threshold , still looking back on the years that will not come again , there is an amusing and ingenious half-truth that comes as a delightful shock . It is that rollicking definition of education : " The indoctrination of the ignorant with the incomprehensible by the incompetent . " Discovery of it gives birth , unfortunately , to a rule by which even the more serious-minded students , on occasion , guide themselves and fritter away the golden years and gay . The                     