@@263486

In London there is a big difference of opinion between British and U.S. newsmen on how Prime Minister Churchill should deal with the press . Last week the difference broke out into the open at a London meeting of the International Press Institute . The viewpoint , and the complaint , of U.S. correspondents was bluntly stated by the New York Herald Tribune 's London correspondent , Joseph Newman , who for two years had been the Trib 's Moscow correspondent . Said Newman : " Ten Downing Street is perhaps as closed to the foreign press today as the Kremlin . Perhaps it is even more closed , because at least you can get a letter into the Kremlin , and if you word it properly you might at least get an answer . " Newman was barely back in his seat when the Yorkshire Post 's Editor William L. Andrews was on his feet with a reply that was also a statement of what Britons think should be the relations between the Prime Minister and reporters . Said Andrews : Churchill is surely not unfriendly or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just that " he believes it is not good that the government and the press should be hand in glove . " Although British editors and papers quickly spoke out to defend and explain Sir Winston 's attitude . U.S. correspondents stuck to their guns . They think that they should have the same access to information from No. 10 Downing Street that British correspondents-and all other foreign correspondents-have in their coverage of the White House . If they can not see Churchill at regular press conferences , then U.S. newsmen want regular contacts with someone who can speak for him , or at least supply background information on his thinking and planning . At times the British government officials have made an attempt to do so . But it invariably turns out these days that the officials have not seen Churchill and can not speak for him . At best they make the same " intelligent guesses " as to what he is up to that the correspondents can make on their own . <P> During World War II , Churchill frequently met with the press and maintained ' his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister , he continued the practice . But on Churchill 's reelection , the press office was shut down without explanation . Columbia Broadcasting System Correspondent Howard Smith wrote Churchill on behalf of U.S. correspondents , pointing out that in Washington there are regular presidential press conferences , while U.S. correspondents in London are still waiting for their first conference with the Prime Minister . Churchill answered that Smith should remind him soon again about the problem . When Churchill returned last winter from his trip to the U.S. , where he had held press conferences ( TIME , Jan. 12 ) , Smith wrote again , urging him to hold similar conferences in Britain . Churchill 's answer : no.                     