@@487559

THE MIXTURE OF SOPHISTRY AND WRATH which marked Mr. Truman 's denial that a cease-fire had been ordered in Korea increased the confusion and did an incalculable amount of harm on its own account . By this time the facts are relatively dear . An order that originated probably in General Ridgway 's office was transmitted to the commanders in the field . Although this order made it plain that hostilities were officially to go on until an armistice was signed , it was none the less a de facto cease-fire . It included such items as " avoid all casualties " ; " maintain present defensive positions " ; " avoid engaging the enemy unless he threatens our positions " ; " no offensive operations " , " no exposure of our own troops on features that would draw enemy fire . " It was the response to this command rather than any distortion of it which accounted for the anger and agitation displayed by Mr. Truman in his own denial that a ceasefire had been ordered and his denunciation of the press for issuing " false @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the wave of relief that swept both the ' battlefront and the country as a whole  --  not to mention our U. N. allies . He and his advisers know how hard it will be at the end of a thirty-day lull to start the fighting again if no armistice agreement has been reached . He knows , too , that a relaxation of tension in the Western world as a whole will multiply the difficulties already complicating the effort to construct an Atlantic defense system . But it is a question whether Mr. Truman 's insistence that the shooting must continue has had the effect he hoped . Reports from around this country and Europe indicate that people who had welcomed with enthusiasm the respite from killing felt as if they had been slapped in the face . ( - SENATOR TAFT HAS DENIED THAT HE MADE any " deal " with Governor Frank Lausche , a Democrat , in regard to the Ohio election last year , but Lausche could have done no more for Taft if the two men had had a signed and sealed contract of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be saddled with State Auditor Joseph T. Ferguson as the Democratic nominee against Taft . They wanted Murray T. Lincoln of the Ohio farm cooperatives , a man of stature and ability . But every time Lincoln was ready to announce his candidacy , some spokesman in the Lausche camp allowed it to be known that Lausche himself might want to run or that , in any case , he would not promise to pit his powerful machine against Ferguson 's personal machine in the Democratic primary . Lincoln finally decided not to run , and independent liberals and labor could never get Lausche 's pledge of support for anyone else . Having made it impossible for anyone but Ferguson to win the Democratic nomination , Lausche then pointedly refrained from supporting Ferguson against Taft . A " deal " ? Perhaps not . But Lausche , the Democrat , carried sundry areas in his later fight for reelection as governor that Taft , the Republican , carried in the Senatorial contest . The anti-Taft forces were stuck with a weak candidate denied support by the Democratic governor . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the governor of Ohio should be entitled to sue " Mr. Republican " in whatever court has jurisdiction over ungrateful politicians . UNDER THE CAPTION " SINISTER DOINGS AT the UN , " Craig Thompson has concocted an extravaganza for the readers of the Saturday Evening Post ( November 17 ) . According to Mr. Thompson , the great glass peace palace by the East River has been infiltrated by " a group of Communist wreckers , " who have succeeded in capturing control of the Staff Association numbering some 3,390 members . Published in the crackpot " fringe " press , the article could be dismissed as merely another manifestation of the mania which is a striking characteristic of these times . But it was not printed in The Cross and the Flag : it was published in the Saturday Evening Post . Ir is quite apparent that this was an article written with a purpose  --  to smear the 3,390 members of the Secretariat . No effort was made to verify any of the facts with officers of the Staff Association . Yet the article contains information , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personnel records . The inference arises , therefore , that some administrative officials must have talked with Mr. Thompson and supplied him with information . More disturbing still is the silence which the administration has maintained since the Port article appeared . It is known that the Staff Association formally asked Mr Lie to join with it in making a public statement that might offset the damaging effect of the attack . But no statement has been issued . In Paris Mr. Lie 's executive assistant told a representative of The Nation that the administration could not comment on the article at present but that the matter was being " carefully studied " by Mr. Lie , who would make a full statement in due course . It is clearly Mr. Lie 's responsibility to defend the staff against such irresponsible charges . Either the charges are true , in which case the Secretary General must accept responsibility ; or they are not true , in which case he should speak out . Mr. Lie 's failure to speak out is the more remarkable in view of his past record as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , therefore , is this : from whom is Mr. Lie taking advice these days and why ? THE OFFICE OF CIVIL DEFENSE IN NEW YORK City nearly came a cropper recently When it attempted to apply its own litmus test to the town 's fourth estate . All 500 I newspapermen were required to sign a loyalty oath before receiving a " press card " from the Civil Defense . The card in effect superseded the time-honored press card issued by the Police Department ; without it a reporter could not cover a Civil Defense demonstration . " We are complying in full , " intoned the New York Times . Most of the other publishers went along . But Ted Thackery of the Daily Compass let loose a blast at the absurd " **27;1239;TOOLONG " highhandedness of the oath and also pointed out that the Office of Civil Defense had dictated conditions of work . The real rub came , however , when the New York Post suggested that the 0 . C. D. had unwittingly recruited the entire press corps . With this membership went certain legal responsibilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while covering a Civil Defense story the agencies would clearly be responsible . And there were other far-reaching consequences . Overnight the 0 . C. D. reconsidered . Defense Director Arthur W. Wallander assured The Nation : " The oath is an entirely voluntary thing ... it is not obligatory , and we are not trying to lay down conditions of employment . Above all , we do n't want to interfere with the freedom of the press . " It is an unfortunate commentary on the whole affair that the real issue  --  intimidation through the witch-hunting device of a loyalty oath  --  was resolved not by the united resistance of the newspaper industry to such harassment but by 0 . C. D. 's legalistic fear of lability for bodily injury . TWO ASPECTS OF THE CONTROVERSIAL personality of General Douglas MacArthur have never been questioned  --  his courage and his egotism . In politics as on the field of battle , the General likes to draw the fire of the enemy and to let the sun shine on his gold braid . Not content with having sassed his superiors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chief of Intelligence to take a lusty poke at a formidable array of individuals and institutions some of which have been numbered among his admirers . By bestowing his personal imprimatur on Major General Charles A. Willoughby 's preposterous attack on the American press , with pats on the back for the Hearst and Scripps-Howard chains , General MacArthur has again proved that he is both vain and valorous . General Willoughby 's denunciation of such journalists as Drew Pearson , Hal Boyle , Homer Bigart , Joseph Alsop , and Hanson W. Baldwin as " careless chroniclers , " " ragpickers of modern literature , " " inaccurate , biased , prejudiced , petulant , " and guilty of " calculated deception , " indicated surprisingly defective political intelligence . But it must be admitted that he and his chief never count the odds . To take on the New York Herald Tribune ( with a chivalrous exception noted for " the beauteous Marguerite Higgins " ) , Time , Newsweek , the Saturday Evening Post , Reader 's Digest , U. S. News and World Report , and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is clearly a manifestation of a form of madness generally identified as courage . ONE CAN BE GRATEFUL TO GENERAL Willoughby , however , for clearing up a major mystery of the Korean war . MacArthur 's famous reference to " getting the boys home by Christmas , " according to his Intelligence Chief , was not a careless but a clever instance of " psychological warfare " devised in Washington to convince the Chinese of our pacific intentions . After reading Edmond Taylor 's " Richer by Asia , " we have always been wary of the rigmarole that carries the tag " psychological warfare . " It is likely to be more dangerous to the deceiver than to the deceived , especially when it is directed by persons lacking self-discipline and objectivity . Frankly we can see no need for the Psychological Warfare Strategy Board , but if such an agency must exist , it might better be directed by Gordon Gray , who recently resigned from the chairmanship to return to the University of North Carolina , than by his successor , Dr. Raymond B. Allen , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the witch hunt at the University of Washington in 1949 that brought disgrace to the institution and set off as a chain-reaction the loyalty-oath controversy at the University of California , several legislative investigations of universities and colleges , and enactment of the Feinberg law in New York . By yielding to the artificial panic created by the Canwell committee in Washington , Dr. Allen demonstrated not only a lack of political insight but a susceptibility to delusion that hardly qualifies him for his new assignment . THE FINANCIAL REPORT FOR 1950 OF THE Anglo-Iranian Oil Company helps to explain the nationalization of the company 's properties in 1951 . For Anglo-Iranian , 1950 was a banner year . Its trading profit was nearly $228,000,000 ? more than double that for 1949 ? while net earnings , after royalties and British taxes , amounted to $92,700,000 compared with $51 , - 500,000 the previous year . These brilliant results were due to increased sales at higher prices unaccompanied by any appreciable rise in production costs . Royalties paid to the Iranian government in 1950 total just under $45 , - 000,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half the company 's profits . Moreover , the British government collected from the company in taxes no less than $140,000,000 in addition to dividends on its large stockholding . It is not surprising , therefore , that Iranians believed they were getting something less than a fair share of their oil wealth . True , as Sir William Fraser , the Anglo-Iranian chairman , points out in his annual report , the Iranian government would have had its royalty income doubled in 1950 had the supplemental agreement negotiated with the company in 1950 been ratified ; and this year it would have received about $140,000,000 . Since it is highly improbable that the nationalized properties will ever be able to earn sums of this order except in partnership with some international oil concern , there is no doubt that from a business point of view the Iranian government has made a colossal blunder . The pity is that the hard-headed Scots who manage the company failed to realize that the problem was not one that could be solved on a purely business basis . Had they made a greater effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychology of Asian nationalism , their oil wells might still be flowing to the mutual benefit of Iran , the company , and the world . Use a Broom , Mr. Truman ! O NE of Mr. Truman 's weaknesses as President is his reluctance to recognize that same criticisms of his Administration may be grounded in fact . Demonstrated by his slowness in responding to charges of widespread corruption among his subordinates , this reluctance may cost the Democratic Party the 1952 election . The President barely escaped another mink-coat scandal in his official family by firing T. Lamar Caudle as Assistant Attorney General just before Caudle 's nauseous private business affairs were ventilated by the King subcommittee investigating tax frauds and fixes . He branded the Fulbright investigation of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation as " asinine " until so much petty graft and favoritism were exposed that he was compelled to reorganize the agency and oust all its directors . He defended William M. Boyle 's " integrity " and fine sense of honor before firing him from the chairmanship of the Democratic National Committee when Boyle 's operations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unwilling to admit that anything serious was wrong with the Bureau of Internal Revenue until publication of the unsavory facts forced him to recognize that field branches , if not the top administration in Washington , were honeycombed with incompetence and crookedness . Unfortunately , those who made the charges against the President 's subordinates have been right . Mr. Truman 's famous loyalty to his friends and cronies  --  his toleration of Vaughan 's deep freezers , Wallace Graham 's commodity-market speculation , and the " free-loading " of other White House characters at Florida luxury hotels  --  apparently gave sundry lesser officials the idea they could get away with anything short of rape and murder . When did Mr. Truman ever express indignation at the thieves and election hoodlums who broke into a vault in Kansas City , Missouri  --  when the town was staked out by police and Secret Service operators because the President was there  --  and stole the ballots under investigation , or alleged investigation , by federal authorities ? Perhaps if he had expressed some indignation T. Lamar Caudle , who at the moment was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would not have had to tell the King committee in 1951 that he " just could n't remember " exactly what he had done , if anything , to push the inquiry and find and punish the thieves . If the President had demanded a higher standard of performance from J. Howard McGrath , and his predecessor Tom Clark , the Justice Department 's tax division might never have been headed by Caudle . The Attorney General goes around making speeches attacking Supreme Court decisions holding that Communists , like other people , are protected by constitutional guaranties against excessive or unreasonable bail . That is an easier and more agreeable task than to jack-up a department conspicuous for indolence , complacency , low morale , and  --  it now appears  --  granting favors to friends in tax trouble . There is something revolting in the idea that " corruption " could become a serious campaign issue when the basic considerations of the 1952 Presidential and Congressional elections are the problem of war or peace , America 's relations with the world , the survival of democratic liberalism . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Democrats in Teapot Dome days , but Teapot Dome , in a sense , was remote from the people . Taxes are not . The man who sweats to earn his taxes , file an honest return , and pay his money can become exceedingly angry to learn that rich crooks with the proper political connections can thumb their nose at the tax laws and obtain protection if they are caught . Belatedly the President is getting rid of officials who embarrass him . Belatedly the new chairman of the Democratic National Committee is announcing his devotion to the Cleveland doctrine that public office is a public trust . But Republicans would never have been handed " corruption " and the " big fix " as campaign issues if Mr. Truman had long ago given his full support to Democratic members of Congress who started the job , of exposure and cleaning up .                     