@@488233

THE BEEP-BEEP of Sputnik came through the radio receivers of the world as no surprise to those who have been following the announced satellite plans here and abroad . On several occasions in the past year or two , the writer predicted , in casual fashion , that the Russian satellite would be the first to be launched . HARLOW SHAPLEY , the distinguished American astronomer , was director of the Harvard Observatory from 1921-1952 . He ' has served as president of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences ( 1939-1944 ) and as president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science ( 1947 ) . 276 Others must have done the same . There were obvious reasons for this ' easy prophecy : the well-publicized prestige-contest between the major branches of the United States armed services ; the plans for equipping our satellites with ' scientific instruments that had to be specially , designed ; and our announced plan to send up a series of trial satellites before we made the serious effort to launch useful and enduring moons later this winter . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Americans in the Soviet achievement . The first was the ' reported size and weight of Sputnik ; second , the psychological effect the launching seems to have had on world chancelleries . This effect has , prob ably been over-emphasized in press and radio ; in any case , it is likely to be ' decreased by our own rocket and satellite accomplishments of the next few months . , Quite to be expected , of course , was the rather joyous way in which opportunistic politicians used the Soviet success to stimulate suspicion and anxiety in the mass-communications media . For a day or two after the launching on October 4 , headlines and statements carried the congratulations of official and unofficial America  --  expressions of same envy and amazement , to be sure , but also conveying a real feeling of sportsmanship . Then came the hints of spies , I The NATION secret codes at work , the imputations of evil intent . It is rather depressing ' that the significance of an advance in technology so important to all of us should be so needlessly distorted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is con-sidered American because of the Wright brothers , or evolution British because of Charles Darwin . The new moonlet passes through the zeniths of every capital of the world , and currently , in fact , it is probably more serviceable to American scientists than to the Russians themselves . and F , in which the dominant molecules of oxygen and nitrogen are ionized ( electrified ) by radiation , chiefly from the sun . The degree of this ionization varies at different atmospheric levels and some of the layers vary in effectiveness with the time of ' day and with the fluctuating activities on the sun 's hot gaseous surface . We have been investigating the ionosphere for many years in connection with the study of radio-wave transmission and reflection . One center for such studies is at the National Bureau of Standards at Boulder , Colorado ; substations are in Virginia , Alaska and elsewhere . The bureau currently supervises and coordinates the ionospheric work in more than forty countries . Persistent and intense study of the ionosphere is included among the problems of the International Geophysical Year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work of the scientists of some sixty nations in a dozen scientific fields . The throwing of Sputnik into an orbit around the earth is obviously a very welcome contribution ' to this mass attack on the nature , and variations , of the ionosphere . The beep-beeps and the later continuous buzzing of the moonlet originate far beyond the D and E ionospheric layers and must transit as best they can the regions that are most significant in terrestial radio transmission . For several weeks or months before our own satellites are aloft , . we shall now have the opportunity of accumulating valuable observations . ' On the basis of what we learn from this trial run , we can improve , if necessary , our instrumentation and be better equipped to make use of those satellites , to be launched by the United States and the Soviet Union , which will carry not simply a beep-beeper , but instruments that will report on cosmic rays , the ultra-violet spectrum of the sun , the frequency of interplanetary meteors , the inner structure of the earth and the like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denser atmosphere and disintegrate , we shall enlarge our knowledge of the density gradients in the earth 's atmosphere  --  a matter of which we already know much from the study of shooting stars , from sampling by rockets and balloons , and from theory . A SCORE of scientific and technical events , equaling in importance to mankind the launching of space ships , could be recounted , some of which had immediate effects on man and his problems , and others which only gradually came to be recognized as revolutionary in their implications . Near the top of this list I would put hybrid corn , which has provided better food and more of it for millions of men , cows and pigs . This was an American invention , but it now belongs to and serves the whole world . Even more significant of course , in a social sense , is the fission and fusion of the atom  --  discoveries which both serve and threaten everyone . The continuity of our civilization , its growth or decay , depends on our use of energy-releasing atoms . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did we realize , when in 1905 Einstein threw into our intellectual orbits the short equation connecting ergs , grams and the velocity of light , that science had altered the destiny of human culture . The Sputniks do not apptoach in significance this Swiss-German contribution to the world 's practical knowledge , Atomic energy and artificial moons are international both in present ownership and in discovery . Einstein built on . the work of Italian , German and Russian scholars ; 277 Japanese , Danish , Italian , German , American , English ' and Russian scientists were all involved in the technical birth and infant care of the transmuted atoms ; the Soviet satellite engineers had available the detailed plans of our own unlaunched MOUSE satellite , the blueprints of which were appropriately published in popular and technical magazines . Indeed , most great scientific advances are international in ' origin . Dr. Shull , in hybridizing corn , had before him the work on genetics by Mendel and hundreds of subsequent experimenters . Consider also the international growth and human worth of the chemical industries initiated by WW1ler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Einstein field equations of gravitation by the Belgian Lemaitre , the Russian Friedmann and the Princefonian Robertson , from which we deduce the expanding universe ; and the assault by Russian , English and American scientists on the mystery of the origin of life  --  an international investigation that . may change the bases of both philosophy and religion . All these are among the thoughts and acts of men for Man . They have ignored national boundaries . They make it rather absurd to care deeply whether the first artificial moon went aloft from Northern Russia or Southern Florida . Once it is on the way , it can best be tagged as the first of many rich fruits of the now running International Geophysical Year . 2 . RUDE AWAKENING : a British View . . by Patrick O'Donovan AMERICANS belieVe that they can do anything , if once they set their hearts and hands to it . There is nothing they believe in more strongly . ' It is upon this conviction that they display frequent and unconvincing private apologies to the effect that they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in policy and negotiation . The American faith in the omnicompetence and pre-eminence of their skills and capacities lies closer to the surface and is more consciously felt even than the Englishman 's firm faith in his own inherited superiority in the arts of government . It is this faith which has been affronted by the Russian satellite achievement and which is now crying out with a steady growth of urgency and hunger for reassurance . At first it seemed that the Americans would take it easily enough . Some were almost pleased in that speCial place where they keep their science fiction . One firm rechristened its line of space helmets as Sputnik Hats : A disc jockey occupied a whole hour with tunes that revolved round the moon . But gradually it became evident that the satellite was a major achievement whose implications stirred up the sediment of the stale post-war fears and insecurity , which PATRICK O'DONOVAN is the Washington correspondent of the London Observer . all but proved a Russian superiority in a ' line of development on which the survival of the American Union and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond any doubt that America had a peer and a rival where once/she had considered herself alone . The President , who combines within his person most of the ideal and actual qualities that Americans instinctively recognize as typically American , speaking to and for the average American , at first congratulated the Russians . He suggested that the American satellite program was of a different kind London Observei ? " On the other hand , I can not foresee the time when our people will be able to travel to a planet like , say , China . " from the Russian one and that it could have been hastened only to the detriment of , scientific goals and military progress . He carefully denied that the ' American program was ' connected with defense developments and denied that there was any reason for increased concern over the security of the nation . It was a curiously uncertain , even fumbling , apologia . So far from reassuring people , it seemed indirectly to have put into words the deepest popular fears . Nor have the promises that the Americans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good measure and spinning for democracy round the world by the end of the year , made much difference . The central inescapable pain remains and grows . And as strongly as any electorate can feel something that does not directly affect them , the Americans now feel and resent what they sense is a diminution in their status . It is not that the Americans are a particularly arrogant people . The thing came as a shocking and shaking surprise . There have been plenty of journalists , scientists and even politicians who have warned that the Russians were catching up and were even superior in some lines of research . It was the sort of warning that you often agreed with , yet seldom believed . The idea that a totalitarian state , bending its efforts to a major research project , could outstrip the efforts of a rich democracy seemed in the end impossible to ' entertain . 