@@494731

NATO 's Future The December 15 session of the NATO ministerial council , immediately preceding the Western Summit meeting in Paris , comes at a time of crisis for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . But that will be no novelty , for NATO has been in a crisis virtually from its very inception . This crisis is a result of the contradiction between its declared strategy of local resistance with tactical atomic and conventional weapons against the Soviet army , on the one hand , and the actual military strategy of all-out nuclear deterrence on the part of its most powerful members , on the other . Official declarations of NATO strategy have been implausible in view of the actual military strategy pursued by the United States and Great Britain . It is only in terms of the " plate glass " or " trip wire " strategy that NATO makes military sense . But even this warning function of NATO is bound to decrease with the increasing mechanization of the all-out nuclear deterrent which puts a premium upon total surprise . This congenital crisis of NATO @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the international environment since its establishment io years ago and to which NATO thus far has been unable to adapt itself . Ten years ago , Western Europe was actually threatened by the Red Army , and only the United States was able to protect the nations of Western Europe against this threat through its monopoly of nuclear weapons . The economic weakness of the nations of Western Europe , together with the strength of the Communist parties in some of these nations , then conjured up the acute danger of Communist conquest from within , and only American economic support could stave it off . These factors were the main reason and justification for the establishment of the North Atlantic Alliance . NATO gave the nations of Western Europe the psychological assurance that the United States was underwriting their national integrity and was capable of making good its pledge . The situation with regard to these factors is fundamentally different today . While it would be an illusion to assume that the Soviet military threat has disappeared or even decreased , its nature has certainly changed from a local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In Budapest last week , Premier Khrushchev boasted , " We have stockpiled such a quantity of rockets , so many atomic and hydrogen warheads that if attacked we shall be able to raze to the ground all our potential enemies . " ) Furthermore , o this persistent military threat has been added an intangible one , which is much more dangerous for being THE NEW REPUBLIC intangible . This is the great , unquestioned success the Soviet Union has had in the economic and technological fields and which it intends to use for the purpose of communizing the world by peaceful means . On the military plane , the American predominance of nuclear weapons has been replaced by nuclear parity , and this unstable " balance of terror " radically changes the nature of the protection which the United States can provide its European allies . More particularly , American protection can no longer be regarded as completely automatic , or even plausible , if such protection would entail the risk of the destruction of the protector and of all of Western civilization . Furthermore , while a decade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations of Western Europe not only an asset but an indispensable condition for national survival , it must now appear to these nations as a mixed blessing , if not a liability . For if there is a chance for a nation of Western Europe to escape nuclear destruction in a war between the United States and the Soviet Union , it will certainly not be enhanced by being allied with the United States and having American bases on its soil . The community of military interests between the United States and the nations of Western Europe is bound to become still further weakened by the foreseeable developments in military technology . On the one hand , the development of intercontinental ballistic missiles is likely to decrease drastically , if not eliminate , the American need for overseas bases . On the other hand , if the present trend is not reversed , within a few years time a number of European nations , aside from Great Britain , will possess nuclear weapons which will replace in good measure reliance upon the US nuclear deterrent . Little needs to be said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the North Atlantic Alliance io years ago : the economic weakness of the nations of Western Europe . That weakness has been replaced by very considerable strength . Common institutions are on the way toward mobilizing the enormous economic potential of Western Europe . In consequence , the economic dependence of Western Europe on the United States is in the process of disappearing . These changes in the underlying factors bring into question the very conception of NATO as a military alliance seeking to defend Western Europe on the ground . NATO has never been able to do that and will never be able to do it in the future , constituted as it is today . This inability is a result of its having been conceived as nothing more than a military alliance . Today , however , the total challenge which the Soviet Union has flung in the face of the Western World , the challenge which is adequately expressed in Khrushchev 's promise to bury us , all of us in the Western World , requires more than a mere military alliance . It requires the marshalling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Western World ; for only thus can the Western World cope with a threat which is not a threat of one nation against another but of one type of civilization against another type of civilization . Being all members of the one civilization which is supposed to be buried by the other , since , in other words , we are promised a common future in a common grave , we ought to be able to forestall that possibility by providing , as it were , for a common life and a common revival of our common civilization . Here seems to lie the great future task for NATO . And by performing this task , it will also provide the political , economic , and moral foundation for the common military effort for which it was originally founded and which it has been unable to undertake . Hand-to-Mouth Planning Rep. Richard Bolling 's special subcommittee of the Joint Economic Committee has completed its two-week inquiry line deleted Soviet economies . The hearings have excelled in the calibre of the witnesses called , the objectivity of their reports and testimony , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an assignment was undertaken at all . They did not get the press attention they deserved , but they have proved beyond any reasonable doubt that rates of Soviet economic growth do pose a challenge to the United States and that this country can not meet that challenge through any blind increase in gross national product without regard to how the product is allocated . Over and over again the witnesses returned to this conclusion . " We must look beyond relative levels of output and rates of growth to the question of how effectively the output is enlisted to serve the national interest . National power clearly does not rest on total output but on the efficiency and consistency with which a nation is able to use its output to advance its policy objectives . " - Hans Heymann , Jr. , Economist for the Rand Corporation , " There is a big difference between engaging in a ' gross national product ' race and promoting a rate of steady economic growth which would permit meeting the needs of national security and , at the same time , enable de-sirable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic and social objectives . Such a rate of growth . . . would be less than the current or prospective rate of Soviet growth , but higher than the rate of growth of the US economy in recent years . " - Gerhard Colm , Chairman of the National Planning Association , " The real lesson of your panelists ' papers is that there is nothing in the structure or growth rates of the two economies that will automatically determine the outDECEMBER 14 , 1959 come of this test . The answer lies in whether our political leadership mobilizes the evidently ample resources that lie to hand ? resources of will , of skill , of talent , of commitment to the American heritage , as well as goods and services ? to do the job . " ? W. W. Rostow , Massachusetts Institute of Technology . Yet ours is an age in which things must be planned ahead , space exploration being only the most dramatic example of this . Ideas on today 's drawing boards , not just in technology but also in politics and sociology , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will never become reality until years after they are on drawing boards . And this is as true of government activity as it is of the projects of the AEC . It has long been apparent , for example , that the federal budget exercises what amounts to a decisive influence on the quality and quantity of the national economy . Yet among all the enormous organizations which shape the economy these days , the federal government , the largest of all , is probably the only one which lives on a hand-to-mouth basis , with practically no long-range planning . If General Electric and General Motors and Dupont are spending large amounts of time , thought and money on planning their output 5 and io years from now , why , then , should not the federal government be doing the same ? Leon Keyserling has offered one approach in his concept of the " prosperity budget , " but why there are so few who are calling on the federal government and the nation as a whole to plan ahead is an interesting question . Proving Our Intentions Fortunately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his mission to dispel the " great deal of doubt remaining in the minds of many people , and including our friends , as to America 's real sincerity in pursuit of peace " when circumstances are most favorable . The President , as all his hosts will see , now radiates determination to go to any reasonable length to exchange the arms race for a policy of arms reduction and control . And the opportunity to prove our good intentions is right at hand . After a year , the United States , the Soviet and British negotiators for a nuclear test ban are close to agreement at Geneva . And the io-nation disarmament conference scheduled to meet there in 60-90 days will provide a chance to advance beyond the first step of a test ban into broader areas of arms reduction . A change of attitude in Washington as well as Moscow is responsible for the improved outlook in Geneva . Moving from months of refusing even to discuss new data concerning detection of underground tests that were barring agreement on inspection of suspected violations , Soviet representative Tsarapkin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the negotiators . The President , on his part , has apparently made up his mind to reject the advice of those who oppose ending tests without infallible inspection techniques to supervise the ban . In a letter to Sen. Hubert Humphrey on November 17 , Mr. Eisenhower wrote : " . . The best and most carefully elaborated disarmament agreements are likely to carry with them some risks , at least theoretically , of evasion . But one must ponder , in reaching decisions on the very complex and difficult subject of arms control , the enormous risks entailed if reasonable steps are not taken to curb the international competition in armaments and to move effectively in the direction of disarmament . " There are signs also that having learned there are risks in failing to act , the President is beginning to understand the need for preparation within government for the next steps ahead toward disarmament . On four occasions during the last session of Congress , Senator Humphrey , with no help from the Administration , failed to get approval of a $400,000 appropriation for disarmament studies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wish the State Department intends to reverse itself and support the move . " Although it is belated , " Senator Humphrey says , " it is encouraging that President Eisenhower has begun to see that goals , in order to be translated into specific steps , demand preparation , study and even funds . " The President , however , presides over a divided house . The Atomic Energy Commission and the Defense Department still oppose a test ban although most of their opposition is now confined to the banning of falloutless underground tests along with tests in the atmosphere and outer space . Underground experiments are necessary , these experts claim , to develop new and better nuclear weapons and to make sure the existing stockpile is in workable condition . And besides , they say , we could never be sure that the Russians were not testing secretly because small underground explosions are so easy to conceal . Bolstered by the apparent willingness of the Russians to cooperate in seeking improved means of inspection , State Department experts who share the President 's desire for a comprehensive ban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when such a treaty comes to Congress for ratification . The best available information , they say , is that there are no known or planned weapons systems requiring further nuclear tests . ( Some scientists insist that the US has gone as far as theoretical limits permit in improving nuclear weapons . ) Furthermore , intelligence estimates indicate that during previous test-for-test series conducted by the US and the USSR , each time the Russians have further closed the gap between us ? a gap which Dr. Hans Bethe told the Senate Disarmament Subcommittee last year was substantially in favor of the US in number , quality , design , variety and sophistication of nuclear and thermonuclear weapons . Continued testing , they reason , would imperil the US lead . To resume testing , the State Department argument concludes , would hurt the United States diplomatically far beyond the benefits that might accrue from improved weapons ; and a comprehensive test ban treaty would provide a much-needed impetus to reconventionalize our defenses . Senator Humphrey adds other arguments : " . . Less than a total ban . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Kingdom and the Soviet Union to continue testing , but it would also allow other countries , such as Communist China and France and many others to become nuclear powers . Furthermore , if all our testing were done underground , I think this could result in an increase rather than a reduction of world tension . With all countries burrowing down into the ground to test their weapons each would have less knowledge of what the other was doing , thereby increasing suspicion and distrust . " It has taken two years of serious discussion to come this close to a bomb-test-ban agreement , for one reason because the US was frequently behind with its technical homework . To shorten the time lag in more advanced stages of disarmament ? such as cessation of nuclear weapons production , control of missiles and bombers , and creation of a worldwide system for prevention of surprise attack ? we should now , as Dr. James Killian recently urged , be developing " an arms limitation technology of the magnitude of creativity and advanced thinking that went into military technology . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , because it 's the last of its kind you will see for a long time if the Republicans get in . " So said President Truman in 1952 upon dedicating the Hungry Horse federal dam in Montana across the Flathead River , a tributary of the Columbia . Recently the Bufeau of Reclamation , which built the dam , disclosed that its gross earnings for power have returned $16,730 , - 000 , that it has saved some $3.5 million in flood damage downstream ? although it gets no credit for such savings ? and that it will have returned its entire cost of construction to the Treasury well before the 50-year payout period . But this statement did not disclose what is by far the greatest value of Hungry Horse , and its greatest return in benefits . It was carefully built as an integral part of Columbia Basin total development , which the Eisenhower Administration promptly abandoned in favor of giving away such remaining great dam sites as Hells Canyon . For in addition to its own value as a powergenerator , Hungry Horse has added so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in effect , federal taxpayers and public and private power interests of the Southwest have got almost the equivalent of four Hungry Horses , for the price of one . This is because it smooths out the flow of the river , thus increasing the capacity of all downstream dams to generate " prime " power , the most useful kind available most of the time , rather than intermittent , low-value " dump " power , or none at all . A Resources for the Future study shows that Hungry Horse , whose own capacity is 212,000 kilowatts , is responsible for adding no less than 628,000 Kw to the prime-power capacity of the downstream dams . Of this Montana Power Company got the benefit of 90,000 ; Washington Water Power Company 5o,000 ; West Kootenay Power and Light Company of British Columbia 70,000 , and two Public Utility Districts in Washington state , 30,000 together . But the big beneficiary was the federal taxpayer , since Hungry Horse operation has added an effective total of 388,000 prime kilowatts to the big federal dams on the Columbia , including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off , Hungry Horse was actually an 840,000 Kw installation . Such figures offer the strongest possible argument for the unified development of our great river basins . And they offer one possible reason for Interior Secretary Fred Seaton 's announcement ? made almost sotto voce at one of his infrequent press conferences ? that the Administration at long last will abandon its policy of no new starts on federal power projects , and will actually recommend a few in its budget for the forthcoming fiscal year . They ? and possibly the impending Presidential election ? may bring the drought foretold so prophetically by Harry Truman to a grudging close . But what it has already cost in foregone national development that can now never be regained , the case of Hungry Horse offers sad but convincing evidence . DECEMBER 14 , 1959 Arterial Sclerosis How quickly in the American mythos the big bad wolf becomes Big Daddy when the occasion arises . A cherished myth of US business is that federal aid is bad , will undermine and enervate you , and invariably leads to nationalization or , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Denver the heads of the nation 's biggest railroads joined with the heads of the nation 's biggest cities to demand federal aid on a huge scale , to solve what is perhaps the most formidable problem of the growth-tortured cities . That is the future of mass transportation , now being done to death by the individual auto . Railroads have long been operating their commuter services at a loss . These have now been greatly cut down and in some instances abandoned , yet literally millions of people in the areas of mass population still depend upon commutation to get back and forth to the daily job . So the heads of billion-dollar railroads are talking like New Dealers . President A. E. Perlman of the New York Central called the resultant situation " arterial sclerosis " which threatens the very life of our urban communities . And Chairman James M. Symes of the Pennsylvania Railroad , when asked if federal aid might not portend federal control or even nationalization , snorted , " That 's a lot of baloney ! The airlines have been subsidized from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayor Richardson Dilworth of Philadelphia said multiplied billions of dollars being spent on freeways for autoists will never solve the problem and will , indeed , make things more chaotic as people and autos pile up . By 1980 , he said , the metropolitan areas will have 80 percent of the nation 's people , as against 66 percent now . Since World War II , 90 percent of all population growth has been urban . It would take $35 billion to build even the minimum highway web needed in the East , he said ; but for one-tenth that sum , mass transportation facilities ? including expanded rail commuter facilities ? could handle io times as many people as individual autos ever could . Thus adjured , the National Congress of the American Municipal Association passed with no dissents a resolution calling for a program of federal aid and local cooperation to meet the impending traffic snarl of 1980 . That is n't the only resort to federal aid the assembled mayors and legislators of most of the nation 's cities are eager to make , however . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ federal aid in the fields of control of pollution of both air and water , civil defense , public housing and urban renewal ? both of which they asked Congress to investigate ? and hospital and health benefits . They rang the welkin with one protest ? against the reported federal plan to stretch out building the $25 billion , 41,000-mile interstate highway system , by building the rural linkages first . Any " attempt to cut the cities out of the interstate system is unthinkable and must be resisted by every means at our command ! " It is hard to blame the cities . They find themselves tied down , like Gulliver among the Lilliputs , by state legislatures still dominated by minority ruralities through " rotten borough " legislative apportionments which deny the cities due representation . Taxes are just about at the practicable political limit , yet two-thirds to three-fourths of those collected in the cities flow away to states or the federal government . Meanwhile the cities are growing at astronomical speed and their growth compels the supply of services ? quite apart from the vast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human habitation . Halleck Rides High The beginning of the 86th Congress was marked by the tearful defeat of Joseph W. Martin , Jr. , of Massachusetts for leadership of the Republicans in the House of Representatives . That veteran of 18 consecutive terms as a member of the House , including service as Speaker and Minority Leader , was stripped of all of his powers and perquisites , except for a Cadillac limousine and chauffeur which a sentimental House voted him , by the onrushing ambitions of Charles A. Halleck of Indiana who , after 13 terms , had tired of his secondary position as party whip . For years Speaker Sam Rayburn and Joe Martin had run the House with a comfortable , old-shoe familiarity . Despite the fact that the Democrats were returned with the largest majority they had possessed since the peak of the New Deal , it soon became obvious that the dominant figure in the House now was not Rayburn but Minority Leader Halleck . Halleck , a vigorous , skillful and ruthless operator of Indiana-style politics , not noted for delicacy or elevated purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work as it had not operated since it defeated most of the advances which President Truman had sought under his Fair Deal . It is estimated by Congressional Quarterly that the potential strength of the coalition in the House give it , even after the Democratic victories of last year , a 92 vote majority . In the Senate the possible coalition majority is 13 . It is a measure of Halleck 's success that the percentage of coalition victories reached 91 in the House under Halleck 's leadership , whereas in the Senate , where it was more or less contained by the Majority Leader Lyndon Johnson , often by means of not allowing legislation to reach the floor in a coalition-arousing form , its percentage of victory was only 65 percent . Membership in the Congress , despite the admission of two new states and Acts of God , will not have changed enough before January , 1960 , to make much difference in the upcoming session in which Halleck will be riding again . Ice-breaking in Antarctica A multi-nation treaty , with the US and the USSR included @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all warlike activity is a major event , even if the continent comprises the remote and terrible fastness -- es of Antarctica . It stands out like an iceberg , too , in a surrounding sea of sentiment about peaceful purpose in which little that is firm can be detected . The high contracting parties have not only affixed their signatures to an accord that this little-known area shall not be used for military purposes ( nuclear explosions are specifically forbidden there ) but they have put teeth into the agreement by working out and applying a system of inspecting what goes on that could hardly be more sweeping . All participants shall give due notice to each other of all expeditions planned in the area , all stations to be established , all military personnel and equipment used in the course of operations ( the US Navy , for instance , handles Antarctic logistics of supply with its ice-breakers , transports , etc. ) ; the information is to be full , even to the extent of including the dates of employment of individuals . Then all contracting parties have the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall have complete access to all installations , all ships and planes arriving in the area ; they shall also have the right to aerial observation everywhere . Though in many ways the Antarctic is everyman 's hell , it is also a close approximation to the scientist 's heaven , particularly the heaven that was seen apocalyptically in the light over Los Alamos . Long before the treaty was thought of , there was exchange of personnel and information among the scientific stations maintained by various nations in the area . Joint exploration of the frontiers of knowledge has been furthered by the mutual aid induced by the rigors of a physical frontier . Russian and American scientists have even engaged in the testing experience of " winterizing over " at each other 's stations ; after six months indoors together with communication with the outside limited to radio , exchange of ideas is likely to be complete . The variety of inquiries currently pursued is impressive : seismology , aurora , cartography , oceanography , biology , etc . The US research is administered by the National Science Foundation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , has one man working on Operation Snuffles , a patient nose-wiper who explores why it is that men who have been in the Antarctic for a time do not get colds but rounds of colds appear when new personnel comes from the outside . ) The new treaty made no effort to touch the sharp-pointed problem of territorial claims in the Antarctic ; neither the US nor the USSR has any claims there , nor recognizes the validity of the claims of Chile , Argentina and Great Britain . The treaty merely freezes the situation as to sovereignty , with the unscientific proviso that the frozen claims shall not be enlarged . The treaty concerns Antarctica only . Yet in having successfully established the first agreement for total inspection , it may prove to have been an ice-breaking expedition . Formulas for this century 's other unexplored territory , outer space , may in the future be based on this first effort . And if present affirmations of peaceful purpose in the cold war on earth should reach the point of negotiation on a solid program , the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be of aid on other continents where the word frontier has a very different meaning . South African Progressives Rarely has South Africa heard so much good sense in so short a time as it has since the founding of the Progressive Party , the nucleus of which is a group of 11 members of parliament who had been unhappy in the opposition United Party for many years and resigned late last summer . The Progressives will be heard with more sympathy by whites than the gallant but tiny band of Liberals had been , for unlike the Liberals , the Progressives do not challenge existing segregation outside the political sphere , being content with a philosophy of " separate but equal " ( an advance in South Africa ) , whereas the Liberals back integration . Whatever their chances of forming a future government , the Progressives are doing South Africa a service by stating its real choice . The ruling Nationalists assert that the alternatives are apartheid and mass miscegenation , but the Progressives differ . " Your choice , " Progressive Leader Jan Steytler told a large white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a non-European electoral majority or bloodshed in South Africa . " Whether time still remains to avert that bloodshed may be doubted , but the Progressives made a significant bid for the friendship that may provide the time by demanding the abolition of the hated pass laws that break up families , limit the African 's choice of work , and often bring him afoul of brutal police . If one can still place hope in South Africa 's whites , it should be placed in the Progressives . The Liberals have never attracted a following . The United Party may suffer occasional pangs of conscience and even be criticized from within , but it will always be dedicated to naked white power and be too " English " for the dominant Afrikaners who are still fighting the Boer War . The odds on the Progressives are not encouraging , though their ability is unquestioned . But their talented Parliamentary team and their concern for the future will at the very least clear the air if they remain true to their declared aim of converting the electorate to their policies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   