@@494454

Kefauver Joins the Race by Michael Straight ASTES KEFAUVER chose the coldest day of the year in Washington to announce his candidacy for the De- mocratic Presidential nomination . But in the Congressional Room of the Willard Hotel , where a crowd gathered on December 16 in response to his sudden summons , there was warmth beyond the heat generated by the flood lamps . A small band of enthusiasts were present to applaud , and Kefauver , grinning , reminded them that this was a meeting for the press . From the press there was also some applause . That was a change , for despite the headlines he has given them , newspapermen have distrusted Kefauver . Now they watched him with wistfulness , seeing a soldier riding off , undaunted , in a lost cause . Tall and grave , Kefauver stood on an improvised platform in the center of the room . A flag hung limply at his side . Behind him propped up on the backs of two gilt chairs , was an enormous photograph of himself . A relic of the 1952 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be almost imperceptible in one who has never stopped driving himself . The photographs taken on this day would show a candidate whose jaw is a little heavier , whose neck is a little thicker , whose hair is lighter as it turns grey , whose glasses are stronger . But these shadings were lost on the rows of photographers and cameramen as they fought for attention . Trained to be short tempered and aggressive , they shouted Let 's have a big smile ! Over this way ! Last time , Senator ! Kefauver turned gravely from one to the other , twirling a coonskin cap which they induced him to fling four times to an aide who served as substitute for the political ring . In his soft voice that lacks vitality and vibrancy , Kefauver read his statement . It was sharper than Stevenson 's declaration and beneath its politeness , the half-hidden thrusts were strong . Stevenson was never mentioned , and yet Kefauver drew quickly and deftly his differences with the front runner . He employed the image of a partially i disabled President to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The Republican Party , " he declared , " suffers from lack of alternative candidates broadly representative of their party . It would not be a healthy thing for the Democratic Party to be placed in such a position . " Kefauver declined to continue fencing with the word " moderation " and refused to indicate the issues on which his differences with Stevenson and Harriman might be made plain . But he presented himself as the candidate of the people , leaving Stevenson and Harriman by inference as the candidates of the machines . " I h'ave received much encouragement , particularly from the rank-and-file members of the party , " he said . The statement was brief , and at once , under instruction from their home offices , the reporters took hold of Kefauver and pulled him into the hard problems of the primary contests . California ? Yes , he would run there . Florida ? No answer now , but the Florida sun felt fine . New Hampshire ? No answer again , but his supporters were buckling on their snowshoes . Wisconsin ? It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of work in the Senate . Minnesota ? " Things are pretty well stacked against me there , but I 've received a great deal of mail ; I 'll have to evaluate it . " Ohio ? Here the reporter wanted to know further if Kefauver was scared by the favorite-son candidacy of Governor Lausche . " I do n't scare very easily , " said Kefauver . Among the reporters there were some cynics . " Will you take your Committee on Juvenile Delinquency into Florida next spring ? " asked Rowland Evans of the New York Herald Tribune . " I 've no particular plans , " Kefauver replied easily . " I 've found some criticism of you among liberals in Texas , " said Sarah McClendon of the San Antonio Light . " They say you are lukewarm in o position to the seating of Governor Shivers at next year 's Democratic Convention . " " The great State of Texas is made up of many Tennesseans , " answered Kefauver smiling . " I would n't presume to tell them how to organize their delegation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have you ca n't get the nomination , " said Ed Woods of the Post-Dispatch . " I do n't believe , " Kefauver answered , " that there is a stop-Kefauver movement in the nation today . Most highly influential people do n't expect any longer to put hurdles in my path . " " Does that include Truman ? " a reporter from the Nashville Banner demanded . " I have been assured by Truman that he does not expect to put hurdles in my way . " At that another reporter jumped up : " Does that mean that Truman stopped you last time ? " " Mr. Truman stated , " said Kefauver without hesitating , " that he was responsible for the nomination of Mr. Stevenson in 1952 . He 's a man of great and deserved influence in the party . " A Negro reporter asked for a statement on educational aid to states that defy the Supreme Court ruling on segregation . " The Supreme Court decision is the law , " Kefauver answered , " and it 's high time that intelligent people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " A Jewish Telegraphic Agency reporter asked about the Arab-Israel conflict . Kefauver declared that Israel should be armed and guaranteed against aggression . In the same outspoken spirit , he reaffirmed his support for Atlantic Union . " In our relations with Western Europe , the birthplace of freedom and liberty as we know it in the United States , I firmly believe in a policy of closer co-operation on economic , cultural and political levels as well as on the purely military level . " The conference ended , and Nancy Kefauver stepped up to be photographed with her husband . She smiled with some difficulty , foreseeing more months of almost unendurable pressure . For thoroughness and personal effort is the whole Kefauver campaign . Typically , two evenings before this interview , he signed three thousand letters informing close friends of his decision and adding , " I will be counting heavily on you . " He sent telegrams to every Governor , Senator and national committeeman of his party and spent most of the night on the long-distance telephone answering their questions and seeking their support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference on their television screens on the night of December 16 saw a soft-spoken , dignified man . He was less tense , more sure of himself than the man who opened his 1952 campaign by challenging and humiliating Harry Truman in New Hampshire ; who went next to Florida which custom decreed was Richard Russell 's political preserve ; and who moved on to Nebraska to insure that the dollars poured out on behalf of Senator Robert Kerr were spent for nothing . And yet the self-assured , familiar figure of December 16 was at heart still an outsider , gambling at long odds on his own endurance and power to work political miracles , and refusing obstinately to listen to the warnings of his closest friends . Paul Douglas , his closest ally in the Senate since 1949 , and his champion in the struggle for the nomination in 1952 , was the first to tell Kefauver that in 1956 he would work wholeheartedly for Stevenson . Hubert Humphrey , another close friend , all but sealed up Minnesota against him , in the course of assuming the leadership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who offered to manage his campaign , told Kefauver , after checking in all parts of the country , that an open and all-out contest with Stevenson would be ruinous , and so passed out of the picture . And at the November meeting of the Democratic National Committee , men and women who labored with the dedication of fanatics for Kefauver in 1952 came to remind him that in those days Stevenson was unknown . " Who have you turned to when you were in trouble on Capitol Hill ? " Kefauver asked the leaders of the AFL and CIO . " We know , " they answered , " but our choice is made . " In terms of the political principles he stands for and the political services he has rendered , Kefauver 's claims to leadership are powerful if not unique . He bucked the veterans ' lobbies , the nationalists and the isolationists in endorsing a union of Western democracies . He spoke out in favor of anti-lynching legislation , and for cloture to end the filibusters that block the enactment of laws for civil rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up an earlier record of voting against the Un-American Activities Committee in the House of Representatives by opposing passage in the Senate of the Internal Security Act . When Humphrey in 1954 undertook to outbid the Republicans by outlawing the Communist Party , Kefauver alone voted against a bill which many Senators conceded in private was wretchedly conceived and poorly drawn . And when the Democratic leaders in the House and Senate courted war by granting Eisenhower a blanket endorsement for his rash and ambiguous commitments on the Chinese coastal islands , Kefauver once again stood almost alone in advocating a course of wisdom and restraint . Moreover , in terms of service to the party , Kefauver more than any legislator has drawn the vital lines between Democrats and Republicans over the past three years . Speaker Sam Rayburn and others have made forays against the Administration on matters such as the $20 tax cut . Kefauver , isolated as he has been by the Senate Democrats , pointed out with tenacity and skill the worst aspect of the President 's commitment to narrow pressure groups rather than to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the campaign to undermine the TVA . In spite of all these claims upon his party , however , Kefauver remains the outsider looking in . The stop-Kefauver movement may have shrunk , as Kefauver believes , to the doubtful figure of Scott Lucas . And yet the Democratic citadels of the South and the Northeast remain almost unassailable to Kefauver 's assaults . The Senate Democrats resent Kefauver 's preoccupation with his own career . The Southern leaders scorn him as one who has crossed the line to judge matters of life and death for Southern whites in national terms . Southerners assume that Stevenson , being a Northerner , will stop short when they warn him that bloodshed in the South will be the price of further reforms . Kefauver they really fear as a spokesman for civil rights . For he is a Southerner , and he ca n't be intimidated by bluff . Reasons far more obscure than these lead the independents , the reporters , the commentators , the intellectuals and some former officials of the New Deal and the Fair Deal to discount Kefauver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demanded of a President and that Kefauver has rare courage and vigor . They add that executive capacity , a sense of priorities and the ability to summon outstanding men to public service are the further requirements of a President , and they sense that Kefauver lacks these qualities . They suspect further that Kefauver 's intense interest in people and his warmth and his obvious honesty are not deep-seated traits of personality , but the outward features of a chosen political image . More important , of course , these groups have heard a voice in American politics unequalled for intellectual clarity since Wilson 's time , and for as long as Stevenson is willing they are committed to him . There remains the Democratic rank and file . Kefauver believes that these people are not committed to Stevenson and that given the opportunity they will reaffirm their faith in him . The opportunity is present in the primaries . Eighteen states held primary elections in 1952 . In fifteen of these Kefauver won his party 's endorsement . Next year there will be primary elections in 19 states . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegates sent to the Democratic convention . And because these primaries , in Pennyslvania , Illinois , New York and New Jersey , among other states , require as much effort as contests that are meaningful , Kefauver plans now to ignore them where he can . So far he is committed only to California . But before long it seems certain that he will announce his entrance into the primaries in New Hampshire , Florida , Wisconsin and Oregon . In Nebraska , Minnesota , Ohio and Maryland , all states that he won in 1952 , he will wait and watch Stevenson . Kefauver and Stevenson will first collide in Florida , and that is very much to Kefauver 's liking . He attaches little importance to the warm welcome Stevenson received there two weeks ago . He believes that he is still far better known . He relies upon the indifference of the politicians pledged to Stevenson in Northern Florida whose preoccupation in the primaries really lies in the races for sheriffs and county judges . In Southern Florida , where the majority of the votes lies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ score . In Oregon , where Stevenson may be entered against his wishes , and in California , Kefauver foresees further success . In terms of issues , he believes that Democrats will move from Stevenson 's brand of conservatism to his own militancy . In terms of personalities , he welcomes Stevenson 's apparent decision to make the contest one of shaking hands . For he believes that Stevenson in person will not overwhelm the voters , and that no one can shake as many hands as Estes Kefauver . Nancy Kefauver may dread the months ahead . Her husband does not . He will not listen to the advice of men who beg him to pull out of the race , for he has been alone all his life and learned to trust his own judgment alone . He will not give up , even if he suffers initial defeat , for as he worked his way through law school , and fought during every adult hour , one objective made his sacrifices worthwhile , and is built too deeply into his being to be discarded now . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and knows he can survive it , he doubts if Stevenson is as strong . He has the rugged determination of the outsider . The professional rank and filer , and in turn the multitudes throughout the country who pride themselves as being rank and filers feel kinship for him , and will work for him as few volunteers will work for Stevenson . The kinship of the outsiders is cemented every time that Kefauver and a voter shake hands . The handshake with Stevenson creates no such binding force . F R the present Kefauver is far behind . But he was far behind in 1947 when he defied Mr. Crump and ran for the Senate ; and he was far behind again when he started out in 1952 . Some who grant his appeal have worked to forestall a primary battle by securing agreement now on a Stevenson-Kefauver ticket for 1956 . But the opportunity for such an agreement , if it ever existed , has been passed over by both men , and will not occur again until after the second ballot at Chicago . There remains the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undermine the Democratic Party 's chances next November . Here the outlook is uncertain . The contest will enliven the party and capture the nation 's attention while Republicans languish . It will also require heavy expenditures , and engender bitterness and division among Democrats . The two contenders are unlikely to personally attack each other . Their supporters can not refrain from these attacks . " In California , " remarked one Kefauver supporter , " you ca n't elect a dog catcher without getting into a dog fight . "                     