@@494411

) r ALL the literary effects in circula-/ i , lion , the most difficult which the e hard-headed reader is required to fook for is symbolisrn -- because there is no clear-cut description in what he can read about it in advance . It is most difficult for him also when it comes to making the response to it that is expected ? because the advance notices do not seem to connect the symbolic effects with his own familiar needs . Perhaps the truth is that symbolism , if and when it really stirs the soul and casts a new glory over life , is one of the varieties of religious experience , though not an orthodox one . It is not easily validated for the common reader even if he is used to literature , because it goes beyond the conventional range of literary experience , which has been sufficient for his needs , Perhaps there is a dialectical need for it , to fill a gap and complete a series of literary effects . But he will ask if literature , with its scrupulous feeling for reality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as many forms as there are theoretical possibilities . If we notice some of the aims which have been professed by symbolic theorists , we will find that in every one there is a departure from the literary canon . First , it is said that the symbolic artwork intends to have its existence purely in language , and must on that level satisfy the reader if he can receive it , not permitting the usual ulterior " mean , ings " which obtain in common language . Though language is generally re-. garded as the " medium " of experience , it is a medium which sometimes is said to escape from control and realize a life of its own . But language is exclusively a human activity , so that this life will come within , human experience , and in fact for greater honor it may be called especially " humane " or humanistic . Even so it meets with resistance from the literary reader , whose interest is likely to be in language of another and easier kind . How do words remain words and yet repudiate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be : When they become symbols . But that seems evasive . One does not learn what symbol the word itself signifies . Again , the symbolist promises to perform an act of free or absolute creativity , realizing an art strictly for art 's sake . He will therefore find the way to abandon the usual preoccupations of writers , and their readers ; such as their concern about the success of the animal life , or even the higher life which is involved with morality , and social and religious adaptations . But this does not seem intelligible , or possible . How can he forget his passionate attachments ? And what , for that matter , can a free creation be ? This is not an idle question . Having no determining form or direction , how would it achieve any character at all , and miss being pure nonsense ? And what would ever push it into action in the first place ? It may be granted , and I have remarked , that there may be a dialectical place for pure creativity , since there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ type assigned to that place might represent if anything only a complete freedom from the common preoccupations , so that no actual case would ever come to be listed . A third version . The symbolist would like to heal the ill-famed split between the subject and the object ; the one that Descartes is said to have brought about , or at least to have published and forced upon the modern consciousness , which has been an uneasy one ever since . When language is forced to make no reference to the fixed objects ( after having made too much to them under the " imitation " theory of smug eighteenth century writers ) , and to make none to the feelings of the subject ( after referring to them too much in the period of the Romantic revolt ) , the hateful dualism is said to have been extinguished at last ; by artists who in the temporal succession are the post-Romantics . But symbolism must start with existing words , and again these are the signs of their objects , while the feelings are because of the objects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the original sense of the objects and the responses to the objects which are the feelings ? And why should they do so ? A fourth version . The words of the symbolic work are those which have served as the names of the objects , and they continue to do so , but now the objects are not held in their old relations to one another but assume new relations . These must be other than logical relations . But they are said to be very powerful , so that the symbolic work has " unity " to an astonishing and almost mystical degree . A new and tighter world , through having somewhat the same constituents , replaces the old world . And perhaps this version seems more credible , and more intriguing . Thus it is said that a highly favored relation will be that of paradox , the relation holding opposites together . All the same , we are likely to fear that the trick will turn out to be on the specious side , and grow tiresome ; for we will look for some new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ logic scarcely allowed , and will be disappointed if we find them only juxtaposed physically . These are some of the commonplaces in the dialectic of symbolism . But it would be poor business if we stopped with even an exhaustive theoretical presentation , especially when we had followed up every theory with a theoretical counter-punch and knock-out . Symbolists as post-Romantics did actually and very shortly appear . The interesting thing is that they were our own highly original American writers , not only theorists but creative artists too . They anticipated the French Symbolistes later in their century , and the full-scale arrival of symbolism nearly everywhere in the present century . They filled a period of literary history with which we can s'careely have had a full acquaintance , since it has not been spelled out till now . But now we will find it written out to the length of a sympathetic yet sophisticated and critical book , Symbolism and American Literature , by Charles Feidelson , Jr . ( Chicago , 1953 ) . The present essay is heavily indebted to Mr. Feidelson as a very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delicious dialectic . Emerson was the great originator of symbolic theory ; after the German idealists of course , though he seems to have been an original , and to have sprung from his own national background . Emerson used all the symbolist advertisements which I have noted , and more , in his reiterative yet fertile style . He was reinforced by Thoreau , Alcott , and others . The creative writers of eminence were Whitman . Hawthorne , Poe , and Melville . Among these Walt Whitman was the sanguine and imperturbable one . He had a fervid though not fastidious literary instrument at his command . He made it serve symbolism by conceiving himself in imagination as " tramping a perpetual journey " across the length and the breadth of the then United States , encountering the ever-fresh New World scenery , and the whom he loved " became " for the moved on . The logic of this kind of composition is only that of an eternal and serial or cataloguing process , to which he was reduced by his incessant defiance of the complications and stopping-places @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stuffy dogmas and respectabilities . But he is zealous at declaiming " the word en masse , " and the words " American " and " democratic , " and in spite ofhis magnificence Mr. Feidelson has to dismiss him in this poetic aspect as a corrupted symbolist , in fact a sociologist . The best symbolic achievement of Whitman 's , Mr. Feidelson says , is " When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloomed . " It is the one where Lincoln 's coffin goes on the train from Washington to Springfield , mourned wherever it passes through the teeming American scene . The key-symbols are the lilac which stands for the new birth in the spring of the year , the drooping star which stands for death , and the bird whose song embraces birth and death indifferently , and so inspires the poet that he becomes the bird ; and now his vocation is a proper and symbolic song , in which death and life are indistinguishably locked and have their opposition cancelled . But as a critic I think Mr. Feidelson might have been a little more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easy ? Poets in older modes might have coveted such dramatic properties for the occasion as lilac and star and bird . ( Hardy might have said of the dead man , " He was a man who used to notice such things . " ) But how weak must the reality-principle of the poet be if he can find consolation in a verbal equation ? We obtain acute judgments of the achievement of Hawthorne ( who was a timid symbolist ) , of Poe ( who was one perversely , and in defiance of his logical theory of composition ) , and of Melville . In Melville 's Pierre we find a well furnished and rather commensurate anticipation of Gide 's curious and intricate play of symbols in The Counterfeiters . Moby Dick is the great masterpiece , and I fancy that Mr. Feidelson has for it a novel and final interpretation . This is a symbolic work whose symbolism is the symbolic passion itself , and its final vanity ; for Melville carried his critical habit about with him , even as a symbolist . Ahab voyaging over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ White Whale which he pursues is that final and heavenly Vision of Truth which symbolism seeks . But in the event , the whale destroys his pursuer . The ship and crew vanish beneath the dark waters , which have not yielded up their secret . Only Ishmael , the sympathetic but not quite committed companion and reporter of the voyage , is tossed up alive , perhaps to make other voyages if he dares . But it is not without significance , I should think , to notice that the naturalistic plot of Moby Dick is in the straightest narrative style ( i.e. , answering fully to the logic of a real action ) , punctuated only by stops for the heavy symbolic comment of the reporter or the author . It was on that understanding alone that I gave it my own first reading when I was young . But if it had not been so I should wonder who would read it even when old . A symbolic work appears to have its existence partly in " literature proper " and partly out of it . One may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . Coleridge 's ideas about poetry will come to mind at this point . They are both modern and old-fashioned . Coleridge is counted on rather heavily by some symbolists , because he regarded the poet as a creator next only to God , and did not stint himself in paying tribute to the power of the Secondary Imagination . I think they may not always be aware of the stern restriction which he imposed upon the imagination even at full flight . In that most famed and involuted sentence of Chapter XIV in the Biographia Litteraria he represents the power of the imagination as " first put in action by the will and understanding , and retained under their irremissive , though gentle and unnoticed , control " ; then as revealing itself in " the balance or reconciliation of opposite or discordant qualities " ; and after this beginning names at least ten different pairs of opposites ; one for example being of " judgment ever awake and steady self-possession , with en- , thusiasm and feeling profound or vehement , " while another pairing " still subordinates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say that the understanding ( to us , the faculty of logical order ) is responsible for one of the terms in every pairing , and keeps ever awake and in its duty in order to be ready to restrain the imagination if it tries to be free . Yet Coleridge was thinking of literature , not symbolism , whose emergence into history was waiting upon its agents , the Americans . I should like frankly to offer another consideration , which finds something essentially symbolic in the language of literature itself , especially and spectacularly in that of poetry . Symbolism has trouble defining itself , but so does poetry . What is that mysterious je ne , rail quoi which distinguishes poetry forever from strict prose , and is grasped instantly by some intuition , though few if any of us can rationalize it , or render it by logical definition ? Throughout the history of poetic theory the closest critics have been content to define it negatively , by what it is not . That is to say , poetry is virtually represented as arising when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transformations which can all be isolated and identified , but only as specific breaches in the prose logic . Nor has anybody yet spoken with authority to tell what is the hidden use that makes us cherish the resultant with so much passion . The breaches are quite demonstrable ; they are the poetic " figures " or tropes . But so beneficent is the positive and creative power which they generate that they have been licensed or authorized since poetry began . Reputablephilosophers and scholars have categorized and listed them , first the Greeks , then the Romans adding to the list , then the modern European languages ; altogether a monument of industry , until in Shakespeare 's time the list ran to several hundreds of entries . It was time then for the tropological dictionary to collapse of its own weight ; very much as a rhyming dictionary does , when it is heavy on the hands of poets so trained and sure that they can tell for themselves what is permissive in this art ? or perhaps tell what is unpermissive if this is what they want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and more positive-looking tropes are synecdoche , metaphor , paradox , and prosopopoeia . With them it is as if the logical sign of the prose were replaced by a new sign , which could easily be called a symbol , the magical agent itself . And the new sign contains in its total meaning the old sign , plus some new and foreign meaning which frees the language and lets it swell with meaning . It will never get back into its tight logic again ; the apologist ' of poetry is sure of that . For the logician , the symbol is a surd . ( That is a nice term for the philologist , first meaning deaf , then surly and refractory , and finally irrational ; nor is there much advance in the meaning when surd becomes absurd . ) The symbol will not give up its irreducible increment . The logician can find his logic submerged beneath the symbolic deposit , still working if he looks for it , provided the law of Coleridge has been adhered to ; and it must be . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difference between the poet and the symbolist is merely that the symbolist is capable of losing himself in the symbols but the poet is trained by his tradition to keep them under control . In his postcript Mr. Feidelson offers this summation : " Symbolism is humanism but a critical humanism . " I take it that this will hold for Melville and the superior symbolists . They must symbolize because this action represents the point of most advancement and aspiration in their humanity . But they are also prepared to find in symbolism the locus " of error , confusion , darkness . " We could not ask for a fairer judgment .                     