@@487614

What 's Nibbling Knowland ? A significant section of the press has begun to express . intense annoyance with Senator Knowland 's failure to support the foreign policy- of the President and Mr. Dulles " With the persistency of a broken record , " comments the Ch Sgtn-Tames , " Knowland has become one of , the most vociferous critics of the Eisenhower Administration 's foreign policy . " In numerous other papers the Senator has been urged to step aside as his party 's leader in the Senate . He has also been pressed for a statement on what alternatives to coexistence he has in mind . On all sides it is recognized that , so far as the Republican Party is concerned , the alternative to coexistence with the Senator might be an irreparable - schism in an already divided organization . At the moment Senator Knowland is far snore concerned with domestic politics than with foreign policy . The agitation he has kicked up , with the assistance of Setintor Jenner , for breaking off relations with Soviet Russia stems from a realistic fear that sentiment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Senators Knowland and Jenner is to check this sentiment by freezing the political climate at subzero cold-war temperatures . Fob , time is running out on the Knowland position . It is opposed not only by the logic of events but by new political currents. - People are tired of cold-war tensions ; they want an end to grimaces and threats . The Senator thus finds himself in the position of a merchant who is trying desperately to protect his investment in stock so obsolete that it can not be ' moved even at cutrate prices . What is nibbling Senator Knowland , therefore , is not the prospect of " another Munich " but a well-founded fear that he lives on borrowed political time . A Tragedy for the Country No doubt the case against the two convicts arrested for the murder of William W. Remington in the federal penitentiary at Lewisburg , Pennsylvania , will be vigorously prosecuted But there are certain aspects of it which should be carefully investigated by an agency wholly unconnected with the Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similar cases in the past , a major effort will bemade to smother public interest in the affair . One may expect the two convicts to " cop " a plea , the warden to maintain a dense silence , and J. Edgar Hoover to make a number of new speeches belaboring the " Communist menace . " Only a full inquiry by an independent agency , with adequate provision for press coverage and public hearings , will restore confidence in the federal prison , administration after this case of mistreatment of a " political " prisoner . Phil Frankfeld , one of the Baltimore Smith Act de , fendants , was , it will be recalled , beaten in- Atlanta prison ; and not long ago Robert Thompson , another Smith Act defendant , was savagely , bea.ten with a lead pipe in a New York City prison while in the custody of federal officials . It maybe that politics had nothing to do with the Remington case , but the public can hardly be expected to accept the F. B. I. assurances on this , and local law-enforcement agencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thing worse than serving a prison sentence it must be to serve such a sentence under constant fear of physical assault ; prisoners , being in the law 's custody , are entitled to the fullest measure of its protection . The bitter protest of Remington 's widow is fully applicable : " A person can be accused wrongly of being a Communist , and it is a dreadful thing . . . . This is not a tragedy of mine alone but a tragedy for the entire country . " Wounded Tiger A bruising , brawling , bare-fisted fighter , Senator McCarthy has boasted from coast to coast that only his rough-tough tactics have been successful in forcing the Kremlin pinkos to their knees . But David Lawrence now tells us in his widelysyndicated column that the Senator is a victim of " the pain of wounded - pride and repressed ambition . " Imagine the traumatic effect on McCarthy , he urges , of his realization that it would be unreasonable of him to aspire to the Presidency because the late Alfred E. Smith , also a Catholic , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at her newborn child , " writes Mr. Lawrence , " has hopes that such an honor might come some day to her son . " When McCarthy feels the pain and injury of being unjustly kept from the White House " the tiger in his make-up begins to fight back . " As a journal that ardently championed Al Smith against the bigots who opposed him , we claim the right to resist Mr. Lawrence 's attempt to break our heart . Actually , the classic American doctrine does not guarantee that every mother 's son shall be President if he so desires ; it is merely an assurance that his right to run his head off for any office in the land will not be frustrated by artificial legal disqualifications . McCarthy 's career is a brilliant proof of the continuing validity of that assurance : he has been running hard for the Presidency ever since he entered the Senate in 1946 . Religious bigotry may have defeated Al Sinith , but if Joe fails to make the White House , the prime reason will be his behavior and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Churchill , eighty years old this week , saved the world in time of crisis , and it would be ungracious , for Americans at this time to stress the obvious flaws in his political philosophy . That task we leave to his Labor opponents in Britain , who have to live with him . For ourselves , we wish him what he himself once said he wanted ' most : a chance , " through a meeting with Malenkov , to crown a brilliant career with the most-glittering jewel of all  --  the achievement of world peace . ? Vishinsky Departs Most of the American comment on the death ' of Andrei 7 . Vishinsky was bitter , even vindictive  --  in striking contrast to the European press , which was generally respectful and sympathetic . But the reaction in this country was perhaps inevitable . During his life the Soviet chief delegate to the United Nations had never spared his adversaries ; his ' unquestioned agility ' and wit had been used as weapons  --  particularly against the United States  --  and the wounds they caused were not forgotten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ruthless prosecutor in the purge trials of the thirties and as vitriolic defender of Russia 's position in the U. N. There was scarcely even a perfunctory expression of regret to accompany Vishinsky 's final departure from these shores and this earth . Yet the tone of personal hostility seemed somewhat misdirected , for Vishinsky ' was never a man who deter- mined policy , inside Russia or out . He was the spokesman , the advocate , - the tough trouble-shooter for the regime and system he represented . His special quality lay in his vast range of political knowledge and cultural background . In this he entirely outclassed his younger : - colleagues , not ' to mention many of his fellow-diplomats from other countries , At a moment when international tensions are slowly easing , when East and West are taking small , gingerly steps toward each. , other , the loss of Vishinsky may be unfortunate . Not that Ambassador Malik will less precisely represent Kremlin policy , but rather that Vishinsky could move along the lines laid down with an agility and inventiveness , backed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ match . The West may yet have reason to regret his abrupt disappearance from the international scene . Square D 's Long Shadow In retrospect the recently concluded Square D strike in Detroit may well be regarded as one of the most significant developments on the domestic scene this year . Involving about 1,200 employees , members of the United Electrical Workers ( Ind. ) , the strike lasted for 108 days and from the outset was characterized by a turbulence and bitterness reminiscent of the great strikes of the middle thirties . Not since 1941 has Detroit witnessed the use of labor injunctions , the importation of scabs , and unfair police methods to break a strike . Detroit trade unionists did not need to be reminded by their leaders of the meaning implicit in these tactics : here was a clear test of the permanence of labor 's hard-won gains of the last fifteen years . Nor did the fact that Representative Kit Clardy of the House Committee on Un-American Activities accused the U. E. and its local of being " Communist-dominated " diminish in the slightest degree the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Before a settlement was finally negotiated  --  with a new agreement and a four-cents-an-hour wage boost  --  some twenty-two U. A. W.-C . I. 0 . locals were actively supporting the strike . Over a thousand U. A. W. rank-andfile members walked on the picket line carrying placards which read , " Square D Workers Today ; C. I. 0 . and A. F. of L. Workers Tomorrow . " The pressure for unity " from the bottom up " was irresistible . This first attempt at " union-busting " has been stymied , but labor is well aware that Square D was merely an initial skirmish in a battle yet to come , as is amply proved by the strike at the Kohler Company . The Strike at Kohler Village Kohler Village , about four miles southwest of Sheboygan , Wisconsin , is one of the nation 's best-known company towns . It dates from 1912 , when Walter J. Kohler , Sr. , then president ' of the Kohler Company , return-ed from a trip to Europe full of paternalistic plans for the Kohler workers . Architects , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ building a model village , with homes , parks , playgrounds , and a huge recreation area . Unions , of course , were out of place in Kohler Village . But in July , 1934 , the National Guard had to be called out to preserve the peace in the community after two workers were killed and forty-seven wounded in one of the bitterest strikes of the era . The strike was broken and the A. F. of L. union that called it was replaced by the company-sponsored Kohler Worker 's December 4 , 1954 Association . In May , 1952 , the United Automobile Workers ( C. I. O. ) organized the plant and after seven months of negotiation finally got a contract for the workers . On April 5 of this year the 3,300 members of Local 833 voted to go on strike to protect their contract and to win new objectives . They have been on strike ever since . Governor Walter Kohler Troposed arbitration , but his uncle , Herbert V. Kohler , who now runs the company , squashed this and a number of similar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken second place to the dominant question : can the company break the union ? The atmosphere of Kohler Village today has overtones of the 1930 's . But the year is 1954 , not 1934 , and it remains to be seen whether the victory that Herbert V. Kohler won against the union then can be repeated today . If he is successful , the same union-busting tactics will be repeated elsewhere . Fire Prevention in Boston Last spring Boston police , armed with a search warrant issued at the request of Garrett H. Byrne , Suffolk County district attorney , seized several truckloads of books , personal files , and other papers from the home of Otis Archer Hood , a. self-proclaimed Communist . At the same time Byrne arrested Hood and five other persons on conspiracy charges under Massachusetts 's 1919 anarchy Jaw . Byrne 's office said it " suspected " that Hood 's library could be used to advocate the overthrow of the state and federal governments , and asked the court to order it " burned'or otherwise destroyed . " Later Byrne switched his position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence in Hood 's trial . Hood 's attorneys , Gabriel Kantrovitz and B. Loring Young  --  he is a former speaker of the state house of representatives  --  argued that the seizure violated the Fourteenth Amendment and Article XIV of the Massachusetts Declaration of Rights . Only a week before the raid , the lawyers reminded the court , the Massachusetts ' Commission on Communism had suggested the need for a new state law authorizing search warrants for the seizure of " subversive " literature . Counsel pointed out that the books seized might be found in any good public library  --  fairy tales , works on Lincoln and the Founding Fathers , as well as books by Marx and Engels . Judge Edward 0 . Gourdin , making it clear that he was influenced by the probity of the defense 's brief and by the obvious failure of the prosecution to produce legal justification for its action , ordered the books returned to their Owner . His ruling has broad implications .. If the invasion of Hood 's home was unwarranted , it seems to follow that the possession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illegal so long as it is not obscene . The decision strikes at the heart of the doctrine that books , as instruments of the intellect , constitute a threat to the state . 475                     