@@493881

PHILIP MURRAY : THE NATURE OF LEADERSHIP IT IS HARD on occasions such as this to distinguish between the lasting darkness of loss and the passing darkness of its shadow . Our lives take their meaning from their interlacing with other lives , and when one life is ended those into which it was woven are also carried into darkness . Neither you nor I , but only the hand of time , slow-moving , yet sure and steady , can lift that blanket of blackness . . Phil Murray was more than the president of the CIO , more than a leader and spokesman for organized labor . Those of you who worked with him knew him first and foremost as a trade unionist , a man of sagacity at the bargaining table , a militant leader in your times of stress , and a shrewd conciliator who could bring home the bacon . Those of you , among the thousands who called him " friend , " knew him as a beloved companion , a thoughtful adviser , a generous man with a boundless sense of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sadness of his death , I think we can better see Phil Murray in perspective , and describe him properly in terms that would have embarrassed this unassuming man in his lifetime . In the truest sense of the words that we often abuse , Phil Murray 's life was a success story . The world is better off because he lived in it . Without that fact as a basic ingredient , you can not give validity to a success story . Too often , in judging what man is a success , we think in terms of the market place , and measure him a success who has moved into the big house on top of the hill . Too often we count him a success because he moved into the big house . But the test is rather " how and why . " And Phil Murray 's success in life can not be measured in a probate court . The inspiration in Mr. Murray 's life , the lesson for the world , lies in the fact that a boy humbly born in another country could come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Scottish pits , hew out an illustrious career for himself in service to his fellow man , and die a man of simple tastes and modest means , but leave a legacy of material goods in the ' homes of millions of workers in these United States ? not only material goods measured in wages , in pension benefits , and other gains for the workers he led , but the goods of the spirit . Millions of workers have a personal dignity their fathers never knew because Phil Murray and others like him helped these workers to stand on their own feet . My acquaintance with Mr. Murray was not intimate and my contacts were few . Perhaps that qualifies me all the better to comment on what to me was his most conspicuous quality . Humbly born , after . a stormy life of democratic leadership and great achievement he humbly died . Yet it has been too often true that the very humbleness , even the disadvantages , of a man 's beginnings have led him to abuse authority subsequently attained . Rank and power expose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who , in telling of their having " come up the hard way , " acknowledge in the telling that they have lost the lesson of their experience . Phil Murray 's humility was deeper rooted . It did not change with the seasons of experience or the years of growth . He knew that in our system of things the conferring of authority on particular individuals is largely accidental , that its compliment is slight , and that the man who exercises it is no different from his fellow men Dr from what he was himself before he assumed the role of leadership . It was often remarked , and to some it seemed strange , that the president of the CIO was moved easily to laughter and not infrequently to tears . Perhaps his greatness found its sustenance there , or at least its reflection ? for it is emotions that link us closest with each other . So much of democratic leadership is just the understanding of the people 's needs and hopes , the looking to them rather than to one 's own ideas for guidance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leadership and following . No democratic organization can afford the risk of leadership which lacks humility . It is that element which gives men ? which gave Philip Murray ? the ability to lead a people who distrust the power to command . His was not an easy career . The path of the man who chose a career in organized labor in Murray 's youth was not strewn with NLRB orders directing an employer to bargain . Too often the life of the labor organizer was more akin to the career of an underground leader , in terms of frustration , even terror . What motivated and sustained him in the long struggle ? What was the guiding purpose that drove him on with a disregard for self that resulted finally in death I suspect it , was to bring dignity and meaning into live which had lost these qualities . It was plainer to those in the coal mines of Pennsylvania in 1902 in his boyhood than it was to a good many people in America what a price we had paid , in human values , for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sweat and smoke of factories had settled not only on men 's faces and in women 's kitchens but on their lives . Work had become , for millions , something much less ? much meaner ? than it ' ad been when men were carving homes and farms out of forests and working as craftsmen in small shops . In too many minds the men and women beside the assembly lines became indistinguishable from the machines . I know no purpose more sustaining than that of helping people live fuller lives . It gave to Philip Murray the guidance , probably the inspiration , which left for him hard questions of the immediate course to follow but none as to the direction . He must have had that vision of true horizons which gives assurance against beckoning mirages in the often lonely deserts of decision . This , then , is our heritage from Philip Murray . It is no lesser for not being written in the words of great books or in the masonry of proud structures -- for it is written rather in the lives of men and women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the example of what leadership means in a system that finds it strength in its insistence that leaders be only servants . To realize this heritage is to deny all but the personal elements of loss , of ending , in what has happened . There are those who are ready to accept , to carry on -- and even to build upon ? the example which has been left , the tradition which has been established . Behind the grief of great loss there is the stimulus to assume the increased responsibility to go on . The whole lesson of history is its essential continuity . It is the fullest memorializing of those who have departed that those who remain feel no despair ? for otherwise the task was not fully done . The beliefs that Phil Murray brought into his career as a labor leader , belief in the right to organize and bargain collectively , belief in the family life of America , and belief that a strong trade union movement is of the essence of democracy , are today , thanks to men like him , the indisputable premises @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simplest rights , accepted as a matter of fact by younger workers today , were bitterly contested in the growth of the labor movement . We would honor him well not to take too much for granted those rights he devoted a restless life to securing , but to remember vividly that they were won the hard way . You , his constituents , have inherited a precious trust , which can be executed faithfully only by imitating his own devotion to God , his fellow man , and his country . I can not presume to say that I know what Mr. Murray 's view of the future was . But I do know that his life and work spanned a dramatic evolution in the status of labor and in our thinking about labor in this country . From the unspeakable conditions of 50 or 60 years ago he lived to see organized labor grow to its present vast power and influence in our economy and our society . And I suppose that this transition is as important a single fact as any in the past half century . While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand remedy , labor 's long battle for status and recognition has been largely won . Violence and ruthlessness by employers and unions alike are obsolete . If it is n't , the doctrine that the end justifies the means should be a thing of the past in labor relations . Labor has been afflicted with Communist infiltration and with hoodlums and racketeers . The battle for clean unions you have fought and will fight as long as necessary . But the bigger job of the future is the proper exercise of organized labor 's vast responsibility , not just to the working man but to the country . Some of the attitudes , habits of thought and methods of the past are no longer relevant . How soon will the modern idea that big labor is here to stay , that your constituency is no longer just the union member but the nation , pervade the ranks of labor leadership ? What I would like to say about all this would take longer than you would care to listen . Call it in a word public relations , " if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you may look at it , consider how far you have . come in the lifetime of Philip Murray and where you are going . You have elevated wages and working conditions , accomplished all manner of improvements . You dare not gamble with these advances . Now there is too much to lose . Perhaps as the defeated candidate , - whom you were good enough to support , I can be permitted to say that the election should not be considered a disaster or even a misfortune for labor . What would be a misfortune and perhaps even a disaster would be to think so , and lose sight of labor 's larger responsibility to a nation which is also groping its way into a new era . While it may be no surprise to you that I had certain preferences in the recent election , I like to think of myself as an American first and a political partisan second . And I think of you as Americans first and labor leaders second . Business has learned much , too , in these years of your great growth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public . And your largest task now , as I see it , is the conduct of your relations with industry , always in the larger framework of the national interest on which labor and business and all the rest of us are dependent . I 'll say nothing poetic about the twilight of the era of your great gains . Rather it is for us to make this interval of labor 's transition from " far off things , and battles long ago " the dawn of a better era for all of us ? for America . I like to think that Phil Murray was familiar with these words : " A fool who stands fast is a catastrophe ; a wise man who stands fast is a statesman . It is , then , in a spirit of gratitude for what he did with his life and of gratitude for the opportunity that is - the handmaiden of the power he helped bestow upon you , that we say to Philip Murray : " Hail and Farewell , " and to Death , " be not proud . " 