@@487664

SEVEN THOUSAND delegates to the Southern Presbyterian Men 's Convention were gathered on the night of October 10 in a converted airplane hangar in Miami known as Dinner Key Auditorium . They were to be welcomed by Florida 's Governor LeRoy Collins . The delegates expected to hear the usual meaningless " words of welcome , " and with Billy Graham scheduled to make the major address the next evening , they were saving their enthusiasm . ( In fact , some of the delegates ' wives , at least , were saving themselves ; Graham drew 10,000 . ) For the first few minutes of Collins ' speech , it seemed that the prejudgment had been accurate . The Governor began traditionally , relating an anecdote , then paying tribute to his state in that prideful way governors have . But when he began a parable about Pontius Pilate , there WILLIAM L. RIVERS is an assistant professor at the University of Miami . was a difference . It was obvious that the newly crowned " leading Southern moderate " would deal with the theme of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by relating it to segregation . After describing how Pilate symbolically washed his hands while turning Jesus over to the rabble , Collins said , " Real strength must show and shine even when a strong man is under the pressure of a mob . You and I today are under the pressure of a mob . . . people who are motivated by emotions beyond those of love for God and love for their fellowmen . They are monsters . . ? . " Collins then told of the firing of Dr. Deborah Coggins , a public-health physician who served three North Florida towns . In September , 1956 , Dr. Coggins and a Negro nurse who. worked under her discussed several cases while they ate sandwiches together in the back room of a restaurant in Madison . " The people heard about it and the mob gathered , " Governor Collins recounted . " Citizens went to the county commissioners and cried , Fire her ! She has yiolated the traditions and customs of the Southland . Fire her ! ' " Then , leaning out over the delegates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our Presbyterians ? Where were our Methodists ? Our Episcopalians ? Where were all our churchmen ? Where were all of our people who are dedicated to this proposition of ' All the Way for Christ ' ? Did they go before these county commissioners and say , Do n't ! This is wrong ! ' ? No , they called for the bowl , and they washed their hands . . . . " On that caustic note , Governor Collins concluded . In justice to the Southern Presbyterians , they ' took this slap and answered it with applause . It was generally conceded , in fact , that Collins ' fifteen-minute " welcome " had been the high point of the convention . One layman said , " Billy Graham had the big opportunity , but Governor Collins used it . " The Presbyterian Outlook reprinted the Governor 's speech , and apologized for Graham with , " Aftei this , it seemed The NATION that any speaker would be largely anti-climactic . " ' But in their repentant rush to congratulate Collins for reminding them that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was at hand , the Southern Presbyterians missed the biggest opportunity . They could have answered Collins ' question with a better one : Where , during the Dr. Coggins incident , was LeRoy Collins , Episcopalian ? Now it 's true that when he learned of the firing of Dr. Coggins , the Governor said , " It can not be squared with right and justice and conscience . . . . " But he added a loud echo from the segregationist South : " This would never have occurred two years ago . It is a by-product of the passions aroused by efforts to coerce integration of the races against the will of the ' people . " Moreover , when Mrs. Flo Way , a schoolteacher , defended Dr. Coggms and was asked to resign , Governor Collins was silent . And when School Superintendent Desmond Bishop told the teacher , " You just jumped into this and it was none of your business , " it was not Collins but Mrs. Way who reminded Bishop that " Justice is everybody 's business . " THIS strange contrast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is only one of many paradoxes . Another came two days later when Collins put his signature on a bill calling for automatic closing of any school to which troops are sent in a racial emergency . And a whole nest of paradoxes can be seen in a chronological examination of Governor Collins ' major speeches . Searching his first inaugural address of January , 1955 , for any statement on segregation is a vain exercise . In his twenty-six page message to the Legislature delivered in April , 1955 , there are two short paragraphs which can be summarized in two sentences : Segregation in the public schools is part of Florida 's custom and law . I will use all the lawful power of the governor 's office to preserve this custom and law . His position during the rest of 1955 and the first few months of 1956 was little different . Then he December 21 , 1957 was re-elected Governor in the spring of 1956 , and was safe for four years . On January 8 , 1957 ( four months after the firing 9f Dr. Coggins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From a standing start , he began with that speech to describe a steadily rising " liberal " trajectory that in nine months landed him in the foremost place among the Southern moderates . In that inaugural address , Collins was unequivocal : " The Supreme Court decisions are the law of the land . And this nation 's strength and Florida 's strength are bottomed upon the basic reverse premise that ours is a land of the law . " He went further , reading the voters of Florida a kind of lecture on hate ( " We can never find the answer by destroying the human spirit " ) and obstruction ( " And we should admit that our attitude generally in the past has been obstructive all along the line " ) . THERE were similar utterances in succeeding months , but the pivotal speech was made before the Southern Governors ' Conference . The assigned title was " Can a Southerner Be Elected President ? " Predictably , Collins ' answered in the affirmative , and , also predictably , his pattern for a Southern President was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paramount importance of the race question with : The greatest danger in the South is that our people will fail to understand the change taking place all around them . They must not forget that the first law of nature is change , and that the second is the survival of those who put themselves in accord with this change . This is what our Southern leadership must recognize if it expects to be listened to on the national scene . We can learn from the tragic example of Edmund Ruffin , the Virginian who happened to be the one who fired the first shot on Fort Sumter . By no means was this his greatest achievement . Ruffin had remarkable foresight and understanding of what the South could be if it would practice soil conservation , then a scoffed-at innovation . The Civil War kept him from ever ' seeing his vision and hopes material- ' ized . He was consumed with his hostility to the Union and his devotion to the cause of the Confederacy . When he got the news that the South had lost the war , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Confederate blanket and buried , took his own life in abject despair . If the South should wrap itself in a Confederate blanket and consume itself in racial fervor , it would surely miss its greatest opportunity for channeling into a wonderful future the products of change now taking place . And we should face up to the fact that it would bury itself politically for decades to come . The liberal editorial writers needed no other documentation ; Collins became the leading Southern moderate after that speech . And the trajectory continued to rise . Two weeks after the speech at the Southern Governors ' Conference , Governor Collins put his question to the Southern Presbyterians . One month later , he told the Southern Newspaper Publishers ' Association : The South is at one of history 's crossroads . We can miss our great opportunity and go blindly down a road of turmoil and frenzy ' , or we can seize the opportunity to clear the emotional atmosphere and undertake our rightful responsibilities . . . . The greatest roadblock to progress I have yet encountered is the disease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speeches is the vmost remarkable paradox : While the North was applauding " this new , bold leader of the sensible South , " Southern audiences responded as though they were hearing the Gospel . Governor Marvin Griffin of Georgia qualified his praise of the Southern Governors ' Conference speech with , " We can not escape reality . . . there are obstacles to overcome , " but he also said , " It was a wonderful speech and I agreed with most of it . " Governor Orval Faubus of Darkest Arkansas qualified his reaction not at all . " A great speech , " he said . A tempting explanation of Governor Collins ' ambivalent appeal offers itself : the Governor does n't sit on the fence ; he runs on it . He is always on the attack , always forthright , always aggressively positive  --  but it is never quite clear what he is positive about doing . The result : in Florida , nothing has been done . Not even the most gradual plan for Negro school attendance at any level has been suggested by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Despite all the paradoxes , the Collins phenomenon may be simple . ' Governor Collins may not even know of Elmer Wheeler , the high panjandrum of salesmanship , but Collins uses Wheeler 's motto : " Do n't sell the steak ; sell the sizzle . " The Governor has been selling the sizzle , not the steak , to almost everybody on both sides of the Mason-Dixon Line . Few others are as well equipped as Collins to play the governor as supersalesman , and few have had as much experience . At the risk of putting too fine a point on it , when LeRoy had been graduated , with honors , from Tallahassee 's Leon High School , he became a clerk in a grocery store . His employer , Bernard Byrd , recalls : " One day when Roy was sweeping the floor , he broke a $1 glass container of goose liver . He bought a loaf of bread , made five sandwiches and sold them to the people in the store for a quarter apiece  --  making a profit out of his own misfortune @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a salesman 472 that Florida newspapers are likely to headline his frequent trips to the North to lure industry with : FLORIDA 'S SUPERSALESMAN IS OFF AGAIN ! When he ran for re-election in 1956 ( Florida governors can not succeed themselves , but Collins was serving out the unexpired term of the late Dan McCarty ) , Governor Collins demonstrated that he understands the modern psychology of resort-state politics . It is not only unsettling to serious Floridians to do little more than take in the wash of tourists who , when they go back home are busy with the world 's work , it is well known that an economy geared to tourism can be shaky in hard times . Until recently , only Mississippi in the entire South had less industry ? than Florida . The southernmost state was almost a geographical prostitute , serving with a sunny smile but having only an accidental productive function . THE , greatest change in the Florida economy came during ' LeRoy Collin ' first , administration , and , Collins a himself was responsible for large measure of that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the national magazines that had always been filled with truckloads of the usual Florida puffery also ' began to run articles suggesting that a serious person might very well live and work under the sun . During Collins ' campaign for reelection , he played up " The New Florida " almost to the exclusion of other issues , coming up with the platform that Floridians can understand and appreciate better than any other : public relations . The most striking evidence of the hard sell at work during the campaign came during a state-wide telecast from Miami . Governor Collins was late , and for nearly ten minutes his supporters filled the time with talk of the national interest in Florida that had grown during the Collins administration . When Collins spoke , he devoted more than half his time to his state 's fortunate position as the new industrial leader of the growing Southeast region . Then ' an announcement by Howard Hughes that he would build a big medical research center in South Florida and an aircraft engineering plant somewhere in the state set the stage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Floridians how lucky they were to have a governor like LeRoy Collins , there was no longer any question . Collins won in the first primary , the first time in the history of the state that had been accomplished . THROUGHOUT both his administrations , the Governor has continued to sell Florida with astonishing dexterity . Nearly half of all the new businesses established in the United States from 1950 to 1956 began in Florida . ' And ' even Collins ' political , opponents admit that much of the gain had been due to the lean , graying , carefully pressed figure whose handsomeness would excite comment oh a niovie , lot . Collins ' voice car : ries an intense , emotional sincerity , and when he is tired , it ; takes on ' a quality of earnest pleading . IHis " de-. scription of " this ' good state , this great Florida that we must keep clean and decent and good " would sound platitudinous coming from an other , but Collins is ' as fervently and honestly sincere , about it in convei. . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rally or flushing a covey ' of industrialists . He pronounces " Florida " as though it were a newly , meaningful word , much as Adlai Stevenson says " po-litical . " When he spoke to the influential Sales Executives Club in New York two months ago ( he has become so well-known that the meeting was a sellout , the largest crowd in the club 's history ) , one newspaper reported , " Some 1,300 guests actually , gasped . They reacted with a resound-ing , Carrying standing his abonility for to Co sell ins. his C state over to purveying his own brand of " moderation " has not only been easy for Governor Collins , it has been necessary . The state that hopes to lure industry ca n't afford race riots. , The cash value of Governor Collins ' posture between the forces of segregation and integration was illustrated recently when a Milwaukee The NATION automobile battery manufacturer turned over to the Associated Press a telegram he had sent to Governor Collins . In the telegram , C. 0 . Wanvig , president and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would build a million-dollar plant in Tampa . The company 's decision to establish the plant in Florida , Wanvig told Collins , " was greatly influenced by your coura-geous and statesmanlike efforts to resolve crucial issues . . . . Your leadership is helping provide a type of industrial climate which will assure continued economic progress and opportunity for the people of your state . " A good " industrial climate " certainly exists . The NAACP has been mollified by Governor Collins ' forthright words ; the White Citizens Councils can find no , evidence that integration is anywhere on the horizon . Governor Collins , it would seem , has flipped an axiom over on its back . Instead of playing both ends against the middle , he 's playing the middle against both ends .                     