@@185387

Advance-guard painting in America is hell-bent for outer space . It has rocketed right out of the realms of common sense and common experience . That does not necessarily make it bad . But it does leave the vast bulk of onlookers earthbound , with mouths agape and eyes reflecting a mixture of puzzlement , vexation , contempt . A cursory study of advance-guard painting gives rise to the conclusion that it consists , like the Mock Turtle 's arithmetic , of " Ambition , Distraction , Uglification and Derision . " It is wild , woolly , willful . But nothing has only one side , and negatives can not sum up America 's newest painting . A good deal can be said for its positive qualities , once they have been set in the context of modern art history . <P> Turning the Mirror . The young pioneers reproduced on the following pages took their lead from such European moderns as Kandinsky , Picasso and Paul Klee , and from a slightly less exalted group-Fernand Lger , Jacques Lipschitz , Piet Mondrian , Andr Masson-who sat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essentially the same promise : instead of holding a mirror up to nature , art could mirror the inner world of the artist himself . The methods for doing this-abstraction and distortion-were as old as doddering modern art itself ( i.e. , almost a century ) , and had already been explored by older native sons from Arthur Dove to Stuart Davis ( TIME , Feb. 13 ) . <P> The bright young proconsuls of the advance guard , Jackson Pollock and Willem de Kooning , added to this pattern of approach a breathtaking fervency and single-mindedness . Following Clausewitz ' formula for successful military attack , they concentrated all the forces they could muster on the smallest possible problem : to express what they happened to be feeling in the process of painting . The results were huge canvases excitedly smeared , spattered , daubed , dribbled and gobbed with color in the shape of freewheeling overall designs , as if the artists had been playing with paints and got carried away . They were not as formless and unconsidered as the quick glance suggests , however , and they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <P> The Pollock-De Kooning breakthrough soon found a following , and a label : abstract expressionism . Like most labels , this one has proved inadequate . It is used loosely to suggest merely the expression of strong feeling without any reference to objective reality . Young idealists in search of an ideal , and middle-aged casuists in search of a cause , alike sprang to the defense of abstract expressionism almost before it began to be attacked . And it was attacked , inevitably , for to believers in the classical concepts of beauty and truth to nature , it was an insult . This gave the advance guard a stimulating sense of unity and a debilitating sense of being persecuted , both of which it might otherwise have lacked .                     