@@477431

ALTHOUGH the country is not yet aware of it , America 's chemical and biological weapons arc quite as potent as its nuclear weapons , and , if war comes , they could prove to be both more effective and more humane . For fallacious reasons , our government is keeping the nation in the dark about them and is not giving adequate support to their development . To the general public , these weapons are particularly mysterious and indecent ? so awful and sinister , in fact , that they have not been used in recent wars . This impression is very wrong but the government has done little if anything to correct it . Apparently afraid of the reaction from the American people and from our allies , neutral nations , and potential enemies , it has forbidden officials who know about chemical and biological warfare to discuss it freely in public . Until I retired from active duty as Commanc ' ing General of the Chemical Corps Research ant Development Command , I was myself under sue restrictions . It is only since my retirement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 've been able to state freely my own considered opinion : that our official policy has placed this country in an extremely dangerous position . A public which is ignorant and suspicious of these weapons can not be expected to encourage their development and will be psychologically unprepared for their use , if and when it becomes necessary . So long as we neglect this aspect of war we are giving a potential enemy a tremendous advantage . No matter what the tone of its propaganda , we can be sure that the Soviet Union has no scruples over developing chemical and biological weapons and would have none over their use . It seems very likely , in fact , that they know more about some of them than we do as they would use humans freely for experimentation . If we are to keep pace with Russia 's ability to make war , we must squarely face the facts of chemical and biological warfare . Otherwise there will be a widening gap in the state of our preparedness . ' HUMANE " AGONIES TACITLY at least , the American government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inhumane as to he inacceptable to the American people . We may well wonder why . For hundreds of years it has been impossible to carry on war without firing hot metal capable of blasting off legs and arms , and of leaving men blind and mindless for life . In modern war it has become quite acceptable to burn men to death ? a particularly agonizing death ? with flame throwers and fire bombs . Surely it is absurd to insist that the savageries of conventional warfare can be even relatively " humane . " As for nuclear warfare , it should not by now be necessary to emphasize the human damage it can do ? not only to the living but to future generations . Ironically enough , it can be argued that the only known hope for relatively humane warfare in the future lies in the chemical and biological weapons . As I shall try to show , there are gases and biological agents which make it possible to temporarily incapacitate the enemy , with no aftereffects , or to reduce his food supply without indiscriminate killing and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chemical and biological warfare offer at least some small hope of carrying it on without unnecessarily destroying large numbers of troops , their families , and their cities . If this is so , why are we so afraid ? I suspect that much of our fear springs originally from our own American propaganda during the first world war when the Germans caught us unawares by initiating the first large-scale use of poison gas . While we were building up our own defensive and offensive strength in chemical warfare , our propagandists sold the general public on the horrors of the chemical weapons which existed at the time and they have believed it ever since . As a matter of fact , our experience with poison gas during the first world war is more reassuring than frightening . Of the 272,000 casualties suffered by American forces , some 25.8 per tent resulted from gas : but only 2 per cent of these casualties died , in contrast to the 25.8 per cent of the other , non-gas casualties . Furthermore , men who were gassed suffered proportionately fewer lasting effects than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the casualties caused by gas were discharged as disabled , in contrast to 25 per cent of those wounded by other means . After that war , Colonel ( later Major General ) Harry Gilchrist of the Army Medical Corps ? the Army 's leading expert on the medical aspects of chemical warfare ? summarized a long survey of the fighting and its effects by saying that gas was " not only one of the most efficient agencies for effecting casualties but is the most humane method ever applied on a battlefield . " And he concluded that " gas causes less suffering than wounds . " COSTLY TABOO N EVERTHELESS , the fearful image of chemical warfare persisted and the government did nothing to correct it . During the second world war , President Roosevelt announced that we would use chemical weapons only in retaliation ? rather like a fighter announcing that his opponent has the right to one free swing ? and throughout the war they were never used . In the Pacific campaign , our commanders constantly asked permission to use gas as we fought our way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high ? but they were refused . Some idea of the inefficiency and inhumanity of this taboo against chemical weapons can be drawn from the fight for the tiny island of Bitou in the Tarawa group , which contained a valuable airstrip and was held by 4,000 Japanese Imperial Marines . Before the battle was over we had dropped over 3,000 tons of high explosives on the island ? which was less than a square mile in area ? and still sustained nearly 4,000 casualties , including 1,026 deaths , after the hardest fighting in the history of the Marine Corps ; filially , we had to rebuild the airstrip completely . If we had dropped only 900 tons of mustard gas on the island , we would have knocked out the entire enemy garrison in two or three days , walked ashore with practically no casualties , and had the airstrip available for immediate use . During the Korean war , the same terrible cost of our policy in time and lives was demonstrated again and again . Our field commanders were repeatedly refused permission to use chemical weapons for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavy American casualties . They would have been quite willing to use nothing more powerful than the tear gas and vomiting gas which focal police use to control riots in the United States , but their requests were summarily rejected . At the same time , however , the commanders of our prisoner-of-war camps in Korea were given authority to use tear and vomiting gas against rioting Communist prisoners because these chemicals were more effective and humane , and of less propaganda value to Communists , than the use of firearms . War is the most inefficient and terBY BRIG . rible way of settling international disputes but , this said , there is no need to increase its horrors by prohibiting the use of weapons which could mean shorter fighting and less death . Today the government is as reluctant as ever to let the facts on chemical and biological warfare be known . Talks by high officials of the Army Chemical Corps must be cleared not only by the Army but by the Department of Defense and the Department of State . When clearance is finally given , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the speeches . It has been strictly forbidden , for example , to speak of any offensive use of chemical or biological agents ? no matter how many advantages their use may have . Only defensive measures are to be discussed with the public . This restriction is absurd . Supposedly the reason for it is that other nations might be shocked at frank talk about the use of these weapons or could exploit it for propaganda purposes . But surely everyone who thinks about it must realize that we are working on offensive weapons as well as defense against them ; the Department of Defense would be impossibly incompetent if it were n't . And , unless I am very mistaken , our allies have a far more realistic view of this question than we think ? they know that we can neither prevent use of these weapons nor create protection against them by sweeping the subject under the carpet . As for the Communists , we should have learned by now that we can not let our policies be governed entirely by fear that they will be distorted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Communists mounted a major ? and successful ? propaganda campaign to the effect that we were using germ warfare when , in fact , we were n't . In effect they were exploiting our own tacit assumption ? which we have encouraged the rest of the world to share ? that chemical or biological warfare of any sort is so evil as to be a sure indication of barbarism . There are , as I 've indicated , at least two grave consequences of this policy of silence : The first is that it leaves the public unprepared for the use of these weapons , either for us or against us . A somewhat similar situation existed with respect to nuclear energy after the war , until the press forced the government to release more information . Now there is an informed and articulate public which would , presumably , be prepared to support the government in certain uses of nuclear weapons , but which has also played a definite part , I believe , in encouraging their control and in the development of the so-called " clean bomb . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and biological warfare could not be equally useful and responsible . The second consequence is that the government 's policy of silence infects the military establishment itself . Constantly pressed by the lack of sufficient time and money , our officers are forced to concentrate on the most important aspects of defense , to eliminate everything they safely can from their planning , their budgets , their allotments of priorities for training and for research . Existing in a kind of void , cut off from both public support and the knowledge that use of these weapons will be permitted , preparations for chemical and biological warfare often go begging . The Defense Department does not officially condone this , or even admit it , but the facts are : ? that our troops are not properly prepared for this kind of warfare , and casualties from initial attack against us would be disastrous ; ? that our own plans for the use of chemical and biological weapons are not well made ; that our research and development toward improved weapons ? especially the more humane ones ? arc seriously inadequate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chemical and biological weapons and how , precisely , are they being neglected ? Under security restrictions 1 can only outline the elementary facts ; even so , I doubt if fuller information has yet appeared in the public press . Chemical warfare is now far more effective than it was in 1918 when mustard gas was the principal chemical employed . Today the most painful and disagreeable gases ? tear gas and vomiting gas , for instance ? are used chiefly for riot control and their effects are short-lived . Most of the chemicals developed for use in war today give no warning of their presence by unpleasant physiological effects which would signal the enemy to take defensive measures . And in general they enter not only through the lungs but also through the skin , forcing the enemy to protect his entire body as well as his face . ( They are generally labeled " gases " but they can be gases , or solid materials in the air such as smoke , or liquid particles floating in the air in the form of an invisible mist . ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agents can be fitted into one of two very general categories : ( 1 ) The Lethal Agents , which are exemplified by the nerve gases . These arc liquids which may be disseminated either in gaseous or liquid particle form . They are odorless and colorless and , when they reach their targets , they arc invisible . When inhaled , they cause death in a matter of seconds . They will also kill through the unbroken skin when a very small amount of the liquid is left there . Physiologically , these gases work by destroying the connections between nerve endings and the muscles the nerve endings control . Since the muscles can contract but not relax , the result is an eventual paralysis of the respiratory system which requires either immediate artificial respiration and the injection of atropine if death is not to follow shortly ; and if the dose is much greater than the average lethal close , these measures will be useless . So far as we know , there are no residual effects from these gases ? they either kill or are followed by complete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , bombs , or missiles ; or they can be sprayed from tanks in manned planes . Because so little of the liquid is required , an attack may cover many tens of square miles . ( 2 ) The Non-lethal Agents , which cause irrational behavior and other non-lethal effects . The public was recently given a little information about one of these chemicals ? LSD-25 ( lysergic acid diethylamide derivative ) ? when a national magazine displayed photos of a cat which had been dosed with it cowering in the presence of a tiny mouse . LSD-25 itself would not be used as a weapon but there are many similar substances which could be . The irrational behavior caused by these chemicals varies according to the individual and is difficult to predict but generally is one of depression and anxiety . None of the victims realizes that he has been affected . Thus a battle commander might become unreasonably anxious and depressed without suspecting the gas and give illogical orders which could lose a battle ; and , conceivably , troops could be persuaded chemically that their cause was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their arms . In addition to the irrational gases ? which are now a reality ? we know that it is possible to produce other chemicals which would not be fatal but could impair the enemy 's capacity to wage war ? for instance , by causing temporary blindness , or temporary paralysis , or temporary loss of equilibrium , among other effects . The possibilities are vast . However , before research in this direction can go forward , there must first be official consensus that it is necessary ; and there must be sufficient funds to carry it out . Unfortunately , the entire amount of money now allotted to the Chemical Corps for research and development is less than the cost of two B-58 bombers . Given such limited resources , the Chemical Corps must concentrate on the lethal weapons for which a need has definitely been established ? however desirable and potentially useful it may consider the non-lethal agents to be . So long as military leaders are in doubt as to whether they will be permitted to use chemical and biological weapons at all ? and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of non-lethal warfare ? it seems doubtful that we will have a balanced or adequate program in this field . To me , this neglect of non-lethal chemical weapons is nothing short of tragic . Man is now confronted with the possibility that he can , in some important measure , eliminate death from war . it is high time we appreciate this fact and make the most of it . EVERYTHING WILL COME TO A STOP p OWERFUL as they are , chemical weapons must nevertheless he generally limited to a battlefield area no larger than a few hundred square miles . Biological agents , on the other hand , can be used as strategic weapons covering thousands of miles in an attack . It is not difficult to see why . Biological warfare uses living micro-organisms ? or their toxic products ? either against the enemy directly or against his food crops or animals . The amount of material necessary to infect the enemy is very small and it can be spread in tiny particles which will remain airborne for a long time and travel with the wind . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cited as examples of those which could figure in a biological attack are extremely numerous . Some obvious possibilities are : smallpox , caused by a virus ; typhus , caused by rickettsia ; cholera , which comes from bacteria ; and San Joaquin or Valley Fever ( coccidiondomycosis ) which is caused by a fungus . Botulism ? or " food poisoning " ? is an example of sickness resulting from the toxic product of bacteria . To attack crops , stem rust of wheat , or rice blast might be used : for animals , diseases like hog cholera or fowl plague , How could such biological agents be used ? Since their main portal of entry into the body ounce of the toxic agent which causes the disease called " Q fever " would be sufficient to infect 28 billion people . It would of course be quite impossible to realize anything like this potential ? the individual dose is so tiny that there would inevitably be great wastage ? but it gives some idea of the power that may be placed in a saboteur 's hands . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supply and greatly decrease its ability to make war . This is particularly true Of a country which depends to a large extent on a single crop , as the Soviet Union does on wheat . The United States is much less vulnerable than Russia in this respect ? we do not crucially depend on any one crop and , in general , our crops are more resistant to the various diseases . As with the chemical weapons , it is possible to employ each of these methods effectively without killing large numbers of people , if we want to . ( The attack on the food supply is perhaps most humane ? the enemy could capitulate at the starvation point and food could he shipped in . ) Biological agents chosen for attack can carry deadly diseases ? or they could carry lesser diseases which would merely temporarily incapacitate the enemy , killing oft relatively few people . But I must emphasize that this kind of decision can not be made at the last minute . It takes years of research to develop biological agents to the point where they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Corps faces the familiar problem ? it lacks sufficient funds to explore fully the possibilities for humane biological warfare as well as lethal warfare ; indeed , it does not know ? I suspect nobody knows ? what part biological warfare , humane or inhumane , will he permitted to play in our national defense planning . NEW SHAPE OF WAR I F WE can both develop and realistically plan on using some of the weapons I have been describing , they could change the shape of war as it is now conceived . Here are a few very rough illustrations of the new possibilities that will be available to us : ? Suppose we are faced on a battlefield by a large force of trained enemy soldiers in contact with our own forces ? a traditional situation of conventional warfare . Here we would probably want to use a lethal chemical agent . Biological agents carry farther and we would not want to chance a change in the wind which would blow the agent back on our own forces . Nor would we want to wait out the incubation period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will want to kill . There is no glossing over the fact that men must die in war . Taking care of a large number of sick enemy soldiers would take too many of our own men out of action . ? Suppose that the enemy had occupied an important rail center in the city of a friendly nation . Here we would certainly not want to use a nuclear weapon , even if we were involved in a nuclear war . Nor would we want to use a lethal agent . The most effective course would he to attack this target with non-lethal chemical or biological agents which would merely incapacitate the people in the area , neutralizing the rail center until we could overrun it . If we used our present approach ? which is supposed to be " humane " ? we would have to use either a nuclear bomb or many tons of high explosives , killing friendly neutrals as well as the enemy . ? Suppose that the enemy conspired to start a so-called " limited war " in another country ? a possibility which seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war . " We would want to cause the smallest amount of suffering to the people of the disrupted nation and , again , chemical and biological agents could be used to incapacitate rather than to kill . ? Finally , let us suppose that we want to attack a very large area in the enemy homeland to prevent support to its army in the field . The only known controllable weapons capable of attacking such a large area are biological ; moreover , if the area were occupied mainly by women , children , and old people , I think there is little doubt that American public opinion would prefer using a biological agent which would cause the fewest number of deaths . MINIMUM OF BLOOD T HESE examples , oversimplified as they are , suggest the outstanding virtues of chemical and biological warfare ? its flexibility and economy , not only during a war but afterwards . With these weapons it is possible to attack effectively over a large area at low logistical cost ; to seek out the enemy whether he is widely dispersed or in fortifications ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the portals of the body and is thus extremely difficult to defend against ; to neutralize , without destroy ing , such valuable facilities as factories , airfields , and ports which will be needed intact when war is over ; to use the minimum . force necessary to accomplish a military mission , causing a minimum of blood-spilling , prolonged physical suffering , and disfigurement . And last ? but far from least ? biological war may turn out to be the final deterrent against war in the future . If nuclear war is outlawed , or if the nuclear powers reach a complete stalemate , the threat of biological weapons capable of attack over an area of 100,000 square miles , with their possibilities for very large numbers of casualties , may make war too risky a strategic gamble for any power . One thing does seem clear . If we arc forced into a war with Soviet Russia or Communist China , we will have a much greater advantage if we do use these weapons . We will be fighting far greater numerical forces , a situation for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the defenses against chemical and biological weapons , although potentially effective , arc fairly complicated technically and are expensive . They involve sophisticated warning devices , efficient masks , prophylactic treatments , specially treated clothes , among other techniques . We are more able economically ? and probably more willing ? than either Russia or China is to furnish the individual soldier and the civilian community with the means to detect this kind of attack and to protect themselves against it . Our economic prosperity , our smaller population , our tradition of regard for individual life all confer advantages in defending against chemical and biological warfare . IF THIS very brief analysis of chemical and biological warfare is correct , it follows , I suggest , that we must take two new steps in our military policy . First , we must reject once and for all the position stated by President Roosevelt that an enemy can have the first chemical or biological blow wherever and whenever he wishes . That blow could be disastrous . We must make it clear that we consider these weapons among the normal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the existence and the possibilities of these weapons and learn to live with them ? with their potentials for humane warfare as well as for destruction of life . Our government should make possible ? indeed encourage ? free and full public discussion of their use so this country can prepare both to defend against them and to use them if it is to our advantage . We can not start too soon .                     