@@198173

BEETHOVEN AND HIS NEPHEW , by Editha Sferba and Richard Sferba ( 351 pp. ; Pantheon ; $5 ) . The authors are concerned with the vulnerable man , not the venerable musician , and apparently are out to demonstrate , largely using Beethoven 's own words against him . that the great composer was insufferable . He was slovenly , sadistic , puritanical , suspicious , demanding , uncontrolled , domineering , violent . After he became guardian of his nephew Karl ( the boy 's father had died ) , Beethoven tried to own his life com pletely , eventually drove him to an unsuccessful suicide attempt . Freudians Richard and Editha Sterba charge Beethoven with an " unconscious homosexual " relationship with both his brothers ; they imply the same sort of thing in regard to his nephew and . in addition , insist that Beethoven felt toward him not like an uncle but like a very maternal mother . But the documents seem to indicate only that Beethoven had the feelings of an adoring if tyrannical relative for his nephew and that he hammered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full orchestra attacking the opening bars of the Fifth Symphony . Too much of the book 's argument springs from unproved assumptions and pounces upon unverified conclusions . Nonetheless , leaving aside some of the Freudian interpretations , it is an illuminating book that focuses on Beethoven with a cold lens and catches him in a fresh if unflattering light . <P> SONG OF THE SKY ( 438 pp. ; Houghton Mifflin ; $5 ) , might have been titled Real Gone With the Wind . Author Guy Murchie Jr. , 47 , is an ex-wild-blue-yonder boy who navigated cargo planes across the Atlantic in World War II and ferried supplies from San Francisco to Tokyo during the Korean War . Along the line , he acquired an encyclopedic knowledge of everything that moves in what he calls the " ocean of the sky . " Though his book sometimes reads like an airborne Information Please , it offers engaging proof that scientific fact can be at least as strange as science fiction . Is there any meaning to the expression " light as air " ? Nonsense , says Murchie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 5 quadrillion tons . Anyone lost at sea ? Butterflies offer directions-in-reverse to the nearest coast because their flights over water are generally suicidal-away from land . Trying to make conversation in Tibet ? Better stop talking by midmorning . because after that the wind sets up a " howling , skin-blasting roar . " Along with such recherche lore . Author Murchie offers straightforward tips on air navigation to those who may feel the need of them . At his infrequent but embarrassing worst , he plays the Whitman-cum-Thomas Wolfe of the skyways : " I winnow the meager facts , seeking to construct truth only from the clean kernels . I am a human lodestone-the homing pigeon of mankind . " The Book-of-the-Month Club judges have un-cooped him for December .                     