@@186985

The five-sided Pentagon had developed a one-track mind . With keen accord , Army , Navy and Air Force last week were figuring out ways and means to keep the services within the spending ceilings set by Defense Secretary Charles Erwin Wilson . Items : <P> The Army , which had hoped to shave off 50,000 men without touching the 17 divisions currently authorized , grimly admitted that it could not . As a result , the 2nd Infantry Division , which in three wars fought conspicuously at Chateau-Thierry , Saint-L and Heartbreak Ridge , will be deactivated , replaced on garrison duty in Alaska by one of the Army 's smaller , streamlined new battle groups . The Army announced that 18 antiaircraft artillery battalions will be closed out , 15,000 civilian employees dropped , 16 depots , arsenals or other service facilities shut down . Among the casualties : Murphy Army Hospital in Waltham , Mass. , which the Army has been trying to close ( against congressional pressure ) for eight years because it has five staffers for every patient , compared to the accepted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fortnight ago in production of its F8U-1 . Crusader , A4D-2 Skyhawk and F3H-2 Demon , last week announced another . Delivery schedules on the F4D-1 Skyray fighter manufactured by Douglas Aircraft will also be lengthened . The Air Force canceled a $100 million flight-research project with Republic Aviation on Republic 's XF-103 jet interceptor . Selecting its weapons , the Air Force announced a new contract with North American Aviation for a new air-to-surface missile similar to the 6-47 's Rascal . <P> From Virginia 's Langley Air Force Base came evidence that the downhold has reached to smaller items . Ruled Deputy Base Commander Harold P. Sparks : street lights will stay off at night , air conditioners must be shut down , motor vehicles left unwashed , pencils and paper clips ordered only by emergency requisition . Moreover , announced Colonel Sparks , patrons at the base commissary were requested to return paper shopping bags for reuse .                     