@@431558

 | The Science without a Name The curious behavior of certain " impure " substances is opening up a floodgate of new inventions ? which are changing our lives much more drastically than most of us yet realize . I N THE world of 1957 it seems natural to expect revolutionary developments in pure science to produce revolutionary changes in our ways of living . But , oddly enough , the most striking changes now taking place in our way of life have little to do with the revolutionary branches of pure science , such as nuclear physics . Atomic energy , as far as it concerns the ordinary citizen , is essentially just another source of electric power ; mane of the changes it will bring us could equally well result from the discovery of immense new beds of coal or oil . The really radical changes in our daily life are coming instead from a nameless sub-branch of science and technology , one which many scientists still dismiss as gadgeteering . It deals with what the physicists call " electronically active solids . " Electronically active @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crystal sets ? and our latest , the midget portables built around the transistor ( the tiny successor to the vacuum tube ) . TV ( color as well as black-and-white ) is based on electronically active solids , and so is an endless list of other things ? fluorescent lights ; radar ; Xray fluoroscopy ; the electric eye that opens doors in railroad stations ; electronic calculators ; and many of the automatic control devices that are bringing the age of automation . And further : the " sniperscope " with which World War II soldiers spotted the enemy in the dark ; radio activity detectors ; and the new Bell Telephone Laboratories gadget that generates electrici : ' from sunlight , the solar battery . Lest you think that this is all a matter .. f " little black boxes " filled with wires , electron . cally active solids are also involved in radius : , dial watches , the new laundry whiteners , and paints , crayons , chalks , and inks that glow . Electronically active solids may soon improve on the gadgets we now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ works " ; wall-panel lighting ; wall-pant TV ; " light amplifiers " to give night drivers z clear view of the dim road ahead ; and , ultimately atomic electricity plants without electric generators ( they will obtain electricity directly from the heat of fissioning atoms instead of by raisin ; , steam for conventional generators , as in the atomic plants now under construction ) . Electronically active solids come in several distinct types . Their common denominator is the curious behavior of electrons within them . Ir . some , electrons can be induced to pop in and ou : of their normal positions in the constituen : atoms , and to wander through the material . Ii . others , wandering electrons may get lost U. " electron traps . " In still others , many of the electrons may be made to spin in the same dire , - tion instead of the usual some-this-way-and-song that , a bit of electronic legerdemain with highl ? . useful results . One particularly interesting class of electron : - cally active solids is that of the glowing sul @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in your TV set . A moving beam of electrons paints the picture in a phosphor coat on the inside face of the picture tube . Other phosphors give off light under the influence of ultraviolet light ; these are used in fluorescent lamps . A second important class of electronical1y active solids consists of semi-conductors , materials that conduct an electric current more easily than insulators ( such as glass ) but not so well aconductors ( such as copper ) . Transistors and solar batteries are made from specially prepared semi-conductors . There are many other kinds as well . Naming them all at this point , however , would merehv divert us from the business at hand , which is to see what electronically active solids are about and what makes them so fertile a source of invention . Although it has no name , the science that deals with electronically active solids has something few other branches of science can claim ?  | a quite precise beginning . It is exactly twenty - six years old . It began in 1931 with a pair of scientific papers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which opened a window into a world that had previously been quite dark , the world inside solid matter . The greater part of what scientists have learned about matter , and the atoms that make it up , they have learned from studying it in its simplest and most dilute form , the gaseous state . It is not that solids , which make up most of the earth , are less interesting than gases : the study of solids has a long history and is the subject matter of a well-established branch of science , solidstate physics . The difficulty is that atoms are packed so closely together in solid matter ( as compared with gases ) that the forces acting on atoms in solids and the events occurring inside solid matter are hard to discern . As a result , solid-state physics dealt ( and still deals ) mainly with the mechanical and other , comparatively , superficial properties of solids . Wilson successfully employed one of the great tools of modern physics , the quantum theory , to illuminate an important problem of solids ? how energy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ book and a war expanded Wilson 's work into the base for a new branch of physics and a new technology . The book was Modern Theory of Solids , by Frederick Seitz , then an assistant professor of physics at the University of Pennsylvania , now well known as the head of the physics department at the University of Illinois . 1 ) r . Seitz ' fat volume ? which was , of course , built on the w ork of many individual scientists ? systematically and brilliantly exploited the quantum theory 's usefulness in dealing with solid matter . The war created an urgent demand for inventions , such as radar , in which the new insights afforded by Wilson 's two papers and the Seitz book were applied . REFLECTIONS IN A GLOWING EYE T HE best way to enter this strange realm is to focus on one particular kind of electronically active solid . Let us choose phosphors , because they have already made possible some fascinatingly improbable feats like color TV , yet are taken for granted by almost everybody except the people who have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that various materials can be made to glow and give off light . The wire filament in the ordinary electric light TROUT A NAME 45 is an example . Yet the wire filament is not a phosphor ; it glows because an electric current heats it white hot . Nor is white phosphorus itself , which glows on exposure to air , a phosphor ; the glow is the product of a chemical reaction between the phosphorus and the oxygen of the air . Phosphors are solids that give off light without heat and without chemical reaction . The process of giving off light without heat or chemical reaction is called luminescence . It is a common phenomenon among gases . For instance , an electric discharge causes neon gas to emit an orange-red light by luminescence ; the ubiquitous neon sign is simply a tube of neon gas with an electrical connection . Even air can be made to luminesce . What you really see when you think you see a lightning flash is air made to glow by the leap of electricity between heaven and earth . Phosphors ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ About 350 years ago , Casciarolo , a Bologna shoemaker who practiced alchemy on the side , stumbled on the first phosphor by heating a mixture of charcoal and barite . When his crucible cooled , it contained crude barium sulfide , a material that shines feebly but unmistakably in the dark after exposure to sunlight . The first natural phosphor was discovered some decades later . It was the mineral fluorspar , whose fleeting glow under the stimulus of ultraviolet light gave us the word fluorescence , a term often used interchangeably with luminescence , but no longer having quite the same meaning . It was the end of the nineteenth century , though , that produced the first real crop of phosphors . They came about through the discovery of a whole family of new radiations capable of causing various substances to glow ? electron beams , ultraviolet light , X-rays , the radioactive rays of radium . In fact , phosphors were then pressed into service as radioactivity detectors . At that time , no one had any idea why different radiations made certain substances glow , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not recognized that luminescence in solids was at least a cousin to luminescence in gases ( which had also been discovered meanwhile ) . A generation of the new physics that followed the discovery of radioactivity was needed to establish the ultimate source of " cold light , " whether in gases or solids . The source proved to be the excitation of electrons in some of the atoms in the luminescent material . What happens is. this : electrons are arranged around the nucleus of the atom in a series of  | " orbital shells , " somewhat like the orbits of the planets around the sun . Each orbital shell corresponds to a particular energy level ? that is , an electron in that orbit must have a certain energy to stay there . If an electron moves from one orbit to another of higher energy , the electron must obtain additional energy from some source . If it moves to an orbit of lower energy , it gives up the energy it no longer needs . The energy an electron requires to move to a higher-energy orbit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ X-rays , or the radiations of radioactivity . A rapidly traveling electron can serve to knock an orbital electron into a higher energy shell . So may heat . Likewise , in going to a lower-energy state , an electron may give up energy in a number of ways . Luminescence occurs when electrons that have been excited return to their original state and give up excess energy in the form of visible light . In most instances , when matter is acted on by some form of energy , not just electrons but whole atoms are stirred up . Stirred-up atoms can be felt as heat ; the substance becomes warm . " Cold light " is generated only under special conditions , when electrons alone rather than whole atoms are excited . Early investigators had a clue to what these conditions might be . Phosphors like barium sulfide ? the glowing substance chanced upon by the Bologna alchemist ? luminesced only when they were impure . As soon as attempts were made to " improve " them by purification , they lost the ability to give off light . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their luminescence . The mystery was solved by Wilson . He had no particular interest in phosphors , but his papers provided an explanation of their behavior and that of other electronically active solids as well . Wilson examined what would happen to an electron ( i.e. , a bit of energy ) striking a solid . He considered first a perfect crystal , a solid with no impurities and with all its atoms arranged in perfect regularity . On the basis of the quantum theory , he made the surprising prediction that the energy of the electron would be transferred from atom to atom without absorption or loss , so long as the energy was not enough to excite the crystal atoms ( that is , raise an orbital electron to a higher-energy shell or expel the electron from the atom altogether ) . But what would happen in a crystal containing alien atoms or impurities which interrupted the spacing of the parent atoms ? Wilson suggested that the energy would be absorbed , chiefly at the sites of the alien atoms . In some instances , the absorbed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? where the right impurity was mixed with the right parent substance in the right proportions ? planetary electrons of the absorbing atoms would give off light and the material would be a phosphor . LEVERENZ MAKES TV VISIBLE A S I S often the case , the first use of phosphors did riot wait for understanding of what they are or how they work . Radium-dial watches and clocks , for example , appeared soon after radioactivity researchers discovered that a zinc sulfide or zinc silicate phosphor could be made to glow the whole night through by adding a minute amount of radium . But widespread use of phosphors had to wait for quantum physics , since most natural phosphors give off little light and are not especially useful . Nearly all worthwhile phosphors are man-made ; before they could be made , it was necessary to learn what they were . Understanding came at just the right moment to launch not only two of the characteristic inventions of our age but also a notable scientific career . The inventions were TV and the fluorescent lamp . The career belongs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ baseball player named Humboldt W. Leverenz . In the early 1920s ? while radio was still in its childhood ? venturesome radio men were already seeking to push beyond radio into TV . By 1925 they had succeeded in producing a workable , if clumsy , means of broadcasting a TV image . The receiver was another matter , though . The difficulty was that TV receivers need a source of light to build up the image , and it must be a light whose brightness can be quickly varied , or the image will lack detail . The only light source then available , the ordinary electric light bulb , could not be varied sufficiently rapidly to produce a decent picture . Phosphors excited into luminescence by an electron beam were possibly an alternative to the incandescent light . But the only phosphors then known that seemed fast-acting enough were the two watch-dial phosphors . Both were feeble and had an objectionable green color . The task of finding better phosphors was taken on by Dr. Leverenz , who had just come to the Radio Corporation of America from Stanford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to improve the watch-dial T phosphors . He was able to brighten them considerably , but they were still green . Leverenz and a staff of associates thereupon embarked on the systematic preparation of new phosphors . Over the next decade many thousands of parent and impurity combinations were investigated . Several hundred proved to have luminescent properties . Several score possessed them to a useful degree . One , based on a compound of zinc and the semi-metallic element germanium , with manganese as the activating impurity , provides a watchdial phosphor that will last almost indefinitely . ( Conventional watch-dial phosphors have a useful life of only ten years or so . ) But the new phosphor has never graced a watch face ; for reasons that are obscure , no watchmaker has ever taken out a license under the Leverenz patents . Another Leverenz-developed phosphor promised better luck . This was a complex salt of zinc and beryllium , again with manganese as impurity . The zinc-beryllium-manganese combination glows brightly from green to red , depending on the proportions of beryllium and manganese , under the stimulus of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ joined with a blue-emitting phosphor , the zinc-beryllium-manganese phosphor could be made to yield a brilliant white light . Though it has since been replaced by other phosphors , because of the danger of beryllium poisoning , this was the phosphor that put the fluorescent lamp in business . A fluorescent lamp is simply a mercury-vapor ultraviolet lamp ( very much like the bathroom sun lamp ) in a phosphor-coated glass tube . The ultraviolet light ( which is trapped inside and which you could n't see anyway ) produces the light you do see from the phosphor coat . Fluorescent lamps yield three times as much light per watt of electricity as incandescent bulbs and appear to be driving the incandescent bulb front nearly all fields of lighting except the private home . Leverenz and his colleagues also found several phosphors that glow white under the TV-tube electron beam . But they were not bright enough for practical use . In the end , the TV problem was solved by pairing blue and yellow phosphors , a combination that yields white light ( though blue and yellow pigments yield green @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TV helped pave the way for a succession of other devices . One is radar , which employs a special type of " picture tube " to record the information picked up by the radar signal ; another is color television . In color TV , phosphors for the various primary colors are activated separately , to produce colored light and a colored image instead of the monochrome image of black-and-white TV . But the most significant recent development in electronically active solids involves another class of solid and a different sort of electronic behavior . This development is the transistor . CAR RADIOS ; HEARING AIDS DU R I N G World War II , radio engineers of the Allied and Axis sides engaged in a race to perfect a variety of aircraft detection and navigation radars . In order to detect small objects especially , American and British engineers began experimenting with very short radio waves as radar signals . The latter involved a number of formidable practical difficulties . but only one concerns us here . Vacuum tubes proved poor detectors of the desired kind of radar signal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was found through a re-examination of the device that had ushered in radio , the old crystal detector . The crystal detector was a crystal of the mineral galena ( lead sulfide ) . It had been pretty good at detecting radio waves . History had passed it by only because it was apt to go dead without warning . Now , in the 1940s , researchers were armed with quantum theory and Wilson 's ideas about what happens inside solids like radio crystals . They discovered not only why the old crystals had gone dead but how they worked . The crystal was an electronically active impuritybearing solid . It detected radio waves ( that is. an electric current was generated in the crystal when radio waves passed through it ) by means of impurity atones whose electrons could be set to flowing through the crystal . The wartime studies produced reliable synthetic crystals , used in radar to this day . They also stimulated an extraordinary prediction by three of the men who had worked on the crystal problems ? Villiam Shockley , John Bardeen , and Walter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much like those used in the new crystal radar detectors could be made to amplify an electric current . Of course , amplifying electric currents is just what a vacuum tube does , and the device that Dr. Shockley and his colleagues foresaw and later invented was the transistor , the revolutionary successor to the vacuum tube . The first transistor was made just eight and  | a half years ago . Transistors are now being manufactured at a rate of tens of millions a year . They have already completely displaced vacuum tubes from hearing aids , large electronic calculators , and many other devices . Novelty items in 1955 , transistor radios will be standard in 1958 cars . Transistors are delivering rapidly on their promise of making familiar radio and electronic devices simpler and better , and of making possible many that were too complicated to be attempted before . FAMILY OF GADGETS S O F A R , have looked at just two solidstate electron processes and two classes of electronically active solids . But there are at least several solid-state electron processes beside those we have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Each has fathered a sizable family of devices , and will rapidly father more . A number of substances called photo-conductors , for instance , have the property of letting pass very small electric currents under the influence of light . and a number of other materials ( photo-emitters ) give off electrons when exposed to light . Photo-conductors form the basis of the " electric eye " or photo-electric cell , which not only opens railroad station doors but grades fruit and vegetables , rings burglar alarms , tells photographers how to set their cameras , and helps scientists conduct experiments . Photoemitters are the " film " that picks up the image in TV cameras . Another important class of electronically active solids contains the so-called ferro-electrics , which hold an electric charge ( that is , they store extra electrons ) much as a permanent magnet stores magnetism . A porcelain-like ferro-electric material is employed at dozens of points in today 's radio and television sets . Tomorrow , because they are compact and because batteries are essentially devices for storing electric charge , ferro-electrics may provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of electronically active solids are the ferrites . Electrons in ferrites can be lined up to spin in the same direction by placing the ferrite material in the field of a magnet . That makes the ferrite a magnet , too , a magnet different from and in many ways handier than magnets of iron or steel . Other electronically active solids convert heat to electricity ( the thermo-electrics ) and still others change electricity to coolth , to revive a useful word . There are likewise many different means of bringing about solid-state electron processes : each can conceivably produce its characteristic inventions . For example , electrolumininescence , the property of phosphors which glow when an electric current passes through them , has alreadv made possible decorative effects through lighted panels . Eventually it may liberate TV from the picture tube or bring us one of the most badly needed inventions of modern times ? an electroluminescent screen that would give night drivers a clear picture of the road ahead . Not long alter development of the transistor , in addition , it occurred to colleagues of its inventors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the transistor material by sunlight ; and it occurred to Radio Corporation of America investigators that this could also be accomplished by bombardment with beta radio-active rays . The latter led to the " atomic " or beta-ray battery , a device for converting radio-activity directly into a small electric current . Then came a still more remarkable instrument , the Bell Laboratories solar battery for generating electricity from sunlight . Solar batteries are already under trial as power sources for rural telephones , weather balloon radio transmitters , and other gear . The accomplishments of electronically active solids and their father possibilities extend not only to the externals of daily life , but to the most fundamental aspects as well . For some time physicists have talked of generating electricity directly from the heat of atomic energy , without boilers , turbines , or the other massive machinery of the contemporary power plant ( either atomic or conventional ) . One idea that has been discussed is using the thermoelectric effect ? the generation of an electric current in a pair of dissimilar metals joined together and heated at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are widely used to control household furnaces , but they have not - hitherto yielded enough current to be practical sources of electricity . A few years ago , however , a woman physicist on the staff of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , Maria Telkes , turned up thermocouple combinations of an entirely different order of efficiency , capable of converting at least several per cent of heat energy into current . Dr. Telkes ' thermocouples fall only a little short of the efficiency needed to make a thermoelectric atomic power plant a serious proposition . Needless to add , her thermocouples are prepared from electronically active solids .                     