@@477409

A young composer explains what kind of music his generation is trying to create where it comes from . . . what ideas lie behind it ... why it is n't as startling as it first sounds . and how to listen to it with a fresh sort of pleasure . THE composers who have emerged since the war arc beginning to have a first Clattering rush of publicity . Sympathetic critics and enterprising record companies have been giving them increasing support . But although more and more of the public is willing to listen to them seriously , their music still seems to leave some listeners in a state of puzzlement . As one of them , I often find myself asked : Who are the younger composers and what do they mean to communicate ? I am glad to say that there are no simple answers to these questions . The composers now between twenty and thirty-five are an obstinately and richly diverse group ? that is the exciting thing about them ? and in any case it is difficult , perhaps impossible , to " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say : " Listen to it ; experience it ; do n't ask me about it . " However I think it is possible to bring into perspective for the curious listener some of the important elements in the younger composers ' world ? the influences that have been working on them and the enormously varied sources of music which recently have become available to them and are as yet little known . Perhaps one difficulty has been that the postwar composers ? unlike some of the " Beat Generation " writers ? tend to be as reticent about their work as they are about themselves ? they are only rarely very flamboyant , or self-promoting , or interested in easy popularization . It would be hard , I suspect , to End a more retiring or carefully trained group of artists . The young Amer-ican who decides that he loves music enough to make a career of composing it has before him an extremely demanding stretch of formal study which may well last as long as a lawyer 's or a doctor 's , and sometimes longer . He may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ department , or he may go to one of the outstanding music conservatories such as Juilliard in New York ; often he will have attended both . And frequently he will have studied privately with a distinguished composer , here or in Europe . When his formal training is over , his profession ? as he has long since known ? can not provide him with a reasonable living Most frequently , he turns to the academic world ? a teaching career will give him the most freedom to compose . But many of us write commercial music , or have nine-to-five jobs , or , as in my own case , do free-lance journalism . But of course the largest fact about the postwar composer is not the way he makes his living ; the big thing is that he is confronted with the most spectacular array of diverse musical sources and techniques ever available to a professional . In the last ten years the musical industry ? the musical schools , performing groups , libraries , recording and publishing companies ? have expanded to a phenomenal degree . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new habit of creative thought : young composers most typically try to synthesize various musical resources ? to tie many of the new threads together and bring new order out of diversity . In contrast , the composers of the ' twenties and ' thirties generally committed themselves to the broadening and deepening of single styles . Of course the attitude of the new composers is not unique : most successful music has in one way or another been made out of several earlier styles . The music of the classic period ? Mozart and Haydn , for example ? represents a fusion of several quite different elements from the past : one contributed its familiar sense of proportion , grace , and elegance , another its high contrapuntal interest , and still another its dramatic appeal . But the tendency toward synthesis is much more marked in the work of the younger composers than in that , of their immediate predecessors . And some of the elements they work with ore altogether new and unique , reflecting ? I would suggest ? the vast changes that have altered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ H A T are the contemporary resources at the disposal of the postwar composer ? First and most significant are the achievements of the composers who preceded them . During the ' thirties and the war years , these composers contributed highly finished ? frequently definitive ? treatments of a variety of musical styles and methods . The two most influential were European in origin : neo-classicism centered around the personality of Igor Stravinsky ; the twelve-tone method was a new system of constructing music perfected by Arnold Schoenberg some thirty years ago . Until fairly recently these two schools were regarded as mutually contradictory and incompatible ; a great deal of valuable time was wasted in pointless warfare between them . The distinction between them seems less important now and they are no longer considered comparable in any real sense . Neo-classicism certainly has a characteristic vocabulary and way of approaching rhythm , counterpoint , and so on . But essentially it is an aesthetic commitment ? a musical taste ? which emphasizes the idea of musical clarity , order , and beauty of design . It frequently returns to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the Baroque , presenting modern , revitalized treatments of them in a detached and objective manner . The twelve-tone method , on the other hand , is primarily a tool for composing , although it is frequently associated with certain types of subjective expression ? most often a certain nervous intensity and power . The important difference between the two schools and the reason for the battles fought between them was that the twelve-tone method made possible the abandonment of " tonality " ? the language of much of the familiar music of the past , based on the ordinary diatonic scale of seven notes within the octave . This scale may be most simply illustrated by quoting the first exercise that the young music student ever learns ? the C major scale , made up solely of the white notes of the piano keyboard : There are of course sharps and flats ? black notes ? in tonal music but the basis of tonal writing , whether it is Bach 's or Stravinsky 's , lies in the relations between the seven tones of this scale . In attacking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ musical construction as it had been generally understood : neo-classicism , on the other hand , continued to be ? and still is ? the most powerful single expression of faith in tonal means . The fundamentals of the twelve-tone method are not mysterious . The basic technique is this : the composer arranges all twelve tones within the octave ( the white notes and black notes ) in an ordered sequence of his own invention called the row , which on paper would look something like this : The composer may present this row of tones in a variety of ways ? upside down , backward , and so on ; he may transpose it so that it will begin on any tone . Or he may use pieces of it in any way he likes ? to form the accompaniment for a melody , for example : The rows which composers with firm twelve-tone commitments create these days usually re-fleet some sort of systematic interior arrange-ment ? four groups of three tones , for example , each group joined to its fellows by a single , constant relationship which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progresses . Using a pre-arranged row in this fashion is called serial technique . In modified forms ? not necessarily using all twelve tones ? it has affected the work of practically every postwar composer . Time has shown , moreover , that it is perfectly possible to reconcile serial techniques with tonality ? Stravinsky himself has made use of them in his more recent work . Very few composers of my generation have made any complete commitment to either school , but most of us have drawn widely on the achievements of both , and some of us arc also feeling- the influence of a group of postwar European composers who apply the serial concept to the organization not only of tones , but of rhythmic patterns and instrumental color as well . AN AMERICAN STYLE more cosmopolitan , rather international , style . These men came upon the scene at a time when American music , while not without some distinction , was generally no more than a dim and unexciting reflection of late-nineteenthcentury European work . To an unprepared and incredulous public , they brought their own interpretations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Paris , Vienna , and Berlin before the first world war . In the ' twenties and ' thirties they successfully propagandized not only modern music but . American music . It must have been uphill work but their efforts have provided the younger generation not only with a more suitable professional climate in which to work but with the important musical ingredients to be used in building our own styles . The postwar composers have borrowed and inherited other sources of musical material . One has been the music of exotic and folk cultures such as those of Bali ? to which Colin McPhee has devoted much of his distinguished composing career ? and of Armenia , whose musical language has been explored by Alan Hovhaness . Aud there have been impressive treatments ofvarious Chinese styles by Chou Wen-Chung , a composer of my own generation . This work with Eastern music can be related to the use of national folk elements in the music of such Europeans as Bela Bartok in Hungary , and Ralph Vaughan Williams in England . Both of these very different composers have had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been the unfamiliar musical past which only recently has been brought to light by musical scholarship . Musicology has now blossomed into an important academic discipline , and a great many composers have been able to incorporate some of its findings into their work . Some years ago , for example , as a graduate student at Columbia University , I had occasion to do some research into the music of Guillaume Dufay , the leading composer of the Burgundian school which flourished at Dijon in the fifteenth century . It occurred to me that certain techniques Dufay used in his enchanting secular songs might be put to modern use and after a bit of experimenting I found them perfectly adaptable . FERMENT IN SOUND T H E S E inherited styles and fresh uses of the past are only a part of the picture , however . The young composer is also confronted with the tremendous advances that have been made in the uses of sound itself ? the introduction of new instruments , tape-recorders , and a new conception of silence in composition , among other innovations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exploited and they do not present themselves to the composer in neat and ticketed bundles . What follows are only brief introductory notes on some of the more significant developments : New instruments and new sounds Since the experimental ferment of the ' twenties every conceivable use has been made of orchestral instruments , both in combination and in terms of their individual sound possibilities . Relatively young instruments such as the Vibraphone ? which came out of the night clubs ? have been made to serve the purposes of concert music . Probably more important is the appearance of instruments which produce their tone electronically ? for example , the Theremin whose sound ( which was heard throughout the movie " Spellbound " ) has an eerie , voice-like quality . A more valid and practical electronic instrument is the Ondes Martenot , now widely used in France , which has a keyboard and " stops " ? like those of an organ ? to modify the sounds it produces , rather like an organ . Composers have also learned to modify the sounds of more familiar instruments . John @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? objects such as nuts and bolts , pieces of rubber , and so on , are placed on and around the strings , giving a mysterious and exotic flavor to the sound of the instrument . Henry Cowell has written piano pieces which require the performer not to play on the keyboard but to pluck and strike the strings manually . The most important creative force of the century in this general field has been Edgard Varese , a French-horn composer who now lives in New York . Starting with the idea that the sounds of the contemporary world are completely different from those that surrounded the composers of the past , M. Varese has gone on to devise new uses for almost every instrument , notably percussion , and on occasion he has borrowed surprising noisemakers ? fire sirens for example ? . from daily life . But this is far from the whole story . Deeply interested in science and its impact on the consciousness , M. Varese was the first to treat sound itself as a measurable , analyzable quantity ? an almost tangible thing ? in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harmony , melody , counterpoint ? grew out of the physical properties of a musically produced sound . The result is a music of unique " plastic " beauty ? the listener feels that he is in almost physical contact with a great variety of objects arranged in patterns that call up entirely new personal reactions ; the effect of the music seems cornpletay relevant to my own time and place . One reacts to it as one might to a remarkable piece of machinery , or to a beautiful piece of architecture . Another interesting speculative composer is the American Harry Partch , who has developed a tonal system involving a scale of forty-three tones to the octave , and devised instruments suitable to it . The chief of these are a large , guitar-like creation , and an instrument made of what Mr. Partch calls " cloud chamber bowls " ? hollow glass spheres of different sizes , visually beautiful and capable of a considerable range of tone , from deep , gong-like sounds to bright , clear tinkles . Placement A different variety of American experiment is reflected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the placement of the instrumental and vocal forces of a piece , as well as the psychological timing of the effects that they produced . When I attended the New York premiere of his " Millennium II " I saw half the brass-players of the city ranged along the sides of the orchestra section of the Great Hall at Cooper Union , trumpets on one side , trombones on the other , while the stage was occupied by an ensemble of French horns , tubas , and percussion . Toward the end of the piece there was an abrupt halt in the proceedings and a single high soprano voice floated through the house : the girl , as it turned out , was concealed in the wings and singing into a microphone . The effect was uncanny , beautiful , and ? for some of the audience ? explosive . Silence Of course silence is an integral part of any sort of music ; a composition " breathes " with it at phrase endings , for example , and it has always been useful for surprises , effects of tension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there has been great interest in other musical applications of silence . On the one hand , the twelve-tone group , with their instincts for " total organization , " have attempted to structure silence , along with the other raw elements of the composition , in a closed , self-consistent system . Here they reflect the influence of Anton Weber ' ' , the Austrian who was Schoenberg 's greatest disciple . In contrast , John Cage ( who in another facet of his work has gone deeply into the possibilities of chance as an element of musical organization ) uses silence as the framework within which occur accidental and unpremeditated musical " events . " A good example occurs in one of his more exaggerated experiments , in which silence surrounds the occasional sound of radios ( used as instruments of an ensemble ) which are tuned in at random . This strikes me as less valid than some of Mr. Cage 's other work , but it does show the direction the experiments in this area have been taking . The Tape-recorder Of all the mechanical innovations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the profession of music has been the invention of the magnetic tape-recorder . It has not only made possible the growth of the recording industry to its present huge size ; it has presented composers with a powerful new means of modifying all the musical materials I have been describing . The machine may be played or used for recording at any desired speed . Thus , a note on the flute may be put into the lowest register of usable tone without destroying the characteristic quality of its sound . And since the tape may be cut at any point , the sound of a gong , for example , may be preserved and the noise of striking it eliminated . Playing the tape backward will give strange new qualities to many sounds , and there are ways of making a sound continuous . By re-recording , any and all sounds : nay be combined with each other , singly or in 4-roups ; they may be further modified by such attachments as echo-chambers , or filters which emphasize or suppress overtones within the sound as desired . One of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " for " it does not involve the performing musician . The process of composing thus becomes more like that of painting . Aside from the economics of the situation , which offers a rather cheerless picture to the instrumentalist , there is something ominous in the idea that the joys of good live performance might one clay vanish from musical life , at least as far as new music is concerned . But some composers are stimulated by the fact that it is now possible to set down a work in authentic and immutable form , once and for all , in the very process of creation . Music involving the tape-recorder as a fundamental ingredient of composition goes by several names . In Germany the dominant form is called Elektronische Musik . The composers of this school have generally taken the somewhat rigid attitude that only sound produced electronically ? as by an oscillator ? is admissible at all ; sounds of conventional instruments have been prohibited . They lean toward academic applications of the twelve-tone method . Fortunately , the Elektronische people have lately begun to relax the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mu.sique concrete ; they permit everything , including elements of noise , but in contrast to the Germans they discourage the use of electronically produced sound . Implausible as it may seem , the clicking of railway wheels , properly treated , may become an ingredient of a perfectly reasonable and attractive piece in masique concrete . In addition , such French composers as Pierre Boule , have produced music more characteristic of the German school . In America we simply call this " tape-music " ; there are no special restrictions upon composers ( except a discouraging lack of money and facilities ) ; and all sounds are regarcled as quite usable , although it has been my observation that musically produced sounds , particularly percussive ones , tend to be preferred . The major American achievements in this field so far have come from Edgard Varese , Vladimir Ussachevsky , and Otto Luening . Jazz A different sort of factor in the young composer 's present milieu is the development of serious jazz . Although there were some experiments in jazz form during the ' thirties , notably by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for example ) , most attempts at a serious jazz art remained mannered and pretentious ; they simply dressed up quite ordinary jazz expressions with the outward trappings of concert-music , retaining the virtues of neither . With the appearance of an appropriately bearded young man named Jimmy Giuffre , however , the picture has brightened considerably . Giuffre has evolved a highly personal and closely reasoned variety of jazz , the core of which is the elimination of the sounded beat , the insistent pounding from the rhythm section . He relies on phrasing for the " jazziiess " of his work . And he has found ways to accommodate improvisation , which , after all , is still the heart of the jazz style . Giuffre 's taste runs to understatement ? his music whispers , suggests , alludes with a sort of whimsical elegance that I myself find irresistible . The thinking that underlies it , however , is applicable to almost any sort of utterance in jazz . One of his compositions could shout at the top of its voice , and the importance of Giuffre @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been liberated from its historic ( and annoying ) chore of marking the beat ; there is a certain new independence among the other instruments as well ; and he has ventured pretty far into the freest sort of iron-tonal harmony . Giuffre 's concepts have exercised a powerful attraction on some composers in the concert field , notably Gunther Schuller , a highly talented man of my own generation who has brought serial techniques deriving from the twelve-tone method into jazz expression with impressive results . There have also been some attempts to bring jazz elements into concert works ; among younger composers , the music of Ten Macero has so far received the widest recognition . VITALITY IN OPERA W HAT does the future hold for these experiments ? The typical young composer , as I have suggested , is interested in synthesis , and has embraced complex resources boldly . The situation is scarcely that cut anddried , however . Some outstanding young composers have pursued single lines of development with great success . The gifted young composer William Flanagan , for example , has exploited a conservative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinguished art songs in American literature . Nor should it be thought that the younger generation has a monopoly on synthesis . Aaron Copland , regarded with considerable justice as the dean of American composers , has incorporated neo-classicism , folk elements , and echoes of jazz into his highly individual style ; in the last decade he has used serial techniques as well . His recent " Piano Fantasy " is an excellent ex -- imple of a consistent , unified , and highly affecting work which draws upon a wide variety of sources . After all qualifications are made , I think dial American composers will be equal to the profusion and the promise of the raw material which surrounds them . One strong reason , certainly , for confidence in their vitality has been the emergence in recent years of a. genuine school of American opera which is making ? to my way of thinking ? the first large contribution , in a national sense , to the lyric stage since the heyday of Richard Strauss and Giacomo Puccini , This is probably the single most important development in postwar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become so interested in opera , I think , is that it gives them a chance to reach a larger and less specialized public and to escape the ivory-towerism with which they have so long been reproached ( a charge very far from justified , by the way , in my opinion ) . And , surfeited with absolute music , as in string quartets and symphonies , many composers are glad to work with characters on a stage ; in any case , there are certainly a great many more American composers who are stage-struck these days than ever before . As it is developing now , moreover , American opera is thoroughly national . Douglas Moore 's " The Ballad of Baby Doe , " for instance , presents a powerful and stormy drama of the making and breaking of a Colorado mining millionaire ; it is frankly Americana . Samuel Barber 's " Vanessa , " in contrast , calls up the heavily-charged atmosphere of mid-nineteenth-century Europe , and yet it is made of music that could have been written only by an American . Virgil Thomson 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Four Saints in Three Acts " and " The Mother of Us All " are uniquely ours in the same way , no matter how much time Miss Stein or Mr. Thomson may have passed in France . This excitement about opera is reflected in the work of the younger generation . We seem to have written mostly one-act pieces so far , although there have been a few successful full-length ventures ; getting an opera produced is still no easy matter . An interesting thing about this musical age-group , incidentally , is that we have drawn upon the modern musical comedy ? for example , those of Leonard Bernstein and Frank Loesser ? to a much greater degree than composers ever have before . NO MATTER how much explanation is made of what they are doing , the young composer. ; know that a sizable portion of the listening public may find their music puzzling and " difficult " to listen to ? especially those composers who make a sharp break with the past . This situation , of course , is anything but new . When Beethoven 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is a crass monster , a hideously writhing wounded dragon , that refuses to expire , though bleeding in the finale , and furiously beats about with its tail . " The new composers have to rely on the public to approach new and unfamiliar music in a state of pleasant anticipation , not determined dread ? they count on their audience to have an appetite for surprise and mental stimulation . As a matter of fact , in many ' modern works , the break with the past is more apparent than real , and this becomes clear on extended acquaintance . And whether the composer 's work is " easy " or " difficult , " he hopes that the listener will follow his music itself for its own sake ? without expecting concrete images or associations or " meaning " to arise From it . It is not necessarily wrong that a composition should evoke the New Hampshire woods ? each listener should get out of a piece of music the pleasure it holds for him ? but illustrative suggestion is not often the composer 's intention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggest something very general ? light and dark , motion and tranquillity , gentleness and force , or perhaps sadness and happiness . Music is its own form of communication , after all , and a musical idea is far more cogent , more explicit than any verbalization about it . To write descriptively about music is in the end something like attempting to describe , by means of knitting , one 's reaction on first seeing San Francisco Bay . I have been describing my own generation in terms of its search for synthesis of rich and diverse musical resources . The real story is in the music itself . We hope you enjoy it .                     