@@494758

Recalling the innocuous generalities in the speeches of Governor Franklin Roosevelt in 1931 , one hesitates to ask too much from Gov ? governor Rockefeller now . He is a pleasanter choice for the Presidency than his only Republican rival . But Mr. Rockefeller is tugged in two directions : if he boldly criticizes Republican errors , the Party Regulars will like him even less ; if he moves the other way and unqualifiedly blesses the Administration 's record , how independent and responsible will he seem to the Irregulars ? So far , he has edged away from the White House line only by recommending a resumption of underground nuclear tests , and by leaving the impression of doubt about the value of negotiating at this time with the Soviets . If chill winds blow on the mountain tops next spring , Mr. Rockefeller can then remind us that he never thought mountaineering was the best way to spend one 's time . But foreign affairs will not be the only issue in 1960 . There will be soft spots in the economy , such as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not leave unexposed or unexploited . The Rockefeller appeal will be tested , therefore , not only by where he stands vis-a-vis the Russians , but where he stands vis-a-vis the Amer ? icans . And for this reason , the Governor 's speech last week to the Economic Club of New York merits analysis . It began With an account of the Governor 's achievements in pro ? moting economic growth within his state . He confided the fairly ap ? palling statistic that " some 4o task force studies " are under way . He sensibly doubted that the present , high Soviet growth rate can be main ? tained in the face of labor shortages and increasing internal demands for more consumer goods . Moreover , he said , there is no reason why our rate of growth can not exceed 3 percent ( the long-run trend ) or the postwar average of 4 percent . ( It should be observed that the 3 and 4 percent figures refer to increase in total national output , not in per man production . ) But how are we to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ical question , Mr. Rockefeller said nothing to upset his audience of businessmen . We can not accelerate rapidly , he said firmly , by relying on government intervention : " Under our enterprise system , an in ? creased rate of growth can not be achieved by government fiat , or by any magic formula . . . . One sure way to interfere with our historic and present potential for growth would be to pursue the ' purchasing power for prosperity ' line of government spending , inflation , and taxes that repress investment . But if we strive for growth along sound , free enter ? prise lines , we can reap substantial benefits in strengthening our THE NEW REPUBLIC national defense , strengthening our capacity for interna ? tional economic cooperation and competition , strength ? ening our free institutions , and meeting our human responsibilities at home . " What " sound , free enterprise lines " should be fol ? lowed in order to achieve the growth rate Governor Rockefeller wants ? He answers with a 6-point program , beginning with " further encouragement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not say who shall do the encouraging , the government , private sources or both , or by what mechanisms . Point 2 advocates " mone ? tary and fiscal policies to moderate recessions and con ? tain inflation . " No one will quarrel with that , but Mr. Rockefeller 's emphasis here is on action by the several states , rather than action by the federal government or the Federal Reserve Board whose actions count most if we are talking about monetary and fiscal policy . Point 3 suggests that labor refrain from seeking fur ? ther reductions in the length of the work week . Yet un ? less we have in mind total mobilization , there is every reason to believe that needed expansion can occur with ? out reversing the trend toward a shorter work week . For example , the steel industry last year produced at only about 6o percent of capacity , and this under-employ ? ment would not have been remedied had the work week been longer . Mr. Rockefeller ignores too the fact that the best relief industrial society has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me ? chanical service is the enlargement of the time avail ? able for life away from the factory or office . Nor is this proposal entirely consistent with the Governor 's later concern with the impact of automation . It should be obvious that one way to cushion the disruption caused by the second Industrial Revolution of automation is to continue the historical tendency toward reduced hours . It is interesting that Mr. Rockefeller backed away from this point under questioning later by reporters . The recommendations on taxes in Point 4 are care ? fully vague . The full text reads : " We need tax revision to encourage savings and investment , initiative and en ? terprise . Such revision should give more realistic treat ? ment to depreciation and reduce the present burden on productive investment . This does not mean changing the progressive nature of our tax system , but tailoring the progression to our needs for investment . " It seems fair to infer from this that the Governor favors reduc ? tion in the top income tax rates . But although there are many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incremental rates ( the top rate is now an unrealistic 91 percent ) , they carefully couple their recommendation with detailed proposals for the closing of expense ac ? count , depletion , and capital gains loopholes . There is no sign of such coupling in Mr. Rockefeller 's address . A certain protective haze obscures the full meaning of the fifth point as well : " We need to remove the drags on our growth such as the ineffective phases of our farm program , government inefficiency and featherbedding - whether it be in labor or industry - through subsidies and certain tariff protections . " Which portions of the farm program does he specifically mean ? What would he substitute ? What measures might be taken to elimi ? nate " featherbedding " ? The final Point suffers from a distressing similarity to the Eisenhower style in public administration . Here is how Mr. Rockefeller phrases his concern about auto ? mation : " We need to face more realistically the prob ? lems that come with automation . They lie at the heart of growing labor-management tensions and their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but to the future strength and competitive position of our nation . " What should be done ? " To help develop an agreed upon framework of objectives and relationships needed to deal with them , I recommend that there be established at the national level , a consultative body with representatives from labor , management , the pub ? lic and the Secretaries of Labor , Commerce and Treas ? ury . " Another commission . It 's hard to do sums with purposely vague pronounce ? ments . Yet it is a fair summary to say that the Gover ? nor 's speech does not add up to any bold. , new program for strengthening the American economy . This judg ? ment is based on more than the free enterprise platitudes which stud the speech . The accent on states ' rights , the suggestion of tax amendments to help the wealthy , the prudent retreat into obscurity at key points , the idea that increasing productivity requires a longer working week , the skepticism about government participation in economic expansion and the shifting of resources from trivial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ backing away from the more positive positions taken only a year or so ago in the Rockefeller Report . If Governor Rockefeller were to become President Rockefeller , we could reasonably expect less benighted Secretaries of Treasury than Messrs . Humphrey and Anderson , and a more farsighted view of government budgeting than these gentlemen have led Mr. Eisen ? hower to advocate . But we would expect that from Mr. Nixon too , for he is a professional politician and has never been as enamored as is his Chief of the business ? **25;1673;TOOLONG . Mr. Rockefeller 's sincerity and charm are acknowledged , even in California . But he has yet to show what other reasons there are for prefer ? ring him to his opponent . Whether he is a more likely winner than Nixon is of primary interest to Republican professionals . Whether the country would be better off if he did beat Nixon is a question of public interest . On the evidence of the Economic Club speech , the Gover ? nor 's " program " for growth is a poor substitute for the approach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tion competing with a dynamic Communist society taken by Senators Clark and Humphrey in the Congress or J. K. Galbraith and Leon Keyserling out of it . Allen W. Dulles , Director of the CIA , has performed an important public service by warning that America 's present margin of economic superiority over the Soviet Union will be " dangerously narrowed unless our own industrial growth rate is substantially increased from the present pace . " In his testimony as the first witness in hearings being held by the Subcommittee on Eco ? nomic Statistics headed by Rep. Richard Bolling ? of the Joint Economic Committee , Dulles estimated that the Soviet Union will grow industrially by from 8 to 9 per ? cent per year . He compared this to a possible growth rate of 4.5 percent per year for the United States and emerged with the conclusion that in this case the Rus ? sians would by 197o attain 6o percent of American in ? dustrial output . If the American industrial growth rate is " the two percent which Khrushchev believes is the best we have in us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will reach more than 8o percent of ours . But the most important point Mr. Dulles made was that neither gross national product nor total industrial production is a " true yardstick of our national power positions " and that it is the uses to which economic re ? sources are directed that " largely determine the measure of national power . " Thus , a very rich nation can , de ? pending on how it uses its wealth , be a weaker nation as measured in terms of its national security capabilities than a less wealthy nation like the Soviet Union which uses its lesser wealth more wisely from the point of view of its security and survival . One does not need to endow the CIA with mythical powers of omniscience to be able to say that in this par ? ticular area Allen Dulles is no doubt as well informed as any man in this country . The CIA does an excellent job in detecting the flaws and holes in official Soviet statis ? tics , in deflating overweening Soviet claims when they are made , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of work can be done on the basis of official publications and open observation without de ? pendence on clandestine material . If Dulles credits the Soviet Union with an industrial growth rate of from 8 percent to 9 percent , it must be assumed that this statement is well based . It may also be said that even though the Dulles testi ? mony was blunt , it probably tends considerably to un ? derstate the danger . One of the reasons for this is that , like many others who have ventured into the field , Mr. Dulles tended to take the optimum growth rate of American industry and gross product in the postwar era and to base a prediction on this . It is relevant to point out , for example , that when American postwar growth is cited in terms of a percentage per year , inspec ? tion will often show that the group of years from which the percentage is derived includes the Korean War boom which brought about the most rapid stimulation of total industrial output in a short period achieved since World War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ count on this kind of stimulation . Despite recovery from the recent recession , the American growth rate in the last few years has not been startling and economic develop ? ment has been proceeding in fits and starts . Without considerable changes in orientation and national leader ? ship it would , for example , seem highly risky to project an anticipated growth rate in American industrial out ? put of 4.5 percent to 1970 . Also , though Mr. Dulles has been quite objective in presenting Soviet economic attainments and in deflating Soviet propaganda claims , he may still be underestimat ? ing Soviet economic capabilities . He failed to point out with complete clarity that the Soviet Union is in the midst of a quite extraordinary economic and industrial upsurge which sees very appreciable gains made each year . And there is not yet any real reason to foresee much slackening of this growth . Americans are known as practical people , proud of being problem-solvers . But first the problem has to be identified . Congressman Bolling 's Joint Economic sub ? committee is helping to prepare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public a fuller understanding of what the problem is . Today is somebody 's birthday . Among others , it is the birthday of the 3,000 Americans who with the last stroke of midnight became 65 years old . That they reached this day ( and a million of them do each year ) is a tribute to modern medicine , sanitation , nutrition , to the food supply available in this country and to a stand ? ard of living which gave them the purchasing power to acquire their share of it ; to an environment which gives new-born infants an average life expectancy of 71 years . Sixteen million Americans are alive who have already had their 65th birthday . Two out of three of those who become 65 today will live to celebrate their 75th birth ? day ; one out of four will be there when the 85-year mark rolls around . At the beginning of the century , only 3 million Americans had reached or passed the age of 65 . In io years , more than 7 million will be 75 or older . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ican society has few ideas of what to do either with the aged and the aging or about them . Translated into real persons and their problems , the Madison-Avenue words , " senior citizens " and " golden years " mean low or no income , little suitable housing , much neglected ill-health , and , psychologically far more important even than these , few means of doing active and useful work for the hundreds of thousands whose employment has been in organizations with retirement policies that make no provision for the morning after the 65th birthday . 