@@188375

In choosing their first two U.S. Senators and single Congressman , Hawaiians last week elected a slate as ethnically varied ( one Chinese-American , one Japanese-American , one mainland-born Caucasian ) and politically divided ( two Democrats , one Republican ) as the new state itself : <P> Hiram Leong Fong , 52 , U.S. Senator , who will be the first person of Asian descent to sit in the upper house of Congress . A handsome , greying man , he is an independent Republican and a self-made millionaire whose immigrant father came from Kwangtung province to work in the Oahu cane fields for $12 a month . The seventh of eleven children , Fong decided as a small boy to lift himself out of poverty , worked his way through high school by selling newspapers , shining shoes and caddying , changed his first name from Yau to Hiram to honor a venerable Congregational missionary , Hiram Bingham. * The University of Hawaii was tougher , but Hiram Fong got through in three years with honors , with a bewildering collection of side jobs that ranged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worked for two years , borrowed $3,000 to go to Harvard Law School , went back to Hawaii in 1935 with his degree and " 10 in my pocket . " The law firm he founded is wonderfully Hawaiian-Fong , Miho , Choy &; Robinson - Chinese , Japanese . Korean and Caucasian , in that order . He plunged energetically into politics , and after the war into business , is now the president of six prospering companies ( real estate , insurance , shopping centers , loans and investments , and a banana plantation ) , has spent 14 years in the territorial legislature , six of them as stentorian-voiced speaker of the house . <P> Oren Ethelbert Long , 70 , U.S. Senator . A Kansas-born farm boy , Oren Long progressed from a one-room schoolhouse in Earlton to Tennessee 's Johnson Bible College ( Disciples of Christ ) and the University of Michigan . He sailed to Hilo on Big Island in 1917 to become a social worker . Five years later he returned to the mainland to earn his second master 's degree , in education at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ territory . For the next 22 years Long served ably in Hawaii 's educational system , rose from high school principal to superintendent of the territorial public-school system , delivered scores of amiable , rambling commencement speeches , signed thousands of diplomas . ( Politicos estimate that he drew 50,000 of his 83,704 votes last week from former students and their families . ) In 1946 Democrat Long was appointed territorial public-welfare director , and he was Acting Governor during the turbulent pineapple workers ' strike of 1947 and the longshoremen 's strike of 1949 . President Truman appointed him tenth territorial Governor in 1951 , and he held office unobtrusively until displaced by a Republican ( Samuel Wilder King in 1953 ) . Long has held office as territorial Senator since 1956 . He felt so confident of his election to the Senate that he took a one-week sabbatical after the primary to attend an international Lions convention in New York .                     