@@494348

Noteworthy This Week BEHIND THE HEADLINES Bite-Size Power THE Hell 's Canyon fight is 18 months old ? almost as old as the Republican Administration . One of the first in a series of " give-aways " and " break-ups " which have been this Administration 's domestic trademark over the past two years , Hell 's Canyon , even more than " Dixon-Yates , " seems to symbolize the degree to which Republicans are ready to sacrifice the public welfare to a slogan which makes them ready dupes for any fast talking entrepreneur whether he sells oil , power or battery additives ; " private enterprise is best ! " The ' story by now is familiar . The Columbia Basin is a network of rivers which , once controlled , could supply the entire Pacific Northwest with power , irrigation and transportation instead of periodically ravaging it with floods . But to harness the network 's full potential , each part must be developed with an eye to the whole . Hell 's Canyon is a spot high up on one chain of rivers in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to produce electricity but also to hold back enough water to insure a constant , even flow down through the chain below it . The government had long planned such a dam for Hell 's Canyon and resisted the efforts of the Idaho Power Company to build instead first one , then five , then three small dams , useless except for the production of power , when the Secretary of the Interior , Douglas McKay ended its opposition in May , 1953 , leaving the decision with the Federal Power Commission ? three Republicans , one Eisenhower Democrat , one independent . Now the FPC staff has filed a report which , to quote Business Week , " buys most of the power company 's contentions . " So it looks like the Idaho Power Company will get a 50-year license to develop one of the country 's few remaining great darn-sites in such a way as to lower the potential of the entire Columbia Basin . The FPC staff seems to have acted on the basis of an analysis by Lesher Wing , its San Francisco regional engineer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or low dams because in 10 years much of the power in the area will come from steam plants . It is difficult to , know how Wing developed that prophecy , but then the FPC San Francisco office has a rather remarkable record of being wrong in estimating Northwest hydroelectric needs and developmen . It seems clear that the FPC as it is now constituted reflects Republican determination to establish at any Lost as many roadblocks to " creeping socialism " as possible during the coming two years . With Hell 's Canyon , the process of fragmenting the development of the'Columbia Basin into un-coordinated projects will have begun . Where " Dixon-Yates " attacks a firmly established , operating system that can appeal for support on the basis of accomplishment , Hell 's Canyon , is step one in the break-up of a system in the process of being born , a promise which two years of concentrated effort could kill . Democratic Harmony THE MEETING in New Orleans of Democratic Party stalwarts to pick a successor to National Cornniittee Chairman Stephen Mitchell produced no explosions be-cause so many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patronage to dispense , and a great deficit to make up , the National Committee has not been very popular among Democratic leaders during the past two years . And these men feel that the pow-i er to choose a candidate in 1956 will reside in thei state organizations anyway So although the contest was open and spirited , there are no lasting scars or grudges , . and the new Chairman , Paul Butler , is free to determine how big or small his job will be . In politics all his life ? Young Democrats , ward leader , district leader , National Committeeman ? Butler is known as a " reform " man in his home state , Indiana , but has n't been able to win any impressive elections there . Two important decisions were taken in New Orleans . The Committee on Rules , which included men usually as far apart as Sen : Hubert Humphrey of Minnesota and forMer Gov . John Battle of Virginia , agreed that the " Loyalty Oath " which raised havoc at the 1952 convention was a meaningless thing in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And agreement was reached , after disagreement throughout the recent campaign , that President Eisenhower was from now on to be a principal target for political attack ? a decision promptly reflected in speeches by Adlai Stevenson , Averell Harriman and the new Chairman , Butler . The meeting demonstrated unity . But although Butler was frankly presented as Stevenson 's candidate , and the anti-Stevenson forces showed up poorly in the voting , the results do not guarantee Stevenson an easy win in 1956 . Much *kept LOCK . M. row Nn .. Come on ? let 's take the short cut NEW REPUBLIC of the opposition to Butler came from the big cities in the big states . Delegates from New York and Pennsylvania , for example , together could cast only four votes at New Orleans ; at the 1956 nominating convention , they will have 94 and 70 respectively . Two Prime Ministers ON NOVEMBER 30 Parliament opened a new session with the familiar blaze of pageantry as the Queen read the government 's legislative program from her throne in the House of Lords . This time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that most observers agreed a General Election was planned for the coming year . The decision still rests with the incalculable Winston Churchill , who , 80 years young that day , shows less sign of retiring than ever . Indeed , Churchill 's unweakening rel ish for the party battle makes even more remarkable the unanimous all-party tribute which was paid him on his birthday . Attlee as Leader of the Opposition made the presentation of a portrait to whose cost nearly all Members of Parlia ment had subscribed , while Da.i Grenfell , the old Welsh miner who ranks as Father of the House , handed Churchill a memorial volume signed by every member . There is no precedent in the history of democracy for such a unanimous-demonstration of affection and respect to the leader of a political party still energetic in the electoral fight . It is evidence , not only of the unparalleled qualities of Churchill as a man , but also of the maturity of British parliamentary democracy . The same day as Britain was providing this proof of national unity and democratic stability , events @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very different direction . In South Africa the dominant Nationalist Party was electing as leader and Prime Minister a man whose rigid fanaticism may soon split his own country and the Commonwealth itself . Ever since the Nationalist Party won the South African election on a policy of apartheid , its attempt to impose absolute racial segregation in all fields of ? South African life has been straining the unity of both South Africa and the Commonwealth . Unfortunately the main opposition , the United Party , has never plucked up the courage to adopt a liberal alternative to apartheid . A month ago the aged leader of the Nationalists , Dr. Malan , suddenly announced his intention of retiring ; and there seemed a chance of organizing some co-operation between the moderate Nationalists and the United Party , providing Malan 's successor was not opposed . But the United Party fumbled its opportun ) ty , and on November 30th the Nationalist caucus chose the extremist leader , Strydom , las Prime Minister . Strydom is a bitter , unyielding doctrinaire whose views on most subjects would in Europe be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through at an ever faster pace , and to crush all constitutional , obstacles in doing so . He is a prominent supporter of Afrikaner domination over the English-speaking South Africans . He wants South Africa to be a Republic , outside the Commonwealth . And he will renew South Africa 's demand for control of the protectorates now under British administration ? islands of racial tolerance in the sea of segregation . If Strydom now attempts to carry out his policies , he may produce civil war in South Africa -- a country of great strategic importance to the whole free world , and of considerable economic importance to Britain . Conceivably , the country might be partitioned between Afrikaans and the English-speaking population . In any case , his external policy may rupture the Commonwealth , unless . South Africa secedes first . London DENIS HEALEY , M. While You Were n't Looking " Masterful Job " THE 35,000 new public housing units authorized by the Housing Act of 1954 in all , likelihood will never be built . Restrictions written into the act by Congress probably will make it impossible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ low-rent homes promised by President Eisenhower and ostensibly approved by Congress . The trouble stems from two provisions in the 1954 Act , one a technicality , the other a deadline . To qualify for any of the 35,000 homes a city must show they are needed to house families whose homes have been demolished by slum clearance , blight removal or other governmental action . On this basis , Chicago , for example , can demonstrate that it will need homes for 3,800 low-income families next year and for each of the four years afterward . But another section of the act stipulates that preference in public housing must go to these displaced families . There are in Chicago 's 1.2,500 public-housing apartments and houses which produce some 1,200 to 1,300 " turnover " vacancies each year . Add these to the 5,000 new units which will be completed next year under 1949 Con- tracts , and there will be in Chicago ap- proximately 7,500 public-housing units available in 1955 . If housing authorities must under the ' law disreard the needs of the 20,000 or so families which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and of those whose homes may be destroyed by fire or other " non-governmental " action , all of the 3,800 who will lose their homes through " governmental " operations can be easily accommodated . Chicago could not establish a " need " for additional housing under the 1954 Act . Housing officials admit that every other large city with public housing is in exactly the same fix ; even Albert M. Cole , Housing and Home Finance Administrator , seems genuinely distressed and is seeking a way out . But funds provided for the 35,000 units expire on June 30 , 1955 . It is now December . Even if a way were discovered in which cities could establish their " need " for some of the 35,000 units , HHFA would have to certify this fact formally , then the cities would have to obtain city council approval of all proposed sites , then submit preliminary architectural plans and cost estimates to federal authorities . HHFA would then have to , negotiate a contract with the city . Past negotiations of such contracts ? after all required data @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reduce it to four . Even if he does , completed city applications would have to be in HHFA hands by March 1 at the latest ? practically an impossibility . If public-housing bogs down now , Cole says he will ask Congress to amend the act . He would get strong support from Sen. Paul Douglas ( D , Ill. ) , who has announced that he will introduce a bill early next session to clear away these restrictions and to re-authorize the 560,000 units originally planned under the Act of 1949 . Rep. Sidney R. Yates ( D , Ill. ) plans even faster action . A member of the Appropriations Committee , he intends by means of a rider to the'appropriations bill to knock out the hampering restrictions . Last session Douglas predicted on the floor of the Senate ( as the NR did in these pages ) that exactly these difficulties would result from the 1954 Act . The anti-housing forces knew it too : Yates recalls the day Rep. Jesse P. Wolcott ( R , Mich. ) a bitter foe of public housing , presented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Representatives . " I 'll never forget it , " says Yates . He said , ' We 've done a masterful job on public housing , ' and no one in the House missed his double meaning "                     