@@485203

THE MANUFACTURERS of ethical pharmaceuticals ( that is , drugs not advertised to the layman and for sale only upon the prescription or original recommendation of the physician ) have been under fire for some time now . Consumers ' groups , sections of the lay press and individual physicians and pharmacists have been asking questions and making accusations . The government has joined the war  --  in 1958 with a Federal Trade Commission report on antibiotics manufacture that opened pricing and marketing activities to the public gaze , and more recently in a criminal anti-trust suit against the manufacturers of Salk vaccine . The latter , the first real battle , was won by the industry , the court finding that the government , being required to prove guilt " on a reasonable hypothesis beyond a reasonable doubt " and to " simultaneously eliminate every other reasonable hypothesis of innocence , " had presented evidence that established only the latter . The current Kefauver hearings are the next battle . Presumably interested in the broad problem of administered prices , the hearings have alleged and will continue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and dumping at low prices in foreign markets , and will suggest a strain upon , if not violation of , the anti-trust laws . It is now too early to predict what the results of the investigation will be : legislation ( on patent and anti-trust laws ) , anti-trust actions , or further investigations may follow . Whatever happens , the pitiless publicity of the Kefauver hearings must redound to the advantage of the consumer . The consumer , who is concerned of course with the high price of ethical drugs , is at first ready to blame the pharmacist , but the latter rejects the basic responsibility . With considerable justice , he points to the high prices he needs to pay ; to the large inventories and senseless duplications he must keep ; and to the rapid obsolescence of drugs not always returnable . He contends that on well over half the prescriptions he sells he is just meeting his costs of materials , labor and overhead ; experts in pharmacy administration keep telling him that to these he should add a charge for professional services . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prescriptions is large ; undoubtedly there are instances of gouging and shady practices . But the basic sources of consumer costs are the controlled prices and marketing practices of the manufacturers . WHETHER or not one accepts this rationalization completely , it is probably true that to attempt to correct the situation at the consumer level is to deal only with the symptoms . Clinics , co-operatives , labor-union pharmacies and similar group enterprises reach a limit4 clientele and 479 are hamstrung by the same high material costs and the same professional standards which make the doctor 's prescription an unalterable document . In addition , group activities of this kind usually run into opposition from organized medicine and pharmacy , and from the manufacturers . In Santa Rosa , California , for example , a syndicate raised $110,000 to gain voting control of a clinic and then proceeded to turn the property into other uses . And testimony before the Kefauver committee indicates that a pharmacy established by the American Association of Retired Persons and the National Retired Teachers Association in California has had to close down , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get supplies from three important manufacturers . Recent attempts have been made at covering prescription costs by prepaid insurance . But this insurance is not too easily arranged : medication is not self-limiting , like hospitalization ; and , most important , as long as basic costs remain high , the cost of the insurance must remain prohibitive . The problem is now under study by pharmaceutical groups , but neither insurance nor co-operatives can accomplish much while the manufacturers ' prices remain high . The attack must first be directed at the cost of drugs to the pharmacist . The basic factor responsible for the high price charged by the manufacturer is obviously the system of patents and brand names . This gives to the owner of the patent or the brand name a monopoly , or partial monopoly- , which removes his product from free competition . In this respect the drug industry is no different from others ; but the drug 480 industry is unique in that there have developed institutionalized patterns that give it a more than normal Control of price . First , there is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any alteration or " substitution " in a doctor 's prescription without the latter 's specific prior consent . This accounts for the tremendous promotional campaigns that the drug manufacturer directs toward the physician . Second , the selling is directed at the physician , not at the ultimate consumer . The physician 's primary concern , of course , must be with the ( ( operational characteristics " of the drug being detailed ( a survey indicates that only 2.4 per cent of physicians switch to an alternate product because of price ) ; what happier price structure than that wherein the product is ordered by one who does not have to pay the price , and the price is paid by one who has no acceptable alternative to the purchase ? Third  --  to make triply sure  --  there are the fair-trade statutes by which the manufacturer can set the minimum beneath which a pharmacist may not legally sell the product . These appear to be the sturdiest props of all , for the pharmacist supports them , believing that they are essential to his economic well-being . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our patent system  --  perhaps with the same meager results as in the past . But the price of prescription drugs could be lowered without complicated legislation if the medical profession were to wield its power and assume its obligations . IN THE first place , the physician should get his therapeutic information from medical journals , professional seminars , publications of the Council on Drugs of the A.M.A. and such publications as The Medical Letter , a new , non-profit publication on drugs and therapeutics . The physician , too , should learn to rely on the expert knowledge of the pharmacist , whose long training  --  soon to be lengthened to five years , and then six  --  makes him a qualified consultant . It should be a matter of embarrassment to members of the medical profession  --  and to some it is  --  that they get their knowledge of drugs from such hardly disinterested sources as the detail man ( the manufacturer 's salesman ) and promotion al literature . This proposal that the medical profession divorce itself from a mesalliance is hardly revolutionary . The Medical Letter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctor who wants unbiased , reliable and timely information and critical evaluation of new drugs . Its editorial and advisory boards consist of seven physicians who are members of medical-school faculties plus the chief phartnacist of a large hospital . WERE THE profession to manifest its independence from the manufacturer ? there are physicians who advocate the discarding of all medical advertisements unopened ? one of the props to administered prices will be removed . Moreover , the cost of advertising per se will be substantially lowered . The proportion of these costs to the final price is a matter of some dispute , but it is a most substantial factor . The first-year promotional budget for Achromycin totaled $2,447,000 : every physician in the nation received two mailings each week for fifty-two weeks and more than $1,000,000 was spent on detailing . The A.M.A. Journal has claimed editorially that advertising ' costs represent but 2c of a 50c retail price . This 4 per cent may be as insignificant as the editor implies ? the FTC in 1957 used the figure of 20.6 per cent as the average proportion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a shock to find the justification for this in the usual explanation of the economic value of advertising , that is , that advertising leads to greater efficiency through increased production and thus to eventual lowering of price . Surely the profession must be generally aware that the production of medicaments and their consumption must derive from medical need and not from high-powered hucksterism . Indeed , this brings up the whole question of the place of advertising in public health . Demand can be created , and in some instances with sound economic reason , for such products as chewing gum , soap , autos The NATION and such . Demand created in the same way for medicines can be socially detrimental . The drug manufacturer insists that his advertising is largely educational , but certainly he is in no position to claim that it is both educational and disinterested . The fact of the matter is that drug advertising is more often combative than educational . THE SECOND method by which the medical profession can exert its power for the good is in its minimization of the use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to prescribe brand names , the pharmacist must stock all , or most , of the brands of each drug . There are no less than twenty-nine different brands , in various dosage forms , of the trisulf apyrimid in es ; and the pharmacist may riot , legally or ethically , dispense one brand where the physician has asked for another . There has therefore long been a movement for having the doctor prescribe drugs by their generic names , that is , by the name common to all brands and recognized by the Food and Drug Administration , the United States Pharmacopoeia , the National Formulary , etc. , rather than by brand . In this way he can clear the pharmacist 's shelves of duplication , he can permit the use of the cheaper , unbranded products , and he can force the high-price producer to compete more genuinely . In any event , the patient 's costs could be cut by astounding proportions . If , for example , the physician prescribes Meticorten , the pharmacist must charge on the basis of a cost to him from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same drug supplied under the generic name prednisone . Small wonder that a spokesman for the industry has called writing for generic names " an apparent symptom of a trend toward socialized practice in medicine and ph arm acy . " Consumers ' groups , pharmacists , medical faculties , all have been advocating the use of generic names , yet the physician continues to ask for the brandname . He does so for a variety of reasons : he feels that he knows the reliability of the mannfactUrer and can be sure of the quantity and quality of the medicine ; December 26 , 1959 he feels the maker is entitled to his patronage in return for . the high cost of research , educative efforts and samples ; and he finds it easier to remember the brand name , which the advertisements have been hammering at him , than to figure out the generic name . Some of this reasoning has already been dealt with : branding is not in itself a guarantee of purity of product or honesty of advertising ; if tremendous advertising costs are unwarranted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of research costs will be dealt with later . - Nevertheless , it will not be easy for the physician to break old habits and write the generic term . He needs urging from his patients , and he needs an easy way out . This is provided by the suggestion that he designate the branded drug if he prefers , but that he indicate also that any reliable equivalent will do . It has been suggested that he might mark his prescription A.R.B. ( any reliable brand ) , and I would propose the use of another , more traditional term and one less attached to " brand , " namely , quid pro quo . The addition of this , or the symbol " q.p.q. " to the prescription , would indicate to the pharmacist that he had the approval of the physician to dispense any drug which is generically the chemical and therapeutic , equivalent . ' ' This the pharmaceutical industry has labeled " substitution . " To the industry , the word has become a dirty one , of course , and there has been created @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one problem ? what is frequently called ' substitution ' but can be expressed positively as brand identification . " The council has produced twenty-four reasons why brand names are important . The reasons ' given , e.g. , potency , compatibility , purity , solubility , etc. , are all qualities that good medicines should have , and it must be assumed that regardless of the brand name , the same drug manufactured to the same standards of purity will always provide the same qualities in equal measure . It is difficult to believe that the qualities of tetracycline , for example , differ if dispensed under the names of Achromycin , Tetracyn , Polycycline , Steclin or Panmycin ? especially since all are manufactured under the same patents ( Bristol , whose tetracycline is called Polycycline , was selling its product in bulk to Squibb and Upjohn for repackaging as Steclin and Panmycin respectively ) . The National Pharmaceutical Council is concerned with the possibility that equivalents may be supplied by imitators and counterfeiters . This is entirely another matter , and there are legal means of redress against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feel that he needs some protection from the unscrupulous pharmacist who once given a green light , will fill all prescriptions with inferior drugs , or will continue to exact prices based on the original brand price . Here some protection is needed . The equivalent that may be used need not be the personal choice of the pharmacist , but could readily be restricted to those prOfessionally acceptable . The American Pharmaceutical Association has already made a start toward such a list with a pamphlet called " Proprietary Names ( Trade Names ) of Official Drugs . " There are at least four agencies that could assume the responsibility for the development of quid pro quo lists , three of which could give them official status : the Pharmacopoeial Convention , the Committee on National Formulary of the , American Pharmaceutical Association , the Food and Drug Administration , and the Council on Drugs of the A.M.A. In addition , 481 increased governmental supervision , through the FDA , would be needed to guarantee the integrity of the " USP " legend . Finally , although it is true that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the artificial props were removed , it is also true that consumer groups will have to be vigilant to be sure that the prescription price schedules , which are becoming rather popular among local pharmaceutical associations , set reasonable maxima . The industry , of course , will clamor that it can not exist profitably unless the integrity of its brands is maintained . This sounds like the argument against progressive taxation , and one is inclined to say that though the profits might be trimmed somewhat , the industry would nevertheless manage to grow and prosper . There will still be patents , brands and advantages to be gained by being first with good products . THE industry does not want any tampering with the status quo . Nothing should destroy the " delicate partnership . ? . between the quest for scientific knowledge on the one hand and the drive for financial success on the other . " This brings up the matter of research , which each industry-witness before the Kefauver committee has fallen back upon . The high prices , all have insisted , reflect high research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry , but to medical ' progress . Beat down the price and research will need to be restricted and public health will suffer . There are some significant considerations here that need to be understood . Industrial drug research is only a fraction of the medical research carried on in the country . In 1957 , according to an industry spokesman , 62 per cent of the $400 million spent on medical research came from the goirernrnent , 32 per cent from industry and the remainder from philanthropic agencies , universities and such , The major breakthroughs in medical research have not been the results of industrial research . Insulin , penicillin , streptomycin and the Salk vaccine , for example , were all essentially the work of independent researchers . This is not to say that industry has not made substantial 482 contributions , Merck &; - Co. lists among its accomplishments the first synthesis of cortisone , the discovery and synthesis of hydrocortisone and newer cortico-steroids , the discovery and synthesis of Vitamin B12 , the synthesis of the most widely used sulfa drug , and the development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Selman Waksman has said that without his agreements with , and aid from , Merck , " the antibiotics that we isolated would have remained bibliographic curiosities , " But essentially the research activities of the drug industry must be directed toward profits For this reason much of the industry 's research is really the development of new products , some of it as part of a program of planned obsolescence of drugs already on the market , much of it economically wasteful ( it is estimated that about 85 per cent of pew pharmaceutical products actually put on the market do not pay their way ) , some of it medically unnecessary , undesirable and even dangerous . To cite but one example , an impartial study states that " the new diuretic , flumethiazide . ? . differs chemically from chlorothiazide . , . in having a trifluoromethyl group in place of the chlorine . This substitution does not change its pharmacologic properties . . . . There is no present basis for believing that flumethiazide has any advantage over chlorothiazide with respect to . . . side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proliferation of varieties of antibiotics " reflects the competitive nature of the drug business " and not therapeutic need , The FTC has , reported that " the antibiotics research program instituted by the companies after World War II did not have as their aim the discovery of drugs for which patents could be licensed . . . widely . . . . Each company was seeking exclusive products which could support profitable prices , " PRIVATE enterprise is not always prepared or able to protect the commonweal . A case in point is penicillin , where the result of early experiments in industry literally had to be pried out ( " They have not made their experimental results and their development of manufacturing processes generally available , " lamented Dr. Vannevar Bush in 1943 ) , -4 and where success reflected governmental assumption of the direction -4 and financing of a planned program . The major fermentation process and nutrient medium used in penicillin manufacture were developed by De-p artment of Agriculture , workers , and the basic research was sponsored nation-wide by the Office of Scientific Research and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the War Production Board , r that financed the building of six penicillin plants ( later purchased by the companies for 44 per cent of their cost ) . A similar story can be told with regard to the Salk vaccine . The original contracts between the manufacturers and the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis 1 provided that the foundation " instruct the manufacturers in the production of . .. vaccine " and undertook " to reimburse them for their total costs of production . " New contracts in 1954 started the companies producing stockpiles of the vaccine and obligated the foundation to " purchase the vaccine whether or not the pending test program proved successful , " Moreover , " the foundation and not the . . manufacturers assumed whatever risks were inherent in the program of testing . " 4I ALL OF this is to demonstrate that the public health is not completely dependent upon research in the pharmaceutical industry , and to place the risk-taking heroics of private enterprise in a truer light , Nor must it be supposed that government regulation of patents ' and brands , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will leave no room for the companies to gain advantage from research , nor that some private research is not desirable . One thing should be evident to the medical and pharmaceutical professions , which are so very touchy about anything that even hints at socialized medicine . The longer it takes them to find ways of keeping the price of medication within the means of the people , the greater the danger that they will be forced along the very path they fear so much . The NATION                     