@@494407

The Pentagon Shapes a New Plan THE VISIT of Admiral Arthur Radford , Chairman of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff , is regarded in Paris as the most important visit to Europe of an American military leader since General Eisenhower crossed the channel in wartime . Europeans know that the Eisenhower Administration has been engaged in a basic review of US strategy . They have not been told , but they can further guess that pressure for a revision in strategy is mounting in the US as the result of five major developments . First , while the demands upon France to ratify the European Defense Community agreement have been intense following the victory of Chancellor Adenauer , the European army is all but moribund . Second , NATO has stalled at the halfway point in its objective of 50 divisions in being , and without these divisions , NATO 's plan for holding the Russians at Europe 's Eastern frontiers is in limbo . Thir , d , American army leaders have long believed that Germany alone is willing and able to organize the ground forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impatience , while the French have vetoed even the most minute increases in Germany 's border guards . A choice between reluctant France and willing and industrious Germany seems imminent to some American leaders . Fourth , the Russians have steadily built their air forces in the West and now are constructing rocket platforms PARIS for guided missiles around Europe . They can quickly establish command of the air over Europe in wartime , making the reinforcement and supply of European armies next to impossible . Fifth , the US is " running out of the ears " with atomic bombs . The immensity of the atomic stockpile and the cost of a dual defense system , of atomic and conventional weapons , is leading Eisenhower 's civilian advisers to challenge the concept of limited , conventional warfare and to base American military strategy on the assumption that future wars will be all-out atomic wars . This last conclusion is not shared by the Joint Chiefs : It is the product of the amateurs , principally Defense Secretary Wilson , and his deputy Roger Kyes . These men come to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ installed in a factory 10 years or more ago is out of date and should be thrown away . Their central , driving motive is not the defense of the free nations but the reduction of America 's military budget . They are searching for military miracles as a cheap way out . They began by cutting back the air force , Now they suspect that they have found the magic answer in the air force and the A-Bomb . The professionals in the Joint Chiefs of Staff of course disagree , but the pressure to economize is on . It takes primarily the form of reducing the six American divisions now in Europe . These forces might be withdrawn as part of a bargain by which Russian troops were also NOVEMBER 9 , 1 3 pulled back . Or they might be re-integrated in a new force in which the presence of British and American troops continue to serve as a counter to a German army . But the prospect is for more German soldiers , under fewer guarantees . France is the nation that seems most in danger of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ choose the man who is to be the next president , of France for ( in theory , at least ) a period of seven years . One of the hints from Bonn has been about this election . Chancellor Adenauer has given notice ? in a public statement ? that West Germany is " willing " to wait that long ? but not much longer ? for the French Assembly to make up its collective mind to ratify the European Defense Community ? or else ! The peremptory form of the statement , implying an ultimatum , is significant because General Eisenhower has made known ? also in a public statement ? his boundless confidence in the greatest German ( and European ) since Bismarck , and his willingness to consider any and every suggestion from the West German Chancellery with the most sympathetic attention . And after the Adenauer " veto " at the London conference , this unusual endorsement has seemed over here to confirm that the Chancellor is a species of semi-official mouthpiece of the White House in Europe , his words speaking the President 's ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision expected by the year 's end is , therefore , that West German 's army , already blueprinted and prepared by Theodore Blank and his loyal generals , will start getting its booted feet on the ground . Since the chances of French ratification of the EDC are no better , and the probability of a French veto of West German entry into the NATO is excellent , Adenauer 's ultimatum fits with a second hint from Bonn . This is to the effect that there may be a US-West German military pact outside the NATO , similar to the ones with Spain and Greece . As a matter of fact , the whole NATO system may gradually be replaced by a network of military agreements in which the British as well as the Americans will take part . Also during December the NATO council will meet 13 in Paris for what ( according to the hints ) wilt be the most important session since its creation . It will hear some ? but not all ? the details of the US plan ; and it will learn in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Pentagon had decided before their departure about the next phase ? the " nuclear-economy " phase . In this phase , the hints fall into a contradictory pattern : US public opinion is being told that the six US army divisions on the European continent will gradually be replaced during the next five years by the new German divisions . Western European opinion on the other hand is being carefully led to believe what Gen. Walter Bedell Smith told French Ambassador Henri Bonnet ? that the US troops will remain . The difference between the two versions , it is believed over here , is a matter both of short-term psychological targets and longer-term practical timing . In any event , the new US plan will make the US Sixth Fleet in the Mediterranean steadily more important in strategic terms ? as the guardian of a " Radford Line " ? than the six divisions on the ground . Other hints published in European newspapers , and neither denied nor confirmed by US military authorities in Europe , are to the effect that the carrier Midway has already been equipped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " is said to be the sea-air juncture at which these tactical weapons afloat are to be co-ordi- ' nated with strategic nuclear weapons ashore . The line is , roughly , the 38th Parallel of latitude which cuts a broad arc from southern Spain through southern Italy and Greece to northern Turkey . Military treaties permit use of bases in Spain and Greece for such bomb-carrying planes as the new US 8-jet intercontinental B-52 . Other arrangements permit the use of Italian and Turkish ports and bases . The ill-fated Trieste project indicated that Yugoslavia was no longer on the Radford Line ; and Gen. Nathan Twining on the eve of his departure with Air Secretary Harold Talbott for North Africa suggested that the line was north of Morocco ? he said that two big air bases planned for North Africa would not be built because of the Spain bases now available . Lines drawn from the western ( Spanish ) end of the southern arc and the eastern ( Turkish ) end to a central area in northern Europe are about equal in length . That area is Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the equivalent of the strategical relation in the new US plan between orthodox , conventional armaments and deterrent nuclear armaments . There are in fact three levels in the plan : orthodox conventional ; tactical nuclear ; strategic nuclear . The role of the first is to protect the West 's industrial power in Europe . This means England , France , Northern Italy and West Germany ? above all Germany because it is the country which holds the industrial balance of power between West and East not only in Europe but in the world . The second level is a bridge between the first and third , gradually closer to the conventional than to the absolute . The role of the nuclear weapons , both strategic and tactical , air and sea combined ? atomic and hydrogen bombs , rockets , jets , guided missiles , the equipment needed to use them and to protect against the enemy 's use of them ? is to guarantee dreadful retaliation for any atomic aggression on the part of the enemy . The Soviets might win a few battles ; but their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quickly be annihilated , T HE NEW US plan ( or rather the hints about its nature ) is already meeting opposition in Western Europe . Some observers are nervous about the apparent allocation of military roles . The Sunday Times of London says : " What disturbs members of the NATO is that it looks as if it implied adapting the military strategic concept to the Republican concept of budgetary solvency . The Monde of Paris rebels against the notion of bargain-counter cut-rate armies of European mercenaries : while a US Army division costs annually in peacetime some $300 million , the same fire power can be obtained in Germany for some $65 to $80 million , and in Greece and Turkey for as little as $10 to $20 million . Saving money may be an important consideration in the US , but there is little chance that a German army , especially an indepenlent army , can become politically " safe " enough to take the specifically political risk of removing the US divisions in the foreseeable future . This is particularly true because the horrendous absolute nuclear weapons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each other out ; neither may use them , and the issue may be decided ? as it was , for example , in Korea ? by the relatively old methods . Western Europeans can see no lasting peace in the victory of the West , led in military terms by German arms , over the Soviets . Another objection is that the plan tends to mobilize whatever " diplomatic " action that might be taken , in the service of military rather than political goals . There has been much talk of negotiation with the Russians to get them out of East Germany , either through the van Zeeland plan , or the Bonn plan for a demilitarized zone between the Elbe and the Vistula . It would be fine if this could be done : so long as the Russians have basesin East Germany , they can bomb Paris and London with their 500/600-mile range rockets . But it would be better if diplomatic efforts were directed , Western Europeans believe , toward unfreezing the present West-East status quo with all its tensions . But the most serious objection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fourth level . Protecting Western European industry against possible military attack is not enough ; it must also be protected from economic and social attack . In building up the essential forces of military defense , the domestic economies of the Western European countries must not be made vulnerable to subversion . As the London Observer says , " We must not allow civilian consumption to fall so low that it causes political trouble . " Chancellor Adenauer has given more than hints about his attitude toward labor . The Christian Democratic attack on the labor unions suggests , as the Manchester Guardian points out , " that an attempt is being made to split the unions in order to weaken the opposition of the bulk of German industrial workers to the present government " ? and to its military plans worked out in conjunction with Republican big-business anti-labor elements in Washington . Such an attempt may have success in Germany ( though that is doubtful ) , but it certainly would , if tried , cause trouble in every other Western European country . Above all , the failure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is already being exploited by Moscow . The effects of economic and social injustice have permitted the Communists to start conversion and recruiting campaigns among workers and other low-level economic elements of the population which up until now have been non-Communist and anti-Communist . The slogan , " workers of the world unite to impose peace , " which dominated the Third Congress of the World Federation of Trade Unions in Vienna suggests the Kremlin 's political strategy against the new US military strategy . Louis Saillant said : " the workers of the world want to tear down the barriers erected by separatist labor union leaders , " meaning , of course , the non-Communists . Giuseppe di Vittorio said : " The WFTU aims to win over people of all political beliefs . If it is to get the support of both the workers and the intellectuals , it must not be officially labelled Communist or Soviet-run . " The Communists and their agents in the labor unions may not succeed in getting the non-Communist workers in Western Europe to believe that the military defense against Communism equates or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the-defense of Western Europe 's industrial power ? used as a justification for creating the German divisions ? will , if it is also used as a justification for leaving Western European military control and leadership to Adenauer 's Germany , without US ground troops , almost inevitably give Moscow a good weapon of attack against the made-in-Washington new US five-year strategic plan for Atlantic defense .                     