@@493877

NEW REPUBLIC CANDID THOUGHTS ON NON-VIOLENCE N A WORLD rapidly dividing along color lines , the Union of South Africa assumes an importance dwarfing even that she holds by virtue of rich gold deposits and a position astride the alternative route from West to East . South Africa has become the test of European ability to adapt to a new relationship of equality of opportunity and harmonious co-operation with those who were once slaves . Europeans in South Africa comprise roughly one-sixth of the population ; they have exploited this fact to excuse every measure of oppression practiced upon the native and Asiatic population . One-half century of such oppression culminated in a crisis which , in May and June , brought the nation close to civil war ? but civil war between whites . Startling ? No . In 1860 a shortage of plantation laborers caused the importation of Indians . From 1885 to this day a series of laws has restricted their freedom until they stand divested of all civil rights . And that has been the pattern : use ' em , but lock ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Africans were in effect banished to reserves comprising 7.3 per ? cent of the total land ? the poorest land . But industrial development has forced South Africa to seek cheap and abundant labor . Consequently , Premier Daniel Malan seeks a policy providing complete segregation while allowing the exploita ? tion of native labor . When the natives were removed from the common roles in 1936 , the Cape Coloreds were given every assurance that no such fate awaited them . The immediate cause of this last crisis is a series of apartheid laws which culminated in the disenfranchisement of the Cape Coloreds . Until this law , South Africa was presumed to have a constitution . But if a bare parliamentary majority elected by a minority could enact whatever law pleased it for the avowed purpose of rigging the next election ? Coloreds have normally voted with the United Party , in opposition to Malan whose majority is so ? slim that these few votes , some 8 percent of the total , could erase it ? the Constitution was a mockery . The white Opposition appealed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up a " High Court of Parliament " to overrule the court . But the intensity.of crisis throughout the land forced him to submit to a new ruling . In January , however , Malan will push two bills through Parliament ? one providing for detention camps , the other for arrest without warrant , and he has in mind other measures which will be discussed in a later NR report . Years of oppression have also affected a degree of reconciliation among several elements of the native , Asiatic and Colored population . For example , the African National Congress , formed in 1912 to fight for extension of political tights to the African , has joined with the similar South African Indian Congress in a " Defiance of Unjust Laws Campaign . " Their tactic is " passive resistance , " organized in South Africa by Mahatma Ghandi in 1895 to protest oppression of Indians . On December 8 , his son , Manilal Ghandi , was arrested along with Patrick Duncan , son of the first South African Gov ernor-General of the Union , for entering a native @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The author of the following discussion of " passive resistance " is a man beloved by both white and black people for his selfless devotion to both . He will be familiar to all those who read Allan Paton 's Cry The Beloved Country as the Super ? intendent of an educational settlement for the blind and the deaf described in Chapter 13. paign " is the official title for a movement organized in South Africa by a joint planning Council composed of representatives of the African Na ? tional Congress and the South African Indian Congress . While new in form it is by no means a new idea . For many years I have heard non-Europeans of a thoughtful nature discuss the technique of passive resistance , even at times using the Indian name Satyagraha . There is little point in discussing whether there is a significance in the new name because as long as it is a non-violent movement it belongs to the same form of struggle as that developed by Mahatma Gandhi , In this article I do not attempt to argue of non-violent resistance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . of questions which I shall endeavor to enumerate as follows . 1 . To what extent is'the Movement in South Africa , one of the people ? Personally I am prepared to say I aril ; surprised that as many as 7,000 have already volunteered DECEMBER 29 , 1952 and most of them have gone to jail , but 7,00Q is still a very small number in a non-white population approach ? ing nine million . In the middle of October the figures were given : Eastern Cape-5,269 ; Western Cape , Male king and Kimberley-306 ; Transvaal-1,116 ; Natal-152 ; Free State-147 . Among the Africans it must be admitted that the response has been almost entirely in urban areas and from a particular group of people , namely the growing number of politically conscious ur- banized Africans . Moving as I do among Africans of the humbler type who live very close to the bread line but greatly love such homes as they have , I am bound to admit that I see very little likelihood that mass defiance of a non-violent nature will be understood by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still very close to primitive patterns of life . do not feel I know enough of the Indian groups to gauge how far this campaign is supported by the major ? ity of them . It is evident that in most places they have not yet volunteered in large numbers , but it is known , of course , that Natal and Durban , in particular , are the home of passive resistance in South Africa . In Durban most groups include more Indians than Africans . The Colored communitypresents a ' very interesting group so far as this movement is concerned . In South Africa the term " Colored " is used only for persons of mixed parentage . There are about a million in the Union , three quarters of whom live in and around Cape Town where they are an ordered , cultured community living in every way similar lives to people of an equal economic standing in other countries . My 15 years residence in the Cape Peninsula always led me to think that the Colored people would try desperately to hang on to the coat tails @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , enforcement of social apartheid in places it has never been known , has undoubtedly shaken them . Al ? though it is probably true to say they have not so far associated themselves in any large number with this cam ? paign , I have heard nothing but interest and admiration from . Colored people with whom I have discussed the matter . Edgar Brookes in his book The Colour Prob ? lems of South Africa , published nearly a quarter of a century ago , wrote that as in the realm of the blind a one-eyed man is king , so in the racial struggle in South Africa the Colored people may yet prove the natural leaders . There are little signs of it at present , in fact economic conditions make Colored people peculiarly afraid of African development , but when the change comes ! Already I have heard several Colored men of standing say that they are being steadily forced to common cause with Indians and Africans . 2 . Can this movement in South Africa be called . a spiritual movement , or is it merely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a difficult question . Twice I discussed it in the first six months of this year with Manila ! Gandhi , who should be in a position to judge this issue . I gained the impression that at the beginning of the year he was very doubtful , but of late , from correspondence and articles in Indian Opinion , I gather he is impressed with the movement although still critical . It is not without interest that from the begin ? ning the organizers have encouraged the people to ob ? serve days of prayer , and although it may be possible to criticize this , it must be admitted that it indicates some measure of spirituality . It has been said again and again that the campaign has broken out because the non-Euro ? peans are desperate and have no other way of expressing the fact that they are frustrated beyond endurance . To this must be replied that frustration has either spiritual influence , or an utterly demoralizing one . If it is spiri ? tual influence it produces character which can go to great lengths as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and others in other places . To me indi ? cations are not lacking that this campaign in South Africa is a spiritual development but I am still waiting to see it consolidate into a steady movement educating the masses to disciplined character development . 3 . Leadership : In both white and non-white circles I have noticed that many who might have been expected to sympathize with the campaign are very cautious because they , believe it to be largely organized , and the technique inspired , by people who are named under the Suppres ? sion of Communism Act as former members of the Party . It is obviously impossible for anyone who is not a Con ? congress member , and even for the majority of members , to know the extent of such influence . It is impossible to deny that some members of the action committee are f t named " persons , but now that the numbers participating in the campaign run into thousands , it is difficult to believe that a relatively small group can wield such power . As it seems to me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ non-violence which has been maintained . Many who were skeptical at the beginning have stopped to think . And in . many cases thought has led to personal action . It is the type of strength which grows by realization of itself ; power of this nature will not be intimidated by threats of severer punishment . There is very little of accepted Communistic technique in this so it does not look to me as if the few " named " per ? sons exercise any influence out of proportion to their have taken pains to examine two criticisms in particular and give my conclusions for what they may be worth . ( a ) It is said that in most cases it is a misnomer to talk about volunteers , that by assured support for the relatives of any who may go to jail unemployed people have taken part in large number . I am told on the best authority that while it is true some of the volunteers have been unemployed at the time on no occasion has there been coercion , and in any case the maintenance support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can it be called a temptation to those who endure the very real discomforts of prison life . ( b ) The more serious charge is that there is little leadership among the Africans and that they are entirely led by Indians . This is a serious thing for anyone to say without evidence which I personally do not think exists . I know some leading Africans have refused to take part in ' the movement , but on the other hand many of those who are risking a good deal are men and women of high standing , and quite definitely not the type who would be influenced by anyone . It is a very serious thing in South Africa when people in responsible positions try to insinuate racial jealousies and antipathies which do not exist , or , if they do , are due to other factors which can be dealt with in their own sphere . Few things are more diabolical ' than a whispered campaign , a practice which has become all too common in South Africa . ( c ) Has the campaign so far justified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that even if it should be decided to close the campaign as such and dissolve the organiza ? tion , leaving individuals to do as they may decide , the sufferings of those who have been in jail and beaten are fully justified by the fact that the non-European people have realized the power they possess even without resort to any sort of violence . That worldwide interest has been expressed has also greatly encouraged them , al ? though the more intelligent leaders feel embarrassment when some well-intended friends overseas express them . selves rather crudely , and are influenced by superficial knowledge of life in South Africa . However , there can be no question that non-European people in South Africa know that the moral support of freedom-loving peoples is behind them in their struggle to develop . ( d ) There are weaknesses which are inevitable . To many white people one of the most regrettable things is the fact that in their published program the African National Congress included in the list of unjust laws the Legal Regulations with regard to Cattle Limitation and certain matters concerning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large number of Africans still think and live in what is called " cattle economy , " but it can not honestly be denied that the right use of the land is the very life blood of ' South Africa so that regulations about cattle do not come into the same category of discrimination as other social and economic distinctions . I personally know a number of white people whose thinking has been influenced by this campaign in general but who have refused to admit any moral support because of this particular section in the program . These people are fully aware of the answer given by Africans , namely , that it is not overstocking which is the evil , but lack of sufficient land in the Reserves . This land hunger is acknowledged as the root of much trouble , but it does not alter the serious fact that much of the land now available for exclusive African occupation is denuded , and rapidly turning to , desert owing to ill use and grazing stock which is of no real value . The inclusion of this problem in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much to alienate real friends of African development . The complexity of this problem is an outstanding example of the need for consultation and a program of patient education . Finally , the question is asked as to how far this move ? ment can continue non-violent , or whether it will con ? tinue at all . This is not the place to prophesy , and I prefer in this article to be content with the statement of my " Candid Thoughts " as enumerated previously . The situation is undoubtedly very tense and calls for states ? manship of a high order both on the side of the govern ? ment and among non-European leaders . The time has come once again for the Congress to hold their annual meetings and discuss this important subject . As every ? one , knows first steps are being taken in preparation for the general election next year , when , no doubt , candidates for Parliament will be expected to say how they propose to handle this situation if it develops . In other parts of Africa there are deep problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up , and peaceably maintained . The fact that the eyes of the world are upon South Africa is a factor in life which can not be ignored , but it must be faced that this country is only the highlight of a wider problem . Looking out with the mind of a simple citizen who desires nothing other than freedom of opportunity to serve God , and being in peace and harmony with one 's neighbors I am bound to admit grave concern , and yet as a Christian I dare not despair . The first need , it seems to me , is for the restoration of faith and goodwill in South Africa . At present we are divided as never before , although it is also probably true that there , are more small groups which step over all restrictions than there has ever been . DECEMBER . 29 , 1952 ? ? In ' the meanwhile those who , in the words . of Scrip ? ture , " seek peace and pursue it , " are sorely taxed to know how and where a beginning can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sit down together is , alas , unthinkable , but sooner or later those whom they represent will have to do so . News was in the press recently that it is the intention of the great Dutch Reformed Church to convene a con ? ference in 1953 during which church leaders , white black , can face together their tasks as Christians . Details are not yet available , but the very suggestion , coming from that particular source , opens a new window of hope . Is it possible for those same church leaders to hammer out a program by which ( a ) all political parties would agree to refrain from provocative utterances and actions ? ? in the field of race relations , until the conclusions reached by the conference of church leaders are known , and ( b ) the leaders of the two Congresses to suspend the work of their Defiance Action Committee for the same period of time ? Such thoughts may appear airy , puerile dreams , lack ? ing in all form of realism . In desperate situations men grasp at straws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with danger as that which confronts our country today it behooves every man and woman to think the matter through , refusing to believe that there is no solution .. " WAS IT BETTER UNDER HITLER ? " Hitler 's old friend , Wilhelm Schepman , last chief of the Storm Troopers , served notice on the United States that the Neo-Nazis had arrived , or that the Nazis had returned , The Neo-Nazis won easily in Lower Saxony , as they had previously won in Schles ? wig Holstein , where the Minister President ; Dr. Walter Bartram is a former Nazi official and whose deputy Pres ? ident and Minister of Finance , Waldemar Kraft , is an ex-captain in the SS . Kraft was manager in the ReiCh Government for agriculture in German-occupied Poland ; now he is leader of the Schleswig Holstein refugees , as Schepman is of those of Lower Saxony . A major cause in returning these Nazis to power is unemployment . Hundreds of young people , until 1945 busy , well-fed ' and well-trained , today have idle hands and hearts . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on their hands . No one woos them . No one flatters them , as Hitler did , day in day out for 13 years , telling them they were the master race , the apex of man 's long struggle to arrive at Man . Then too , into a Ger ? many rumped by the Allies , have come a further 10 million expellees , and more are coming daily . These are hungrier , leaner , bitterer , than the Reich Germans . They are more able to " take " discomfort and horrible conditions . Many of them do not even speak German . These refugees form 38 percent of the population of Schleswig Holstein , 30 percent of that of Lower Saxony , for example . Over all Germany , more than a third of the unemployed come from the refugee group , although it forms only 16.5 percent of the population . In Schles ? wig Holstein there are 1,200,000 refugees , and a native population of 1,500,000 . Both are crowded into an area with no industries , where the land is poor and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Schleswig Holstein has voted in a totally Nazi government , and Lower Saxony also , in spite of the fact that the index of German pro ? duction is today 159 percent of what it was in 1936 , while German exports have increased seven times in- the past four years and 75 percent in 1951 . The Reich Germans , who not unnaturally resent the huge influx of jobless , homeless people , do not seem to realize that these are Hitler 's chickens coming home to roost ? grown , perhaps , strangely like vultures . For it was to these people of German blood , and for these , that Hitler screamed during 13 years : these are the Germans whom he said must S come home , every man , woman and child . But whereas he saw Germany spreading out to include and incorporate them , instead , Russia has spewed them out and sent them crawling home to a shrunken Germany : Ciechs , Poles , Hungarians , Ukrainians , Ru ? manians , Bessarabians , Dantzigers , Latvians , Letts and Lithuanians , all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wheel ! Quite obviously these expel ? lees have nowhere else to go . Yet how can the Reich Germans ever completely trust either individuals or fam ? ilies , still less whole ethnic groups , who have lived for generations , sometimes for centuries , in a totally alien culture , with a different mother tongue , and who , for the past quarter . century , have been living under Communism , daily indoctrinated ? And how can the Russians ever again trust anyone of German stock , tongue or sympa ? thy ? Not only the Russian war casualties but the nearly five million Russian prisoners of war tortured and killed by the Germans are too permanently dead . It is as though having won a war against Russia , . the US ex ? pelled all its citizens of Russian , Polish or satellite an ? cestry , sending them back into a Russia reduced to the 