@@487596

IT IS worth while sometimes in the course of one 's life to look back and recall what , one 's ideas were ten or twenty years before . I do - it occasionally and find not too much discrepancy , generally , between my thoughts then and now . Ideas alter in the ? course of time , but mypolitical hopes , my appreciation of my own and other countries haVe not changed too much . I still do n't believe the Germans are " bad , " although they kept me a year in a prison camp ; I just think as I did then that they are easily led astray . I still think the British have an admirable tradition , and a sanity in all ? things which makes them an element of political balance in the world , despite an extraordinary lack of brilliance . I still feel Russia is a world in the making , a kind of huge child nation , and as such should be treated with the respect CLAUDE BOURDET was founder and editor of the Resi:rtance newspaper Combat . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courage and youthful achievements  --  not with the respect due to wisdom nor:with the hate earned by innate wickedness . But when I remember what I thought of America before and during the war , I am astonished at how differently I feel now . I am , not the only Frenchman or European who is aghast when he ' remembers America at that time and looks at it now . Perhaps Americans should themselves try to remember . ? We felt America was really the land of the free . We knew of course that this fanaticism of freedom had its drawbacks , that public opinion was so powerful ? that it made farsighted government difficult . We understood that was why Roosevelt could not use American power to ? stop Hitler ' before he launched . his attack on mankind . But this ? was no inherent sin of the American system . Its slowness of adaptation was one of its guaranties against falling into blunders and ? abuses . We liked the violent honesty ' of the American press  --  at least of the Amer-ican leading papers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compared to Europe ; we had heard about the equalitarian trends of society despite great differences of wealth . We knew there still were grave racial prejudices but also that an active battle was waged against them . Above all , ' we were glad that although young and violent , America was tolerant . When intolerance won for a time , in our own country , one often heard : " This kind of thing could n't happen in America . " SOME MAY SAY that this was largely - wishful thinking , that America was neither . better nor worse than other countries . I do n't know ; I think in some way all countries earn the reputation they acquire . Things were not as simple as they seemed to us of course . But the American way of life was certainly something to be proud of . . Then the war broke out , we were defeated , and we started - the underground battle . Our ill-fed companions carrying pamphlets or bombs under their shabby coats , typing secret orders in back shops , organizing poorly armed combat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coming into the war . They felt the huge machine was preparing , doing its job on its own lines ; they hoped to be alive when it started . However , I remember there was a deep discontent when the Americans supported General Giraud against De Gaulle ; we could n't understand how a citadel of democracy and freedorn could back a general whose political and social ideas were a century old and to whose support many of the Vichy opportunists were rallying- , glad of the chance to turn their coats before it was too late . AGAIN this was politics , strange politics , but one could let it go at that . Then the war was won ; some of us were still alive . The Patton army found me in Buchenwald with some 50,000 other semi-corpses from all over Europe . We came back . When we had recovered enough to understand , we were astonished at many aspects of the.post-Liberation world : at De Gaulle 's mistakes ; at the Communists ' useless violence of language and slander ; not least , at the curious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around them the most disreputable opportunists , men and women who had outrageously flirted with the Germans during the war This , we thought , only happens because Americans are naive and good-natured , they are easy prey to this kind of vermin . Then there was the Truman Doctrine , the Marshall Plan , and the beginning of the Atlantic policy . Those among us who were slightly anxious about Marshall aid anchwho opposed more firmly the North Atlantic pact did not do so from ' any suspicion of American internal politics . The feeling was that America was well-meaning in most of its moves but that it was dangerous to divide the world Into two camps : it helped to create fear and tension on both sides ; it- prevented us from playing the part of an intermediary in international relations . Moreover , 9. we thought it dangerous for a country like ours to live " on the dole " ; it was bound to corrupt our political morale . The Communists , of course , spoke of American imperialistic capitalism , warmongering , and spirit of oppression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially after the Prague affair . Instead of hurting America , Communist propaganda was for many years its best ally . I THINK it was only in 1950 that French opinion became acquainted with McCarthyism . Of course , the few Frenchmen who read regularly the American , particularly the liberal American , press had noted even before then a /number of strange happenings which seemed to us contrary to the American tradition . But so strong was our faith in American democracy that we believed these were but the passing antics of some small gang , like Huey Long 's many years ago . I think I was the first Continental journalist to point out that it might be worse than that . I had come to America in May , 1950 , for The Nation 's meeting on atomic energy and had met many honest Americans who seemed to be anxious about the trend of things inside the country . Moreover , I had read the press in ' quite a different atmosphere from that in which one reads it abroad , and had been surprised at the importance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the support given to him by Cardinal Spellman speaking to a meeting of LIJ , I+1-1. , ? , 1 , - .141.10 A- vv 47 Al , V those days and witnessed the proceedings in the astonishing investigation of Owen Lattimore . When I expressed my surprise at the embarrassment and lack of vigor of Senator MacMahon , who had seemed to be full of sense and strength in his support of Lattimore the day before , an American journalist said , " That 's because of SpeIlman 's speech yesterday . " Then I sensed something had really gone wrong But when , back in France , I wrote about the " witch hunt , " even my closest friends laughed . Today , however , you find the words " chasse aux sorcieres " in most French papers . Americans have often asked me why deeply distressing affairs like the John Service and the Alger Hiss cases and the many dismissals of educators under political pressure have not aroused more comment in France , when the case of the . Trenton six and even much more that of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because in France , an old country which has lost so many lives in so many wars , the price of a single human life is still estimated high . For a time some Frenchmen ? I was among them  --  felt there was a fair chance that the Rosenbergs might be guilty ; Communist propaganda on thei behalf made that seem even more likely . But many people reacted as most American liberals did and found the sentence too heavy . Then at the end of 1951 two well-known barristers were asked . by a group of French Catholics to study the case thoroughly . Neither had anything to do with communism ; they were not even politically active , and one of them was definitely . conservative in feeling . Their findings were so amazing that one of the barristers left immediately for Rome and managed to convince the Holy See that here was much worse than a miscarriage of justice . This produced the two Vatican interventions which aroused so Much comment everywhere , especially in the United States . THE CASE shook France because thousands , probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in America were raised to defend the Rosenbergs it was not only because the diminutive American Communist Party had ' tried to use the case for its propaganda but also because most Americans were afraid to take steps which might make them targets for witch-hunters ' attacks . Whatever is behind the various currents of French - opinion , there is no doubt that the death of the Rosenbergs was the beginning of , an awakening . In a very small local newspaper edited by the Roman Catholic cure of a little French parish I read last summer : " The death of the Rosenbergs could signify the deathof our illusions . " Another PhenOmenon which makes the French not only distressed but angry is the appearance of McCarthyism , apparently under American pressure , in our administrative life . I should probably write " influence " instead of " pressure , " foi in many instances there is not so much pressure as a kind of inquiry or advice French statesmen have become so dollar-minded that they think they must submit to any American whim , even before it is clearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not ready , yet , to recognize that this is a hardly avoidable result of the Atlantic system prefer to speak of submission to American pressure and thus blame America instead of blaming themselves for not resisting , or for putting in office weak and submissive politicians , readyto sell everything for an extra dollar . An intolerable attempt made by the Ministry of Education last year to oiganize the witch hunt in French universities and schools and the recent decision forbidding a young Communist student to qualify for the National School of Administration have been considered in many circles to be a direct result of American McCarthyism . An increasingly popular slogan among intellectuals , civil seivants , and others fighting against the witch hunt is revealing : " Pas de McCarthyism en France. , , The so-called French " neutralists " have for five years stressed the fact that their policy did not reflect distrust of America . Today , however , not because of anything the " neutralists " say but simply as an effect of McCarthyism , the tendency here is to look at America with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ logic of the international situation , uninfluenced by feelings pro or con , look at American developments with a certain anxiety . Some ask bluntly ? Is America going fascist ? It is possible that our minds have been confused by Communist propaganda , which for popular consumption created a picturesque and simplified image of fascism not fitting the American sit-nation . MOST PEOPLE , including the Communists , have tended to think of fascism as following the Italian , Spanish , and German pattern . But is it not possible to conceive of a fascism which would remain outwardly in accordance with the practices of representative democracy ? In a country where the mass of the population enjoys a decent standard of living a group of politicians working in close connection with the leaders of industry and finance and the owners of the press , broadcasting , and television could mold the minds ' of their fellow-citizens and develop a system of supple yet absolute control of public opinion which would enable them to leave the voting system untouched provided they did not violate two permanent principles . First , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group of citizens which , if it starts questioning their leadership on one issue , might question it on all . Second , they must choose as a target for attack and as a scapegoat for every conceivable evil a group of people so clearly defined thlt they can be " hunted " with- out creating any great fear among the - mass of voters . It seems to me that Communist hunting-in the United States serves such pur ' pose admirably . Communists are so scarce that practically nobody in the United States has ever met one ; thus any amount of fear and horror can be aroused against them . Also the hunt for Communists being directed mainly against the intellectual world and persons ' in government , it is - probable that the average American does not - feel directly-threatened . Under such conditions a new kind of fascism  --  shall we say " demo-fascism " ? ? might conceivably emerge - which would work as a democracy in all respects save one . there would be no place for contradiction of the " accepted truth " This would be injected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free " politicians , journalists , and radio commentacors , all governed at first by the fear of losing Their jobs and , in the end , conforming naturally to a rigidly molded national outlook . Of course , the price to be paid by America will be enormous . The ultimate failure of any totalitailan system is a                     