@@477266

By teaming together in rural clinics , a Few of them are demonstrating how to bring top-quality medical service to country patients ? and how to stop the best physicians from drifting toward the big cities . THE most comforting bedside presence I have known was a country doctor who practiced , as had his father and grandfather , in upstate New York . During our summer vacations in the north woods our children had a perverse habit of running fevers or falling out of trees the day after my husband , who is also a physician , had left for the city . Then my anxious phone calls would bring Bob Reynolds from his home ninety miles away to soothe and to suture . Once each winter he turned up in New York , usually during an Academy of Medicine scientific powwow . Like a music-starved opera lover on a spree at the Met , he took his pleasure at X-ray exhibits , pathology demonstrations , and lectures . Afterward he and my husband who had been medical students together would talk far into the night . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ordinary , persistent ache of the head , back , or gut which might ? or might not ? yield to aspirin , surgery , or psychotherapy . Eavesdropping on those conversations gave me a glimpse of a vast new medical arsenal ? the assorted " scopes " used to peer into remote body cavities ; the laboratory techniques of serology , hematology , bacteriology , and parasitology ; the alliance of chemistry with X-ray to reveal thefunctioning as well as the shape of ailing organs ; the hundreds of increasingly precise weapons against once-hopeless maladies . When we paid a return visit to Bob 's home town , he showed us through the new county hospital . Although it gleamed with asepsis , it lacked all but a handful of the equipment commonplace in city institutions . As in most rural areas , this was an " open " hospital , used by virtually all local doctors , few of whom were specialists . A " closed " hospital , by contrast , is restricted to a staff carefully chosen to represent various skills ? surgeons , pathologists , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Bob loved medicine and outdoor living . He loathed fakers , bigots , and busybodies . In the last category he lumped the proponents of most welfare and health-insurance plans . Nothing riled him more than Idling out forms in triplicate , unsolicited advice about his patients , or bureaucratic intrusions on his rare free afternoons when lie chose to go hunting with his sons . These impromptu outings were compensations for the built-in limitations of his scientific life ? of which he was well aware . There was , for example , the August day when my husband was away and our small son was laid low with pains obviously more grim than croup or colic . " This is a queer one , " Bob said , encompassing child and thermometer in one practiced glance . " It looks like typhoid , but it is n't . We need some good blood work and an intestinal X-ray series . " He headed for the phone downstairs . I heard only an enigmatic mumble , bristling with transfusions , heterophiles , and perforations . Back in the sick room @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the car and keep going till you hit New York , " he said , staring out of the window at the sparkling lake . " Pretty , is n't it ? Quaint , too . But at a time like this you 're better off in the twentieth century . " THE time lag between city and country medicine is brutally clear when a capable and self-reliant doctor sends you on a threehundred-mile trek for a diagnostic job . This is an honest ? hut often risky ? solution to the frustrating problem of the isolated practitioner who lacks the skills and remedies his best judgment demands . But all too often he is forced to make do with the tools at hand , inadequate though they are . To a man of scientific habits this recurring dilemma is a major reason for not practicing in the backwoods . A medical flight from the land has been the result . For example , in twenty Missouri counties which boasted 539 doctors in 1912 , only 158 remained in 1950 . As compared to one in fourteen at the earlier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years old and their patientload was double their predecessors ' since the population had declined only slightly . In Illinois , Alabama , West Virginia , Mississippi , Georgia , Kentucky , and other states , medical societies and worried citizens have set up scholarship funds for potential country doctors . To help furnish such doctors ' offices , the Sears Roebuck Foundation and the Mead Johnson Company offer unsecured loans . In upstate New York , which has been traditionally well-stocked with physicians , the State Medical Society last May certified sixty communities as " medically needy " because they were without a general practitioner . These are not rural slums . Neither are the dozens of other towns and villages throughout the country which advertise week after week in the " help wanted " columns of medical journals . Practices grossing as much as $40,000 a year are going begging . So are others nearly as lucrative which offer the added bait of free office rent and fine fishing . Missing from these otherwise attractive packages is the vital component of modern medical care ? ready access to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one mind . One of the most promising answers to this predicament is team medicine . Although it is hard to find takers for old doe 's lonely practice , there are few vacancies in the medical groups which are beginning to dot the hinterland . These differ in one important respect from such large-scale enterprises as the Kaiser-Permanente Plan on the West Coast , the Health Insurance Plan of Greater New York ( generally known as HIP ) , and most union-sponsored groups . These are financed through pre-payment for medical care by subscribers and their employers . In contrast , most of the rural teams are in private practice and charge for their services as any individual practitioner does . By pooling their income and talents , three or more partners trained in different specialties can afford the equipment essential to modern medical care . The U.S. Public Health Service estimated in 1951 that there were 700 medical groups of all sizes and varieties in the country . Allowing for some fatalities , there are probably close to 1,000 today , most of them west of the Mississippi where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where the need has been dramatized by the dearth of hospitals in thinly settled regions . Many physicians hold back from joining a group because they still tend to regard their paying patients as personal property . But this attitude is , in fact , an anachronism , for in his hospital work every doctor today must forswear his free-wheeling ways if he craves scientific recognition . Surgeons bow meekly to the tissue committee which checks on the removal of normal organs ( hallmark of venal or inept surgery ) . There is a like policing of Caesarian births ( and the high fees they command ) . The patient is no man 's private preserve , for case records are kept in unit files subject to the official review of other professional eyes . The canniest diagnostician acknowledges his dependence on the laboratory and X-ray departments , and his mistakes ? like all others ? are based at clinical conferences . The American College of Surgeons insists upon such team work in all hospitals certified for resident and intern training . It requires also that each department be headed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own field . Group medicine consists , in effect , in adapting these habits to private practice . With the internist acting as his personal physician , the private patient gains the co-ordinated services of whatever specialists may be needed plus the advantage of getting all his medical work done in one place . This pattern is most easily established by specialists who are already on the staff of a first-rate " closed " hospital . But since there are few such institutions outside of cities , it is rarely possible in the country-side ? unless the doctors themselves team up . This an increasing number of them are doing , in a variety of ways and with a variety of aims . CLINIC IN THE CLOUDS T H E Hitchcock Clinic in Hanover , New Hampshire , is one of the largest and best equipped rural groups in the East . With the White Mountains as a backdrop it is ideally placed , scientifically as well as scenically . To reach it , however , you must choose between a rough ride on weatherbeaten New England roads , the creaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( weather permitting ) plane service . This is rural medicine with a vengeance . It is also medicine that could be matched in quality only in a large center . The Hitchcock Clinic is , in fact , such a center for a region stretching from Boston to Montreal ; and , at the same time , the family physician for some 6,000 people ? all the doctors in Hanover and in Norwich , Vermont , across the river , belong to the group . The present staff is a roster of twenty-two medical specialties , including such refined subdivisions as cardio-pulmonary surgery , broncho-esophagology , and plastic surgery The largest department , numbering twelve , is internal medicine , the co-ordinating hub of the specialties and the modern equivalent at the family doctor . Hitchcock 's work totals more than 60,000 patient visits a year , 90 per cent of the cases being referred by doctors in the outlying area for surgery , diagnosis , or special treatment . Since the hospital and doctors ' offices are under the same roof , team work is easy and frequent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for example , routinely consult on serious accident cases . The diabetic who breaks his leg is tended by both an internist and an orthopedist , The cardiologist strolls down the corridor to discuss the heart patient 's emotional troubles with a psychiatrist . Orthopedist and neurologist collaborate from the onset of a polio case and , without moving the patient , turn him over to the rehabilitation department when the acute stage is past . All children are assigned to pediatricians who can call in other specialists when needed without worrying about extra cost to the family or additional trips to the doctor . To solve the diagnostic puzzles posed by about 15 per cent of the ailments brought to the average doctor 's office , the latest laboratory skills are available . And in the sum total of high quality , perhaps the most important , though least tangible , element is the ferment of many minds , all scientifically attuned . Now in its thirtieth year , the Hitchcock Clinic is still headed by one of its founders , Dr. John P. Bowler . A Dartmouth man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surgical residency at the Mayo Clinic in the 1920s and came home dissatisfied with the prospect of general country practice . He had , however , a hunch that Hanover enjoyed some of the same assets that had made Rochester , Minnesota , a medical mecca . The thirty-eightbed Mary Hitchcock Memorial Hospital ? though puny by Mayo standards ? had always had a highly trained staff . Teaching , postgraduate study , and research could be fostered through the hospital 's existing link with the Dartmouth Medical School . And in the surrounding New England backwoods , the newer medical arts were virtually non-existent . With four older colleagues , Dr. Bowler set up joint offices in the hospital . The partners began a search for new recruits with an astute eye for surgical talent in the fast-expanding spectrum of specialties . In an area where even qualified general surgeons were scarce , the Hitchcock virtuosos made news . Each new specialty , indeed , seemed to open a pent-up demand . Today the Hitchcock Hospital and Clinic ? separate corporate entities with largely interchangeable parts ? have evolved into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fifty , about the same number of interns and residents , a school of nursing , and training programs in laboratory medicine , X-ray , and anesthesiology . All are housed , through the largesse of New England philanthropists and an assist from federal Hill-Burton funds , in a series of connected buildings facing the Dartmouth campus . The staff doctors are also consultants to a 250-bed Veterans Hospital in nearby White River Junction . The Hitchcock educational program ? open to all doctors in the area ? in a single month lists more than 150 events , ranging from a seminar on the use of ultra-sound in medicine to bedside teaching sessions and clinical conferences in each of the twenty-two departments . Research projects are supported by foundation funds which also make possible subsidized staff travel to scientific meetings . Except for Dartmouth students who are cared for on a pre-payment contract with the college , Hitchcock customers are private patients . ( There are a few free endowed beds but no " charity wards . " ) Although the patient pays the clinicand not the physician , the attending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own practice ? on the basis of what he thinks the job is worth , the going rate in the area , and the patient 's means . Before they are mailed out bills are reviewed by business manager Justin Smith , who has the advice , when needed , of two medical social workers . Much of their time is spent , however , helping self-reliant farm and academic families reduced with distressing frequency to " medical indigence " by long illness or costly drugs , despite hospital and medical insurance . All net income is pooled and divided among the staff on a scale graded only for length of service , without reference to specialty or volume of work done by each individual , By thus eliminating dollar competition between doctors , Hitchcock has by-passed a major pitfall of group practice . Since this is a relatively poor , low-fee area , and because a large slice of staff time goes into unremunerative teaching and research , earnings are modest . Many of the more experienced men could double their incomes by opening offices in Boston or New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " said a surgeon 's wife whose father was a professor , as I cast an admiring eye around her spacious living-room . " We built this house twenty years ago . The salary wo n't buy this today . " But there was no real regret in her tone . It is precisely because of its academic aura that the Hitchcock Clinic has succeeded so well . A post at a first-rate teaching hospital is a prize not measured in dollars . Recruitment for this group has been easy , turnover virtually nil . Most rural groups are less fortunately placed . They must shift for themselves to buy costly equipment and to create the scholarly climate which will lure first-rate men from the cities . Since they are straying from established medical paths , they are forced to proceed by trial and error . Private group practice ? small-town style ? is largely uncharted terrain , but it is fast developing despite sometimes bitter opposition from county medical societies . HIPPOCRATIC PICKET LINE S K I R M I S H E S between local medical societies and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but ugliest when the groups were paired with health-insurance plans . The staff of the Ross-Loos Clinic , for instance , which offered prepaid medical care , was expelled en masse in 1939 from the Los Angeles County Medical Society . Earlier Dr. Michael Shadid came close to losing his license to practice when he formed the nation 's first medical co-operative in Elk City , Oklahoma . It took a Supreme Court decision to rescue the physicians of the Washington , D. C. , Group Health Cooperative who were booted out of their hospital posts in 1937 . And , at its inception ten years ago , the Central Medical Group of Brooklyn was denied heat and power on the grounds that it was an illegal enterprise like book-making or a bawdy house . Theoretically private-practice groups conform tidily to medical ethics and custom , since most are run entirely by doctors and charge the prevailing rates . But there is an implicit threat in the very existence of collections of specialists whose methods challenge the still popular concept of " general medicine . " Every doctor 's license @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one-year internship , in some without any ? entitles him , if he chooses , to engage in any and all medical and surgical arts . In practice , moral compunctions and the humane impulse which attracts most men to medicine in the first place stay all but a few of the untrained hands . However the outlawed but still prevalent ruse of " ghost surgery " ( in which a skilled surgeon replaces the general practitioner after the patient is unconscious ) helps perpetuate the myth of every doctor 's total competence . And widespread ignorance as to just what constitutes a specialist also contributes to the notion that any M.D. is as good as any other in treating any human ill . Contrary to popular belief , ' a specialist is not the aging family doctor who , as his hair grays , calls himself a " diagnostician " ( though he may be an excellent one ) . Nor is he the general practitioner who does most of the surgery in town . Specialization takes anywhere from three to eight or more years of postgraduate training in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specialists have been certified by the American Boards which conduct rigorous tests in twenty-four recognized branches . Since a majority of their dues-paying members lack this kind of training , most local medical societies resent these facts . Their parent body , the AMA , dedicated to the advancement of science as well as doctors ' incomes , does not deny the fact of specialization and no longer frowns officially on private-practice groups which Dr. Morris Fishbein , former editor of the AMA Journal , once called " medical soviets . " It is not , however , enthusiastic about the trend toward team medicine . A scholarly attempt to fathomits policies on this subject was made in 1954 by the Yale Law Journal which concluded that : " The AMA has mildly discouraged combined practice by repeatedly denying the necessity for or success of such groups . Its studies have emphasized the negative aspects of group practice . " A somewhat more relaxed tone crept into the AMA 's latest report on 103 groups it studied in the past year . Noting that the increase in group practice since World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acknowledged that the motivation has been chiefly the doctors ' belief that they " could provide better medical care than when practicing individually . " More of the same may be expected from the AMA 's new president-elect , Dr. Gunnar Gunderson , who , with three brothers , operates a highly respected clinic in LaCrosse , Wisconsin . ( Another Gunderson brother , Dr. Sven , is Senior Internist at Hitchcock . ) But to the surprise of some observers , the same AMA conclave that elected Dr. Gunderson reaffirmed its historic opposition to the " corporate practice of medicine " which is , it said , " indistinguishable in effect from the socialization of medicine and appears to embody all of its evils . " When the AMA cries " socialized medicine " few doctors venture across its picket line . However , in the matter of group practice , the New York Times noted in its account of the meeting , they are becoming " more and more defiant . " The plain fact is , they like it . MOST HAPPY DOCTORS T H E main difficulties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not from the doctors ' , but the patients ' point of view . I talked recently with a man who was brilliantly diagnosed but spiritually shaken at a large Midwestern clinic . " You undress in a cubicle like a Coney Island bathhouse , " he said , describing his ordeal by X-ray . " Then you wait your turn with a brass check in your hand . At ten in the morning I was number 416 ! It was scientific all right , but it was n't chummy . " Group doctors , like many specialists , sometimes work on the theory that the only walk a patient can not make on his own legs is the one to his coffin , and that anyone who is not in the hospital can come to the office . But the sick do not always feel ambulatory . Thus a West Coast group which sub-contracted house calls to private practitioners lost a hatch of clients permanently . Similarly , when offered a choice of group or individual doctors , subscribers to one large health-insurance plan usually choose the old-fashioned practitioner who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up at the house in the hour of need . Such flaws , particularly in insurance-supported teams , have cooled the enthusiasm of some of the reformers who were crusading for pre-payment group practice twenty years ago . They are disappointed , too , to find that preventive medicine is not necessarily fostered when the doctor is paid by the head rather than by the visit and thus is said to have a stake in " keeping the patient healthy . " " Instead he seems to have a stake in keeping the patient out of his office , which is a very different matter , " said Winslow Carlton , a veteran in the field who is now chairman of Group Health Insurance in New York Despite its imperfections , he agrees , however , that group practice is the best available device for enticing capable young doctors to the sticks . Today 's medical-school graduates are a new breed . Three quarters of them are specializing , and , after long residencies , they head like homing pigeons toward full-time hospital , teaching , or research posts . Typical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acquaintance whose scientific bent was sharpened by his hospital years and a military tour spent chiefly in esoteric experiments with an artificial kidney . Hack in civilian life he was tempted by a teaching-research offer from his university . He also weighed a bid from a union health center and a chance to build a $30,000-ayear private practice in the city . Finally , he joined a rural group at a starting salary of $7,500 with the top prospect of 520,000 when and if he became a partner . " Private practice would have meant doing general work for years until I looked old enough to be considered a specialist , " he explained . " Here I can stick to my last . I 'm learning every day from top-flight men and practicing what I consider first-rate medicine . I 'm bringing up my family on sod instead of asphalt . I earn all we need , and I do n't have to talk money with my patients to do it . " Veteran practitioners as well as neophytes are grateful to the group business managers who relieve them of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's role ? " the conflict between the picture which he has of himself as the idealist and benefactor and his down-to-earth interest as a breadwinner . " Equally welcome is the escape which team medicine offers from the 60-to-BO-hour working week of the average busy practitioner . " We believe there is a definite limit to how hard a doctor should work , " said the senior member of one group , recalling his own twenty harassed years in private practice . " I 'm still plenty busy . But when I 'm off duty , I 'm really off . And when I go on vacation my income does n't stop , and I know my practice is n't being raided or neglected . " Such earthy logic would , I think , have won a respectful hearing even from so lone a wolf as my old friend and favorite country doctor , Bob Reynolds . Indeed , if he were alive today he might ? perhaps for the fun of jolting his county society ? be organizing a group himself . 