@@492538

Something exciting and heartening is happening on the American college campus these days : A revival in religious faith that may come as a surprise to an older generation which remembers college as a place where ties with churches were weakened , where a rebellious youth felt that science had most of the answers to the problems of mankind and scorned as " Christers " the relatively few students who took a serious part in religious activities . All that has changed . Today 's campus definitely has gone religious , students and faculty alike . Perhaps this development has gone unnoticed by the public amid big headlines worrying about such things as atom bombs , Sputniks and juvenile delinquency. but the evidence is there just the same . " Now it is the ' done thing ' to take a date to church on Soo-day , " an Ivy League student says . A thoughtful coed adds , " it was the simple witness of faculty members which led me to a mature acceptance of Cod ; people who were obviously mature , some of than intellectual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were not too grown up or ' busy ' to go to church . " At a large Midwestern university , a chaplain reports that his church has increased the number of Sunday services from two to six  --  and still standing-room-only conditions prevail at several of them . Many young people are taking an eager part in campus religious organizations . All the major churches sponsor student organizations or " foundations " which meet for worship , study and recreation . " Student religious groups are more active than at any time in the almost forty years I have been here , " writes a longtime official of Purdue University . Henry Pitney Van Dusen , president of Union Theological Seminary , New York , observes that " Nowhere do the tides of religious awakening How more powerfully than among the younger generation , especially on college and university campuses . Visiting preachers never have known such large , eager and responsive student congregations . Chaplains and teachers of religion are in short supply . " Perhaps more significant than mere numbers are the hopeful signs that faith is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Educators , ministers and students alike testify to this . Dr. Milton S. Eisenhower , president of Johns Hopkins University , recently wrote a friend : " In the last few years I have observed a much deeper interest in religious matters . Perhaps this is the result of stresses and strainsin our society . . . certainly , there is a connection between it and the cold war . But this is nal superficial to explain it entirely , for the religious interest of the young people I know is based on intelligence rather than emotion . " As a one-time college chaplain myself and now executive director of a church society for college work  --  a job which takes me to many schools  --  I agree with Doctor Eisenhower that many , though not all , students arc looking more and more to their churches for deeper understanding of life and its ultimate meanings . Most students do not , I believe , look upon college religious organizations simply as an added social outlet . They are hungry for something substantial and do n't shy away from serious theological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against a proposed expansion of social programs by a church group , saying , " The work of the church on the campus should be to fill the religious needs of the students  --  not to compete with sororities , fraternities and other social organizations . " In fact , the student demand for a more mature approach in religious matters has called for a new type of college chaplain or pastor . As a chaplain at the University ofTexas explained to me , " Previously the tendency was to select a sort of sweat-shirt-and-whistle type who could lead square dancing , or else a dilettante who could discuss the poetry of T. S. Eliot with a soulful look . " But now college religious workers must be well trained as teachers and pastors , with ability to explain the fundamentals of their faith and to lead in its practice . They must be equipped to give religious guidance to groups who request it  --  and these days student organizations not ordinarily considered as concerned with ? Religious Revolution on the Campus religion arc requesting such help . For example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me , " I am leading u sorority retreat this week and have a fraternity retreat scheduled next month . These are not hull sessions , but are similar to retreats in parishes , with silence and meditation . Several years ago was asked to be pledge trainer for a fraternity  --  leading a series of discussion groups on the meanings of Brotherhood , Acceptance , God . Sex , and so on . 1 ca n't imagine in my day asking a clergyman to come in as trainer for our pledges ! " The upswing in religious interest of collegians has been an evolutionary process , of course , starting during World War but when I came back to the campus as a chaplain a few years ago , after a career in business , it seemed more of a revolution , so great had been the change . Yet what had happened in our colleges had also happened in my own life . 1 went to college in the late ' 20 's , when nothing in the classroom or social life of the students did anything to dispel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lot of superstitious nonsense that had little to do with life itself . In that day most students would hardly be caught in a church except dead or at a wedding . After graduation in 1930 ? some time after , as it turned out , because of the depression ? 1 managed to get a start in the investment-banking business . Eventually , despite some serious setbacks , 1 became president of my own firm in Detroit . Outwardly it seemed that l " had it made . " l had a fine family . financial security and a pleasant life . Then in 1949 I decided to study for the ministry . Mine was no Damascus Road conversion . Some years before , 1 had joined a church  --  the Episcopal  --  and had been taking an increasingly active part in its affairs . After the war I began slowly to realize that 1 was seeking more meaning and greater purpose in life than simply making money , and that Christianity was becoming increasingly important to me . In 1949. after talking over the idea with my wife , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and study for the ministry on a trial basis . We moved to Alexandria , Virginia , where I enrolled in the Protestant Episcopal Theologieal Seminary . Soon it was apparent that my venture was no longer a trial , but my chosen calling . When I was ordained a priest in 1952,1 accepted the rectorship of St. Andrew 's Church in State College , Pennsylvania , and also the position of Episcopal chaplain at the university there . Friends and professors at the seminary had mkt me of the great opportunity that was opening for college work , but it remained for me to see for myself how great had been the change in religious climate and attitude on the campus . At Penn State , religion certainly was booming , Students flocked to church services ; so did faculty members and their Surprising numbers from both groups were deeply eager to increase their understanding of their faith . Students actively sought counsel from their chaplains ; in fact , the volume of work at St. Andrew 's was growing so rapidly that after a year the Rev. John R. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , allowing me more time in the parish . What happens on Sunday at a typical college ? At Penn State the nondenominational chapel service starts at 10:55 in Schwab Auditorium , which scats 1300 . The place is filled by 10:45 , and on most Sundays several hundred students will not be able to get in . Most of the local churches , holding services at the sametime , are within walking distance of the campus . Many of the major denominations are represented  --  Methodist , Presbyterian , Roman Catholic , Lutheran , Episcopal , Evangelical and Reformed ( now United Church of Christi , Baptist and Evangelical United Brethren . To serve the increased attendance most of them now hold two or even three services ; these are so popular with collegians that pastors have been getting complaints from townspeople who are unable to find seats . Penn State is no exception . Going to church is now " the thing to do " among students . 1 should add that , as ever , collegians do n't like to be bulldozed into doing something , even if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have compulsory chapel services report growing protest among students against being forced to attend  --  but at the same time note a significant increase in attendance at voluntary prayer services , even those held on week nights ! 1 believe the growth in student interest is far more than a fad , as evidenced by increased popularity of courses and lectures on religious subjects , and student projects having a religious flavor . A phenomenon of recent years on many campuses is Religtous Emphasis Week  --  a week set aside for speakers representing Roman Catholic , Jewish and Protestant traditions to give lectures and lead discussion meetings under the sponsorship of interfaith councils or college religious organizations . At Montana State University enrollment in courses in religion has increased by more than 500 per cent in the last three years . At Columbia University nothing more surely guarantees a full house for a lecture than a serious discussion of religion  --  a noontime seminar on My Philosophy of Life proved to be a standing-room-only feature . Amherst reports that the number of its courses in religion has doubled and so has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ record number of its graduates has gone on to theological seminaries to study for the ministry . In one case , two of the Amherst graduates who had signed up with General Electric later changed their minds and decided to go to theological school instead , allegedly causing the G.E . personnel man to sigh and say , " Well , at least we did n't lose them to Westinghouse . " State universities as well as private colleges arc increasingly aware that a knowledge of religion is a necessary part of a balanced education . As a Michigan State professor told me , " I know of several students who thought they would have to give up their faith to make room for natural science , but discovered , on the contrary , that science requires some kind of faith . " From Cornell University a chaplain writes me , " We have no department of religion , but in the last two years the university has added a new man in the Philosophy Department to teach Christian theology , and one to the Classics Department to teach the Old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not welcomed formerly on the campus by either students or faculty . There were 300 in the new course in Christian theology and many were turned away . " The University of Iowa , one of the first state schools to establish a department of religion , uses a plan under which the various faiths supply qualified instructors to teach courses for which college credit is given . A number of schools have followed the Iowa plan , while others offer noncredit courses given under the joint sponsorship of a group of denominations ma. rstitreli Ifld or by separate campus religious organizations . Other universities , such as the University of North Carolina , have a department of religion which , in addition to offering a major in this field , also enables 11 student those main course is psychology , law , engineering , arts and sciences , and so on , to study theology and to relate it to his professional work . True , there have been objectors to the teaching of religious subjects , some opposing the trend on narrow sectarian grounds and others because they feel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state . However , where students are given free choice and religious courses are available , youth itself has firmly supported the subject matter . At Columbia University , there was sonic hostility on the campus when the Department of Religion expanded rapidly . but now , reports John Krumm , chaplain of the university , " thin have settled down and manifest steady growth in interest and enrollment . Fortunately , this is on a wide basis . Many Jewish students , for example , enroll in courses which deal specifically with the Christian tradition . " At one Ivy League school the whole university was polled last year on the question of adding academic courses in religion. , when the soles were counted they showed that while some of the faculty opposed the idea , the students were overwhelmingly in favor of it . For many years most of the major denominations have maintained student foundations headed by paid or solunteer religious workers to pros ids a combination of instruction , recreation and social activity . These have gained ground rapidly . Since 1947 the number of lull-time campus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than 1500 , and still more are needed . A number of churches are building student centers or chapels to house their campus organizations and to provide a place for worship and study . At Purdue University the Roman tholies built St. Thomas Church in 1951 and assigned one priest to student work . Soon it became necessary to add another priest , and now the rectory has been enlarged to make room for a third . The priest in chary --  Father Leo A. Pipet. tells me , " The bishops of the United States are becoming more and more aware of the need for adequate facilities and personnel to satisfy the spiritual and religious needs of Catholic students in secular colleges . For large . ? niversities , the ideal is a thriving student parish on the fringes of the college campus . Purdue has it now , " Brick and mortar are an important part of this trend , but they are n't always essential , and certainly the vital clement is the trained , confidence-inspiring religious worker who may use the whole campus as his office . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reformed Church at the New York State College for Teachers , Buffalo . made the student cafeteria his base of operations . Drinking countless cups of coffee . he met with individual students and small groups for friendly counseling and tactful instruction . When he left to go to another college . President Haney Rice said that Chaplain Sakamura had " transmitted a Christian concern to the whole campus. - At Penn State I saw firsthand the value that the religiously inclined student places on such counseling . Many young couples ho were contemplating marriage came to ask advice . Quite often they were n't able to say clearly just what they wanted from the church , but it was obvious that they felt Christianity would help them find solid ground for their life together , There were uncertain young men such as Jim . who was so shy that it was an ordeal for him to meet people . He came to church , in part at least , to help find his place among like-minded students . In the Christian faith he learned to accept and trust friends . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Christian faith to his courses . He is no longer shy and moves with ease among people . When he completes his tour of duly in the armed services , he plans on going to theological seminary . There arc many crisis situations in college life which shake students and cause sonic of them to turn to their pastor or chaplain for aid . Some of the problems might seem trivial to an older person . One young man became so tied up with worn because he thought he had flunked a mathematics examination that he could n't study ( or a chemistry test that was still two days in the future . Here all it took was one phone call to the math instructor . who assured me that the boy had made a passing grade , and a talk ith the boy to quiet his nerves . College chaplains also must deal with some of life 's most desperate challenges . There were it few couples who came to me belatedly to be married because the girl was pregnant ; these eases required that counseling be done with great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There were married couples , so common on the campus these days , who had lost a baby . Wien , as campus lingo has it , the wife had a job and was working for her " Pli.T , " ? that is , Pushing 1-lubby Through . In the cemetery at State College is a whole plot , row on row , of small graves  --  pitiful reminders that inadequate finances , poor diets , and the strains and tensions of work and study are not conducive to normal births . In some such eases the death of a baby , tragic as it was , showed these couples the need for closer examination of their lives and brought them to the church seeking understanding . My five years at St. Andrew 's seemed to fly , so gratifying were the duties , Then 1 was appointed executive director of the Church Society of College Work , located at Mt . St. Alban , Washington . D.C. , an Episcopal organization which itself demonstrates the " new look " in campus religion . This society was established in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religion and in other ways to foster and strengthen the work of the Protestant Episcopal Church in college and university centers . " The society depends for its income on contributions from members in every state , and for the first twenty years its main function was the supplemental financial support of college chaplains and rectors , so that highly qualified men might be called to these posts . However , in 1955 the society was freed from routine work , so that it might pioneer experimental and research projects aimed at the improvement of college religious activities . We are convinced that a fresh , larger approach will be required to meet the religious needs of the mushrooming college population , which stands over 3,000,000 now and will be 4,500,000 by 1965 , seven to nine million by 1970 . The society is exploring means of expanding the number of trained college workers by helping faculty members , graduate students and undergraduates to get a better grasp of their own Christian ministry as laymen . We want to train them and enlist their help for the ordained clergy on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for graduate study looking toward a Ph.D . in religion , offered with the understanding that the recipient will be available to teach for a period in colleges , universities and seminaries . We also arc co-operating with local churches in placing chaplains to work among graduate students and faculty members in general graduate schools and medical centers . We have experiments under way in which a small group of graduate students is exploring the ways and means of working with other students . We hope this research will give us answers as to the most effective ways to approach the strategic group from which future college teachers will come . We arc studying various methods of reaching college faculty members and helping them toward a deeper grasp of their Christian faith ; one such project brings together a group of faculty members for live weeks of summertime theological study , Our society is are expanding their college organizations and seeking to improve their channels for reaching students and faculties . One outstanding program is that of the interdenominational Faculty Chris- Tit Min Fellowship , formed in 1952 by a group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an executive committee of distinguished educators , and its members contribute articles to an excellent quarterly journal , The Christian Scholar . From my observation post , it seems that two things are sweeping the campus at the same time . One is a general conformity , under which religious faith is no longer suspect as it once was , by the younger generation . This means that religious practice runs wide , but not necessarily deep . The other trend , though not so widespread , perhaps is more important : It is the search for more complete understanding of religion and theology and its relationship to life itself . Mere conformity  --  going through the motions because it is a popular thing to do  --  certainly is not an end in itself , Some observers discount the value of the revival of religion among our youth on this basis and say that there is a " ghostly quality " about the beliefs of students  --  in short , that the student 's grasp of faith is not complete enough to carry over and guide him in important decisions in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his mind , for use on Sundays . Perhaps so . Of course , any reasonable observer can sec that the interest of some students in their church is quite superficial . Missionaries sometimes speak of " rice Christians " ? that is , those natives who get converted merely to get flatland I must say that not all rice Christians arc in the Orient . l recall one coed who admitted with refreshing candor that she took part in our student church activities because it gave her an opportunity to meet eligible young men . Also , there is no doubt that college students have been caught in the " peace of mind " fad which would make of religion a sort of psychological tranquilizer , attempting to use God as a servant to man 's needs . But at the same time it seems obvious that a broad base is being built among youth , and among faculties , too , for a genuine development of religion on the campus on an unprecedented scale . All observers of college trends agree that today there is far more solid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There are students who are seeking answers , not just peace of mind . As one chemistry student put it , " I believe I must be something more than a mess of chemicals . " Or , as a graduate student in nuclear physics remarked , " These discussion groups on Christian faith are helping me to meet for the first time some of the fundamental questions I 've been avoiding for years , " Then there was an unsolicited comment , written on an examination paper by a coed in a course called Introduction to Religion : " I can honestly say that this little two-credit course has done more for my whole attitude than even  --  well , even the fact that I 'm getting married Sunday . I 'm sure of this  --  i 'm not going to raise my children as I was raised , with so little religion . I never knew what to believe . " To understand this generation and its reactions , which sometimes arc so different from those of the older one , I believe we should recall its background @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to late ' 30 's of parents who had come through the depression years . These youngsters have grown up in a time of world unrest and war . Theirs is a world that seems to teeter on the brink of self-destruction ; a world in which millions of innocent people have suffered in concentration camps or been fed into gas chambers ; where ether millions wander as refugees ; u world in which there is no place to hide from H-bombs and interIt // continental missiles . All about them these young people see a failure of nerve , an unsureness in the older sgenerationa . Sensing that man has built his house on sand , they arc hopeful that the church is built on rock . Today 's college youth has been called " a wistful generation , tired of living on snap judgments , " by Dr. Clarence P. Shedd , now at Pacific School of Religion , Berkeley , California , formerly of Yale , He adds , " It is the most intelligently responsive general ion I have known ... seeking to conic to grips with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not superficial , but ultimate questions , and they will not be satisfied with easy answers , " It is a reassuring part of the trend that faculty members are increasingly receptive and " open " to religious faith . Quite a bit of the credit for this , I believe , goes to alert pastors in college communities who have recognized the opportunity that has developed to propagate a stronger faith among teachers  --  or at least a tolerance for student investigation of faith . The time has been ripe . During my experience as a parish priest I witnessed , time after time , the transformation of an instructor or professor from a thinking man to a thoughtful man . Too often we assume that learned men and scientists rely upon intellectual knowledge to the exclusion of the wisdom that religion has to offer , This is not necessarily true . Harold Schilling , an outstanding physicist and dean of the graduate school at Penn State , points out , " Many thoughtful men . . . are conscious of the inadequacy of their knowledge and insight , realizing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to them by the ordinary methodology of scholarship , They arc coming to see that there are significant areas of reality and experience ... which arc accessible only through religion . " A number of eminent scientists are active in promoting closer tics between scholarship and religion . William Pollard , executive director of the Oak Ridge Institute of Nuclear Studies , was ordained as an Episcopal priest a few years ago and combines the functions of scientist and pastor without philosophical conflict . Kinky Mather , professor emeritus of geology at Harvard and former president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science , is an active member of the Faculty Christian Fellowship . Arnold Nash , professor of the History of Religion at the University of North Carolina and a leader of numerous Danforth Summer Seminars for teachers across the nation , says . " If you had said twenty years ago thatscores of university professors and college teachers would be spending their summers for their winter evenings ) reading straight theology , or would be seeking to relate their body of technical knowledge to Christian thought , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ true today . " It seems abundantly clear to me and other workers in this rewarding field that a great opportunity is open to us . By the grace of God we . the people living in this perilous time , are being given another chance , a chance which focuses sharply on the college and university campuses from which will come the future statimen , scientists , teachers , lawyers , doctors , ministers and businessmen  --  to say nothing of the future housewives and mothers . The day is past when our schools can be called godless institutions . The task now , as always for education , is to " seek the truth , come whence it may , cost what it will , " but this task is increasingly understood on the campus as supported , made freer and given courage by religious commitment . 