@@202057

" Hear the word of the Lord , ye rulers of New York ; give ear unto the law of our God , ye people of New York . " The words were the prophet Isaiah's-about Sodom and Gomorrah-but the voice was the Southern smoothness of Billy Graham coming over the 18 loudspeakers in Manhattan 's Madison Square Garden . The voice beat upon more than 18,000 people - seekers and servers of the Lord as well as the merely curious-and it etched itself upon the sliding ribbons of the tape recorders set up by radiomen . The evangelist of the mid-century set out last week on his toughest " crusade " - to bring salvation to New York 's 8,000,000 sinners . <P> Campaign 's Head . If the heart of the crusade is Madison Square Garden , its head is a seven-room suite in Times Square where 35 permanent staff members , 30 temporary employees and more than 200 volunteer clerical workers control a hectically complex organism . Automatic typewriters clack out letters appealing for prayer ; duplicating machines roll out instructions and memorandums . On wall maps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ red , blue and green pins and tapes spot churches ( 1,510 in Greater New York ) and prayer groups supporting the campaign . Staff members : 1 ) channel the activities of 108,415 " prayer partners " in the U.S. ; 2 ) keep tab on 158,817 prayer partners in 48 other countries ; 3 ) ride herd on the " active " cooperating ministers , the " partial-supporting " ministers and the " undecided " ministers ; 4 ) process applications for blocks of seats ( " Lancaster , Pa. wants 2,000 " ) . <P> Long before the crusade began , the personal counseling staff signed up 4,000 applicants in eleven centers throughout the city for a nine-week course in Scripture , how to apply Bible lessons , how to handle people 's problems . ( Among the carefully drawn-up list of traits that disqualify applicants for counseling posts : " inability to communicate , " argumentative or surly attitude , unkempt appearance , halitosis . ) Of the applicants , 3,800 stuck the course to the end . 2,143 qualified as counselors , 350 were held in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . <P> Campaign 's Heart . New Yorkers who came to the Garden for the beginning of the crusade last week-many in buses chartered by their own church organizations-had several surprises . First was the strange sensation of walking into the Garden without a ticket and , even stranger , being directed to a seat by a polite , quiet-voiced usher who seemed to know the difference between a shepherd and a sheepherder . Second was the clear air of the Garden 's interior without its usual blue haze of cigarette smoke ; hot-dog stands throughout the building were cigaretteless for the duration , and strips of cardboard covered the signs that normally announce " BEER " ( a checkroom was converted to a Bible shop ) . Third surprise was the crowd itself : quiet , well-dressed , all ages-there was nothing to distinguish it from the audience at the Radio City Music Hall .                     