@@196365

The Eisenhower Administration , whose press relations have been under attack by Washington newsmen ( TIME , Oct. 26 ) , last week tried to end some of the criticism ; it got ready to ease the regulations on classified information . But the announcement of the change only served to touch off another flurry of complaints . <P> The regulations , originally put into effect two years ago by Harry Truman , gave Government departments the right to classify information for security reasons , i.e. , label it " top secret , " " secret , " etc . Newsmen complained that the order could easily be abused by bureaucrats with nothing to hide but their own mistakes . Last week Presidential Press Secretary James Hagerty announced that there would be a new executive order on classified information . Under the new order , 29 Government departments , e.g. , Veterans Administration , War Claims Commission , will be stripped of the right to classify information . Sixteen other departments , e.g. , Civil Aeronautics Board , Subversive Activities Control Board , may still classify , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In giving advance notice of the new policy on the Du Mont network 's TV panel show , The Big Issue , Hagerty found himself under fire . His attacker : the St. Louis Post-Dispatch 's Washington Correspondent Raymond ( " Pete " ) Brandt , who was still smarting over the Warren leak ( TIME , Oct. 12 ) . " The information order relates to the classification of documents , " said Brandt , " which gave us very little trouble under the Truman Administration . " Even if a document had been classified , he argued , newsmen had ready access to Government officials who would give the information they wanted . " The present Administration , " said Brandt , " seems to be afraid of newspapermen ; they do n't trust them and they do n't realize the position of the newspaper in national life . " <P> Before the week was out , Brandt got support for his criticisms from two oddly matched allies . New York Daily News Columnist John O'Donnell , whose paper supported Eisenhower , thought some of the " storm and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Though his hatred of Franklin D. Roosevelt has never abated , O'Donnell nevertheless wrote that " Ike 's relations with the press . . . are not as effective as those of Roosevelt or ... Harry Truman and the relations of Ike 's Cabinet members with the press are bad-very bad . " Added Fair Dealing Columnist Marquis Childs : " Many working newspapermen complain that the flow of news has been greatly reduced in recent months . . . Whether the new order will achieve the desired end is open to question . . . The negative step of removing restrictions on classified information is not enough . There must be a positive incentive for giving out information . "                     