@@476909

THE Nieman Fellows are newspapermen who spend a year studying at Harvard in order , so the grant that finances them reads , to promote and elevate standards of journalism " in the United States . At intervals writers and editors are invited to talk to them about problems of journalism , and sonic time ago this election fell on the editor of Harper 's . He chose to discuss the kind of journalism that Harper 's publishes . Before he got very far there was a question from the floor : what fees did he pay for contributions ? They are not of Hollywood size and another question followed at once , " How do you get anyone to write for Harper 's ? " There was no problem , the editor said ; the articles that Harper 's publishes are written by people who want to write for Harper 's . The magazine pays as much as it can afford to but for the Harper 's writer the fee is not the first consideration , it is not even an important one . He wants to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many Harper 's pieces there is only one other possible outlet , the Atlantic . I cite the articles about the struggle over the public lands that I have been running periodically in the Easy Chair and the body of the magazine ever since January 1947 . Some have been straight news stories , some have been editorial comment , some have been primarily polemic ; but whatever their nature , they have given the subject the only adequate coverage it has had anywhere . No newspaper has covered it well , and that goes for the New York Times . Apart from Harper 's no magazine has more than glanced at it . Presumably I could have published most of my pieces in the Atlantic ? but where else ? Several magazines for sportsmen ran occasional articles about isolated parts of the struggle . In the first year after the story of the land grab broke ? after I broke the story ? Collier 's ran two pieces about it . No other mass-circulation magazine would touch it . The weeklies never got past the fringe . But Harper 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its functions . Harper 's and the Atlantic are the only survivors of what was called the Quality Group when I was in college . The phrase carries no inkplication that there is not journalism as expert in other magazines : it does imply that much quality group journalism is different in kind , context , or treatment from other journalism , and that it has some forms of its own . All the other original members of the group have died and only two magazines that can be considered to belong to it have been established , Fortune and the New Yorker . Sonic Harper 's articles might well appear in one or the other of them ; some others might appear in such magazines as the New Republic or the Reporter . None of these magazines , however , shares more than a part of the Harper 's field . In the Easy Chair of the Centennial Issue I described that Field , and I explained that Harper 's has survived because it assumed some functions that American journalism at large has either relinquished voluntarily or proved unable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Harper 's " perform those functions . I appear to be the person who wants most to write for Harper 's .. I have kept a file of my publications but I know that it is not complete and so I can not say exactly how many pieces I have published in this magazine . There must have been at least thirty text articles and I began writing the Easy Chair twenty years ago this month , with the issue of November 1935 . The total must be at least eight hundred thousand words , and more likely it is nine hundred thousand ? the equivalent of half a dozen long books . As my twentieth anniversary approached , it occurred to me with some force that I have written more for Harper 's than anyone else now living . WHEN my turn to address the Niemans came , I reminded them that the Easy Chair is the oldest editorial feature in American journalism . It is subject to the conditions of monthly journalism but only one limitation is set on it , that of length . I used to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advance in technology that is called American know-how spread to printing establishments and for some years I have had to work seven weeks ahead . The limitation of length and the long time-lapse are a monthly test of a writer 's professional judgment , not to speak of his luck . ( My luck has been good ; in twenty years I have had to make only one stop-press change because a situation had developed otherwise than I had judged it would . ) Also , I have a deadline . The editors will tell you that I have never missed it , and I can tell you that I am scrupulous not to anticipate it . One of the satisfactions of being a Harper 's writer is that you remain your own writer ; your work is not taken down , reassembled , and rewritten by a committee ; you arc expected to provide your own structure , verification , and who-he . But even the writers who edit Harper 's are editors ; their fingers may he counted on to twitch if given Lime . W H E N @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Easy Chair I could do no better than " cultural criticism , " which is unsatisfactory . I have never formulated any principles for writing it but 1 have probably observed some . Such a column as this could not easily be pretentious and I have tried to keep it from being pompous . I have tried to avoid repeating myself , at short intervals anyway , and to keep the subject matter so varied that a reader would not know what to expect when he turned to the column . I have ranged so widely that I found I could not represent the full scope of the Easy Chair in a volume of selections from it which will he published about the time you read this , and which no virtuous person will fail to buy . I have assumed that there was no public demand for me to write about anything at all but that if I was interested in something , some readers would be interested in it too . But also I have written about a good many subjects not primarily because I wanted to write @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ else would . Harper 's does some chores because it believes that journalism must not leave them undone ; so does the Easy Chair . Some implications of my job were obvious from the beginning ; others became apparent to me only gradually . Fact pieces in the New Yorker have a formula which is intended to preserve the convention that Mr. Tilley 's interest in anything is strictly dilettante . " When I met Mr. Chase the next morning , he suggested that I have coffee with Mr. Sanborn while the reports from the whatisits were coming in . " For a time after I began writing the Easy Chair I went to equal length to give it an appearance of editorial anonymity . But the personal pronoun is a space-saver and I found myself more and more forced to make use of it . I was surprised to find that readers welcomed it . Not many places where personal journalism can he practiced legitimately remain ; there seems to be a use for what is left of it . Equally surprising is the value attributed to such editorial space @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our common culture and the American way they call on me to publicize goods , liquors , restaurants , business firms , crusading organizations , crackpot organizations , causes , people who pay to get their names in print , and one columnist whose social engineer keeps demanding that I explain to my readers how the American language has been enriched by the words he invents . These efforts are occasionally subtle but usually high-pressure , frequently elaborate , and sometimes so persistent that it would have been cheaper for the client to buy four pages of display space in Harper 's . If any has succeeded , then it succeeded brilliantly for I did not know I was being taken . Sometimes a press agent 's solicitation has resulted in my abandoning an Easy Chair I had intended to write . Such eagerness does not inflate my ego , for there are counter-irritants . Some of my most enthusiastic readers are people who have been reading someone else , frequently Eimer Davis . Others understand that the Easy Chair is a department of the Atlantic . And things happen ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rescuing a book he had published . The sale was small and had dried up , he said , but following my Easy Chair about it , it revived and ran sixteen thousand copies . This was a flattering story but it had a hole in it , for I had n't written anything about the book . And I get a lot of letters praising or denouncing pieces which neither I nor anyone else has written . Readers write to me ; newspapers run quotes from the Easy Chair and write editorials about it ; other writers use it or refer to it in articles and books . These are the only means I have of judging the response to it . It has had enough supporters to count or I would have been fired . It has had opponents and even enemies , some of them habitual or occupational . I have annoyed quite a Iot of people but though I have cost Harper 's some subscribers there have been no lawsuits . A cheese-maker tried hard to suppress me and a publisher of books to censor me . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , even by Personal &:; Otherwise , but the adjective is inaccurate . I have deliberately precipitated only one controversy , the one over the public lands I have mentioned , and I precipitated that one as a reporter . It took me some time to understand what the reality behind the inaccurate adjective is and why the Easy Chair has produced so much more heat than it has carried . My job is to write about anything in American life that may interest me , but it is also to arrive at judgments under my own steam , independently of others . With some judgments that is the end of the line ; express them and you have nothing more to do . But there are also judgments that require you to commit yourself , to stick your neck out . Expressing them in print obliges you to go on to advocacy . They get home to people 's beliefs and feelings about important things , and that makes them inflammable . I seem most consistently to offend two groups that have in common a love of simplification and absolutes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deal with epistemology and , trailing by some lengths , literature . Copywriters always run a mild fever , quite trivial stimuli can send it shooting up , and I am always wounding these poet-patriots without intending to . Commonly they assail me with one or the other of two libels : that only a Communist would disparage manufactured goods and that I could have made a fortune , as clearly I have not done , if I had gone into advertising . Often they are rhetorically belligerent and the announced ambition of one is to punch my nose . Still , I was once asked to address a meeting of advertising men , whereas so far as I know no quarterly has ever approved of anything I have written . The accusation here is on different grounds and there is no lament that I once had it in me to become a literary person . Instead there is a twofold seems superfluous , a waste of energy . It is fully visible that 1 respect reality-judgments as requiring more intelligence than fantasy and think them a better instrument for critical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to experience , preferring direct approaches . The universals of a priori thinking arc not for me , large abstractions will not fit my hand , and I work with complexities and tentatives . Certainly , I am a journalist . But who is using all those epithets ? Long ago I got used to seeing ideas which were lust expressed in this column , or in my books , turn up as the invention and fee-simple property of literary thinkers who scorned and denounced them when I published them . M 0 R E than that . When I was preparing the book that is to be published this month , I found clipped to one Easy Chair hn article I had forgotten . The critic who wrote it proved me a Fascist , without disclosing that he knew what Fascism is but simmering- with the same resentment that nowadays represents me as a red , and went on to say , " If Mr. DeVoto is a democrat , then I am not . " That may be a true statement but we have no way of knowing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I have been reading him for many years and I have yet to see him stick his neck out about anything except the symbol of the peach in " The Love Song of J. Alfred Fru frock . " Getting out on that limb may have required courage but not of a kind that would make trouble for him , and I believe that some years later the peach proved to have been eaten by Edward Fitzgerald . Some battles can not be fought after the fact and in journalism a writer runs into some he does not care to be above . The first Easy Chair I wrote described some asininities committed by a New Deal agency . ( Prophetically , it was a news story , one I had dug out for myself . ) Various newspapers promptly admitted Mr. E. S. Martin 's successor to the Republican party . The welcome was premature . I doubt if anyone was ever a 100 per cent New Dealer ? obviously Mr. Roosevelt was n't ? but though many New Deal intellectuals had a much higher proof than mine , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ got to that position by studying history , and the study of history has held me to the working principles of American liberalism . H E R E , I believe , is where the accusation that I have betrayed literary thinking comes in , for fashions and events have required me , every so often , to show that literary liberalism is something else . I was at odds with the dominant fashions of literary thinking during the 1920s . Most of those who followed them seemed to me na ? ve and ignorant , ignorant especially of our history and of politics . During the 1930s I felt no impulse to seek comfort in Marx and Lenin , and it was again my job to point out that the literary thinkers who did were naive and ignorant , ignorant especially of American history and of the politics which they told us they had mastered . And today I feel no impulse to regress to Burke , Hobbes , Mandeville , or personal revelation . It is now high literary fashion to represent the fashionables of the earlier decades as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flavor , but the empirical grounds from which the representation is made seem worse than dubious . The thinkers are still practicing hook reviewing . They have mastered politics just as their predecessors did , by making it up while gazing earnestly at their navels . Nothing could astonish a journalist more than the fantasies regularly published in the literary quarterlies about the government of the United States , what its mechanism and energies are , how they are controlled . The practice of journalism has led me not only to work constantly with the reports of committees , commissions , and bureaus , but constantly to study Congress and the federal bureaus in action . I have had to know intimately many Senators , Congressmen , and bureau officials , and I have shared or assisted the work of a good many . I have seen nothing to justify the literary critic 's belief that he is more intelligent than the politician . And when I read what the quarterlies say about actions I know empirically ? and say with a condescension that would be unbecoming in an archangel ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real energies at work are , or the real issues . I conclude that there is one infrangible virginity : literary criticism is not an approach to politics . The Chicago Tribune put me on its list long ago and invented the word " DeVotoism " to classify one entire order of its phobias . The heaviest mail I have ever received was evoked not by the FBI piece that McCarthy lied about but by an Easy Chair a year before we entered the war which said that we ought to enter it and predicted that we would . Orders had gone out from the GHQ of America First to work me over . The organization charged its heirs to keep after me and they have been faithful to the trust . A lot of them are too pure in heart to sign their names . I F I HAVE written as readily about disc jockeys as about The Federalist , that willingness too can be ascribed to the study of history . Library stacks as well as the town square taught inc that no manifestation of American life is trivial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this could not easily avoid politics but no doubt I have felt an additional incentive to write about it because I was practicing history . Also , unlike much writing , political comment is a form of action . Sometimes it runs to prophecy too , and here I am entitled to brag . All but one of my prophecies have been borne out by the event , and if that one was a national-championship flop it originated in a mistake we are all prone to make . I underestimated the stupidity of Republican grand strategy . My commonest political theme has been the erosion of the Bill of Rights . Before the war , and this is revealing , the Easy Chair was disturbed by such peripheral matters as literary censorship and our homegrown Catos . During the war it was usually suppression of the news , and I was uncomfortable for I had to take potshots at my friend Elmer                     