@@493815

THE TAX THIEVES OF 1951 VI . The True Villains IT 'S NOT excusable , but it can happen to any tax system . In Turkey , by Richard M. Cooperman the appearance of the tax collector is a signal to wine and " The law draws feed him , for he can decide whether to collect taxes from a town at the beginning or the end of a year . In the declining clays of the Roman Empire the cost of bribing tax collectors became so prohibitive that many citizens went into exile to escape the taxes . In France today , the government considers itself lucky to collect 60 percent of the taxes it levies . In post-Civil War United States , tax collecting was so difficult that the government customarily settled for only a percentage of what it was actually owed . The odor of something rotten in a nation 's tax system is nothing new in , man 's time . But the current revelations of corruption , malfeasance , ineptness and negligence in the highest places of the Bureau of Internal Revenue and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the grossness of all our concepts today . An index to the enormities of our world is easily found in examination of a few comparative tax figures . In 1914 , a year after the personal income-tax levy was enacted , the BIR collected $380 million from about 360,000 taxpayers . In the fiscal year 1951-52 , expectations are that it will collect more than $60 billion from 166 times that number of taxpayers . Many tax rates are at an all-time peak because business and individual earning powers are at a summit too . Sixty billion dollars in taxes would come only from an economy of very high profits and very high wages . But with the cost of living and the cost of business operations high , too , the national mood is to avoid , duck , evade high costs ? and high taxes . Get as much as you can , everybody is doing it , is the credo . There is more ingenuity for ducking to be found among 60 million American taxpayers than among the one-time 360,000 . As a Supreme Court decision observes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acts the record of the government 's endeavor to keep pace with the fertility of invention whereby taxpayers had contrived to keep the larger benefits of ownership and be relieved of the attendant burdens . " Avoiding taxes and evading taxes are two very different things in the complex parlances of tax law . Taxpayers the world ' round practice both . the difference between or the other . " Holmes went on to say that tax avoidance " if on the safe side is none the worse legally because . a party has availed himself to the full of what the law permits . When an act is condemned as evasion , what is meant is that it is on the wrong side . . . . Many taxpayers today have rationalized Holmes 's doctrine to suit their own convenience . To avoid tax liability , a man about to receive a $50,000 bonus from his firm may persuade his company to spread the payments of the sum over 10 years . In this manner , he subjects only $5,000 a year , for 10 years , to taxation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a $50,000 chunk added to his regular income in a single year . There is a tendency for tax attorneys and accountants to create legal situations whereby monies received by their clients are made to look as though they are a result of capital gains rather than normal income . This devide can substantially reduce taxes since income-tax rates , designed to reach regular income from investment or labor , are much higher than capital-gains tax rates , which are designed to tax receipts from abnormal sources such as profit from a real-estate sale or from the sale of stocks . Attorneys and accountants may advise people entering a new business operation to incorporate , form a partnership , form a closed- or open-type corporation or operate as individuals to create the smallest possible tax liability . A wealthy man is advised by his attorneys and accountants to handle his personal fortunes and to write his will with sharp attention to current and future tax liability . Our tax laws and procedures , like those of any government , are complex . Without professional , legal and accounting aid , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But clearly , tax avoidance is almost exclusively a high-bracket game requiring the expert know-how of attorneys and accountants and usually played between these representatives of a taxpayer and the Bureau of Internal Revenue . Few taxpayers , even those with the price of one or a group of legal and accounting advisers , know the rules . And the little fellow who annually files a " short-form " or a Form 10440 , without itemizing his deduction , and sends a check or receives a refund seldom plays the game at all . If he does , it is for pennies and not for thousands of dollars . Legally , and in the procedures of the Bureau of Internal Revenue , avoidance is acceptable , but there is no question about the illegality of tax evasion . There are prescribed punishments for those who are caught . Economic strata is no index to tax dodgers . In the words of one tax authority , tax evasion " will be attempted for as long as tax rates offer a sufficient reward to those who are successful . " There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ file a return ; others omit or understate items on their tax return , and some transact all their business in cash to avoid tell-tale checks and bookkeeping entries . On the other hand , there are undoubtedly some lawyers and accountants , no credit to their profession or to so-. ciety , who devise elaborate legal and accounting methods for their clients to avoid taxes . They may draw contracts in the names of dummies or figureheads , or employ two sets of books to dodge taxes . Tax avoidance got its foothold in the US when World War I caused tax rates to soar . In 1924 , certain malpractices of the Bureau of Internal Revenue got the full attention of Sen. James Couzens and a special Senate Investigating Committee . The committee did not limit itself to dramatic public hearings . It sent its own representatives into the Bureau 's offices and assembled a staff of legal , engineering , accounting and clerical assistants to investigate and " report findings together with recommendations for corrective legislation . " The committee learned that Bureau rulings setting precedents favorable to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being made public and were known only to a few people on the " inside . " Over a period of time , this practice established a special class of tax practitioners who traded in a knowledge of the secret methods and practices of the Bureau 's Income-Tax Unit . It also created " a favored class of taxpayers , those who have employed ' tax experts ' . " The committee reported further that " special knowledge of secret precedents has created a demand by large taxpayers for the services of Income-Tax Unit employees and is the principal cause of the immense turnover in the personnel of the unit . " Revenue agents of the Income-Tax Unit are the very first people to deal with a taxpayer 's return if the Bureau has any question about the accuracy of the return and the tax paid . Most of the ' remaining offices in this division are concerned with correcting the return to the Bureau 's satisfaction . It is not difficult to see how in 1924 , personnel in this division , having dwelt in an atmosphere of tax avoidance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became " experts " with " inside " information on how to pay less taxes and offered this information . to the highest bidders . In 1941 , our tax rates began to climb steeply as they had during World War I. The tax-avoidance business , dampened by the government which had zealously pursued every tax dollar during the depression , returned and boomed . Taxpayers , seeking . a new source of relief , turned to Congress . Big-business groups succeeded in pressuring federal legislators to push a parade of tax loopholes through Congress . The Internal Revenue Act of 1942 set a record for tax relief for business . The Revenue Act of 1951 holds its own in the same respect , as did those in the intervening years . The decade 1941-1951 resembled in spirit the seven years leading up to the 1924 Internal Revenue investigation it was an era in which the dynamic national political leadership of President Roosevelt set in motion the revolution of expedient disregard for old national habits . Roosevelt 's liberal interptetation of statutes and administrative procedure for the purpose of freeing us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by officials at lower levels to tacit nonobservance or misinterpretation of the law . In this climate , the ultimate deterioration occurred when political appointees brought the casual ethics of politics , business and law to high government tax posts . The general pressures of the times and the particular pressures indigenous to politicians were upon all such public officials . No wonder six of our 64 Collectors of Internal Revenue succumbed to the bribe , or the fix , or the influence peddling scheme , or the shakedown , with the resulting necessity of a cover up . The lure of money and social status is a difficult bait to resist , especially when you are a new fish in the pond of affluence resulting from a high government post . When the head man of a tax-collection district office becomes involved in shady dealings , other employees of the office soon know it and emulate the boss . In fact , to carry on illegal activity a collector generally must take an associate into his confidence . San Francisco and New York are horrible examples of quick decay spreading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For years , New York and San Francisco lawyers have found that someone in the lower echelons of the collection offices would always willingly put " the fix " in return for a case of whiskey or some other favor . When the people at the top or near the top of the district office operate illegally , a second electrode completes the circuit with the electrode provided by the little fry at the bottom . The result is a flash-like spread of corruption throughout the office . Despite the corruptive activities of a minute minority , the employees of the Bureau processed 52 million returns and collected $41 billion in 1951 . Nor has scandal touched two very sensitive elements of the Bureau . In the 39 field offices of the Revenue Agents Division of the Income-Tax Unit , there are men who meet in conference with taxpayers whoe returns have been questioned by the Bureau . There are also conference members in the Technical Staff , recently renamed the Appelate Division , of the Bureau . The job of these men is to consider disputed returns carefully and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay . This would seem to be a prime place for a bribe or a fix . Results of the current inquiry and what they have uncovered are difficult to assess . Politically , Harry Truman must stand somewhere in the spotlight of blame , if only in the glare reflected by some of his top-ranking administrators . His present indisposition toward bold cleanup strokes puzzles his , supporters who respect his legendary political sagacity . His enemies have not yet moved to capitalize on his position , which lends credence to persistent rumors of a bipartisan deal to protect top-name politicians from the fate of a Caudle . Despite the performance which Attorney General McGrath gave before the King Committee , he apparently will continue in office . The scandals have deeply scarred the BIR . Morale is low and tax attorneys complained as early as last summer about the slow-down in settlement of tax disputes . Conference staff men and Revenue agents have been timid about making decisions on delicate tax matters . The hot glare of investigation is not conducive to deciding for the government or the ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Bureau has been hurt . Tax attorneys and accountants wish that someone highly placed in government would tell the thousands of loyal Bureau employees that they are not suspect , will not be investigated and can continue doing the fine job they do normally . Perhaps the greatest speculative assessment is directed at Mr. and Mrs. Taxpayer . Political implications notwithstanding , how will they react at tax filing time ? Has the shock of scandal in the BIR affected our self-assessing tax system ? Even the Bureau shows signs of concern over this . It is noteworthy that with your tax forms this year , you will find a chatty " bluepaper " from the new Commissioner of Internal Revenue , John Dunlap . In a " Dear Fellow Taxpayer Letter , " Dunlap asks taxpayers to be careful about errors of accident or intent in making out their returns and reminds them that , Bureau field offices stand ready to help them with any questions they may have . What must be done to square the scandal-ridden Burreau with the American public ? Most citizens lack firsthand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or prosecuting team may provide some drama to show the public that a cleanup is in progress . But the ills of the BIR are buried deep in its bureaucratic workings . Personal shuffling will undoubtedly help the situation , but much more is required . 1 . As the Hoover Commission , Congress and the President have suggested , Collectors of Internal Revenue should be civil servants and not political appointees . 2 . The job of a Collector of Internal Revenue includes bookkeeping , ' accepting taxes and other duties requiring no discretionary actions . He does exercise dikretionary powers in levying tax liens . The importance of the job itself should be reduced to conform with the functions of the job . Supervision of the Collection District offices should be performed in the field . 3 . Collectors should be trained for their jobs before assuming their duties . 4 . Revenue Agents of the 39 Revenue Agents Divisionshould exercise less discretionary powers in dealing with disputed tax returns and should be merely fact finders . Discretionary powers should be limited to trained superiors . 5 . Taxpayers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would curtail the possibilities of bribery between a taxpayer 's representatives and BIR personnel with or without the taxpayer 's knowledge of the amount exchanged . It would also assure the presence of a third party at any illegal transactions ; the participants might be reluctant to exchange money in a crowded room . 6 . The Bureau 's Committee on Practices , now virtually impotent , carry out its job of setting standards for lawyers and accountants and deciding which ones shall be allowed to practice before the Treasury Department . 7 . If the BIR is closely examined by Presidential investigators they should note carefully that in 1948 a joint House Senate Committee found that " unnecessarily cumbersome , outmoded and wasteful practices have continued in the Bureau for decades . " 8 . Pay scales for Bureau personnel should be adjusted so that adequate salaries is the rule . Even with these reforms , the Bureau will continue to be fair game for corruption so long as the American taxpayer calls the moral tune by practising tax avoidance and evasion. 