@@494390

T ESSAY as short as this , dealing with a subject as broad as postwar American fiction , has to be a sort of aerial survey , not critical but topographical . Looking down as if from a slow observation plane , we examine the jumbled landscape to learn what it reveals . We can scarcely see the people , let alone hearing them talk , but at least we can see their fields , their roads , and where these converge in groups of houses , each different from any other group . The largest of the groups is composed of novels about the armed services in World War II . There are now so many of the novels , by such a varied company of authors , that one can find , if not a published book , then . at least a manu- script about every arm and rank of all the services in every theatre of operations and in every major battle from Pearl Harbor to Okinawa -- not to mention other novels about occupation troops , prisoners of war , soldiers and sailors on leave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if a commission in Washington had summoned a meeting of all the novelists and had given each of them the task of writing one volume about a single phase of the conflict . And it is as if the chairman of the commission had said , " Some of you can be original , to lend variety to the undertaking , but we expect the rest of you to use the same methods and approximately the same style , so that the volumes will fit together into a vast collective history of the war . " Many of the novels are so much alike that dialogues and episodes could be transposed from one to another without a change except in names . There are indeed a few individualists among the authors : notably there is James Jones , who is the only one to write about the Army as an institution and a permanent way of life ; there is Norman Mailer , who has a political sense that . is rare among writers of his generation ; and there is the late John Horne Burns , with the strained but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and never achieved again ; but these and a fewothers are exceptions . Most of the authors write like contributors to a symposium . Although the sameness of their novels is their great defect as separate works , it is also a virtue of the undertaking as a whole . Together the novels form a production of lasting value , one that may well be richer and more complete than the contemporary account we possess of any nation 's part in any other war . Even in a topographical survey I should make two other remarks about the second-war novels . The first is that , on the average , they are better written than all but a few of the war novels produced in the 1920s . Fictional methods , and especially the technique of presenting " what really happened in action " ? - to borrow a phrase from Hemingway ? have been refined during the last quarter-century , and young writers have been quicker to learn the methods . A second remark is that in general the sense of historical perspective has to be supplied by readers of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in most of the individual novelists . Most of them write as if they were immersed in the war and as if , instead of being an exterior event to describe , it had become an inner condition of their lives . Their state of mind is expressed by , one of the two principal characters in Point of Honor , by M. L. Kadish , a thoughtful and neglected novel about the fighting in Italy . The character is Sergeant Holloway , who goes into action with a battery of howitzers . As the guns fire , " Holloway eases into a kind of peace . Now he lives compact within the space of action . He can eye the present the way he saw a small snake eye a bird 's nest once before the war . " Many of the novels give us just such a narrow-focused , intent and snake's-eye picture of the fighting . Even when the novelist , in imagination , soars over the battlefront , his picture is lacking in perspective . Lieutenant Evans , the other hero of Point of Honor , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the battle unrolls beneath him . " Hadhe thought once that the war had an issue ? Anti-fascism , perhaps ? Under aerial observation , war shed issues . War was Fact , Thing-in-Itself , Existence sheer beyond argument ; it spoke from the Rapido and beyond . ' I AM THAT I AM , ' it declared to you . ' I AM MY OWN JUSTIFICATIONY In general the novelists do not presume to judge the war . They do not think much about its causes or consequences and , unlike the novelists of the other war , they do not rebel against it . Their heroes accept the war as they would an earthquake and try to do their best in the circumstances . A second group of postwar novelists includes the authors of what might be called the " new " fiction , to correspond with the new criticism . Like almost all the influential critics , many of the novelists are employed by universities , usually in the department of English . They listen to the critics , perhaps too intently , and try to win their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in problems of structure and texture than they are in subject matter or ideas . If there are ideas in the novels they are seldom directly expressed and the social subject matter is nearly nonexistent . The new fiction represents the extreme point of a reaction from " social realism " as practised in the 1930s . The new fictionists ? I am thinking of young men and women like Frederick Buechner , Jean Stafford , Truman Capote , Robie Macauley and Paul Bowles , to mention a few of the more talented ? are determined not to deal with public issues or social environments . Instead they try to give their stories a permanent human value by writing about the moral dilemmas of individuals , usually in isolated situations where the dilemmas can be studied like specimens in a laboratory . Favorite settings are plantation houses on the point of collapse , abandoned summer hotels , decaying villages in Georgia or East Texas , lonely ranches in Colorado and the international colony in Rome or Tangier . Favorite themes are the initiation of a pre-adolescent boy or girl into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Other Rooms and  - -  is warped by his environment , tempted into crime , and ends in the electric chair . In others he succeeds in business because of faults that keep him from being truly human . In still others he fights false social standards and achieves a sort of emotional maturity . Since the novelist is interested in the mechanism of social success or failure , and since he deals at length with many other characters who cross the path of the herovictim-villain , he ends by writing a very long book . If a manuscript comes to a publisher 's office in a single neat folder , it is likely to be new-fictional . If it arrives in a suitcase or a wooden packing box , it is either historical or naturalistic . As a group the naturalists are more interested in the exterior drama of events than they are in achieving psychological depth . They pay comparatively little attention to the inner structure and texture of their novels . In their huge manuscripts a few of the episodes will be grotesquely swollen , and the editorial reader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in detail . The style is likely to be conventional or pedestrian . Frank Norris ? not Dreiser ? was the grandfather of most of the present-day naturalists and he often expressed his contempt for careful writing . ; What pleased me most in your review  - -  Of McTeague , " he said in a letter to Isaac Marcosson , " was ' disdaining all pretensions to style ' . It is precisely what I try most to avoid . I detest ' fine writing ' , rhetoric ' , elegant English ' ? tommyrot . Who cares for fine style ! Tell your yarn and let your style go to the devil . We do n't want literature , we want life . " Yet Norris ' novels are full of " fine writing " in the bad sense and usually end with a deep-purple passage . Most of the present-day naturalists have followed Norris , both in his contempt for elegant English and in his failure to see that he sometimes wrote with bogus elegance . There are others , however , who show a sense of respect for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English language .. While retaining the naturalistic interest in subject matter , they have tried to get beneath the surface of events and to present their characters as felt persons , not as observed specimens . Sometimes they transform the naturalistic story into a tone poem of anger or longing or mystery or degradation . At this point I am describing what is really another group of postwar novels , smaller in number and harder to define than the three preceding groups , but perhaps no less important . Indeed it seems to me that novels like The Man with the Golden Arm , by Nelson Algren , The Invisible Man , by Ralph Ellison , Lie Down in Darkness , by William Styron ? for its last two chaPters ? and recently The Adventures of Augie March , by Saul Bellow , represent the most hopeful tendency now to be found in American fiction . The work of such novelists has faults , easy to discern , but these are the price they pay for taking chances that the new fictionists have refused to take . They deal with human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make the mistake of presenting them as if they were divorced from society . There are other good novels in all the classifications I have been trying to map as if from a distance . That is the weakness of a topographical or taxonomic survey : it indicates the sort of quali- . ties , usually weaknesses , that are com mon to a group , but not the more important qualities that make a novel survive as a separate work of art . Take for example The Member of the Wedding , by Carson McCullers . From the standpoint of our survey it belongs to the genus New Fiction , species Southern , variety Coming to Knowledge of Pre-adolescent Girl ( or rite de passage ) and thus can be filed away with half a dozen books by other writers . What the survey does not reveal is that it is written with an intensity of feeling and a rightness of language that the others fail to achieve ; it has the power over the reader of a perfectly spoken incantation . Or take a rather neglected novel by Harriette @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is Naturalism ( with symbolic overtones ) , the species Hillbilly , the variety Obsessive Pursuit of a Wild Animal . Once again the survey does not reveal the special quality of the novel , which is partly the poetry of earth , partly the sense of a community and partly a sort of in-feeling for the characters that makes it better than any other novel about the Kentucky hill people since Elizabeth Madox Roberts ' The Time of Man . The postwar period in American fiction has not produced any novels that the future is likely to call great ? only the future is entitled to speak of greatness ? but it has produced many works , famous or neglected , that are unique in their species and deserve to be read for years to come . The faults of the period are easy to indicate , even at the end of this very brief survey . Most of the authors ? not only war novelists but new fictionists and naturalists as well ? have shown a peculiar lack of the historical sense ; they can write " time passed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experienced time . They have been generally timid in their choice of subjects and characters and wanting in deep convictions . As justification for timidity they can plead the dangers of this age , which has not been friendly to experiments in living or thinking . YL the age has produced fundamental changes in the American character without producing equal changes in the novels , most of which are traditional in their form , as in their sense of life . The novelists are serious , skillful and perceptive , but one feels that most of them are without a definite direction ? not stumbling , or not enough , but walking briskly , heads erect , eyes forward , within fences that mark the limit of their explorations . If they learn that the fences can be climbed , as I believe they will , we may enter a new period in American writing .                     