@@487638

IN THE last fifteen years , the terms " civil liberties " and " civil rights " have more and more been used to designate different kinds of liberties ; " civil liberties , " the broad social , political , economic , and religious rights guaranteed to all citizens under the Constitution , " civil rights " the right to be free of discriminations based on race , color , creed , or national origin . On the whole , labor 's record is much better in the latter field than in the former . Generally speaking , American labor 's position on civil liberties has been ambivalent . Although no group in our society has a higher stake in civil liberties , labor has ' seldom organized to defend civil liberties in a systematic way . Indeed it is arguable that more efforts to defend labor 's civil liberties have been formed without than within the labor movement . On the other hand , labor has had to battle all the way for the right to organize and for recognition of collective-bargaining principles , and its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But these battles have generally been waged for specific bread-and-butter objectives , rather than to vindicate the right to organize and bargain collectively as an aspect of basic constitutional freedom . And this is so despite the fact that freedom of speech , assembly , and petition have been key issues in many organizational drives . To this day labor continues to present its case better when the issue directly involves its right to organize , as in its excellently conducted campaign against state right-to-work laws ( see The Right-To-Work Laws by Eleanor G. Astor , The Nation , April 2 , 1955 ) , than when civil liberties issues of less immediate concern are at stake . IN LARGE part because of the intensity of the initial employer opposition to unions and collective bargaining , the structure of American trade unions gave more ' attention to safeguarding the union from external attack or internal disruption than to the rights of individual union members . For years the courts made extremely little headway in their repeated efforts to protect local unions , and their treasuries , from the often arbitrary action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this area of recent years ; there is still need for a larger measure of internal democracy . Free speech is still an ' unrecognized principle in too many unions . In how many large American unions is a " loyal opposition " permitted to function ? Opposition candidates in elections are all too rare . In many unions , the right of a minority to even limited access to the union 's publication for the purpose of airing alternative views and policies is severely restricted or not recognized at all . It is not surprising , therefore , that the leadership of American labor has talked more often about labor 's right to organize than about civil libertiek in general . Nor is it surprising that the rank and file of many unions has exhibited marked indifference to denials of civil liberties to other groups ; they just have n't known too much . about civil liberties . Also surviving isa wide section6eaef the American labor movement is the Gompers conception of a narrow , non-political preoccupation with bread-and-butter issues . This tradition , whatever its merits at mac-War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issues as civil liberties . And , be it noted , the general public 's attitude toward labor did not always encourage labor to become concerned about the denial of civil liberties to other groups . Given these , considerations , it is not surprising that wide sections of the labor movement should , like other elements in the society , have been caught up in - the hysteria of the cold war . Specific factors in the postwar period encouraged this tendency . In the immediate postwar period , sections of labor had accumulated grievances which had not found open expression because of the wartime proscription of strikes . At the same time , opportunists saw a chance to utilize the traditional anti-radical climate of the labor movement ? to ride to power . After all , the first Smith Act prosecution had been launched in Minneapolis at the instigation of high officials of the Teamsters ' union who were anxious to liquidate a Trotskyite faction that controlled its locals in that city . Opportunistic leadership elements , noting the change in the general climate of opinion , were quick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as scapegoats in a postwar period . ' Purges were conducted within particular unions and eleven left-wing unions were expelled from the C. I. 0 . after World War II . In point of fact , however , most unions , A. F. liwzraot of L. and C. I. 0. , had dealt with the Communist issue in the late 1930 's and early 1940 's ; the cold-war atmosphere merely provided a setting within which the issue could be exploited for a variety of reasons and motivations . Nevertheless , the material which formed the basis of the expulsion of the left-wing unions of the C. I. 0 . was incorporated by Senator Humphrey in hearings held in 1951 which led eventually to the enactment of the Communist Control Act of 1%4 . This act was backed in the Senate by some of labor 's staunchest friends , despite the fact that every labor group ? A. F. of L. , C. L O. , Railway Brotherhood , and major independent unions  --  had opposed the anti-labor bills , such as the Butler Bill , incorporated in the 1954 act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Act , but some of its provisions have clear anti-labor implications . Witness the fact that the A. F. of L. did manage to secure the following exception : That any labor organization which is an affiliate in good standing of a national federation or other labor organization whose policies and activities have been directed to opposing Comnmist organizations , and Communist foreign governments , or the world Communist movement , shall be presumed prima facie not to be a " Communist-infiltrated organization . " Because of these internal developments in the postwar period the labor na , overnent was slow to react to the curtailment of civil liberties which began , in a sense , with the promulgation of President Truman 's loyalty order in 1947 . Implicit in the order was the idea of blacklisting , both of organizations and of individuals . States , counties , and cities began to adopt similar provisions which directly affected many unions and their members . Private organizations and institutions began to adopt the same procedures . At the same time , the House Committee on Un-American Activities , the Senate Internal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearings which , related to a series of Smith Act and perjury prosecutions under the Taft-Hartley Act , intensified political fears , bred panic and hysteria , and extended the blacklists . The A. F. of L. had consistently endorsed the work of the House Deaasobar 10,1815 Committee on Un-American Activities during the years when that committee was harassing certain C.-I. 0 . unions . At this earlier period , the C. 1 . 0 . took strong positions in defense of civil liberties but these positions were asserted with lessening vigor as the cold war intensified . Many a L 0 . unions were opposed to the first ? Minneapolis ? Smith Act prosecution , but after 1948 , when Communists took the place of Trotskyites as defendants , the attitude changed . The timing of Congressional hearings on " un-American activities " in connection with pending N. L. R. B. elections between rival ' union groups , and also in relation to pending collective-bargaining negotiations and internal trade-union elections , clearly indicated that elements in the labor movement were collaborating with the staffs of the committees . Later , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 0 . unions were slow to react to army discharge cases , to such political prosecutions as the Lattimore case , and the implications of the industrial security personnel set-up , to the spread of test oaths ( involving , in some areas , tenants in housing projects , as well as teachers and municipal employees ) , denials of passports , and to prosecutions under state sedition statutes where the constitutional issues were virtually identical with those involved in state right-to-work laws which labor bitterly opposes . Yet these measures could hardly fail to concern labor ; according to Chief Justice Warren the federal government 's security program now embraces 8,000,000 Americans-3,000,000 in the armed services , 2,400,000 in government employment , and almost 3,000,000 employees of defense contzaetow. - . Senator Hennings puts the total much higher , namely 20,000,000 . As was pointed out recently in The Nation , provisions of the industrial security program could easily be used to make a shambles of union-security provisions in collective-bargaining agreements as well as to blacklist trade-union members . True , some unions have opposed these developments ; the U. A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But by and large , labor has been slow to react to these measures , it has let other groups lead , and when it has acted it has not followed up with recommendations which would lead to a growing rankand-file awareness of the issues . Too often also it has failed to adopt measures designed to bring labor 's political power to bear on Senators and Representatives who might have likened to labor , if not to civil-liberties organizations or church groups . This was the pattern of labor 's reaction to McCarthy , which developed slowly , uncertainly , with more attention being devoted to resolutions denouncing McCarthy than to means by which these resolutions might be implemented ( see : The Nation , Labor and McCarthy , by Bernard D. Nossiter , July 24 , 1954 ) . THE TIDE began to turn , so far as labor was concerned , with the adoption of a strong statement on Civil Liberties and Internal Security at the C. I. 0 . convention on December 9 , , 1954 , in Los Angeles . This was much the strongest and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up to that time . Since then , too , the more direct involvement of the labor movement in witch-hunting procedures has brought about a stiffening of labor 's opposition . The C. I. 0 . Steelworkers , for example , came to the defense of its political-action director who had been accused of being a Communist by one of the government 's professional informers . Harvey O'Connor 's effort to evoke the protection of the First Amendment in a contest with Senator McCarthy won widespread labor support , doubtless because of his ibackground in the labor movement . Similar recent instances might be cited . Throughout the period of the cold war the expelled left-wing unions conducted some effective campaign on laokak laseatiea , a case in petal/. t being the impressive victory won by the West Coast I. L. W. U. is having the coast guard screening set-up declared unconstitutional . Despite improvement , the labor movement continues to exhibit a. remarkable sensitivity to official attitudes on certain key civil-liberties issues . The American Federation of Television and Radio Artists-A . F. of L. , by a 4 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rule which provides that any member who invokes the Fifth Amendment when questioned about membership in the Communist Party may be subject to charges and , after a hearing , to possible expulsion . In this instance , a faction of the union was clearly collaborating with the Congressional committee that held the hearing and was , in effect , a party to the blacklisting of its own members . ( See Unholy Alliance , AFTRA and the Blacklist , by Jay Nelson Tuck , The - Nation , September 3 , 1955 ) . It should be noted , however , that there was , and is , strong opposition within the union to the position taken . On the same issue , the Representative Assembly of the Newspaper Guild in New York will ballot on December 15 and 16 on a measure to determine whether the guild should resist the firing of Members who have invoked the Fifth Amendment when questioned about Communist Party membership . Until the adoption of the civil-liberties resolution at the 1954 C. L 0 . convention , cited above , the best statement an the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issued by the Packinghouse Workers-C . I. 0 . in 1953 , under the caption The , Road Ahead . The following quotation from this excellent statement is perhaps the best comment that could be made on labor 's attitude toward civil liberties during the cold-war periods We are rapidly becoming a nation of cowed and frightened people ? frightened and cowed not by any foreign power or enemy but by the IVIcCarthys and Veldes . And we in the labor movement must confess that too often we have been counted not among the few with courage but among the many with fear . Yes , sometimes we have spoken . But not often enough ; not long enough , not loud enough . And even when we spoke , we rarely ' acted . We , A. F. of L. and C. I. 0 . alike , passed resolutions condemning the activities of the House Un-American Committee and similar legislative investigating bodies . But have we taken a single concrete step in aid of any of the " unpopular " victims of theSe committees ? Have we come to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indictinent he faces ? Have we been able to set aside our fears sufficiently to recognize that in his recent contempt conviction for refusing to turn his union membership lists over to a Congressional investigating committee Abram Flaxer of the United Public Workers was supporting a principle on which any trade-union leader would face jail rather than betray his trust ? We in C. I. O. by official convention resolution viewed with alarm the conviction of certain Communist leaders not for overt acts but for what they taught . But neither our union nor , so far as we are aware , any other national union in either A. F. of L. or C. I. 0 . took a single concrete step by way , of court briefs or otherwise to bring our views to a forum where they might produce results . We in the labor movement have repeatedly stated our support for the protection of the Bill of Rights . But the campaign to destroy the constitutional privilege of every individual to refuse to give testimony which may later be ' used against him in criminal proceedings has not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accept the privilege but seeks to destroy it by promoting the false impression that those who stand on a constitutional right must be viewed as admitting guilt , College professors asserting the privilege have been fired , as if they had committed an offense . The American Association of University Professors condemned the discharge , but none from labor . spoke up . Writers , artists , professional people asserting the privilege have been fired or blacklisted , as if they had committed an offense , and . none from labor spoke up . In our aWn union , we allowed . leaders of our own local unions to be placed under attack by the Un-American Committee in 1952 while we offered no support . But as labor moves into the post- , McCarthy era  --  if indeed that era is at an , end  --  several major incidents show that its militancy is not by any means dead and that given direct provocation , as by an employer , it is quite able to defend its own . liberties . The Square D strike in Detroit , the Perfect Circle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Workers , the strike of Miami hotel workers , of railway employees on the L. Fe N. , and the strike against Southern Bell ( all reported in The Nation ) , textile strikes in the South ( Slump in Textiles , Bernard Nossiter , January 22 , 1955 ) , are proof enough that labor 's militancy can be easily provoked . What the labor movement does not seem to realize yet , however , is that the institutionalized security systems , as in the industrial-security program , are far more dangerous to unions in the long run than employer Union-baiting tactics . THE AMERICAN labor movement has exhibited remarkable progress , in the last decade , in the elimination of racial discrimination . Despite a strong traditional bias in some unions , the labor movement has advanced so far in this field that , at the present time , only a felt ' unions might be cited in opposition to anti-segregation ' measures . The N. A. A. C. P. indicates that only three of the lesser A. F. of L. unions still specifically exclude Negroes by their constitutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the labor movement has been virtually eliminated . However , some major F. of L. The NATION unions continue to exclude Negroes by what is called , " tacit consent . " The N.A.A.C.P. also recognizes a third and larger category of discriminating unions , namely , those which for the most part confine Negroes to " auxiliary locals . " The failure of labor 's Operation Dixie in the South in the early 1940 's was in part due to the failure of the unions to oppose segregation in a more forthright manner . The success of the Packinghouse Workers-C . I. 0 . in bucking segregation practices in its Southern locals confirms this judgment . In view of the marked improvement which has taken place in labor 's stand on civil rights , its organizational efforts in the South should meet with a larger measure of success . The Packinghouse Workers racial integration program is a model of its kind . It insists on a clause in its contract which not only forbkls discrimination in hiring but establishes non-segregation in all plant facilities such as locker rooms and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Negro international vice-president and three of its ten districts  --  among them one which includes Texas , Oklahoma , and Louisiana  --  are headed by Negroes . Currently the N. A. A. C. P. is engaged in a campaign which may result in major gains for fair-employment practices . Charges have been brought before the President 's Committee on Government Contracts against four major oil and chemical companies and four unions , operating in Louisiana , Texas , and Arkansas . The companies are Esso Standard , Cities Service Refining , Carbide and Chemical , and Lion Oil ; the unions are the International Brotherhood of Teamsters , Oil Workers International , International Union of Operating Engineers , and Independent Industrial Workers Association . The complaint to the committee cites the action pending in the United States Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals involving Gulf Oil and the Oil Workers International Union . What this action , in turn , involves , is nothing less than employment practices in the entire oil industry . The essence of the N. A. A. C. P. 's complaint is that the oil industry has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practices . Individual unions have taken strong positions in support of civil-rights legislation and against the racial lawlessness that prevails in Mississippi today . The Packinghouse Workers , for example , called on Congress and the President to take these positive measures : ( 1 ) a federal investigation of the lynch murder of Emmett Louis Till and of the entire Mississippi judicial system ; ( 2 ) enforcement of the Bill of Rights equally throughout the South and the North ; ( 3 ) implementation of the Supreme Court 's decision against segregation in the public school system ; ( 4 ) passage of civil-rights laws during the next session of Congress to afford all citizens equal protection under the law and to guarantee their rights against segregation and discrimination ; ( 5 ) passage of federal law outlawing the poll tax and other restrictions so that both white and Negro citizens in the South will be guaranteed the right to vote . Recently delegates representing 300,000 unionists , meeting in , a two-day session convened by the National Trade Union Committee for Racial Justice , asked a merged A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its con -- stitution for complete and unre. served equality of membership . Speaking at this meeting , Senator Herbert Lehman said that labor unions must complete the job of putting their own house in order " and of establishing full equality of membership without discrimination or segregation . Simultaneously , the unified labor movement must throw its full strength behind the cause of justice and equality for all Americans in all of our institutions . " The proposed appointment of a Commission on Civil Rights by the merging labor groups , if carried out , should give real impetus to Senator Leh-man 's suggestion . However , Negro leaders are worried about the effects of the merger , and their concern is clearly manifest by their attempt to get a Negro appointed to the proposed A. F. of L.-C . I. 0 . Executive Council . LABOR generally seems to be taking a more progressive stand-on matters of immigration policy . Traditionally the A. F. of L. favored exclusionary immigration laws and played a key role in the agitation against Orientals on the West Coast . But at recent hearings on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and-A . F. of L. favored changes in the quota formula and more liberal admission policies . Labor 's attitude on the so-called " wetback " problem , while reflecting to some extent the traditional bias in favor of exclusionary policies , has nevertheless been accompanied by statements , such as those issued by the Texas State Federation of Labor-A . F. of L. , which are a far cry from those issued by labor when the exclusionary immigration act of 1924 was adopted . Similarly , labor may be expected to take a more favorable position in defense of civil liberties . Like the country as a whole , it is beginning to move clear of the black shadow of fear and hysteria .                     