@@198367

RANKING up with Partners Goren and Sobel in the Big Four of U.S. bridge-as judged by master points piled up in American Contract Bridge League tournaments - are Sidney Silodor ( 4,479 ) and John Randolph Crawford ( 4,383 ) , longtime teammates with radically different bridge-table styles . Philadelphian Silodor , 51 , who makes a comfortable income as a society bridge teacher , is perhaps the slowest player in top-level bridge , infuriates opponents with long spells of fierce , immobile concentration . Suave , dapper New Yorker Crawford , 43 , Main Line Philadelphian by origin ( he claims to be the only bridge master in the Social Register ) , is fast and impatient , deliberately tries to confuse opponents by creating an impression of wildness while actually playing with hard logic . He has a habit of staring at opponents with what an old acquaintance calls " the coldest eyes in bridge . " Captain of the U.S. team that lost the world championship match to Italy last winter , Crawford is an inveterate gambler , plays poker , canasta , gin and pinochle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the egoism that seems necessary to bridge greatness , he was once asked to name his ideal partner , unhesitatingly rasped out his answer : " Another John Crawford . " <P> Right alongside Silodor and Crawford , in the judgment of top bridge players , are Howard Schenken and Alvin Roth , both of whom have missed master point opportunities by staying away from many tournaments . New Yorker Schenken , 54 , was already renowned in the bridge world back in the early 1930s , has steadily maintained a reputation among the experts as one of the very greatest players , though he stands only twelfth in master points ( 2,919 ) and makes his living as a travel agent instead of a fulltime bridge pro . A recent recruit to Charles Goren 's team , Schenken is a highly deceptive player , masks his imaginative boldness with an air of easygoing calm . In contrast , Washington 's quick-minded Alvin Roth , 43 , is a worrier , and shows it . No. 6 in master points with 3,849 , Roth " suffers from being a bit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . With his explosive partner Tobias Stone , he devised some widely used bidding innovations , including the " preempt overcall " ( e.g. , North , one diamond ; East , two spades ) to show a single strong suit with little side strength , and the " unusual no trump " ( e.g. , North , one spade ; East , pass ; South , two spades ; West , two no trump ) asking partner to bid his better minor suit . Says Roth on bidding : " I am a revolutionary . "                     