@@487592

WHEN Milton resolved to take sides in the violent political and religious controversies of his'time , he was painfully aware of the fact , which he duly recorded , that his decision meant forsaking the " calm and pleasing solitariness of the poet " and embarking upon a " troubled sea of noises and hoarse disputes . " Despotism 's fate was decided when a handful of his less renowned compatriots made a similar choice . The hoarse disputes of the middle 1600 's originated in an effort of the Calvinists to reform the Anglican-church by " purifying " it of its Roman Catholic heritage ; this developed into a full-scale conflict as a result of the repressive measures of Charles I and Archbishop Laud . In the meantime opposition had spread to the political arena , where the rising class of property-owners , the men of commerce and industry , gathered in Parliament to challenge the power of the throne . The unpleasant noises were provided by the " purifiers , " or Puritans , an extraordinary coalition of rebels , ' with somewhat ambiguous aims , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his church . The uneasy alliance consisted of those who sought merely to substitute presbyters for bishops in a state ruled by the church , Cromwell 's , Independents , who opposed - both presbyters and bishops while also objecting to any real diffusion of political power , and finally the " hun- dred , sects and thousand 2 doctrines " which , according to Trevelyan , " opened England 's strange path to intellectual liberty . " Most of the religious sects on the fringes of the Puritan movement advocated doctrines which were unfamiliar then and which would seem equally strange today . However , the novelties put forward by a political party referred to derisively as the " Levelers " marked the " first great . outburst of democratic thought in history " and constituted , by their ultimate adoption here , a most important contribution to the American tradition . John Lilburne , the leader of the Levelers , was cone of the noisiest and most inflexible of men in this vast sea of agitation . . The fearlessness of the fighter struggling on the frontier of ideas characterized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the poorest he that is in England " a , measdre of reli-gions liberty and political power unheard of in his day , , together with a just and equitable criminal procedure under which differences and disputes might flourish . In the main he failed , but his struggle helped to popularize the innovations of the seventeenth century and to transform them into the American tradition . His story provides a much needed reminder to subsequent generations , concerned with their liberty , that the rights and privileges we enjoy originated not in constitutions , written or unwritten , but in grim experience and that under our form of government only - the knowledge and spirit of the people can guarantee that we shall preserve these painfully won gains . When an Englishman ran afoul of his government in the seventeenth century , his future became fairly predictable . Accusation was tantamount to conviction , and conviction meant confinement in foul jails or death . No one had the right to speak his opinion or to publish it . Anyone accused of uttering an opinion thought to be inimical to church or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be considered basic today . The accused was committed to jail and kept in close confinement until the day of his trial . He was given no information about - the charge and had no means of finding out what evidence had been given against him . He was not entitled to bail and could not secure his release by habeas corpus . He was not furnished with a copy of ' the indictment and knew nothing , of its contents until it was read at the ' very commencement of his ordeal . Except when tried for minor offenses , he had no lawyer to advise him , to interrogate his witnesses , to cross-examine the prosecution 's witnesses , or to sum up to the jury . He had no right to subpoena witnesses , and those who appeared vo ' luntardy in his behalf could not be sworn as were the witnesses for the prosecution He could not take the stand in his own behalf , being considered incompetent-as a witness , but was subject to the bullying and browbeating of court and prosecutor as he attempted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constantlyexhorted to tell " the truth " The judges , holding office at the pleasure of the appointing power , were completely subservient to - the government . Jury panels usually consisted of those who could be-trusted to ? understand the enormity of the prisoner 's offense Finally , if the accused succeeded , as very few did , in establishing his innocence in the faceof these insuperable obstacles , any jury which might be tempted to acquit was subject to amerce-merit if the court decided that the verdict was contrary to the " evidence . " IT TOOK an extraordinary man to advocate anything offensive to the government under these circumstances . It was indeed- an extraordinary man who stood , by-his principles in defiarice of the power and wrath of three despotic governments ? those of Charles I , the Long Parliament , and Cromwell . Lilburne 's encounter  - -  with King Charles 's , Court of Star Chamber resulted from the discovery of some pamphlets , smuggled into England from Holland , attacking the bishops of the Anglican church . He was formally accused of complicity in the crime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was questioned about the conduct of others he refused to answer , claiming the privilege , which the court would not recognize , of refusing to answer concerning matters not embraced within the formal charge . For declining to take the oath which would have required him to answer these questions he was sentenced , for contempt ; the punishment consisting of five hundred lashes , confinerzant " to the pillory , and then to jail until he'conformed himself " to the orders of the court . He probably would have died in jail rather than conform himself to the orders of the court , but his detention was , interrupted three-years later when Charles I was compelled , by the war with the Scots , to convene the Long Parliament in order to raise money . The House of Commons , dominated by the Puritans , whose fierce conviction of righteousness precluded all thought of compromise , freed Lilburne and set aside the order of Star Chamber as " bloody , cruel , wicked , barbarous , and tyrannical . " Then followed the abolition of Star Chamber itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had given such offense to the dissenters . The long years of Puritan opposition to self-incrimination with respect to questions prompted by mere suspicion and not related to a formal accusation , climaxed by Lilburne 's spectacular defiance of Star Chamber , popularized the privilege and assured its ultimate extension to all the courts of England in the form in which we know it today  --  namely , that no one shall be compelled to be a witness against himself whether formally accused or merely suspected of crime Lilburne , free , proved to be no less ' troublesome to the Long Parliament than he had been to the king . For three . years England enjoyed unlicensed and unregulated printing Then , with the outbreak of the Civil War between king and Parliament , the latter reimposed a strict censorship of the press . Lilburne promptly attacked the Presbyterians who now controlled the legislature . " You and the Black Coats in-the Synod , " he wrote ; " have not dealt fairly with your antagonists in stopping the press against us , while things are in debate , yea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of freedom . " For his strictures upon the government he was hauled , three times , before the Committee of Examinations of the House of Commons . There lie refused to answer questions until the cause of his detention was specified , and claimed the right to an open hearing as well as to the protection of the privilege against self-incrimination on the theory that a legislative committee , when " it - sits upon criminal causes betwixt man and man concerning life , liberty , estate , " must observe the methods and rules of " other courts of justice " He was thrown into jail once again , this time by the apostles of ' liberty Then , as the - unity of the Puritans dissolved , Lilburne 's position became even more precarious . The rank:and file of Cromwell 's New - Model Army , which had defeated the king 's Cavaliers , belonged to the troublesome and noisy sects with whom Parliament could . find no common ground after the successful campaign . The Presbyterians first refused to raise the money required to pay the arrears ' due @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to obtain an invading army to support the government . When the plot was exposed , Cromwell joined his comrades-in-arms , fOught the second Civil War against the king to a successful conclusion , and followed his victory with Pride 's Purge , which removed the Presbyterian majority from Parliament . This left the " Rump , " which convoked a special tribunal to dispose of the king . LILBURNE spurned an opportunity to join forces with Cromwell : He-thought that the king should be tried by a jury and not by a packed court . He thought-that the army deserved better treatment at the hands of Parliament . He thought that the Rump was not a Parliament and that it was usurping a power which belonged to the people . He insisted that the powers of government be strictly defined by a written constitution . He proclaimed his beliefs as noisily and as often as he could . He inquired bitterly : " I would fain know in law , where Col. Tho . Pride was authorized to chuse the People of England a Parliament ; or to purge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the House of Commons . " His unique position , at this time , has been described as follows : " In a revolution where others argued the respective rights of kings and parliament , he always spoke of the rights of the people . " His democratic ideas were hardly calculated to allay the seething discontent which pervaded the army , the mounting fury of the sects , or Cromwell 's fear of widespread disaffection . Furthermore , the king 's execution did not sit too well with the English people . Cromwell decided to secure himself by disposing of another adversary . He began to plan , with utmost deliberation , the downfall of John Lilburne Twelve of the leading judges of the realm were called to London to confer , in secret , with the Attorney General . Their purpose became clear when , two months after the death of the king , several hundred armed men , on horse and on foot , surrounded Lilburne 's home in the suburbs and at four o'clock in the morning dragged him from bed and rushed him off to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months and denied the sight of his wife and children for the greater part of that period , although no formal charge had been laid against him . He was finally indicted for treason , having violated , it was claimed , a statute enacted after he was taken into custody by publishing , while in jail , a series of intemperate attacks on Cromwell and the Rump . When the court informed the prisoner that twelve judges would preside at his trial because he would have outtalked fewer , he responded : " Truly , sir , I am not daunted at the multitude of my judges , neither at the glittering of your scarlet robes , nor the majesty of your presence and harsh austere deportment towards me I bless my God for it , who gives me courage and boldness . " Courage and boldness he had indeed . The understanding of the jury was what he Sought . LILBURNE had no knowledge of the charge ' against him until the accusation was read at the opening of the trial . When he demanded a copy of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and subpoenas for witnesses , the prosecutor answered : " It is true Mr. Lilburne hath pleaded his own ignorance and therefore desires longer time . But , December12 , 1953 my Lord , to make . a precedent of this nature , that never was known by the laws of England , is very dangerous , very perilous . " All the requests of the accused were denied , but the judges finally adjourned until seven o'clock the next morning as an " extraordinary favor " in order that " all the world shall know with what candor and justice the court do proceed against you . " The fact that he ? was denied counsel and witnesses was actually no handicap to a man of Lilburne 's talents . No lawyer would have dared request the novelties in procedure which the prisoner did not hesitate to demand . No witness called by the defendant could have altered the black picture presented by the government of a yiolent attack upon Cromwell and Parliament . Yet when he was rebuffed , as he knew he would be , he could turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall deny . . . these legal privileges , I shall desire my jury to take notice , that I aver you rob me of the benefit of the law , " and further that he had - many material things to produce witnesses unto for my justification ; but no time in the least will be allowed me , as you see , to produce them , which I ought by law to have had ; , especially considering that I have been locked up so long close prisoner , and have nothing for which I was first imprisoned laid until my charge , and have such high , potent , and mighty adversaries . " Then , to the consternation of the judges , who sought to interrupt him to no avail , Lilburne informed the jury that they could disregard the court 's instruction to decide merely whether he had or had not Published the pamphlets in question . He told them that they , and not the court , had the power to determine Whether the writings were treasonable , which is sound legal theory today but was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the bench and declared : " You judges that sit there are no more , if they the jury please , but ciphers to pronounce the sentence , or their clerks to say Amen to them . " Lilburne 's acquittal was greeted with acclamations-the like of which " hath not been seen in England . " The result was a grave blow to Cromwell , " who looked upon it as a greater defeat than the loss of a battle would have been . " A year of relative tranquillity followed , and then Lilburne was deep in trouble , again . He addressed a petition to Parliament complaining that ? one of its members had seized some property by force and violence from a relative . Parliament responded with an extraordinary judgment bTnishing the troublesome Mr. Lilburne from England and providing that his return would be a felony punishable by death . Lilburne left quietly for Holland but , on learning that Cromwell had finally expelled the Rump , returned after first requesting , but being refused , permission to do so . He was apprehended , indicted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for trial . Upon his arraignment he demanded a copy of the indictment . After - many days of bitter wrangling he " performed the feat which no one else ever achieved , of extorting from the courVa copy of his indictment in order that he , might put it before counsel and be instructed as to the objections which he might take against it . " ' After a trial which was " even more stormy than the earlier one , " during which Lilburne maintained that either the Rump was an illegal body and therefore its mandate of , banishment was null and void or else Cromwell ought to be punished for unjustly dissolving it , and also that the present jury , as judges of both the law and the facts , were not required to give effect to an act of Parliament unless they approved of it , he was once again acquitted by a jury of his fellow-Englishmen . This time , however , he did not go free , for Cromwell was in the midst of a dangerous experiment . He had discharged Parliament and had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to jail " for the peace of the nation " until shortly before his death . One , of Lilburne 's adversaries re-proached him for his behavior in court in these sardonic words : " Thus to you , justice can never be administered till the Civil liberties in this country have been undergoing a sledgehammer assault in recent years , principally from forces known-generally as McCarthyisl . The technique -- using fear as the weapon  --  is the same as In other-periods of out history . The tactics  --  the extensive use of Congressional immunity , the - careful , exploitation of TV and radio  --  are somewhat different . Fear has always , been the bludgeoning instrument . Today it is the fear of communism . At the turn of the century intrenched greed was challenged by La Follette in Wisconsin . His program , including his advocacy of woman suffrage , was called " socialism . " Fear was used to set off another assault against civil liberties in the World War I days when " pro-Germanism " was the battle cry and scare word After the war the Ku @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the " Romanism " of the campaign against Al Smith . ' - ' Fear o- f " communism , " which finds its worst expression in McCarthyism , has made a mockery of our boast that we live in the land of the free and the home of the brave . An Air Force board of inquiry at Se/fridge Field in Michigan has demanded the resignation of a young reserve officer on grounds of disloyalty  --  not his disloyalty but the - suspected disloyalty of his father and sister . The board admits tlire is no question of his loyalty . In Los Angeles , Bishop Oxnam , one of the most distinguished of American clergymen , has been denied the-use of an auditorium for an address , not because he is disloyal , but because he is " too controversial " He is " too controversial " because he has successfully-fought-the Know-Nothing smears against his loyalty . Thus , fear today gives us the barbaric concept of guilt by blood relation- ' ship and guilt by accusation , in which the charge becomes more important than the trial , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the people are weathering this period , as they have those in the past . Election returns from around the nation indicate that they , are taking their eyes off the medicine shows and are paying attention to their own security and freedom Fear , at times , can be a powerful weapon , but it is not a durable one . William T. &pie; is editor-publisher of the Capital Times , Madison , consul.                     