@@492575

The Glamorous Governor of New Jersey An eventful life has conditioned Gov . Robert Baumle Meyner to expect the unexpected . But even so calm a customer as New Jersey 's chief executive  --  often described by jealous rivals as Lady Luck 's rosy-cheeked boy  --  must have experienced surprise a few months ago when , by acclamation , he succeeded the Prince of Monaco to the title of Bridegroom of the Year . As a tireless political campaigner , the governor was accustomed to the clicking of cameras and the clucking of tongues , but nothing in forty-eight years of hard work and bachelorhood had prepared him for the tidal wave of sentiment  --  and treacle  --  which engulfed the tabloids and even eddied into the columns of the serious daily press when he and Helen Day Stevenson said their vows . Meyner was not unused to editorial praise ; plain indiscriminate affection confused him . To a have-not boy who came up the hard way , it was something entirely strange and new . But as a man who has often sparred amiably with fate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ status in good heart . Who knows ? Perhaps politics has caught up with George and Ira Ger.shwin , the songwriters who once reported that Love is Sweeping the Country . It is not without reason that some Democrats believe Bob Meyner , if his luck holds and he continues to grow in stature , may come before a national convention in 1960 with an excellent chance for the presidential nomination . He is intelligent and able ; Jersey is a strategically placed Eastern state ; and the legend of Woodrow Wilson , another Jersey . . governor , is just as appealing to delegates as a May-and-September wedding is to housewives . As far as Meyner is concerned , however , there is one very important river to cross . He comes up for re-election this year . As a reelected Democratic governor in a normally Republican state , he would have national importance and standing . As a defeated candidate , he would be , in Matthew Arnold 's words , " a tapestry turned inward on the wall " ; in politicians ' words , a dead dog @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than Governor Meyner . The struggle between him and a Republican-controlled legislature promises to be bitter and long . I was privileged to be present in Trenton , just after the first of the year , when the legislature convened and the skirmishing began . On that particular morning it has long been the custom of a downtown historic church to hold a religious service at which divine guidance for public servants is invoked . The governor and his cabinet , the state supreme court and the members of the legislature are invited . The governor , his seventy-five-year-old mother and Miss Stevenson , then his fianc  --  e , were first to arrive . The service was inspiring , but the attendance was sparse and I asked a few questions when the organ 's last chord dismissed the handful present . A veteran State House reporter suggested pleasantly that , with commanding majority in both houses of the state legislature , the Republicans perhaps felt there was no real immediacy about providential intercession . Later that day , however , I discovered few evidences of Republican complacency in the legislative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help where they could Lind it . ( Samuel L. Bodine , the state chairman , has publicly described Meyner as a " formidable candidate " and , with an objectiveness rare among state chairmen , as a " very charming and industrious governor . " ) Legislators in joint session listened intently as Meyner read his annual message , fully aware that the felicitously phrased document  --  with its review of the accomplishments of his administration  --  was the platform on which his coming campaign would be based . As early as December , Bodine requested and was promised the co-operation and assistance of the Republican National Committee , and said he was particularly interested in borrowing research workers , speech writers and publicists . Thus it seems likely that in the coming months the Jersey free-for-all will take on something more than parochial aspects . The Republicans plainly regard Meyner as a potential darling of the electorate , and as an emerging and possibly dangerous figure . Next November they hope to obliterate him . The governor is an apt professional of politics , but there arc times when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years . Realistic in all things , he is first to admit that he is governor of New Jersey through a most fortuitous chain of circumstances . He is the first Democrat to be elected to state-wide office since 19+0 . And in previous attempts to win less impressive elective jobs he had a batting average of only .250 . He served as state senator from his own county for four years . He acted as minority leader in 1950 , gained a reputation for his grasp of state problems and as an excellent debater . Then he was beaten by a few votes for re-election . The next year Eisenhower carried New Jersey by 350,000 votes . ( Ike carried it in 1956 by 750,000 . ) Republicans were jubilant . The Democratic Party seemed to be in a state of dissolution . Mayor John V. Kenny , a Democrat , had overthrown in Jersey City the longtime czarship of Frank ( " I am the Law " ) Hague ; there was no state-wide leadership and there was general apathy among the Democrats . The remnants of the Hague @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wene , a down-state chicken farmer defeated for the same job in 1948 . This was too much even for the dispirited leaders of Jersey 's urban and populous four  --  out of twenty-one  --  strongly Democratic counties . Since the Hague-controlled state committee still existed on paper , those leaders and some thinking independents formed the National Democratic Club of New Jersey , incorporated it , raised a scanty treasure chest , and set about selecting what one party worker called a " clean-shirt " candidate to oppose Wene in the Democratic primary . Three boss-free men seemed available  --  Archibald S. Alexander , Assistant Secretary of the Army under President Truman ; Charles R. Howell ; and Bob Ivleyner . These three musketeers had beaten the bushes for AdIai Stevenson in 1962 , respected each other and were firm friends . Wealthy Archie Alexander , who had been beaten for the United States Senate in 1948 and 1952 , did not want to run again , and Howell felt he ( Continued on Page 124 . ) ( Continued from Page 25 ) was incapacitated by an ailing back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there seemed to be no chance to win . Alexander and Howell heartily recommended Mcyner , and Meyner was happy to accept . Two men who were present at the political meeting in Princeton where he was selected told me that Mayor Kenny left early , saying carelessly , if not indifferently , " I 'll go along with whatever you boys decide . " " The truth is , " Governor Meyner told me recently , " that I got the nomination because nobody else wanted it . I realized 1 had very little chance to win , but I knew it was the only chance I would ever have . I jumped at it . " There followed eight months of tireless campaigning  --  the kind of campaigning on which Estes Kefauver is supposed to have a personal copyright . Meyner shook thousands of hands on thousands of street corners , crossed and recrossed Jersey in a battered motorcar , and , pulling himself up by his own bootstraps from comparative political obscurity , won the Democratic primary by a few thousand votes . In November he defeated the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But of that , more later . To understand Meyner as a political phenomenon and a personality , it is important to examine his beginnings . He was born July 3 , 1908 , in Easton , Pennsylvania , right across the Delaware River from Phillipsburg , New Jersey , where he was graduated from high school and subsequently practiced law . Of German origin on both sides , he was the son of Gustave H , and Sophia ( Baumle ) Meyner ; his father , a skilled workman , was a loom fixer in the silk industry . Newspapers sometimes describe the governor as the child of immigrant parents . Actually this is barely half true . His mother is a native of Switzerland who was brought here at the tender age of three . Easton , Phillipsburg and Paterson , New Jersey , where the governor did most of his growing up , were all industrial communities where there were heavy percentages of foreign-born and second-generation Americans . Grandfather Meyner , also a loom fixer by trade , came to thiscountry from Leipzig . In those early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a pioneer labor-union organizer and a self-educated economic thinker . He was blacklisted in mill after mill . The governor 's father  --  perhaps because he had personal knowledge of the penalties of independence  --  was a kindly , steady , unassertive man , yet on one occasion he was blacklisted , simply because he bore the Meyner name . The Meyners were thrifty and self-reliant , but , like many families dependent on textiles for a living , they frequently felt the pinch of want . When they moved , Mrs. Meyner told me , " we went where the work was . " The mother had her own trade ; she was a ribbon weaver and went back in the mills when times were hard . The children  --  there were two sons and a daughter  --  regularly contributed to family expenses when they came to grammar-school age . In Paterson , Robert bought a paper route for forty dollars , earned twenty dollars a week from it for two years , and sold it at auction for 5100 . After entering high school he became a grocery clerk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a silk weaver . In his senior year he was on the debating team and became class valedictorian ; at the same time he served an eight-hour shift at the looms . Meyner maintained this same fiercely industrious tempo while attending Lafayette College , in Easton ; his wages ranged from forty to sixty dollars a week . He earned the top figure the hard way . For a brief period , while he continued to carry a full-time course of studies , he worked a regular eight-hour factory shift and handled an extra four-hour shift as well . In addition he managed at Lafayette  --  he walked three miles every day to and from school  --  to engage in extracurricular activities . He did bit parts in plays , debated , and , incredible as it may seem , even found a little time to play tennis . Since Meyner lived off-campus with his family , few of his classmates were aware of the crowded pattern of his life ; he did n't see fit to broadcast the facts , preferring not to be known as a hardship case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 19 , 1957 of the college newspaper , he dropped his outside jobs for the school year and breezed through to graduation . There are associates today who marvel at the governor 's ability to labor long hours and to budget his time ; he learned early and in it robust environment . From Lafayette he went on to Columbia University Law School , where he finished his course in two and a half years by attending summer sessions . After morning classek he acted as rental agent for an apartment house ; he studied in the afternoon while awaiting prospective tenants . From seven P.M. until one A.M. he was employed in a parking garage checking automobiles in and out . He was graduated in 1933 and became associated with a legal firm in Jersey City . Three years later he returned to Phillipsburg and Warren County where he took over the practice of Herbert Palmer , an attorney who was even then the father of a little girl destined to become a celebrity in her own right . Her name in Broadway 's bright lights is Jayne Mansfield . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( j.g. ) and came out in October , 1945 , as a lieutenant commander . His career was not particularly glamorous . For two years he served at shore stations , often acting as defense counsel for enlisted men in courts-martial . Then he went to sea and commanded gun crews on transports in American and European waters . He still continues his activities in the Naval Reserve . The law and politics were Meyner 's paramount interests from boyhood on , In both he became in his own home town a combination of idealist and rough-and-tumble fighter . As a college junior , before he was old enough to vote , he organized a Smith-for-President club on the campus ; later he was an ardent supporter of F.D.R. and the New Deal . Warren County , where the vote was almost evenly split between urban Democrats and rural Republicans , was an excellent training ground ; politics was a year-round sport in which only the hardy engaged . To flex his muscles Meyner first took on the leaders of his own party , and in the 1941 primaries lost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only forty-one votes . Then , as now , the governor was an excellent extemporaneous speaker . As a lawyer this made him an effective jury pleader , and , as a politician , a crowd pleaser at rallies . Also , a perennial bachelor , his evenings were his own and he was always available . Anyone who went anywhere was bound , sometime , to hear Meyner speak . When he came back from the Navy he ran for Congress . He expected to be beaten by the entrenched Republican in a gerrymandered district , and he was . The incumbent was J. Parnell Thomas , who later was sent to prison for official misdeeds . Meyner was to win a close one and lose a close one at the polls before being handed the brave flag of another forlorn hope . Meyner in 1947 tangled for the first time with Wayne Dumont , Jr. , a black-haired , rosy-checked Republican who was to become something of a perennial adversary . He defeated Dumont for the state senate in 1947 and lost to Dumont four years later . Both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ College  --  Dumont five years after Meynerboth served as law clerks under the same attorney , both practiced law in Phillipsburg . They meet with outward courtesy , but there is little love lost between them . Dumont in the legislature has been an outspoken opponent of Meyner 's policies . Last year he was president of the Jersey senate and served as acting governor when Meyner was outside the state , frame house on Lincoln Avenue . He was personable , gregarious , a loyal , functioning Democrat who , nevertheless , made many friends among independent Republicans . Following out this same pattern , he was to make Republican friends on a state-wide basis when he became governor . Getting to be governor turned out , after all , not to be so difficult as it had seemed in the first place . A Republican investigation of Republican Bergen County , just across George Washington 125 Out of New York City  --  including such well-known hoodlums as Joe Adonis and the murdered , unlamented Willie Moretti  --  were operating a bookmaking empire there under political protection . This may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state leaders backed Paul L. Troast , wealthy Clifton contractor , for the governorship and he won the Republican primary . Midway of the campaign it was disclosed that Troast , a few years before , had written Governor Dewey , of New York , asking that the prison sentence of Joey Fay , notorious labor racketeer and extortionist , be con , - muted That did it , Meyner , the " clean-shirt " Democrat , won in a breeze  --  an air-conditioned , antiseptic breeze . Meyner 's victory may have been lucky , but since that time he has left very little to luck . Before and after his election he had research teams looking into the administrative side of Jersey 's government . The state had a brand-new constitution  --  fathered by a Republican elder statesman , the late Walter E. Edge  --  which gave the governor enormous powers  --  including , even , appointment of the judiciary and county prosecutors . But something was going wrong . People entitled to unemployment compensation were having to wait three weeks , five weeks , sometimes twelve weeks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Meyner , who , as a workingman 's son in pre-welfare days , knew all about short rations and the importance of quick money when it was needed . Why did government procedures take so long ? Meyner discussed his problems with Sylvester Smith , the attorney under whom he had served his law clerkship ; Smith had become general counsel for the Prudential Insurance Company . Mcyncr stated his case baldly ; he believed the state 's paper work was being done by antiquated methods , and he wanted to borrow from business  --  and for free  --  experts who would study the whole situation and , working with existing agencies , give technical advice . Smith passed Meyner on to Charles B. Laing , vice-president of Prudential , and the project was approved . Subsequently other corporations joined hands with Prudential . The concept of joint investigative teams staffed by state employees and men from private industry is , I believe , unique . It has been criticized , but in New Jersey it was extremely effective in modernizing administrative methods . The licensing and registration of motor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business operation . Shifting from McKinley-era hand clerical work to business machines was a major enterprise . It meant , for one thing , training courses in business-machine operation fur many civil-service employees . Yet the complete change-over was made in a year 's time  --  a remarkable record , considering the scope of the project . Out of Prudential 's survey of the Division of Employment Security came , as a melodramatic by-product , Jersey 's most bizarre public scandal . E. Carroll Gerathy , of Prudential , had been an employee of McKesson and Robbins when that great drug house was plundered by rigged bookkeeping ; in going over Employment Security 's records , he told Meyner at a hasty midnight conference , he had found a strangely similar pattern . Director of the agency was popular , generous , trusted , former Republican governor . Harold G. Hoffman ; he had held the job for sixteen years . The next afternoon Meyner unhappily suspended Hoffman , and a storm of criticism broke around his head . Friends of Hoffman in both parties blasted him for blackening the name @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against him ; one newspaper derided Meyner as " investigation-happy . " That was in March of ' 1954 . In June of the same year Hoffman died of a heart attack . One sad legacy was a letter to his daughter in which he confessed the theft of some 8300,000 in state funds , Since 1938 , he wrote her , he had been juggling public accounts in his custody to conceal earlier defalcations . Hoffman apparently died a poor man . What became of the money has , to this day , never been satisfactorily explained . " Governor Meyner has made a rather striking record for himself during three years in office , " an objective observer who lives in nearby Princeton said not long ago . " He has fulfilled his promise to bring able men into the state service . He has modernized its business methods . He has kept a sharp eye on bureaucratic slovenliness and waste . In the matter of state aid for school construction and hospital reform he must share credit with the legislature that wrote the enabling bills and appropriated the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tie governor had a reputation as a country boy and as a lone-wolf operator when elected . On his first day of office he arrived at the State House early ; he thought he could read and personally answer his mail before the day 's appointments began . The sheer bulk of official correspondence soon disabused him on that score . He learned fast in other ways . The caliber of the cabinet with which he surrounded himself has done much to bulwark his claim that he puts good government above politics . It may very well be true , as his supporters say , that " good government is good politics . " His Highway Commissioner is Dwight R , G. Palmer , former chairman of the board of the General Cable Corporation . His Attorney General is Grover C. Richman , former United States Attorney for New Jersey . Archie Alexander served as State Treasurer until he resigned last summer to campaign for Adlai Stevenson . Dr. Joseph E. McLean , former Princeton professor , heads the Department of Conservation and Economic Devciopment . John W. Tramburg was public-welfare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to move to Trenton as Commissioner of Institutions and Agencies . Carl Holderman was state president of theC , I.O. before becoming Commissioner of Labor and Industry . Charles Howell , former congressman narrowly beaten for the United States Senate by Clifford Case a couple of years ago , is Commissioner of Banking and Insurance . Meyner fell heir to a critical state-hospital situation and a crisis in the field of mental health . New Jersey as a state was early a pioneer in social-welfare projects , but more recently , according to experts , its program had suffered from hardening of the arteries . Meyner personally sought the answers by interviewing the best men in medical and scientific fields in nearby Philadelphia and New York and organizing a group of unpaid but well-informed advisers . When conservative members of institutional staffs dragged their feet , the governor insisted that tranquilizing drugs be given a trial with the state 's insane . The post of Commissioner of Institutions and Agencies stayed vacant for a full twelve months while he searched for a man he thought adequate to fill the job . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prisons have made forward strides . Last year , for the first time , there were more patients discharged from state mental institutions than patients admitted . April la , L957 How does a Democratic governor put over a program when Republicans control the legislature ? One way , to use a trite and true phrase , is to " go to the people . " Meyner , with evangelistic zeal , has done just that . Daytime and nighttime as a bachelor there was no hearthstone to claim him  --  he has been available for speaking dates , and citizen participation in government is his favorite theme . His broad , hunched shoulders , his clear , resonant voice  --  like that of a good baritone singer  --  his directness , add up to what a New York Times reporter called " sheer physical impact . " " The duties of citizenship , " the governor has said , " are difficult , drab and distasteful , but there is no escape if we mean to practice democracy and make it work . The battle for Americanism is never completely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men may still be free . " This would be lukewarm stuff in many areas , but it is hot as a griddlecake in Jersey , where voters for many years  --  whatever the party in power  --  submitted stolidly to machine control . Actually Meyner 's election probably was in itself evidence of an awakening . Every Sunday evening the governor conducts a program over a Newark television station and a network of radio stations . State problems are dramatized and discussed by him and members of his cabinet in a free-and-easy fashion ; viewers and listeners are invited to write letters to register their opinions . They do , and the letters are read . A few weeks ago there was an all-women program presided over gracefully by the governor 's new wife . The governor 's course in applied public relations does not end there . He holds at least two press conferences a week for daily newspapers and sometimes calls conferences every day , or even twice a day , when the legislature is in session . There are separate press conferences For editors of weekly newspapers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intensive coverage there is slight chance that Meyner policies will receive anything less than ample dissemination . When Republicans complained that the press knew more about state policies than they did , Meyner invited them to the conferences . Ray Bateman , executive director of the Republican state committee , now regularly attends . " No conscientious administration can hope to be on the popular side of all issues on all occasions , " Meyner told the congress of the American Municipal Association last year . He tries to make his side the popular side , and often succeeds , The governor 's capacity for work is what it always was  --  tremendous . This sometimes wears down his aides , for he is demanding . And his desire for quick decisions and direct action sometimes makes him careless of the amenities ; he is impatient with slow minds and any kind of double-talk except his own . Some months ago he demonstrated his bent for direct action in a rather spirited way . He was returning alone to Trenton after an evening speech . As he turned his car  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another which carries no official identification  --  off the freeway a speeding motorist bumped him and stove in his car 's right side . The motorist did not stop . His dander up , Meyner gave chase with his horn blowing full blast . For ten or fifteen minutes the two automobiles twisted and turned at top speed through Trenton 's dark back streets . Then the hit-and-run culprit collided with s parked truck . Meyner 's horn blowing brought a policeman . " I just did n't want the guy to get away with it , " said the governor . The man in the State House can be cautious and deliberate too . His unexpected election allowed him to cone to Trenton without commitments . He had seen the opposition party wrecked by ruckuses and scandals , and he was determined that there should be none in his own administration . Appointments even to minor posts were made with greatest care and only after confidential reports from personally trusted lieutenants , . If a particular office-seeker recommended by a party leader did not make the grade , the party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political genius of Meyner 's administration , to submit another name . This irritated some of the petty satraps . Meyner 's relations with the so-called " Big Four " produced many big fights , but , at the moment , conditions are unruffled . The Big Four consists of these Democratic leaders : ex-Mayor Kenny , of Hudson County ; David C. Wilentz , of Middlesex ; Thorn Lord , of Mercer ; and Mayor George Brunner , of Camden . Bob Burkhardt is a professional in politics . He was an assistant to the chairman of the Democratic National 127 Committee when he was recruited by Archie Alexander to assist Meyner . For a time he was the governor 's executive secretary . Now he is the executive director of the Democratic State Committee , but he and the governor are no farther apart than a telephone . Ralph Coghlan , a onetime editorial-page editor of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch , undoubtedly contributed philosophy and phrases to some of the governor 's reports . Meyner was pretty good on his own . The governor has been blessed in some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his adversaries . Last summer , Republicans of the senate judiciary committee refused to confirm John 0 . Bigelow , a highly respected retired judge , as a member of the board of governors of Rutgers University , a state institution . The reason cited was that , as a lawyer , he had represented a Newark teacher who invoked the Fifth Amendment while testifying before the Congressional Committee on Un-American Activities . It quickly developed that Judge Bigelow without fee had represented the controversial client at the specific request of the Essex Bar Association , and the fat was in the fire . Meyner let loose with an hour-long polemic , and emergency meetings of bar associations popped up like meetings of the Sons of Liberty in pre-Revolutionary Boston . " To visit the sins of the client upon the attorney , " thundered Cloyd Laporte , president of the New York State Bar Association , " is to attempt a species of terrorism against the bar itself with the result that accused persons may be railroaded to punishment without benefit of fair trial . " Embattled Wayne Dumont @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his colleagues slipping away From him . Albert W. McKay , majority leader , called the incident " the biggest mistake ever made by our party in this house . " When the smoke blew over , Judge Bigelow was quietly confirmed . The governor is too realistic  --  with shrewd Sam Bodine directing opposition strategy and ambitious , energetic Malcolm S. Forbes as the probable Republican nominee  --  to expect such easy victories in the coming campaign . The present running battle at Trenton is concerned with large sums of money Meyner wants for roads in order to match Federal grants under the Eisenhower high way program , but the details are too complicated and esoteric for discussion here ; the governor hopes that pressures from the public will swing the legislature around to support of his program . His opponents will undoubtedly attack Meyner as a " New Deal spendthrift governor . " How much of a New Dealer he is and how much a spendthrift are open to question . Like Governor Ribicoil ' , of Connecticut , who also needs votes from a majority party to win @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republicans as people , and he has  --  among both small and big businessmen  --  a good many Republican supporters . ft is true that New Jersey 's annual expenditures have risen to more than $320,000,000 , but most state budgets have climbed in the last few years as services have been increased . Jersey has no sales tax or personal-income tax and , in comparison with many other states , the individual citizen 's burden can hardly be adjudged oppressive . The governor is not a worrying type . He has known both success and setbacks and he does not easily despair . His very real inner fortitude probably has its origins , a college classmate believes , in the fact that he owes nothing to anybody , that he has been self-supporting and self-reliant since childhood . His self-reliance can at times manifest itself as sheer obstinacy , but that is part of his strength too . What are Meyner 's possibilities as a presidential candidate in 1960 ? This is a subject upon which his associates prefer to be silent  --  like superstitious ballplayers when a pitcher may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a no-hit game . Jersey 's election this fall is certain to be close . Meyner 's supporters are encouraged by the statistics of a trusted TES SATURDAY SYR:41NC POST April 151 , 1957 private poll which reported recently that 68 per cent of the state 's voters believe he has done a good job in the State House . This puts him , even after President Eisenhower 's overwhelming victory , only ten points behind his standing of last May . An inquiry into Meyner 's private life is not particularly rewarding , since , up to now , he has hardly given himself time to have one . Relationships with his family have always been close . His older brother , Gustave , served as best man at his wedding and is an engineer who lives in Pittsburgh . His sister , Olive , is the wife of Capt . William Wagner , a master mariner . His tiny , sprightly mother spent the last two summers with him at Island Beach , on the ocean near Toms River , where the governor rents a modest camp from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Robert , your toenails are too long . " ) In winter she continues to live , doing all her own work , in Phillipsburg . Not even when an obviously demented citizen wrote that he intended to blow up her house could she be persuaded to move . Marriage has ended one lively section of Meyner 's correspondence , letters from unknown ladies with matrimony in mind . His favorite came from the little nation of Lebanon . Enclosed was a ravishing picture of the writer and a statement of her age , weight and measurements . She said she would like to fly to Canada for a romantic twenty-four hour meeting . If Meyner was disappointed , she would go home quietly . The governor declined the proposal . He told a psychiatrists ' convention a few days later he thought it unwise to attempt to " relieve Middle East tensions . " Meyner has many casual friends , few Intimate ones . He is an evening two-highball drinker , likes steak dinners , and goes to the theater in New York occasionally . The newspapers were atwitter when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's ancient history now . Socially he is somewhat on the jocose side , tends to laugh overlong at his own jokes , makes puns on his name  --  pronounced " Minor " ? and on whatever else comes to mind . His relaxations include swimming and tennis , and , because he belongs to a club which has indoor courts , tennis is for him a year-round enterprise . At forty-eight , Meyner is a remarkably handsome man , but not quite so handsome as he seems in his photographs , He has a rich crop of only slightly graying wavy hair and an appealing , practiced smile . As a matter of fact , only hooded eyes and a flattened , off-center nose rescue him from near-prettiness . That nose , according to his mother , was a great trial to him in childhood . The original injury occurred when frolicsome uncles , who could have been better occupied at something else , were tossing him back and forth like a beanbag in the Meyner living room . One uncle missed . After that , young Robert was such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to participate in contact sports . The governor 's new wife is tall , intelligent , Oriental-eyed , twenty-eight , and a career girl . She is also a very nice girl . Her father , William E. Stevenson , is president of Oberlin College , in Ohio . Before that he was an Olympic track star at Princeton , a prosperous corporation lawyer in New York , and , during the war , a Red Cross executive in England , North Africa and Italy . The daughter is a distant cousin of Adlai E. Stevenson , but , oddly enough , on her mother 's side . Helen Stevenson was graduated from Brearley School in New York and Colorado College , then spent almost two years with the Red Cross in war-torn Korea . Later she worked under the institutional name of " Mary Gordon " as a travel adviser for Trans World Airlines . When she and Meyner met last year , she was functioning as an ardent assistant in the Adlai Stevenson headquarters in New York . The meeting took place at Oberlin . Miss Stevenson was home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keynote speaker for a students ' mock political convention , was a house guest for two days . Meyner renewed the acquaintanceship when both were back East , and a few casual dinners progressed into a courtship , When they met at the Democratic National Convention , Helen still had not made up her mind , and the Jersey delegation , which ultimately went to Adlai , was still uncommitted . After the convention , reporters pursued the couple to Oberlin . The telephone rang one morning when Meyner , at the Stevenson home , was busily surrounding a breakfast of ham and three eggs . It was a newsman , asking the usual question . An exasperated Mrs. Stevenson , known to most 529 people as " Bumpy , " answered thus : " If love takes a man 's appetite away , he 's not in love . " To put a happy end to the narrative , Helen and Bob were married on January nineteenth , spent their honeymoon in Barbados , and are now at home at Morven , a beautiful and remarkable colonial house in Princeton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Edge to serve as something Jersey had never had before  --  a governor 's mansion . Happy mansion , happy couple .                     