@@491343

HIS report is the direct result of a personal experience , so it had better begin with a few words of personal explanation . By last November sixth , I had been covering the presidential campaign and its angry preliminaries for rather more than eighteen months . During that eventful period , the same thing happened to reporters like myself that , I suppose , happened to most other Americans , The never-failing excitements of our own politics crowded out all other political ideas , The horizon narrowed . The hope grew that the bothersome rest of the world did not matter much any more . Since this hope nonetheless seemed likely to be misleading , I decided to go abroad for a quick trip of inquiry immediately after the votes were counted . Hence , while the cheers for President Eisenhower 's great victory were still ringing out at home , I found myself in Europe , looking at our American election result through European eyes . This was the experience , at once startling , sobering and stirring , that led to the present report . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desperate anxiety for his success among the friends of the United States ; the anti-Americans ' hopes that he would fail ; the intensity of interest in his views and policies ; the minute attention paid to his lightest words and least-important acts  --  all these were powerful portents . In those Weeks idler our elect ion the chief British . French and German oflicialii and politicians hardly wished to discuss their own problems , about which they are normally extremely voluble . They always wanted to talk about the new trittain t hint ic Topic A : " What will Ike be like ? " With startling frankness , they admitted they could not forecast their own futures , including even the trends and tendencies of their domestic politica . Too much depended , they said , on the decisions and act ions of Dwight D. Eisenhower . In short , it was made very clear that the American voters who chose Dwight Eisenhower by such an overwhelming majority were not merely electing a new President of the United States . In a very practical sense , they were also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was also made clear that Eisenhower , in this larger capacity as President of the Free Half of the World . was going to have a much harder and more complex job than cleaning up the mess in Washington . The most disturbing aspect of President Eisenhower 's task is the failure of many Americans , and especially of many eminent Republicans , to grasp the vast import of our vote on November fourth . Inflation , high taxes , wasteful Government spending and our other domestic woes are important , no doubt , and require action , no doubt . But the cold war is not like a stupid fiscal policy ; it will not be changed overnight by a change in the party in power in Washington . It goes on . It must be waged by us , so long as it is still being waged by the Kremlin . And if , through folly or neglect , we lose the cold war , we shall soon be looking back with positive nostalgia to the happy days when we were worried by such trifles as high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us after defeat in the cold war , you might almost say high taxes are downright cozy . All of which means , in turn , that Dwight D. Eisenhower 's task is threefold . He has to clean up the mess in Washington that the Truman Administration leaves behind . He has to do what the Truman Administration never did ? unite the American people in performing their allotted world role . And with a united America behind him , he has to wage the cold war in such wisdom and creative vigor that the Kremlin will decide to leave this poor world in peace . The weight of Eisenhower 's new responsibility was most finely conveyed by one of the wisest men in England , who is also one of the moat-respected members of Winston Churchill 's cabinet , We had had a long , quiet , agreeable talk over the luncheon table about the accomplishments , which have been suhrtantinl , and the problems , which are still formidable , of the British Conservative government . The sober , easy conversation , the pleasant . unpretentious house , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sparing but good luncheon , all hinted at something I had sensed everywhere in Europe  --  a sort of return to normality after the hectic tension of the postwar years . I remarked on this hopeful change of atmosphere . " Yes , " said my friend , gazing thoughtfully at his still-green pocket handkerchief of London garden . " Yes , the postwar period is over . But the real quesLion is whether or no we are now entering another interwar period ; and that 's a question , I 'm afraid , that President Eisenhower is going to have to answer . No one else can . " The worst of it is that President Eisenhower will have to begin working out the answer to this most crucial of all questions almost before he lenrns his way around the White House . There is a curious central contradiction in the situation that will confront Eisenhower as he assumes his great office . On the one hand , if you judge by fundamentals , the outlook is more hopeful than at any time since 1945 . But on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mprov idence of recent American policy , a good many critical problems have reached the acute stage without much attention being paid to t hem . These problems now resemble so many hidden lone bombs . In effect , the new President will find these political-strategic time bombe ticking away , at varying rates of speed , in the White House closets . And if he does not move rapidly and boldly to defuse them , one or another will blow the whole house down . Take , for example , the problem of Indo-China , which is almost more urgent for the President of the Free Half of the World than the problem of Korea is for the President of the United States . here is a time bomb that is entirely capable of sett Mg off a double chain reaction of the most fearful The background is simple enough . With many kind . mistakes , but with a persistency that deserves the Free World 's gratitude , the French and the free Indo-Chinese have been ( Continued on Page 9$ ) ( t:nothoavi Irons Page 27 ) remieling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In 1949 the Indo-Chinese communist guerrillas , the Vietminh , began to benefit from supplies and training hares provided for them by the Chinese communists . Soon thereafter the increasing enemy pressure forced the war-weakened French to ask for American aid in order to continue their Indo-Chinese effort . Each of the subsequent and increasingly urgent French requests for help in Indo-China has caused thesamecomedy to be performed in Washington . Secretary of State Dean G. Acheson would say this was a military problem , and seek to shift responsibility to t he Joint Chiefs of Staff . The Joint Chiefs , who fully share the State Department 's dislike for politically hot decisions , would then perform the same operation in reverse . The result , each time , would be a quarter or half measure . It was the kind of policy-making condemned by Confucius , twenty-five hundred years ago , in the pithy remark . " Putting white plaster on a mud wall is always wasteful . " The quarter and half measures never went to the root of the matter . They never did more , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the narrowest possible margin , while the enemy power continued to grow . Consequently , the balance of forces in Indo-China is now beginning to be really dangerous . To their original guerrilla power , the Vietminh have already added no less than live organized and armed regular divisions . They are now fighting set battles with the French , which they could never attempt with only guerrilla units . There is sure intelligence that three additional Vietminh divisions will take the field in a few months . There are credible reports that the cadres of six further divisions have already been collected at the Vietminh 's bases in Chinese communist territory across the border . As has been said , the free Indo-Chinese and the French already have their work cut out to hold their awn . Hence the future risk is clear . Unless strong measures are taken to disrupt the Vietminh buildup and cut the Vietminh down to size , a day looms ahead when the communist enemy will be much too strong for the free Indo-Chinese and French forces . Indo-China will then be swept into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allowed to happen ? and no one can prevent it but President Eisenhower  --  it will surely touch off a chain reaction that must in the end consume all the free part of Asia . But that is not the only aspect of the Indo-Chinese problem which President Eisenhower is going to have to consider . At this very moment , the trouble in Indo-China is already touching off q u ite another kind of chain reaction . It is threatening President Eisenhower 's own grand design for Europe by inflaming France 's ancient fear of Germany . You may believe , if you choose , that the French fear of the Germans is disproportionate to the facts of the postwar world . German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer once put the case with wicked logic to French Foreign Minister Robert Schuman . " You know , my dear minister , " said Adenauer , " the great vice of my people is arrogance ; this German arrogance is always giving me trouble . " Schuman , unsuspicious , nodded pleased agreement . " But , my friend , " Adenauer slyly continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrogance ? it greatly adds to my own difficulties  --  for fifty-one million armed Frenchmen always to be proclaiming their fear of fort " y-nine million unarmed West Germans . Adenauer 's logic was not much appreciated ; and , indeed , this is a topic which it is foolish to approach logically . The French attitude toward Germany in en intensely emotional attitude , deep-rooted in history . At the moment , the French Chandler of Deputies him before it the contractual agreements , which will end the German occupation , and the treaty creating a European army , which will allow Adenauer to recruit German divisions for the common defense of Europe . These two vital measures to give Europe peace and security have aroused the instinctive , historical French emotion about Germany , particularly because they permit German rearmament . This French emotion about Germany has been brought to fever pitch by another factor . By the terms of the treaty now before the French Parliament , the French are to contribute fourteen divisions and the Germans twelve divisions to the projected European army . Thus , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' well balanced . In practice , about half the French regular army is indefinitely tied down in Indo-China . At present , therefore , a vote for the European army is a vote for a Germany possessing more military power in Europe than France can maintain there . The passionate debate in Paris consequently resounds with furious warnings . France is " being left alone with Germany . " The European army " will only be another name for a German army . " Unhappy Europe " will be dominated by the rearmed Reich . " The peroration of every surcharged article and speech bristles with bitter references to the enfeeblement of France by the Indo-Chinese struggle . In this poisoned atmosphere . the French Chamber is virtually certain to vote down the European army and veto German rearmament , with the Indo-Chinese problem as the main excuse . And just as it is up to President Eisenhower to avert the threat to Asia , so no one but President Eisenhower can prevent this disaster in Paris . There are several things that need doing to clear the Parisian sir @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by the State Department 's eccentric hankering to hunt with the French hounds and run with the Tunisian hares in troubled Nor ' h Africa . A hands-off declaration concerning North Africa in long overdue , But the main thing that . is needed to clear the air is a hold , prompt premise from Eisenhower to do whnt he will have to do anyway  --  to give the French more generous and active help in Indo-China . AU the responsible French party leaders and all the informed American officiate on the scene told me that the Situation in Paris could be revolutionized by this k i rid of initiative by Eisenhower . In particular , they all but guaranteed that the French Parliament would then master its emotions , vote for the European army mind go forward thereafter toward European union . Two points , of course , stand out from this tangled and hideous tale of Indo-China and its complex implications . On the one hand , it should be quite possible to find a solution in Indo-China , by equipping Fi much larger free Indo-Chinesearmy , financingtheFrench @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Flying Tiger model , and by other measures . But doing these things on a big enough scale will be expensive  --  more expensive now than it would have been a year ago . much more expensive than two yearn or three years ago . The Congress , and indeed the country , will not like the expense . On the other hand , it will be infinitely more expensive not to do these things . Consider merely the sheer waste . By great efforts and outlays , the NATO defense of Europe is now coming into being . Already . there are fifty divisions in the line or on can ; NATO air power is growing . airfields are abuilding and all the elaborate structure of logistical support is gradually taking shape . Yet the keystone in this grand design of European security , which President Eisenhower himself blueprinted , is the German contribution of twelve divisions , By the same token , the formation of a European army is also a keystone in the grand design of European union , that President Eisenhower himself sketched so inspiringly in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts and outlays , all this hopeful progress , can go for nothing and fall into ruin . And because of Indo-China the free part of Asia can also he lost , One can see , then , what wise old Konrad Adenauer had in mind when I took leave of him in Bonn . We had been talking of how much progress had been made already  --  of Germany 's remarkable economic recovery , of the important NATO achievements in 1952 , of the reflection of them and other healthy developments in the lean aggnaesive tone being taken in Moscow . As he said good-by , the chancellor gave one of his dry smiles . " Yes , " he said , " the foundations are in , the walls are up , of the House of the We 'd . But if the roof is not quickly put on , the hard weather of our times will destroy all that has been built already . Only President Eisenhower can put on the roof ? and sometimes the roof of a house is more troublesome than the foundation . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the West is now , in effect , the prime objective of the Kremlin 's policy . In his remarkable speech to the Al Smith Memorial Dinner , made at the end of the campaign . President Eisenhower has already shown that he sees through the verbiage , the threats and the pretenses of the Russian Communist Party Congress in Moscow , where the new Kremlin line was officially proclaimed . This modified plan of Stalin 's , which President Eisenhower is going to have the high duty of frustrating . can be rather simply described . For the time being , on the one hand , Soviet aggressive pressure is to be strictly confined but strongly applied to the Far East . Lenin long ago declared that world communism 's quickest road to Paris and London was via Peking and the colonial nations of the Orient . In order to find this road that Lenin so shrewdly pointed tn. there will he continuous probing in the Orient . With courage and determination , President Eisenhower has already moved to find the right riposte for the probing in Korea . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even greater , in certain ways , than the Korean danger . And it is imprudent to forget about the troubles in Malaya  --  where the British , to be sure , are at last getting the upper hand over the communist guerrillas  --  in Burma and in the other Asiatic soft spots . On the other hand , while continuing their Asiatic probing , the masters of the Kremlin are showing Europe a bland and peaceful countenance . The once-great colonial powers  --  even the British themselves  --  are too preoccupied with their own difficulties at home to worry much about Asia . A kind of normality has returned across the Atlantic , but it is s tired normality , tending to comfortable self-delusion . Just because the Kremlin has stopped its bullying in Europe , our allies are now saying , " The danger of war is receding . " I heard this opinion from all sorts of men , many of them thoroughly informed and hardheaded , in Paris , London and Bonn . In the past , Soviet bullying has been the chief cement of the loose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called the " House of the West . " The aim of the new Soviet blandness is to encourage IN break within the Western alliance , and especially a revolt against America 's leadership of the West . Any such break in the Western alliance will of course offer the Kremlin the same sort of golden opportunity that the Soviets are seeking more directly , by their open probing , in the Far East . These changed Kremlin tactics , so much more astutely calculated than the eye-opening bullying of the past , will certainly increase President Eisenhower 's difficulties . Anti-Americanism has been let-el i " I urnpe ' and in Brifilin over since the end of the war , for the rather simple reason that hardly anybody really likes or admires a rich relation . Anti-Americanism has vastly increased in the last two years , for the equally simple reason that people generally turn against a leader who refuses to lead . The long parnlyeie of American policy , resulting partly from the election and partly from the intellectual exhaustion of the Truman Administration . has been the greatest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Eisenhower can not accomplish , if he replaces this American paralysis with creative effort . But the new President will not merely find that a whole group of local situatione , typified by Indo-China , but including several others like Iran , are approaching the point of chain-reactive explosion . He will also discover that the big , long-range tasks  --  strengthening the bonds of the Western community of nations and giving the West secure defenses  --  are becoming unpleasantly urgent . Indeed , a crisis in Western defense planning started not long after President Eisenhower left his post as NATO Supreme Commander ; and this crisis has now reached the stage where extremely crucial decisions are going to have to be made without much further delay . On one flank , in effect , the NATO effort is imperiled by the French reluctance to permit German rearmament , without which Europe can never be rendered reasonably secure . Meanwhile , on the other flank , a sharp debate is going on about how big the NATO effort ought to be . President Eisenhower himself made the plans for this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war is quite possible . any sensible general demands the maximum number of divisions and insists that every one of these divisions is absolutely necessary for a minimum defense . Hence the target for a defense force in Europe was set high ? ninety-eight. divisions in the line and on call , and 10,000 aircraft in the line and for home defense , to he ready by 195-1 . Probably it was a good thing to start out with this high target . Otherwise , Gen. Matthew B. Ridgway might not now have the NATO force of fifty divisions in Europe , that is already enough to make the Kremlin think twice about any westward aggression . But the practical fact now has to be faced . A ninety-eight-division force is too big for the resources and manpower of our allies to sustain in peacetime . Already , the British , French and other European nations are reducing their defense contributions for 1953 and 1954 below what was projected at Lisbon , where Eisenhower 's NATO defense plan was officially adopted . Besides this practical fact , certain other considerations also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with their very special knowledge of Soviet capabilities , think that Eisenhower 's NATO planners exaggerated the size of the armies the Kremlin can hurl westwards . General Ridgway 's estimate ? which was also President Eisenhower 's when he was still in uniform  --  is that the Soviets can deploy and support 100 divisions on the West European front . The German generals told me that they thought seventy-two divisions was about the maximum , in view of the limited supply lines between Russia and Europe . They also pointed out that , the six rather rundown railroads which are the Kremlin 's only westward supply lines , are extremely vulnerable to atomic bombing because of their limited marshaling 1. /5:1 yards and their absolute dependence on the bridges across the Vistula . For these and other reasons , the British chiefs of staff have already proposed a revision of the Western strategic concept . The conventional NATO forces in Western Europe will be somewhat reduced to ease the strain on Britain , France and other NATO partners . duet enough will be done to convince the Kremlin that an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , much greater reliance will be placed on the new weapons bath in NATO planning and in broader Western strategy . The European defense plan will he carefully keyed to the tactical atomic bomb . ( The British criticize the existing plan as " almost a scheme for fighting a 1914 war . " ) Above all , the strategic air power and huge atomic stock of the United States will be relied upon as the truly decisive deterrents of Soviet aggression . All this sounds easy and economical , until you consider the practical ohstaclea President Eisenhower will encounter when he seeks to hammer out the necessary modification of Western defense strategy . The debate will be bitter , both among our allies and within our own services  --  even the most enlightened ground officers , like General Ridgway and President Eisenhower 's old chief of staff , Gen. Alfred Gruenther , do not believe that the new weapons constitute an excuse for reducing ground forces . There will be a lot of little rugglingdifficulties ? the American atomic-secrecy law literally makes it illegal for us to admit our allies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bombs . And there will be , above all , the unpleasant need to face certain facts about our own defense effort . The British say , " Let American atomic power be the main deterrent of Soviet aggression . " Our own brilliant Russian experts , Charles E. Bohlen and George F. Kennnn , have always said , " The Soviet Union will always shrink from general war so long as they think American productivity will be on the other side . " But how great is our atomic power ? And how safe is our vast in-d ustry ? American strategic air strength has not been growing as it should , while the Soviet air defenses have been rapidly improved . Soviet strategic air strength is growing by leaps and hounds , while the American air defenses remain shockingly weak . President Eisenhower will find lying on his White House desk the most deeply alarming reports on these subjects by the most eminent American scientists and air experts . These men have already predicted that if present trends continue , the Soviets will be able to strike a crippling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' time ; while the United States , in the meanwhile , will have largely lost the power to retaliate . The funds for the great effort that is needed to reverse these fearful trends , and thus avert the nightmare , are not included in President Truman 's new defense budget . Again , if President Eisenhower moves to remedy this shocking situation , Congress and the country will not like the expense . But what will he the result if the money is saved arid the nightmare becomes reality ? This dark problem of the air-atomic balance belongs , at any rate , to the last of the types of the problems which can not wait , which may reasonably he called time bombs . Yet even when President Eisenhower has-finally defused the time bombs , he will tied that other world problems of somewhat longer range are remorselessly pressing in upon him . There is t he feet , for instance , that Stele , really lied good reasons For at least one thing he said , when he promised the RUilaittll COM . mumst Thirty Congress that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the World to their own destruct ion . Here is a weak spot in the Western alliance which has been too much ignored . In 1949 a mild American recession very nearly pushed the British Commonwealth over the brink of bankruptcy . Today , if n slight American recession stops American consumers from purchasing British and European luxuries and causes American industrialists to stop stocking raw materials , the effects abroad will be even more violent than in 1949 . Britain 's precarious stability , Germany 's recovery , France 's relative prosperity can all be destroyed , almost overnight , by the kind of slump in this country that we should hardly notice . The main cause of this desperately risky situation lies in the present need of our allies to buy about $5,000,000 , - 000 a year more of American products than we buy of their products . The possible cure could be described only in a long separate report . But it can certainly be said that President Eisenhower will be extremely imprudent not to take out some form of insurance against the risk of Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister Winston Churchill and Chancellor of the Exchequer R. A. Butler are straining at the leash in London , waiting to come to Washington and ask the new American President what he means to do about this matter which means en much to Britain . From Eisenhower , in truth , the whole world wants answers . If the reader will consider the formidable catalogue of problems to be salved , dangers to be averted and risks to be avoided , he will understand the overwhelming significance of Dwight D. Eisenhower 's role as President of the Free Half of the World . Speaking for myself , I first grasped the full import of Eisenhower 's election one evening in London when I was dining at the House of Commons with three key members of Aneurin Bevan 's left-wing , anti-American faction of the British Labor Party . Stouthearted former Prime Minister Clement Attlee had just made it clear that he and the other chieftains of the moderate Labor Party majority meant to fight the Bevanite rebellion to the finish . Attlee in a fight is a ruthless opponent , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But of course , " said one of them , " we think we can count on your new President to give us the victory in the end . " Naturally astonished , I asked the meaning of this extraordinary statement . The answer was simple . There were countless perils ahead , military , political and economic . There were great problems affecting the whole Western community , such as defense planning and economic stabilization ; and there were local problems  --  Korea and Iran were named  --  capable of pro97 ' clueing the most . catastrophic repel. - C11144i011K . As acknowledged leader of the West , America had to take the lend in skirting theme perils , untying thim. problems , President 1. isnnlnssver and his " inexperienced " Reptildican Administration would make Al laid mess somewhere , somehow , and before too long . " Just one Isid mess " would " amount , nowadays , to a rim Mr disaster . " In the climate of disaster , not only I he Labor Party rank and tile but the majority of the British people would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and would flock to his standard Eisenhower would err and Bevan would reap the harvest . This analysis , farfetched though it may sound to an American , was actually exceedingly shrewd . A serious failure of American leadership is the one thing most feared by Attlee and his Labor moderates , by Churchill and his Conservat ives , by Konrad Adenauer and his followers of the German Democratic center , and by the French leadersof the tight against neutralism . Few men could be more different than the German chancellor and my Bevanite friend . Yet Adenauer said almost the same thing that I heard that evening in the House of Commons , when he remarked that the German neo-Nazis would never he a serious danger so long as American world leadership was strong and effective . Everywhere in the free world the forces of disunity , of appeasement and of anti-Americanism , the extremists of both right and left , look to Dwight Eisenhower 's failure to give them the victory ; while the forces of moderation , the friends of America and of Western unity , the men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon Dwight D. Eisenhower 's success . It is an awe-inspiring responsibility that President Eisenhower has inherited . But it must be remembered , also , that the very existence of this responsibility constitutes a proof that Dwight Eisenhower can do the jot with the power of the United States behind him . Eisenhower would not be President of the Free Half of the World today  --  indeed the Free Half of the World would probably exist no longer  --  if the Western nations had not recovered from the war ; if the Western alliance had not been formed ; if the task of defending the West tied not been taken in hand . In all these great achievements of the last seven years , America has been the leader ; and in these achievements Americans can find cause for pride in the past and hope for the future . Many of our people do not take pride in the past , end are not hopeful about the future for a reason that is fundamentally simple . While often doing right things  --  and especially in the great period of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them in the wrong way . Korea , which played such a big part in the election result , is the best case in point . Our people can not be blamed for resenting a war which has been allowed to appear , and in considerable measure to become , fruitless , hopeless , aimless and endless . That does not mean that our people are unwilling to carry the heavy burden history has placed upon them , of defending the cause of freedom against Soviet imperialism . There are many problems , many dangers and , one fears , many sacrifices ahead of us . But there are no problems which can not be solved , no dangers which can not , he avoided and no sacrifices which will not be willingly made by an America with leadership worthy of this great country . If anyone is such a leader . Dwight Eiaenhower should lie . To ibis I would add only one personal note . which seems to me to pm-vide the right closing for this report . Toward the end of my trip I went lo Luxembourg to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the West , Jean Moimel , who is working to unite the Europenn econunnea by matins of the Schuman Plan for a Eumpenn coal11111/-Nieel pool . It wits an inspiring day ; for I he vista opened , as one bilked to Moimet , of n hirger EUri  --  liean union resting on the I win limes of economic unity I ' trough t he Schuman Plan and ave.aileit : 1 ' 118 ' 1 ' military unity through the European army , and with a European political authority lo complete the structure . But even the busy Mormet was not immune to the tendency of all Euromem leaders to Hpeculnle on " what will Ike be like ? " As it happened , he laid known Eisenhower well , and had the highest respect for the new 7 , KW President 's qualities of mind and character . " And Twill tell you something more , " Monnet added with a grin . " 1 tempera to think being lucky is almost the more important thing for a political leader . Eisenhower is lucky , always very lucky . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Eisenhower . "                     