@@488272

IN THE Kaiser 's time a large . framed picture captioned " Germans in , Front " used to hang in every school and public building in the country . It showed the British Admiral Seymour , commander of the international force gathered to intervene in the Chinese war of 1900 , ordering the German contingent , to march at the head of the attacking column . The picture 's commemoration of this honor and the evidence it offered that the German soldier was the best in the world were as pernicious a stimulus to the nationalist and militarist instincts of the generation then growing up as the famous slogan Deutschland ilber Alles , Fifty years after that joint intervention in China , five years after the most frightful military catastrophe in German history , the United States , like Admiral Seymour , puts its trust in the Germans . But though unemployed generals are delighted , the people 's response this time is very different . There is no Kaiser Wilhelm II today to address an , expeditionary force with the ringing words : " Conduct yourselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pseudonym of The Nation 's correspondent in West Germany . a thousand years no Chinese will dare to oppose a German . " The generals and politicians may preen themselves on America 's need of their help , make their conditions , set their price , but the people turn a deaf ear and say , " Not for us . " Seldom has a nation been placed in such a dilemma . Between Scylla and Charybdis , the fifty million inhabitants of West Germany are at their wits ' end . Looking eastward , they see the condition of their countrymen in the Russian zone and shudder at the thought of meeting the same fate . Turning to the west , they face the even more frightful prospect of a war in which Germany would be the battleground and its annihilation certain . They feel they are bound to the West , and yet even more than they hate the Russians they hate the West for placing them so fatally " in front . " For months a film called " Herrliche Zeiten " ( " Glorious Times " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theaters . It presents a review of German , foreign policy from 1900 to 1950 put together from contemporary newsreels . The title is taken from the words with which Wilhelm II greeted his people at the turn of the century . " I am leading you into glorious times . " The tone is strongly pacifist ; militarism and the authoritarian state are blamed for Germany 's misfortunes . Before the Korean war the film could be considered a lesson in democracy ; today it seems to be a burlesque of democracy . A young worker who sat next to me commented , " That 's all very fine , but look at What the Americans are doing now . Instead of leaving us in peace , they want to make soldiers of us again ; they even give us weapons . " Eugen Kogon , a Catholic writer whose reputation has spread far beyond Germany 's borders , expressed the feelings of my neighbor at the movie , and of other thoughtful Germans , in the September Frankfurter Hefte : The remilitarization of Germany presupposes that the Allies ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all a mistake and must be reversed . The destruction of the German war-industry potential is viewed now as criminal folly . In spite of Nfirnbeig and Landsberg , German generals and soldieis are to be welcomed as companions in arms . Though Germans are still considered unreliable , they are to be furnished weapons in the hope that they will fight on the right side  --  and stay on that side . The Western Allies know that powerful forces are blocking democracy in the West German state , that hundreds of thousands of key positions are again held by former National Socialists ; yet they expect a West German army to be a democratic army and to have no political . . The repugnance to military service felt by so many people , especially . by the younger generation , is regarded as shirking or as a sign of political immaturity . . . . Apparently no thought is given to how the Czechs and Poles and other East European nations under the Soviet yoke will react to the creation of a " democratic " German army made up of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the moment , the firm stand taken by France at the New Yolk conference of the three Western Foreign Ministers has given Germany and the world a reprieve . No one doubts , however , that the projected remilitarizadon has only been put off a few months . The people are being prepared for it psychologically ; the political maneuvering has started . The Allies ' authorization of an increased police force means that rearmament , if still " cold , " is under way . It is of course valiantly supported by the official and half-official " democratic " press , now the rich pasture and playground of former Nazi journalists and GObbels propagandists  --  the publishers are to be rewarded for their good behavior with fifteen million marks of American funds . A majority of the persons questioned in Gallup-type polls are said to be for re-militarization . Unquestionably , however ; the masses are against it , and the whole country is racked by the violence of people 's feelings on the subject . Even the Bonn government reflects this division . Chancellor Adenauer favors remilitarization . Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has The NATION opposed him , ostensibly because the Chancellor did not inform his colleagues about his conversations with the Allies , and because he wanted to remove the new enlarged police force from Dr. Heinemann 's control . Actually the cause of the conflict lay deeper . Adenaaier represents the West German Catholics , whose spiritual head , Cardinal Frings of Cologne , has come out officially for military service . " When God 's order is attacked or threatened at its very foundations , " the Cardinal has said , " states have the right before God  --  nay , the duty if there is no other way and if there is a reasonable chance of success  --  to restore that order by force of arms . " The Protestant church of Germany has taken a position directly opposed to the Cardinal 's . It has stated : " We deny categorically that the existence of the church can be assured and Christendom saved by war . Anyone who understands the inner nature of the church must know that the congregation of Christ betrays its Lord if it depends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has fought both the resurgence of Nazism and the personal policies of the Prime Minister , is president of the Evangelical Synod . As such he was the second man in the Bonn government . Because of the many irreconcilable differences between the two men , and especially because of the uncompromising staid of the Protestant church against remilitarization , Heinemann felt obliged to hand in his resignation . Adenauer , despite his desire to maintain the semblance of a united Cabinet , finally accepted it . Heinemann is an intimate friend of Pastor NiembIler , the spiritual leader of German Protestantism , - and Niem011er has asserted forcefully : " Nowhere is it written that the church can not live in a Communist society . If it could not , it would not be the church of God , which hell itself can not harm . A united Germany , even under Communist rule , is better than a divided Germany , with its western half erected into a separate state by Rome and Washington . " Dr. Heinemann and the Protestants have a powerful ally against remilitarization in the Social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairman of the Federation of German Unions , Dr. BOckler , is a Social Democrat , and the hard core of the federation 's five-million-strong membership is made up of Social Democrats . If there is a truly respected and popular man in Germany it is Dr. Schumacher , with his one arm and one leg and the marks of his ten years in a concentration camp . Since Berlin and East Germany are predominantly Protestant and Social Democratic , party politics as well as an- intelligent foreign policy have led Dr. Schumacher and the other Social Democratic leaders resolutely to oppose remilitarization . The Communist Party 's loss of influence and virtual disappearance in West Germany are largely due to this stand . The Social Democrats are ruthless foes of the Communists and of Communist Russia , and the concentration camps and October 28 , 1950 political prisons of the eastern zone are filled with them . Schumacher has maintained from the beginning that it was useless to arm West Germany unless the United States and England kept sufficiently large forces there to guarantee that it should not become the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wo n't help us , " he insists , " to have the Western powers win the last battle against Russia . Unless they win the first , on the Weichsel and the Oder , Germany will cease to exist . " So long as the victory is uncertain , he will have no part in Adenauer 's plans for " contributing to the defense of Western civilization . " The remilitarization eagerly awaited by the old generals looks to him like another bid for political and economic power by the same reactionary groups which used to control the country . The talk is of German divisions to defend the West . But in the end on whose side will these divisions fight  --  the West 's or the East 's ? Schumacher is a true patriot who desires above everything else to see Germany reunited and to prevent a new war . That is what distinguishes him  --  and Heinemann and Niemtiller -- -from Adenauer . The Social Democrats therefore refuse to join the red-bakers , who will only succeed in galvanizing the feuding fragments of the385 German Communist Party into new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the threats of civil war emanating from the eastern zone . A large number of workers , goaded by rising prices into taking part in the current wave of strikes , are being suspected of communism , but the United States and the other Western powers will be running a great risk if they sanction a German army which may be used by the industrialists behind the Adenauer regime to protect their power and profits . Hundreds of the largest German enterprises and thousands of smaller firms have contributed to the Communist Party in West Germany " just in case . " The five wasted years of the Allied occupation are now ' being revenged . Every opportunity to build a genuinely democratic state has been fumbled . The men re-sponsible for Hitler and the Second World War were never friends of democracy and the West , are not now , and never will be , but nothing has been left undone that might help them to regain their ascendancy . On the other hand , those groups which placed their hopes in the West have been pushed aside . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little to defend that the cry " Germans in front " evokes no response today .                     