@@431413

There is no doubt about it , happiness does not make news . At least , it does n't get into the headlines as readily as crime , disaster , and divorce : You can scarcely pick up a periodical without discovering that the ratio of divorces to marriages is now about three and a half to fourteen , but nobody goes on to rejoice in the fact that about four times as many marriages persist as dissolve and that it can be reasonably supposed that a high percentage of these marriages are happy . As the major proportion of the population considers happiness its goal in life , it is curious that a more positive approach to these statistics is not taken . Almost any married couple can manage to get a divorce , with appropriate mention in the public prints , but the heroes and heroines who produce between them a tenure of connubial bliss go unhonored and unsung unless the union happens to survive for fifty years . In the more durable aspects of literature , the ratio of attention to divorce and marriage is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and on the whole succeeds so well , despite the impression given by divorce headlines , that there is some indication of it even in the inevitable Burton Stevenson , whose book of proverbs contains only seven that concern divorce but gives over a hundred and fifty that expatiate on marriage . Bartlett 's Familiar Quotations offers one example  | of material dealing with divorce , fortyfour that discuss marriage . Obviously , marriage is long and divorce is fleeting . Married happiness , like most other sorts , is composed of a certain amount of good luck , fortune , graceful aptitude , and hard work . Most of us have the fallacious theory , inculcated by fairy tales , that you " find " happiness , like the fabled pot of gold at the end of a mythical rainbow . Any thoughtful person knows that luck is the least of happiness and that you do n't " find " it , in marriage or anywhere else , nearly so often as you make it by unremitting effort . Stories that end with the two protagonists exchanging vows and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to real stories , for if marriage seems less dramatic than courtship , it is a thousand times more complex than any other human relationship . Most associations between human beings ? friendship , business partnership , or public trust ? require undeviating attention on the part of the persons involved . How much more does marriage , involving not only the most intimate personal association but legal , social , and community aspects , require this effort . The two people who accomplish between them a successful and happy marriage not only should be congratulated but praised and even rewarded by a grateful public . AMERICANS are addicted to special celebrations . In view of the fact that they have set aside weeks in the year to do honor to Idaho potatoes , California raisins , Virginia apple blossoms , peanuts , figs , cherries , cutlery , cranberries , peaches , apples , beds , iced tea , straw hats , honey for breakfast , neckties , horses , dogs , cats , and babies , it is a melancholy thing that no one has ever suggested Happy-Marriage Week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ week , hopefully in the spring of the year , to do honor to those dauntless men and women who have succeeded in one of the prime projects of human experience ? marriage . I do not make this suggestion either in a sentimental or a merchandising spirit , nor do I make it lightly . I simply think it is time a few medals were given , and a few kind words uttered vocally and in print , in favor of the backbone of the Republic ? the happily married people , whom I believe to be legion . Detractors of this idea may point out that between Mother 's Day and Father 's Day , not to mention Grandmother 's Day , the subject is fairly well covered , and if we must pause in the busy round to salute a social unit , why would n't HappyMarriage Day suffice ? My answer to this is that a day is not long enough to consider the manifold properties and to do justice to the principals of happy marriage . It will take at least seven days . Once a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These individuals do n't have to do anything about it . But a husband and wife are different . They have to keep plugging if they are to waft away into a far sky the specter of divorce and earn instead the warm , continuing reward that is married happiness . They can not all do it , even with the best will and wish , and that is a sadness all by itself ; but most of them do manage it , and the fact that they do ought to ring  | a bell that will carol the good news to every corner of the world . When the tumult and the shouting of Happy-Marriage Week die away , they still can not rest on their well-earned laurels . They have to keep earning new ones . But the recognition of their abilities and talents in this direction should spur them on . It is quite possible that some of you will say that happily married people do not want or need public recognition . Their happiness is enough , and the sturdy bond that has been built between them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that happiness is its own reward ; but happy people are willing to share , and a good example speaks louder than anything else . Surely the world will profit by the mere knowledge that true happiness does exist and persist , and ' . ; that people who make the effort can accomplish it . To put happiness on the map , even on the front page , for a whole week out of the year can not fail to achieve some good . The happiness that flourishes , unnoticed , in countless happy homes may not be news , but happiness celebrated simultaneously by millions immediately makes headlines . The forgotten man and woman , rediscovered once a year ! Alone they are negligible ; en masse they are news . Hopefully , Happy-Marriage Week will be unlike any of the well-worn celebrations now in existence . It will be unique in that it will sell an idea ? something that is already in existence . It will have no bearing on private anniversaries and will offer no interruption to those gifts of paper , wood , tin , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proper time . The man who wants to give his wife a washing machine or a diamond clip in honor of the way she has borne up will be urged to continue to do so . Happy-Marriage Week will not be concerned with material things but with affairs of the spirit and the appreciation thereof . If the minister praises the institution of good marriage , from the pulpit , if the editorial writer says the happy home is the basis of a happy society , if the President issues a proclamation , well and good . But if husbands and wives simply pause to consider that they have had joy , comfort , and contentment , then Happy-Marriage Week will have earned its place . IN THE complications of our days , time is short . People in the first blush of courtship and love find time to be together , to be alone . The very demands of marriage , the responsibilities of maintaining a home and earning the economic necessities , the devotion to the needs of children , leave no time for the hours of companionship , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affectionate gestures that leaven the bread of life . During Happy-Marriage Week , the time : rust be found . To this end we must elicit the cooperation of the public . Let an army of baby-sitters volunteer the hours of an evening free . Let maiden aunts , widowed grandmothers , bachelor uncles , and all the unattached assume responsibilities for a space of seven days , which will allow happily married people to take a small vacation from , , he manifold hidden cares of an institution we all value . Let employers provide a free day . Let restaurants and movies make a special rate . Let the mature children take over running the house and give up their monopoly of the family car . Let the daughter of the house forswear  | a new hat in favor of one for Mother . Let the son sacrifice his weekly allowance , with instructions to Father that he use it to celebrate . Let railroads and hotels make special arrangements . Let 's all get in on the act . For happiness is infectious , the most infectious spark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ house happy ; one peal of friendly laughter can make the world feel in a better humor . To look on happiness is to know it , and when millions of happily married people bring their happiness to view , a positive approach to the whole subject must certainly be established . The best-adjusted people , according to psychologists , come from happy homes where love had its abode . The memories of happy childhood support their fortunate possessors in the dark hours of their lives . It seems reasonable that people who fear or distrust marriage because of unhappy experiences of their parents might be influenced to confidence by being made aware of the vast existence of happiness in marriage , and the positive possibilities it offers to those willing to make the effort . The recognition of happiness never hurt anybody . I rest my case . Which week of the year shall it be ?  |                     