@@188778

Most of the 1,248 employees around Radio Free Europe 's Munich headquarters liked to grumble about the food in the small , spartan cellar cafeteria . Nonetheless , they were irked when without explanation the cafeteria was closed down last month . The union representing RFE 's polyglot American , East European exile and German staff went to management to find out why . <P> The explanation that came from high-powered RFE Director Erik Hazelhoff , 42 , onetime NBC executive , was really bizarre , even to those who work in an atmosphere of exposing intrigues . By the sudden closing , Hazelhoff announced dramatically , RFE had averted " an attempted mass poisoning " ; a double agent in RFE 's employ had tipped off authorities that he had been assigned by a Communist diplomat to replace the normal cafeteria salt shakers with others that he was told contained " a mild laxative . " When contents of two suspect shakers were analyzed , their salt was found mixed with 2.36% by weight of atropine , a deadly white , crystalline alkaloid poison made of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mg. of atropine can cause coma , and a salt-hungry canteen customer might presumably have shaken enough on his food to make himself pretty sick . " Tragedies were prevented , " said Hazelhoff . <P> To counter skepticism , the U.S. State Department stepped in to confirm " a nefarious plot , " and U.S. Army Headquarters in Heidelberg reported that its counter-intelligence agents had discovered the guilty Communist , one Jaroslav Nemec , who works in the Czechoslovak consulate at Salzburg , Austria . <P> At week 's end Radio Free Europe decided it was safe to reopen the cafeteria , and on the RFE bulletin board , Director Hazelhoff described the affair of the poisoned salt shakers as a " dramatic illustration of deep Communist concern about the effectiveness of our broadcasts , " which would hopefully cause all in this " front line " to " redouble our efforts in a mission proved of crucial importance . "                     