@@487586

OF HIS half-hour broadcast on the White case last month , ex-President Truman devoted the final two minutes to McCarthyism , explaining that he was not " referring to the Senator from Wisconsin  --  he is only important in that his name has taken on a dictionary meaning for the world . " Nevertheless , Senator McCarthy immediately announced that he was notifying the Federal Communications Commission that he wanted facilities equal to Truman 's ? that is , a full thirty minutes of radio and TV time  --  in order to answer what he termed an attack on him . Reporters who asked the Senator what he would do if the networks refused were answered : " I think I will get the time . " He did ? $300,000 worth for nothing . After all , radio and TV executives were aware that the President had recently appointed two McCarthy-approved Republicans to the F. C. C. The latest appointee is Robert E. Lee , a former chief clerk of the F. B. I. whose sole experience with mass-communications media has been as moderator of Facts Forum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems to have as its goal the elevation of McCarthy to the Presidency of the United States . If Mr. Lee possesses a single qualification for sitting on the F. C. C , which has ultimate authority over the air waves , the St. Louis Post-Dispatch thinks " it is not apparent . " - The newspaper adds - that there are " ample reasons why he should not have been appointed and why , having been appointed , he should not be confirmed by the Senate . " A bitter fight is expected in January when his nomination is placed before the Senate for approval . If Lee has no qualifications , why was he appointed ? On October 14 Varietywrote that the new F. C. C. member " in all probability will be the guiding spirit , ARTHUR R. MAIN is a free-lance writer in Washington . with the blessings of the Administration , in reactivating the drive against AM-TV personalities who are reputedly Red-tinged . " The article went on : " While the F. C. C , as such , would remain aloof frOm assuming an active role in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Lee , an ex-administrative assistant to F. B. I. Director J. Edgar Hoover , would be in a propitious ' spot to case the industry as a forerunner to action by the House Un-American Activities Committee . " The circumstances leading up to the appointment were in themselves interesting . Last April McCarthy , sitting as a one-man subcommittee , summoned F C. C. Commissioner Walker to a secret session and ' warned him not to do anything that would help Milwaukee school officials obtain , for educational purposes , a television channel which Hearst was seeking as a commercial outlet . Lee now has Walker 's place on the commission  --  at the insistence , according to the magazine Broadcasting , of Senator McCarthy WHETHER or not the new member knows anything about broadcasting , he has had long and varied experience in putting the finger on alleged " subversives " In 1947 he directed a loyalty investigation of State Department employees for the House Appropriations Committee , preparing a coded list of 108 persons he considered to be - " " loyalty risks " This list somehow found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needed names to support his smear of the State Department in his famous Wheeling , West Virginia , speech . The Lees and the McCarthys are old friends ; Mrs. Lee was matron of honor at the recent wedding of McCarthy and the former Jean Kerr . While a paid employee of the House Appropriations Committee , Lee worked in the 1950 Maryland election campaign of John Marshall Butler against Millard Tydings , a campaign in which McCarthy was active and Lee 's co-worker , Jon M. Jonkel , was convicted of violating the Maryland Corrupt Practices Act An investigation of this election by the Senate Rules Committee indicated that Lee and his wife collaborated with ex-F . B. I. agent Don 8-urine and with others on McCarthy 's staff . The Lees helped to arrange financing for such purposes as the publication of a faked composite photograph showing Tydings in warm comradeship with Earl Browder . A pamphlet , " Back to Good Old Dixie , " distribution of which was aided indirectly by the " Irish Catholic with a Confederate name , " was sent out as a bid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this pamphlet " was neither published nor paid for by the four Negroes listed as its sponsors . " Mr. and Mrs. Lee , the committee noted , were legal residents of the District of Columbia at the time they worked for Butler . " The ' back street ' campaign conducted by non-Maryland outsiders ; " said the committee report , " was of a form and pattern designed to undermine and destroy the public faith and confidence in the basic American loyalty of a wellkndwn figure . It - followed a specific theme and course which has become , unfortunately , a means and weapon which strikes to destroy as suspiciously subversive , rather than simply to defeat an issue . " Lee moderated the Facts Forum program when ' McCarthy appeared as its firsc guest The program is advertised as carried on 180 radio stations and 50 television stations . It sponsors " discussion groups " in the United States and foreign countries , the discussion being ( heavily weighted with extreme right-wing polemics . Mrs. McCarthy left the Senator 's staff several months before their marriage to do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a provides a forum for different political views , its ' advisory board shows no evidence of non-partisanship . Writing on the Piesidencyt " he added , " could be an objective . " A Dallas resident , Mrs. Cordye Hall , accepted an invitation to visit the Facts Forum library and was presented with six books . " Not one , " she writes , " was what I consider objective ; two were highly prejudiced in the direction of the extreme right wing ; one was written by an ex-Communist and bordered on paranoia ; another was about an ex-Communist ; and one , of which Facts Forum had approximately 150 copies , was written , by a man jailed twice- by the federal government for or refusing to give names of contributors to his pro-fascist publications during World War II . I was alarmed to contemplate the harm this well-financed organization might do , and I inquired who selected the books . I was told that the reading committee would consider any publications brought to them . Accordingly , I submitted Stringfellow Barr 's ' Let 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A Plan for Peace , ' the current issues of United Nations World and the United Nations Bulletin . " Mrs. Hall said that she was informed " that these were not the type of publications Facts Forum wanted . " Having asked " what type they wanted , " she " was told that they were currently considering a book recommended by the National Economic Council " of Merwin K. Hart .                     