@@493873

The liniversity : factory or forum The Means and the End AMERICAN experts in higher education have during the last 15 years or so been more worried about the liberal arts than their opposite numbers in almost any other country in the world . From the bombshell dropped by Robert Hutchins in his The Higher Learning in America to the Harvard Report on General Education in a Free Society and on to more recent discussions , forums , publications and agitations about the nature of the Humanities , there has been a continuous ventilation of the whole question of what constitutes a good liberal education . And discussion has been accompanied by practical experiment , so that throughout the liberal-arts colleges of the country there now exists every kind of course in the " History of Western Civilization , " " Great Books of the Western World , " the " History of Ideas , " " Introductions to Literature " and the other arts , and similar comprehensive treatments of what is deemed to be essential in the way of facts , ideas , understanding or " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ got now in the American liberal-arts school ? We have got , in the first place , more earnestness than is good for either teacher or student . Proponents of humane culture in the colleges are at the same time defensive and aggressive ( a not uncommon psychological phenomenon ) . They defend their subjects against the claims of a rather imaginary kind of scientist , insisting with a great deal of worried pleading on the primary importance of the liberal arts , and they provide courses , often most ingeniously worked out , to give the minimum apparatus deemed to be necessary for becoming cultured . But does it work ? ? A small number of students take fire from these courses and are led to a more intensive and more personal study of some aspect of literature or history or philosophy ; a larger number acquire a sense of the need to be zealous for culture , without quite understanding , why or how ; a still larger number acquire a vocabulary and a little information , both of which they can demonstrate on demand , if the demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course and not too long after they have taken it . Yet such courses , at their best , are well conceived and well taught and give asmuch as can be given to the student in this way and at this stage . It could be argued that this is neither the ideal way nor the ideal stage , that culture should be taken for granted and grown up with , rather than provided in boxed-in courses at the college level . This argument is not as impressive as it may sound , for it simply emphasizes that all formal education beyond the primary level is a necessary , but never wholly satisfactory , substitute for the cumulative experiencing of culture which , in an ideal world , would be achieved as a matter of course by sensitive and alert minds growing up in an interesting world whose links with the past were clearly organic , yet which was committed to the present and purposeful about the future . The more serious objection to the American liberal-arts school is not that its teaching is formal ? it is indeed much less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than it used to be , or than it frequently is in other countries today ? but that it is atomistic . Students acquire knowledge and understanding in separate " units , " and the artificial collection of such units produces eventually the bachelor 's degree and , in theory , the educated man . It is odd that one of the most serious defects of American education ? its atomistic nature , its lack of cumulative sequence in courses ? seem to have arisen from its desire to become flexible . For , paradoxically enough , the division of subjects , and phases of subjects , into separable units studied as self-contained courses which one can duly " pass " and then forget all about , arose in the course of an attempt to allow variety and " democracy " in education . It has actually resulted in making it more difficult than ever for the student to move flexibly and maturely from one phase of a subject to another . Education has failed where the student can not remember or use what he learned in class outside the context @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continuum between secondary and higher education emphasizes this problem . Real proficiency in any humane subject requires , above everything , familiarity : the student must have lived with his subject continuously over a long period of time . This is most obvious in the case of a foreign language . To collect a couple of " units " in a language at college is the most inefficient and uneconomical of procedures . Each course should build on its immediate predecessor , and foundations should go down firmly and continuously into elementary education . Without such cumulative learning , courses are apt to be unduly and unrealistically compartmentalized . But it is worth recognizing that in no country has a wholly successful democratic school system yet been worked out . In Britain , the best secondary schools ( which are remarkably good in standard academic subjects ) have always tended to go at the pace of the fastest and to organize themselves and their curriculum around the academically gifted boy . As a result , for a long time now British secondary schools , both public and private , have worked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few years ago makes it obligatory for the parents to allow , and the edlicational authorities to provide , education for each child according to his " age , ability , and aptitudes . " The gifted child , however poor or humble his parents , is now educationally taken care of in Britain right through the university . The real problem is what to do with the others . Americans , in their public schools , have tended to go at the pace of the slowest in the interests of democratic equality . Taking an imported curriculum originally intended for the elite , the American free public school " democratized " itself by watering it down , lowering standards , eliminating such rmal intellectual discipline , and throwing in a few " vocational " subjects . On top oc all this came poput-.r and often misconceived notions of - progressive " education to throw suspicion on any system which demanded of school children hard work and real intellectual effort . The result has been that secondary education in the US is far behind what it should be , and what are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practically wasted . Without skills and information , acquired cumulatively over a period of years at the secondary level , no student is capable , in the ordinary course of events , of getting a real " liberal " education from even the most brilliantly conceived liberal-arts curriculum in college . The liberal-arts curriculum in American colleges is indeed often brilliantly conceived and enthusiastically taught . But one can not escape the feeling that it is often like trying to put paint on a surface that has not been properly prepared : the paint will not stay on , or , if it does , it is streaky and patchy . I think this partly explains why so many American students , who have studied and done well at a liberal-arts college so often give the impression of not being at home in their , culture . Their education consists of a collection of courses artificially assembled , not of a living body of skills and ideas genuinely absorbed . To take subjects in rigidly compartmentalized courses and put each one behind you when that course has been passed , does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were expected to retain something of what he had learned in each course over a period of four years and were then tested by general essay questions ' on his ability to use what he had learned outside the context within which he originally learned it , he might be in a better position to handle his knowledge maturely . How often , when I have asked my English literature students to write an essay on some critical question , they have wailed : " But what do you want us to say ? " In my first year of teaching in an American University ? now some 14 years ago ? I was rash enough to set a group of seniors , all English majors , an examination in which the question paper consisted of one word : " Irony . " I wanted them , of course , to write an essay developing their notions about irony in literature and illustrating their view by appropriate references to works they had read . Not one of them would put pen to paper until I had explained what I wanted them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They thought there was a right answer : I was looking for an intelligent playing with ideas . It is characteristic of the earnestness of the American liberal-arts school that playing with ideas is frowned upon . Yet it is the most civilized and civilizing of activities . Too earnest , too atomistic , too little grounded in previous secondary education . ? these are the faults I find in the American liberal-arts school . They are faults deriving for the most part from causes beyond the power of the college to control . What the college itself does is often most impressive both in range and in organization . The change that is required is a change not so much in the courses as in the preparation for the courses and in the atmosphere on the campus . The courses in themselves are often more lively and more flexible than those given in English universities . Students , for example , should be encouraged to read around a subject and discouraged from believing that any classroom presentation is more than the most fragmentary introduction to be followed up by personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the books on open shelves , are essential . Students must learn to browse among the literature of a subject , discovering as they do so that some books are to be read carefully and others merely thumbed through . Alternate reading and browsing in an open-access library is a liberal education in itself . The rigorous ploughing through an assigned reading list , though of course important , is only half the battle . I think American students take far too many courses , and work , in a sense , too hard . Three courses a term are ample if the student is to find time to read around his subject , and to talk , think , play with ideas and flex his intellectual muscles freely and cheerfully . I do n't believe in " working one 's way through college , " though I recognize that all too often it is necessary . If the student has the abilities to enable him to profit from college study , then his college expenses ought to be taken care of , by the state if necessary . So much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggestion that children differ in native intelligence is often met with horror . Nor is this the only confusion prevalent among well-meaning " liberal " educators . The notion that culture lies in a given number of " Great Books " which if properly read will lead you down the royal road to civilization is naive and foolish . Education does not consist in knowing a series of books , however good , but in the acquisition ofcertain habits of mind and certain kinds of intellectual responsibility and aesthetic awareness . There are many different ways of achieving this . The history of science , for example , if properly studied and its implications properly explored , could be as humane and central a study as any of the more conventional liberal-arts subjects . The impact of political thinking on the theory of education in recent times has , I think , been wholly bad , for it has led to oversimplifications , distortions and much general foolishness . President Robert M. Hutchins ' notions were attacked from the Left as " reactionary " and " authoritarian , " while watered-down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or " progressive . " All this is nonsense , and fortunately the liberal-arts colleges have paid little attention to this kind of talk . What they need to devote their attention to now is the relation of college education to what goes before , with a view to exerting some influence on the high-school curriculum and teaching methods and the atmosphere of the campus , which is , in a sense much ' more important than the formal class work . For it is the way a student lives during his college years that contributes most to the success or failure of his education .                     