@@492411

The Foredoomed Mission of General Marshall By JOSEPH ALSOP How General Stilwell defeated his own purpose in a startling interview with Chiang which resulted in the former 's dismissal from China . Some hitherto undisclosed facts about General Wedemeyer 's command and General Marshall 's famous trip . destiny providence that guards this country 's destiny appears , at times , to be almost shockingly casual . For example , Gen. Joseph War- ren Stilwell came within a hair 's breadth of attaining supreme military command in China in 1944 . If he had done so , he would almost certainly have brought the Chinese communists to power by the end of the war . Yet a mere accident of human spite was all that prevented this official American sponsorship of a communist regime in the key land area in Asia . By reason of the same accident , however , General Stilwell not only missed his chance of the supreme command , he was also dismissed from the China ' rhea-ter . Stilwell 's dismissal , in turn , produced a sort of palsy , which thenceforward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of American policy at length opened the way for the communists to attain power in China in 1949 . In short , this crisis in General Stilwell 's affairs was also a vital turning point in the tale of the loss of China . The relevant facts , which have been entirely omitted from the official State Department White Paper , must therefore be set down . In brief , President Roosevelt sent Maj. Gen. Patrick J. Hurley to Chungking in early September , 1944 , with the mission of inducing Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek to make an immense transfer of power to Stilwell . What the President demanded for Stilwell was nothing less than unrestricted command of all the armies in China , communist as well as Nationalist . The new appointment was to carry with it the vital authority to apportion American aid between Nationalists and communists . Stilwell , who hated the Generalissimo , also warmly admired the communists . Hence the communists , who had not previously received any aid from the United States , were eager to place their forces under Stilwell , while the Generalissimo , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the hands of his enemy . By September , 1944 , however , the unfortunate Chiang Kai-shek had reached a stage of almost total dependence.upon the United States . He also cherished an intense personal faith in President Roosevelt . It was Roosevelt who spoke through Hurley . By September sixteenth , Chiang Kai-shek had therefore given way to Hurley on every point . The nextday , the two men retired to Chiang 's little villa in the hills above Chungking , in order to put in writing the agreement that would make Stilwell the master of China 's future . Stilwell himself , meanwhile , had been largely excluded from the Hurley-Chiang negotiations , by reason of his unhappy relationship with Chiang . Perhaps be was not aware that his dearest wish was about to be granted . At any rate , he evidently found some means to ask the Pentagon to ask the President to put heavier pressure on the Generalissimo . This is the only possible explanation of the momentous telegram from the President to the Generalissimo , sent in care of Stilwell , which reached Stilwell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completing their business at the villa . Chiang and Hurley had agreed that Stilwell 's commission as China 's supreme commander would follow the American form . Hurley was actually striding up and down the room , grandiloquently dictating the remembered words ? " Know ye that reposing special trust and confidence , " and so on  --  when a servant announced the arrival of General Stilwell . The servant deleted material . Besides wishing to give Wedemeyer the supreme command , the Generalissimo had also prepared to welcome the new American general by undertaking a major reform . The incompetent and reactionary Minister of War , Gen. Ho Ying-chin , with whom Stilwell had intrigued to save his place , was to be removed from office . Ho was to be supplanted as war minister by the best of all the Chinese soldiers , Gen. Chen Cheng . And Wedemeyer and Chen Cheng were to be given a free hand to carry out a radical reform of the swollen , yet enfeebled Chinese armies . This was the moat urgent measure in China . But when the United States Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Chiang deferred dismissing Ho , his old and loyal friend , until he could consult Wedemeyer . Then Wedemeyer , bound by his directive , refused to indicate any preference between General Ho and General Chen . Thus Ho Ying-chin was kept on , and the reform of the Chinese armies  --  which alone might have saved China ? was never seriously attempted . Nonetheless , Wedemeyer 's command in China had great significance . The flavor of the problems that confronted him is perhaps best conveyed by his first experience in his new post . At that time , in late October , 1944 , the Japanese offensive in East China was reaching its climax . Since even Chungking was believed to be threatened , Wedemeyer naturally asked for the China war plans the moment he landed from his plane . In reply , Maj. Gen. Thomas Hearn , Stilwell 's holdover Chief of Staff , said that it was already late ; that supper-time was near , and that there was a particularly good movie after supper . Mastering his irritation , Wedemeyer politely went through Hearn 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war plans of his new command , suggesting that he might read them that night . This time Hearn replied shortly that he was sorry , there were no war plans and there never had been any . Indeed , only one comprehensive plan had been evoked from the Stilwell headquarters by the military crisis that cost Chiang Kai-shek nearly two fifths of his territory and nearly three fifths of his forces . This was a plan for the evacuation of Chungking , designating which colonel would flee in what staff car . Behind this astonishing situation there was more than incompetence . There was a set of essentially defeatist assumptions : That Chinese troops would not fight without American leadership ; that reform by persuasion was not feasible in China ; that the Generalissimo could be made to see reason only with a club , and so on . These assumptions had controlled the actions of Stilwell and his staff . ( It was foolish , for instance , to think about the defense of Chungking , if all Chinese troops were worthless . ) What was even more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Washington , by General Marshall himself , among others . The significance of Wedemeyer 's command was that he disproved all these assumptions . He established an ideal relationship with the Generalissimo , and has subsequently testified that Chiang kept every promise he ever made . He brought decency and sanity to the previously appalling relations between Americans and Chinese on lower levels . In the spring of 1945 , Wedemeyer 's efforts rather dramatically began to pay off . The Japanese , renewing their 1944 offensive , strongly attacked Chihkiang , an important outpost on the southern route to Chungking . Chihkiang was defended by ordinary Chinese troops , without American arms , training or officer advisers . American intelligence , still gripped by the assumptions of the Stilwell era , predicted that Chihkiang was doomed , and indicated that Chungking would be next .. But the Chinese troops , spurred on by Wedemeyer , effectively supported in the air , inflicted a heavy defeat on the Japanese . Nor did the story end with this sudden explosion of all the Stilwell assumptions . Before the Japanese rLurrender that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supposedly prostrate theater that all was ready for a big offensive to retake Canton . What wise American leadership could accomplish in China was thus demonstrated at last , for those who wished to see . Wedemeyer himself drew the correct inferences from his experience , as will be noted later . Unfortunately , however , the demonstration was not noticed in Washington , where the ghost of the Stilwell past influenced our policy far more than the tangible reality of the Wedemeyer present . One reason for this was the odd engagement fought out in Chungking in the winter of 1944-45 , between GenTHE // deleted material was given the right kind of American aid , the National Government could surely gain and hold all of China , at least up to and including the Manchurian border. * In the military sphere , Wedemeyer then defined the right kind of American aid as the continuation of the system he had already perfected , by which Americans and Chinese worked together on every level , from the battalion upwards to Wedemeyer 's own partnership with the Genercilissimo . The system admittedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Yet the Generalissimo , who understood his own regime 's inadequacies , was willing and even eager to be aided on these terms . At this time he was again planning the much-needed reform of the Chinese Army , including abolition of worthless divisions , provision for regular payment of troops and establishment of sound training and logistical organizations . Although Wedemeyer 's report did not cover political problems , the tendency in the political sphere was the same . Dr. T. V. Soong was now premier of China ; but there was the same vast task to carry through . The large numbers of incompetent Reactionary officials , still retained by the Generalissimo for political reasons , had to be got rid of . Many more of the modern-minded Chinese leaders , all of them deeply divided by feuds , had to be reconciled with one another , made acceptable to the Generalissimo and brought into the government . All the minimum essentials of a workable administration had to be improvised on short notice , out of the ruins left by years of war and Reactionary leadership . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them the system projected by Wedemeyer was absolutely essential . The Generalissimo quite literally lacked the authority to push through radical reorganization of the army unless he had the jam of a big American aid program to make the pill go down with his own people . Equally , Chiang Kai-shek both lacked the technical knowledge to insist on sound military reform and did not have the will to resist his Reactionary military-political Praetorian guard , unless he was sustained by the active partnership of such a man as Wedemeyer . The same rules applied , with almost greater force , in the sphere of political reform . Here , too , the Generalissimo was willing to accept American advice . Yet without American stiffening to insure the advice being followed , Chiang 's initial good intentions were sure to be negated by palace intrigue , old prejudice , old friendship and inborn suspicion of new leaders . In short , all now depended upon American effort , American resolution and American willingness to take responsibility for decisions that might normally have been regarded as the sole concern of the Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would certainly not have been transformed into a progressive utopia . But China might at least have been saved from the communists . Neither Wedemeyer nor anyone else ever suggested saving China by sending American troops to fight on Chinese soil , although Dean G. Acheson lengthily belabors this straw man in his preface to the White Paper . But in order to do what had to be done in China , Washington had first to decide that a Chinese communist triumph would be a disaster to the United States . And Washington had then to bring itself to make the effort needed to avert this disaster . Even the first point was for a time disputed by the Far Eastern Division of the State Department , where the lessons of Soviet imperialism took surprisingly long to sink in . Anticipating our story a little , when General Marshall was leaving for his famous China mission , the Far Eastern Division rewrote his directive under the guise of removing unnecessary verbiage . The result was so favorable to the communists that Marshall 's staff intervened at the last moment , tearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prematurely accepted as final . Among the majority of American policy makers , however , the real obstacle to a bold policy in China seems to have been the obstinate survival of the prejudices of the Stilwell years . China could not be wholly deserted . Yet no one wished to give really effective support to the National Government . Everyone particularly desired to avoid any further assumption of direct responsibility in China . The easy escape was another attempt to promote communist-Nationalist coalition . For if a coalition could only be arranged , there would be no civil war , and no further reason for any embarrassing American involvement in China 's unpleasing affairs . Hence General Marshall was asked by President Truman to lend his immense prestige to a new coalition drive . With infinite self-abnegation , the war-weary Marshall accepted the assignment and set off for China on his famous mission . Such is the only logical explanation of the mysterious process by which Wedemeyer 's report was utterly ignored , and a new attempt to promote a coalition was launched , in the face of the hopeless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specific warning that coalition was a chimera . Wedemeyer repeated and elaborated this warning to Marshall as soon as his old chief reached Shanghai . Yet for a year General Marshall continued his laborious and hopeless effort . In March , 1946 , communists in North China killed two American Marines . At that time Marshall 's own staff members urged Marshall to face the political facts , take his stand on this incident and declare that America would now actively support the National Government . Yet as late as that summer , Marshall actually halted the reduced military aid we were still giving the National Government in order to convince the communists that he was acting in good faith as coalition arbitrator . There is no need to retail here all the events of the Marshall mission or of the unhappy sequel . Marshall 's failure was inevitable . Some time after his return from China and appointment as Secretary of State he evidently considered adopting a new policy , sending General Wedemeyer to China to resurvey the situation on the spot . The result was Wedemeyer 's long-suppressed 1947 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his report of the autumn of 1945 . Although he noted all the National Government 's accumulating defects , Wedemeyer 's final conclusion was that Chiang 's regime must be and could be effectively aided . But he also recommended that Manchuria should be temporarily placed under the " guardianship " of America , Russia , Britain and China ; and officials of the State Department Far Eastern Division and others who were opposed to effective aid for the National Government , seized upon this essentially subsidiary point , and worried it until Wedemeyer 's main recommendation was forgotten . Thus no effective aid for China was ever forthcoming . This does not mean that the Chinese National Government did not inherit much valuable American equipment from the war period , or that considerable UNRRA and other economic aid was not given , or that Marshall 's veto on further military supplies for Chiang Kai-shek was not , in the end , reluctantly lifted under congressional pressure . A great deal of money was poured down a rathole , Wedemeyer had very plainly warned that it would be , if aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ close working partnership that he had always insisted upon . The situation in the long period after the failure of the Marshall mission , has been best summarized by the London Economist , in its penetrating commentary on the State Department White Paper : " One of the most interesting documents in the White Paper , " wrote the Economist , " is the report on the military campaigns by General Barr , of the United States Advisory Group in China . It leaves no doubt but that acceptance of American advice would have saved the Nationalists from their more serious blunders in strategy and operational planning . But General Barr was only allowed to give advice on ' an informal and confidential ' basis and was informed in a directive from Mr. Marshall as Secretary of State in November , 1947 : ' I am , however , not willing that we should accept responsibility for Chinese strategic plans and operations . I think you will agree that implications of our accepting that responsibility would be very far-reaching and grave and that such responsibility is in logic inseparable from authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government feared such responsibility , it reduced itself to the role of pouring hundreds of millions of dollars into China while remaining a helpless spectator of the uses to which its aid was put . " It has never been explained why the acceptance of such responsibility was approved in Greece , yet in China so firmly opposed . Until the last moment , energetic action might have saved the situation , according to the most competent judges on the spot . Wedemeyer said so in plain terms in 1947 . Although the White Paper entirely omits the not-insignificant fact , Ambassador J. Leighton Stuart continued to say so until the end of 1948 . These last chances to save China were brusquely rejected , as all the earlier ones had been . In the final days of debacle Ambassador Stuart then reported from China that many Nationalist leaders had again begun to talk of making a deal with the communists . He asked for instructions . General Marshall instantly forbade Stuart to take any overt responsibility to preventing communist-Nationalist talks . But he added that the ambassador " should , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of engulfment which has resulted from coalition governments in Eastern Europe . " It would be interesting to know whether Stuart followed this suggestion , and how his Chinese auditors responded to the sudden American awakening to the danger of coalition with the communists . But the instructions to Stuart are the fitting conclusion , the ultimate irony , of this sorry history .                     