@@431490

 | The Secret of the Aurora Condensed from Popular Science Monthly Ruth and Edward Brecher HAVE You ever gazed north on a clear spring or autumn evening and watched with awe and delight the brilliant display of ghostly , ( lancing light known as the aurora borealis or ? more popularly the northern lights ? Like rainbows and eclipses , these rapidly shifting rays , bands , curtains , streamers and flames have long puzzled and inspired mankind . They are visible about nine clear nights out of ten in parts of the far north ; ten nights a year between New York City and Portland , Ore. ; and once or twice a year as far south as New Orleans . Mythology explained auroras as the reflections from the golden shields of Valkyrics , the blonde warrior maidens who were believed to ride through the heavens escorting the souls of dead heroes to Valhalla . Later they were thought to be sunlight reflected from the vast polar ice fields . The newest theories turn out to be even more remarkable . To confirm and expand the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " net to catch the aurora " ? a network of specially equipped observation posts girdling the globe and extending almost from pole to pole . Researchers expect to capture important new facts about the earth , the atmosphere , the sun and interplanetary spaces . Our Air Force , particularly , wants to know more , for it has found the aurora a stumbling block in preparations for continental defense . Scientists made considerable progress in understanding the aurora back in 1882-83 , when some ten nations sent expeditions into the Arctic . The  | facts collected showed that auroras were not optical illusions but actual lights shining in the atmosphere from 6o to boo miles above the earth . They occurred most frequently not near the North Pole , but in a 300-mile-wide belt circling the earth far south of the pole . The center of this " auroral zone " is a spot in western Greenland known as the North Geomagnetic Pole . The U. S. air base at Thule , Greenland , is close by and therefore a strategic center for auroral studies . Nineteenth-century observers made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and recorded auroras , others in daytime watched the sun through special filters to record " sunspots "  - -  great cyclonic storms on the face of the sun . The two sets of records showed that sunspots reach a maximum frequency every 11 years  - -  -  usually in the years preceding the maximum frequency of auroras . ( The next peak is expected in 1957 -- 58 . ) The scientists then turned their attention to solar " flares . " These are tremendous volcano-like eruptions of white-hot gases which rise like geysers near active sunspots and shoot hundreds of thousands of miles into space . By carefully timing solar flares and auroras , the scientists found that major auroras followed flares alter an interval of at least 20 hours . This time lapse proved that it could not be light from the sun that causes auroras : light , traveling 186 , - 000 miles per second , takes only eight minutes to travel from sun to earth , not 20 hours . Something in addition to light must therefore be reaching us from the sun ? something dawdling along at the comparatively slow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is it ? Radio added the next significant facts . Polar expeditions found that their short-wave radios often " blacked out " or were least reliable during the hours when auroras shone most brightly . It was during these periods , too , that magnetic compasses went haywire ; so much static electricity was sometimes built up in long-distance telegraph and telephone lines back home that communications were impeded . In the 1930 's radio amateurs began to experiment with ultra-short waves . They discovered that on nights when auroral displays were most brilliant they could get better results , no matter where they wanted to send their signals , if they aimed their antennas north . Their short waves were literally bouncing back off the aurora . It is this tendency that has the U. S. and Canadian Air Forces worried today . Waves bouncing back from the aurora produce a confusion of signals on the radarscopes . Under certain circumstances , this confusion could allow planes from the Arctic to penetrate far into Canada without being picked up on the screen . Planeto-ground and ground-to-ground communications also are impaired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less acute , for there the auroral zone lies farther north .  | Meanwhile , the newer auroral observations have made possible a more umplete theory of how auroras are produced . Professor Sydney Chap'Ilan of the University of Oxford and Dr. D. F. Martyn of Canberra , Australia , suggest that during sunspots , solar flares and perhaps other Aar disturbances , quantities of the sun 's gases hurtle outward in jet-like reams , much like water from a garden hose . These streams are cornposed chiefly of hydrogen atoms , the simplest of all atoms ; each consists of one positively charged proton and one negatively charged electron . From time to time , as the earth speeds in its orbit around the sun at 18 miles per second , it is bombarded by one of these atomic streams . But t he stream does not enter the earth 's atmosphere directly , for the earth is protected by a magnetic " shield . " When the incoming stream hits this shield , at a height of many thousands of miles above the earth at the equator , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the negatively charged in the other , setting up a flow of particles around the earth in a doughnutshaped " ring current . " From time to time particles leak out , so that the current gradually " decays . " These particles leaving the ring provoke the communications troubles . Once leaked , the particles arc guided by magnetic lines of force down toward the earth , usually to the vicinity of the auroral zones . " There they collide with the nitrogen and oxygen atoms in the atmosphere ? and the energy of the collisions produces the aurora borealis . Dr. A. B. Meinel and his associates at the University of Chicago 's Yerkes Observatory in Wisconsin have confirmed important parts of this theory in the laboratory . Dr. Meinel pumped most of the air out of a small airtight chamber , so that what remained was as rarefied as air 6o miles up where the aurora glows . He then bombarded this rarefied air with a thin beam of positively charged hydrogen particles . The air in the chamber glowed ? and study of this glow with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the quiet arc-type aurora . But something was missing . The experiment was repeated , using ten parts of hydrogen and one of helium ? precisely the ratio found in the sun ? and , sure enough , bands of light missing from the previous glow appeared . It is to pursue these theories further that the 3o-nation study-group is preparing the auroral net for the 1957 ? 58 activity peak . One station in Alaska and another on MacQuarric Island in the Antarctic will compare the paths of auroral particles as they travel north and south from the equatorial ring . Present plans call for 25 Acrobee rockets , capable of carrying instruments right up into an aurora , to be launched from Churchill , Canada , and for another 11 from Alamogordo , N. M. Thirty-seven " rockoons " balloons which rise into the stratosphere and there release rockets capable of car-  | rying instruments higher still ? will be released in Canada , Alaska and Greenland . Special filters , which admit auroral light only , will be lent to scientific volunteers ? especially airplane pilots flying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amateur scientists in the northern United States and in Alaska . At Cornell University and at the University of Alaska trios of radio telescopes will be aimed through the northern lights at distant stars to determine how radio waves emitted by these stars are affected as they pass through an aurora . Perhaps some kinds of waves will be found which can penetrate an aurora without difficulty ; they could be used for arctic communications . Among many other objectives , the scientists operating the auroral net will seek to prove or disprove the theory that meteorological disturbances in the Antarctic profoundly modify the weather in the Northern Hemisphere . Continental glaciers and polar icecaps will be measured to see how much they have melted since the last checkup in 1932 ? 33 ; preliminary evidence suggests that the icecaps are melting fast enough to make the Arctic Ocean navigable within another 25 or 50 years . Enough water is held captive in these icecaps to raise the level of the world 's oceans by a hundred feet or more ; and geophysicists are curious to know how soon , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might be expected to inundate low-lying coastal areas and seaboard cities . But little of the hopedfor data will be awaited by scientists with more eagerness than the news of what is being caught in the net to catch the aurora                     