@@492481

On Thursday morning , January ! 9 , 1913G , I was one of 290 newspaper , radio and television reporters crowded into a room in the old State , War and Navy Building , awaiting the arrival of the President . The atmosphere was tense , because this was Mr. Eisenhower 's first large-scale news conference since his heart attack on September 24 , 1955 . Promptly at 10:52 the President entered . He strode to the front of the room , to take his place under the dazzling lights of the cameras . He looked thinner than before his illness , but his step was firm , his blue eyes clear and steady . Quickly the questions turned to the state of his health . He answered frankly and seriously , but with as much impersonal detachment as if he were discussing a weather report . Then came a question which made me strain my eyes and ears still Further , to be sure of the answer . The question was asked by W. H. ( Bill ) Lawrence , White House correspondent of The New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you considered what , if anything , should be done about the failure of the Constitution to specify when and by whom the disability of the President might be declared , and when and by whom it might be removed ? Here was a question which has puzzled officials and students of American Government since the Constitution was written . It must often have haunted the minds of ( air Presidents and Vice-Presidents , especially since that July day in 1881 when President Garfield was shot , and then lingered on , helpless and frequently unconscious , for more than eleven weeks until his death . ft was a question which , had it been cleared up before Woodrow Wilson 's tragic collapse in 1919 , might have permitted the entry of the United States into the League of Nations and thus  --  some historians believe  --  have prevented World War LI . It is a question , also , the solution of which grows ever more urgent . With every advance in the speed and range of planes and missiles , with every increase in the destructiveness of nuclear weapons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of crisis become more apparent . This has no special reference to Mr. Eisenhower , who , as this is written , is believed fully restored to health . But any President , however young and vigorous , can be unexpectedly stricken by illness or accident which utterly incapacitates him for days or weeks or longer . There are certain decisions which , under the law , only the President can make . And so Bill Lawrence 's question was a bold one , and a tough one , to put to a President just recovering from a critical illness . Some Presidents might have resented it . Mr Eisenhower answered it readily and willingly . His answer indicated that he had pondered the matter deeply , and perhaps consulted with his legal advisers . He spoke earnestly . He said : " Well , when you are as closely confined to your bed as I was for some time , you think about a lot of things , and this was one of the foremost in my mind . I do believe there should be some agreement on the exact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The Constitution Seems to he clear the Congress can not only make the laws of succession but it can determine what is to be done . . Mr. Eisenhower then made a reference to the sentence in the Constitution which begins : " In case of the removal of the President from office , or of his death , resignation , or inability to discharge the powers and duties of the said office , the same shall devolve on the Vice-Preside n t But , Mr. Eisenhower pointed out , the Constitution does not say who shall determine the disability of the President . " And , " he continued , " we could well imagine a case where the President would he unable in determine his own disability. ? Therefore . he said , he thought that Congress should study every phase of the subject " in its broadest aspects . " He suggested that Congress advise with the Attorney General , and he offered any advice which might be helpful from the Executive Department . The doubt surrounding the question , he said , should be cleared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be for the good of the country . " Mr. Eisenhower 's impressive admonition hod its effect Studies were begun in the office of the Attorney General , and hearings were held in Congress . Emanuel C.:eller , of New York , chairman the House Judiciary Committee , who had circulated a questionnaire on the subject , made public the replies of a score of ( - all nen ( authorities on government , including former President Hoover . Noted experts on constitutional law appeared before the Judiciary Committee and made their recommendations . But positive action was stalled by two events : the President 's intestinal attack last June , and the subsequent presidential campaign . Members of both parties felt that discussion , right then , of presidential disability might be construed as raising the " health issue . " Now , with the President re-elected , restored to vigor and reportedly as anxious as ever for a clear solution of the disability problem , the way seems open for congressional debate and action . A number of bills , varying widely in their approach , have already been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their tortuous crawl through the committees . Other bills are in preparation . Still other solutions have been proposed by jurists , journalists and public officials . The danger is that Congress , which has always dodged this problem in the past , will quietly brush it under the rug again before adjournment . Admittedly it may be difficult to obtain majority agreement on a solution . And the subject , thus far , has n't developed much " voter appeal . " The average harried legislator , being human , tends to deal with what is urgent now , not what may become urgent  --  even catastrophically uncontrollable  --  on some sudden unknown future day . Personally , I doubt if we shall see action in this session of Congress , unless there is some further strong word from the President , which may well be forthcoming before you read this article . Even so , Congress would move faster if spurred on by an informed public opinion . The purpose of this article is to examine the various proposals for determining presidential disability . I will try to weigh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interested me ever since , as a young lawyer in the early 1920 's , I used to hear my elders and professors speculating on the effects of President Wilson 's illness on the League of Nations . I have studied it further since Mr. Eisenhower 's illness . More recently , I have analyzed the congressional hearings and everything else 1 could find on the subject . I can not pose as a constitutional authority . but have talked about this with many eminent men who are such authorities , in private life and in all three branches of the Government . First , a quick glance at some of the chief proposals , if only to show their variety : Former President Hoover believes that " the determination of presidential inability , and its termination , should rest with the Cabinet , and the executive powers should be executed by the Vice-President during any such period . " Peter Frelinghuysen , Jr. , Republican congressman from New Jersey , of brilliant legal background , favors a constitutional amendment . It would authorize Congress to raise the question of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to determine whether the President was incapacitated , in which case the Vice-President would exercise the powers of the presidency until the court decided that the President was able to resume his duties . Frederick G. Payne , respected Republican senator from Maine , believes a statute would suffice . It would allow the Vice-President , whenever he believes the President is so incapacitated that he can not act upon his own disability , to notify the Chief Justice , The C. J. would then appoint a panel of three to five " qualified medical specialists in civil life . " If they unanimously found the President unable to perform his duties , the Vice-President would take over until the President stated that he was able to resume . Chairman Celler has heard enough expert testimony on this subject to make your head swim . He believes the situation could be clarified by a concurrent resolution . It would authorize the Vice-President , whenever he decides the President 505 is incapacitated , to convene both houses of Congress and announce that he has taken over the powers and duties of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his duties when he feels fit to do so . Arthur Krock , veteran Washington correspondent of The New York Times , has been a shrewd observer of our Government 's working since 1910 . He remembers the dreadful and unsolved dilemma posed by Wilson 's collapse in 1919 . Appearing before Mr. Celler 's subcommittee , ( Continued on Page 108 ) he commented severely on the proposal to allow a Vice-President , on his own initiative and decision , to assume the mighty powers of the Presidency . " Preposterous , " he said . " ... It is beyond credence that Congress , the courts or the people would accept such an arrangement . " Mr. Krock 's own suggestion is , in brief , that Congress create a permanent Inability Council composed , ex officio , of six congressional leaders  --  of both parties and from both houses  --  and of the five senior members of the Cabinet . This council , if a serious question of inability were raised , would consult with an advisory panel of five leaders of the medical profession . If a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a written public report , the council in turn , by majority vote , could make a report of inability which would be decisive . On recovery , the President could be restored to his duties by the reverse process . You can see at once , from the above five proposals  --  and there are others  --  that we have here what is called " a healthy difference of opinion . " So healthy , indeed , as to threaten indefinite delay in agreement on a solution , And such delay might be unhealthy to the point of disaster . There is a brighter side , however , which the above brief summaries fail to reflect . Most authorities , whatever their other differences , agree on certain fundamental propositions which , if they could be clarified by prompt congressional action , would dissolve much of the present perilous uncertainty . The most serious uncertainty is this : if a President becomes disabled and the Vice-President takes over , does he merely take over the powers and duties of the office as acting President ) ? Or does he assume @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It makes a vast difference . If the V. P. becomes the President , then we have the absurdity of two living men , each " President of the United States . " And suppose the original President feels fit to resume his office , but the successor President  --  having tasted the power and the glory  --  declines to step down ? Apparently he could then be removed only by impeachment proceedings  --  a long and messy process involving conviction of " high crimes and misdemeanors . " The common sense of the matter is that the V. P. should take over a disabled President 's duties only as acting President . Many authorities believe that Congress could properly by law declare this to be the fact . But Congress has never got around to declaring it . Thus a doubt remains , which has caused trouble before and could cause worse trouble in the future . Consider the past : The semideranged assassin , Guiteau , shot President Garfield on July 2 , 1881 . Garfield lay desperately ill , much of the time in coma , until his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the problem . At one time they agreed that it would be desirable to have Vice-President Arthur become acting President until Garfield 's hoped-for recovery . They took no action . What deterred them was the possibility that Arthur might thus become the President , thus excluding Garfield from office for the remainder  --  nearly three and a half years  --  of the term . Loyalty forbade their taking such a risk without Gar-field 's approval , and he was too ill to be consulted . Daring Garfield 's illness much public business was neglected , and our foreign relations took a turn for the worse , but the nation  --  safe then behind its occurs  --  wobbled through without major mishap . The dilemma was removed , and soon forgotten , after Garfield died and Chester A. Arthur became President . Arthur , who had been acutely worried and embarrassed during Garfield 's illness , urged Congress to take clarifying action . Congress talked about it and  --  did nothing . After Woodrow Wilson 's collapse in 1919 , some of his associates , including Robert Lansing , his Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to take over temporarily as acting President . Here again , doubt whether Wilson could later reclaim his position prevented any action . In Wilson 's case there were so many complicating factors  --  which will be referred to later  --  that a simple law authorizing the Vice-President to take over temporarily as acting President would hardly have sufficed . But such a law , it is generally agreed , would be helpful in most ordinary cases of presidential disability . And once this point is cleared up , a further useful provision would be in order  --  namely , that a President be authorized to announce his own temporary disability , thus " devolving " his duties upon the Vice-President . ( An ailing President could then do this with his mind at rest , knowing that his duties would be restored to him on his recovery . ) Most authorities agree on this . The only objection I 've heard is that a malingering President might take advantage of this to shirk his duties and responsibilities . The obvious answer is : if a President should become so sick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a thing , his declaration of inability would be a blessing for the nation . There are also several minor points on which most of the experts seem agreed . One is that while there might be a finding of temporary disability , there should never be a finding of " permanent disability . " First , because in these days of medical miracles it is always possible that the President may recover . Second , because it would be an unnecessary and cruel blow to an ailing President to declare him permanently incapacitated . Further , it is felt that when a Vice-President takes over as acting President , he  --  as well as the ailing President  --  should receive presidential pay . When the President recovers , the acting President would revert to his pay and status as Vice-President . Similarly , if the Speaker of the House , who is second in Line of succession , were called up as acting President , his pay and status in Congress should be merely suspended , reverting to him upon the President 's recovery . Otherwise the Speaker , after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself out of a job  --  a job which he had won by decades of public service , The same logic applies to the next in line of succession , the President pro tern of the Senate . All the above pesky underbrush could and should be cleared away . Then we reach the major obstacle in the way of a solution  --  the tough question posed by President Eisenhower himself  --  who shall determine the disability of a President , when the President is unable to determine his own disability ? The importance of the question has been veiled from the public by an extraordinary series of chances and events . Physicians tell me it is amazing , by the law of averages , that no American President has developed overt mental derangement . We can not expect this luck to continue indefinitely . Mental illness , particularly a borderline case , would confront us with the most agonizing dilemma of all . Any procedure set up to determine presidential disability must embody the clarity . strength and public acceptance to cope with such a situation . March Y9 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a President " unable to determine his own disability . " The loyal secrecy surrounding is President has complicated the question of disability . The bulletins from Garfield 's bedside were vague and overoptimistic . Even the forthright Grover Cleveland concealed from the public the fact that he had a cancer operation while he was President . The secrecy around Wilson 's illness was so dense that the Vice-President and members of the Cabinet were for a time kept in the dark . And President Franklin Roosevelt 's intimates , from sometime in 1944 until his death in April , 1945 , knew far more about his failing strength than was divulged to the public . One of Mr. Eisenhower 's most useful and least appreciated services to his country has been in dispelling this dangerous secrecy which formerly shrouded presidential illness . Following his heart attack in September of ' 55 , and again after his intestinal operation in June of 1956 , the medical bulletins , as well as the statements by his physicians , described the President 's condition with unexampled clinical particularity . Some reporters grumbled because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but certainly enough was revealed to permit intelligent judgment and comment . Credit for this public service must go to the patient : credit for an assist should go to his advisers , especially Press Secretary Jim Hagerty . Now that Mr. Eisenhower has set the wise and courageous precedent , it seems unlikely that any future President or his entourage will dare disregard it . This open information policy will enormously facilitate the functioning of any lawful procedure set up to determine presidential disability . But some procedure there must be . For warning , let 's look back once more at the case of Wilson and the League . Charles Seymour , president-emeritus of Yale and historian , has written that Wilson 's illness resulted in " a progressive breakdown certain to affect his judgment and his personal dealings with men ? . He was thus divorced from political realities . ... Wilson 's illness led directly to the defeat of the treaty . " Col , Stephen Bonsai , noted foreign correspondent , diplomat and confidential intermediary between Wilson and Colonel House , kept a diary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ book , Unfinished Business , based on the diary . He revealed that in early November of 1919 , at House 's suggestion , he had a friendly private conference with Senator Lodge ( the elder ) , chief foe of the League . Lodge minutely went over the printed copy of the League Covenant and , in his own hand , made certain moderate changes , mainly of verbiage , and totaling less than a hundred words . These changes were far milder than the reservations Lodge had hitherto insisted on . Hastily Bonsai conveyed the precious document to Colonel House , who joyfully sent it on , addressed to President Wilson at the White House . There was no reply , not even an acknowledgment . Silence . Bonsai could not find out what happened to this historic document , or even whether Wilson ever saw it . On November nineteenth the Senate voted against ratification . Bonsai estimated that if President Wilson had not been " entirely out of touch with the situation " the Treaty and the Covenant , with only slight reservations , would have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 13 . A few days later Colonel House spoke to Bonsai about the " important question , that can not and should not be avoided : who was President of the United States during those crucial weeks ' ? Here is a situation which may occur again under , if possible , even more tragic circumstances . It is to be hoped that congressional action on the matter will not be long delayed . " Here was a grim warning , voiced by a man closely involved in the crisis , urging congressional action more than thirty years ago . Congress , as in Arthur 's day , did nothing , We can not be absolutely sure that Wilson 's illness or incapacity prevented America 's entry into the League ; we can not be sure that the League , even with the vastly increased power and momentum of American membership , could have prevented World War II . These are hypotheses , speculations . What we can be sure of is this : the historic decision against the League was made when the American Government was not functioning normally at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show the urgency of the problem ; they also throw light on the merits and defects of the proposed remedies . Let 's examine again the various proposals . Former President Hoover would authorize the Cabinet to determine a President 's inability , as well as his ability to resume his duties . This has the virtues of simplicity and clarity , and avoids the pitfall of allowing a disabled President to reclaim his powers at will , which would obviously be perilous if the disability were mental . The main objection to Mr. Hoover 's plan is that members of the Cabinet are often bound so closely to the President , by ties of affection and loyalty , that we could hardly count on them for impartial judgment in a borderline case . The cabinets of Garfield and Wilson were influenced by such loyalty . A more remote danger is that a President , if he felt disability creeping upon him , might remove the more independent Cabinet members , replacing them with pliant men . ( This is not entirely remote . Lansing , who had dared to consider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wilson was stricken , was fired when Wilson had partly recovered , in February , 1920 . Secretary Tumults , quotes Wilson as saying that Lansing was disloyal : " Lansing sought to oust me when l was upon my back . " ) Another possibility , under Mr. Hoover 's plan , is that an acting President might put his own coterie into the Cabinet  --  men who might be less than judicial about " terminating " the President 's disability and incidentally endangering their jobs . For these reasons , I think Mr. Hoover 's plan might fail to command the public confidence so essential to a disability procedure . But it would be far better than the present utter uncertainty . Congressman Frelinghuysen 's plan would , by constitutional amendment , place the final decision with the Supreme Court . Such a decision would be beyond effective dispute . The objections to this plan are I 1 ) that it usually takes a long time to get an amendment ratified by the states ; ( 2 ) that the Court should not be asked to pass upon a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3 ) and  --  i think this is most serious  --  that by this plan the Court could not even consider the matter until authorized by a two-thirds vote of each house of Congress . In a crisis , and with the Senate 's rules of unlimited debate , this could result in fatal delay . But here again , I think Mr. Frelinghuysen 's procedure would be a great advance over the present situation . Senator Payne 's plan would allow a final decision to be reached by the unanimous opinion of three to five qualified medical specialists , selected by the Chief Justice . I think this gives more power to a Chief Justice and to a small panel of doctors than the American people would grant . A Chief Justice is highly respected . But , however honest and learned in the law , he might have fads of his own about health and the medical profession . Congressman Celler 's plan is simple and direct . It clears the air by allowing a President to declare his own disability , in which case the Vice-President would act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allows the Vice-President , on his own initiative , to decide that the President is incapacitated , and to announce to Congress that he , the V.P. , has taken over the powers and duties of the Presidency . I agree with Mr. Krock that such a decision should not be granted to or thrust upon a Vice-President , If the V.P. is a loyal and affectionate lieutenant of the President 's  --  remember Vice-President Marshall  --  it is too much to ask that he decide upon the degree of Iii disability of his ailing chief . If he is unfriendly toward the President or overambitious  --  remember Vice-President Aaron Burr  --  it is too great a power to grant him . Mr. Caller 's plan would also allow the President to announce his own recovery and thus resume his powers at . will . This would be obviously unwise in cases of mental instability . Suppose a President developed , as do many able and brilliant men , a manic-depressive tendency . In his depressed phase , he would be inclined to turn over his duties to the V.P. A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might happily and overconfidently resume his full presidential powers . This could occur , I am assured , in a case far short of certifiable insanity . Arthur Krock , as we have seen , suggests the creation of a continuing Inability Council , composed of six members of Congress and five of the Cabinet . While I disagree with some details of his plan , I think the idea of a permanent commission , composed ex officio of certain persons high in the Government , is practical and valuable . Other experts have thought along the same lines . Prof. Arthur Sutherland , of the Harvard Law School , suggests a commission of five members : the Chief Justice , the Secretaries of State and Defense , and the two leaders respectively of the President 's party in the Senate and the House . Prof. David Fellman , of the University of Wisconsin , proposes a somewhat similar commission . David F. Houston , who , as Secretary of Agriculture and then of the Treasury , sat under the guns of indecision during Wilson 's illness , concluded that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a commission . . . composed possibly of Supreme Court Justices , members of the Cabinet and members of Congress . " Having thus canvassed the field , I will now throw into the pot of discussion my own plan , entitled Smith 's Two Cents ' Worth . Even this title may claim too much , because the ideas expressed are not really my own . They are a distillation of the ideas of others , based on considerable study and on interviews with many men eminent in the Government and in constitutional law . ( Here I suggest that the reader have a cup of black coffee and swathe the brow in a cold towel . ) I would have Congress establish by law a Presidential Powers Commission of nine members . It would be composed ex officio of three members of the Supreme Court  --  the Chief Justice and the two senior Associate Justices  --  of two members of the Cabinet  --  the secretaries of the two senior departments : State and Treasury  --  and of four members of Congress  --  the majority and minority leaders of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House  --  but if the Speaker were next in line of successionShe would be replaced by the majority whip . This commission would be authorized to find as a fact , at any time , by a two-thirds vote in writing , that a President was suffering from a temporary " inability to discharge the powers and duties of his office . " Thereupon the Vice-President would become acting President . When and if the commission voted that the President 's disability had been " removed , " he would at once resume his full powers and duties . Such a commission would satisfy , 1 believe , the most vital requirement of all  --  general public respect and acceptance . Its members would represent , in the American tradition , the three great branches of our Government ; both political parties ; and " checks and balances . " Taken together , the group would embody // a vast deal of ability , integrity , wisdom and practical experience . There might at any time be a bad egg or two in the lot , but it is hard to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such men . The three Supreme Court members , secure for life in high honor and status , are as free from ignoble ambition and party bias as human beings can normally he . Of the remaining six members , four  --  two from the President 's own party in Congress and two from his Cabinet  --  could be expected to prevent any unfair finding of presidential disability . Any four of the nine could block such a finding . The four congressional leaders would bring to the commission their practical knowledge of Government and of public opinion . They are always men of great experience , but long service alone does not carry men to the top of the House and the Senate . They must also be admired and trusted by their fellow legislators . Some experts think the two Cabinet members would be too swayed by loyalty and affection for inclusion in the commission . I disagree . I think it only fair that they , who are likely to know the President better than the other members , should take part in the inner councils of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote " No " or abstain , without blocking a two-thirds vote . Some authorities feel that Supreme Court members should have no part in such a " political " matter . Again I disagree . A decision on presidential disability has political aspects , but , far more importantly , it involves the nation 's welfare and survival . The Justices would strengthen the public prestige of the commission ; they would add judicial dignity to its proceedings : they would contribute their invaluable experience in weighing evidence . For similar reasons , I think the Chief Justice should be ex-officio chairman of the commission . the members of the commission would serve without pay . Service on the Presidential Powers Commission would carry great honor and high responsibility . This in turn would have its influence on even a member inclined to partisanship . As Professor Sutherland has eloquently said , " We want this thing done soberly , reverently , discreetly , and in the fear of God . " As suggested earlier , I think the law should also allow the President to declare his own temporary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might well choose to advise with it before doing so . He should be allowed to resume his duties when he feels fit to do so . With the commission functioning , there would no longer be the danger of a mentally unstable President 's reclaiming his powers . If he did so , the commission , in touch with the nation 's best medical opinion , would simply intervene , with all necessary speed , and declare the ailing President " temporarily unable to discharge the powers and duties of his office . " I think the commission should be provided with a paid administrative secretary and small staff , for two purposes : to handle the mail , some serious and some crackpot , which would Row to the commission ; and to keep available , on twenty-four-hour service , the places where the commission members could be reached in times of crisis . Also the whereabouts of their alternates . Alternates ? Yes . In case of sudden nuclear attack , regular members of the commission might be atomized or themselves disabled . It would be simple to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For the judicial members , it would run straight down the Supreme Court 's seniority and then to judges of the Federal Courts of Appeal . In Congress it would run down prescribed lines of con gressional seniority . Similarly in the Cabinet . Maybe I 'm getting too gruesome , but why not , while we are about it , provide for eventualities ? Thus , short of universal cataclysm , we would always have an ascertainable , respectably constituted Presidential Powers Commission . Returning to the more normal world , I think the Chief Justice should call occasional meetings of the commission , however robust the President , to discuss procedures of disability and the problems of proper medical and other testimony . The meetings should be spaced at variable times and intervals , so that a critical convocation of the commission would cause no premature alarm . The commission should be given the power of subpoena , though it would hardly need it . But why try to advise a body of such able men ? The law should make no attempt to prescribe their procedures or to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take so many unforeseeable forms . It might be physical or mental . It might grow from severe nervous and emotional instability . If a President 's plane were lost over the arctic wastes , we might not even know , for days or weeks , whether he was alive . Or he might fall into the hands of the enemy in wartime . In all such cases we could trust the commission 's own good judgment whether to declare the President 's " temporary disability . " One more point : Could Congress properly establish such a commission by ordinary statute ? Or would the plan , to be fully effective , require the long process of a constitutional amendment ? Most authorities feel that a statute would suffice ; that Congress would merely be creating a fact-finding body to carry out the obvious and sensible intent of the Constitution . But some respectable authorities doubt this . One older constitutional lawyer , recognized as a leader of the American bar , told me recently : " Your plan is the most practical I have heard of so far . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signed by the President , as soon as possible . I think it would command such widespread acceptance as to be followed without question by the officials involved if we were caught in a disability crisis in the near future . But to make doubly sure , 1 would also start it on its way  --  in its main essentials  --  as a constitutional amendment . This would nail the matter down beyond dispute . " Such , then , is my plan  --  Smith 's Two Cents ' Worth . Since it is my brain child  --  however numerous the other putative fathers-1 fondly regard it as darn near perfect . What I am more seriously convinced of is this : Any of the other plans mentioned here  --  with certain stated qualifications  --  would be better than our present feckless , reckless uncertainty . I do n't see how any sane citizen can disagree with President Eisenhower 's earnest warning that the doubt surrounding this question should be resolved . 