@@487542

IT IS WITH GREAT SATISFACTION THAT WE present in this issue the proposals for a solution of the Arab-refugee problem presented last week in the form of a memorandum to the United Nations . The individuals signing the doaunent are assurance that it represents enlightened , non-partisan American opinion . The proposals , in the preparation of which- the Nation Associates took an active interest , should commend themselves , we believe , to all persons who share our concern lest the miserable plight of the Arab refugees  --  now facing their third winter as homeless dependents on inadequate relief ? continues indefinitely as a source of friction and possible war . We urge that the plan set forth in the memorandum be adopted by the State Department as the basis of an American initiative in. the United Nations . Sponsored by this country and backed by the promise of a substantial contribution to the development program , the plan could settle the refugee problem and bring peace to the Middle East . For reasons of security as well as humanity the effort should be made . POSTSCRIPTS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to descend upon us . The latest , the authenticity of which we have verified , is the following : A major New York publishing house had a contract to publish the by now famous special issue of Collier 's as a book . But at least three of the contributors to the special issue ? Edward ' R. Murrow , Robert E. Sherwood , and Walter P. Reuther  --  recently notified the publisher that they did not care to have their articles included . In the meantime something like a rank-and-file protest movement had developed among the editorial employees of the publishing house to convince the firm , if possible , that the book should not be published . The attitude of the staff , we are told , was noted , but what tipped the scales against publication was the withdrawal of the three leading contributors . Mr. Murrow , it is said , was largely influenced by the European view of the special issue ; Mr. Sherwood , by the delayed reaction of certain officials in Washington . Mr. Reuther 's second thoughts were indicated in his letter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In any case the book will not be published . From England comes this item : J. B. Priestley , returning from a visit to the United States , has announced that he no longer considers himself a Socialist . " Ten years ago my views were vaguely Socialist , " Mr. Priestley said , , " but they are not now . " His announcement may not be unrelated to the fact that British Laborites have severely criticized him for doing his bit in Collier 's Third World War . BUT PERHAPS THE CONCLUSIVE POSTSCRIPT on Collier 's World War III was the formal protest lodged by the United Nations over the unauthorized use of the U. N. emblem on the editorial page of the issue , where it appeared not on the uniform of a fictitious U. N. soldier but as a seal under an editorial entitled The Unwanted War . The protest was lodged pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Assembly on December 7 , 1946 , governing the use of the emblem . Caught red-handed , as it were , all that Edward Anthony , publisher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inept rejoinder that the special issue had been criticized by Andrei Vishinsky and " in this country , " by the Daily Worker . Somehow Mr. Anthony managed to forget about the Portland Oregonian , the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette , and a dozen other newspapers that took sharp issue with Colker 's " unwanted " but highly profitable war of words and pictures . On the same day that the U. N. protest was released , the press reported a speech by Dr. George N. Shuster , president of Hunter College , who for the last eighteen months has served as United States High Commissioner in Bavaria . Among the " fears " under which the Germans live , Dr. Shuster mentioned the fear that America has aggressive intentions and said that this had been increased by Collier 's special issue . Nearly everyone but Mr. Anthony of Collier 's seems to agree that publication of the issue was a propaganda disaster . IN SIGNING A NEW EXECUTIVE ORDER creating a special committee to assist defense agencies in obtaining compliance with directives against racial discrimination in employment , President Truman has made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agencies will be represented on the new committee  --  the Department of Defense , the Department of Labor , the Atomic Energy Commission , the General Services Administration , and the Defense Materials Procurement Agency . The six public members will be appointed by the President . The new committee , to be known as the Committee on Government Contract Compliance , may " examine and study , " " confer and advise , " and " submit recommendations , " but it has no specific enforcement powers . Presumably the committee could hold public hearings which might be of value if President Truman names six strong public members to it . Commenting on the new order , Senator George cynically observed : " It looks like he Mr. Truman may be preparing to run for President again . " White the order is neither mild enough to conciliate the Dixiecrats nor strong enough to please the civil-rights groups , it is in line with the Administration 's new policy of seeking to call off the civil war in the Democratic Party over the civil-rights program . Certainly this order and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Southern editors , appealing for a " hearing " and " more understanding of our objectives , " represent a retreat from the civil-rights stand which the Administration took in 1948 . ALTHOUGH HIS SECOND SIX-YEAR TERM expired on September 28 , Judge Delbert E. Metzger continues to serve as one of two United States District Court judges in Hawaii . Judge Metzger , it will be recalled , recently provoked the wrath of Senator Joseph O'Mahoney and the Department of Justice when he fixed bail for seven alleged Communists , in a conspiracy indictment under the Smith act , at $7,500 instead of the $75,000 demanded by the Attorney General . Officials of the Department of Justice announced that Judge Metzger would not be recommended for reappointment  --  territorial judges hold term appointments  --  and then , acting on instructions from Mr. McGrath , sought to disqualify him from presiding at the trial of the Communists . The affidavit of disqualification called attention to Judge Metzger 's refusal to accept the department 's suggestions on bail , criticized his acquittal of certain witnesses who had been cited for contempt by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for having suggested that the adoption of suppressive measures might eventually convert the government into a police state . Judge Metzger , of course , refused to disqualify himself . But despite its threats the Administration has neither named a successor nor reappointed Judge Metzger . The fact that the Hawaii Bar Association , made up of some three hundred lawyers in the territory , recently gave Judge Metzger its overwhelming indorsement may account for this hesitancy . Now is the time , therefore , for the Administration to reconsider its ill-tempered and mischievous attempt to intimidate a federal judge . No apologies are needed ; let the President simply reappoint Judge Metzger to another six-year term . THE POSSIBILITY THAT THE FBI WILL BE assigned to investigate the tax and other government scandals appears to be causing alarm in some business circles . This is understandable , since any probe into the conduct of civil servants will inevitably involve investigation of the men who bribed them to gain some private end . So far the business men whose names have been brought into the hearings of the Ways and Means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ? adventurers on the fringes of industry who live by their wits . But evidently there are fears that once Edgar Hoover 's sleuths are tuned loose they will come across trails leading to more respectable sections of our acquisitive society . In any event a well-known business news service reports opposition to the use of the FBI in this field on the ground that it might lead to a police state . Yet the infiltration of government by men prone to corruption is surely no less dangerous than its infiltration by politically doubtful elements . The corrupt not only tend to bring the government into disrepute but may be willing to sell secrets as well as special privileges and immunity to prosecution . Those who believe that the investigation of the political affiliations of federal appointees is a legitimate function of the FBI are in a weak position to protest against the use of this agency to ferret out improper ties between government officials and business men . A NEW YEAR 'S STEEL MIKE SEEMS TO BE almost a certainty : the chief hope now in Washington is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But even so brief a shtitdown will mean the loss of two million tons of steel , twice the amount Britain is seeking to fulfil its defense and export programs , enough for hundreds of schools the construction of which is being postponed so that armament priorities can be met . Chief responsibility for the strike , if it comes , must rest on the employers , who seem to have made no effort to engage in serious collective bargaining . Instead , they have taken the position that before making any wage concessions they must be assured of permission to cover the entire extra cost by price increases . Very properly Price Stabilization Administrator Roger Putnam has refused any such guaranty , pointing out that steel profits are " way above " the standard promulgated by his predecessor , Eric Johnston , last April  --  a standard permitting price increases only if industry earnings fall below 85 per cent of the average of the three best years between 1946 and 1949 . December 29 , 1951 The steel corporations , Mr. Putnam added , are " bargaining with their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any wage increase that could be approved under price and wage-stabilization regulations as they now stand . Goodby to 1951 BY FREDA KIRCHWEY W E SAY goodby to the old year without regret . It has been a bad year , marked by negatives : by unease , disagreement , non-cooperation , fear . Statesmen have taken satisfaction in scoring points against each other rather than finding grounds for getting together . The year ends with one solid reason for gratitude , and eltn that is negative : there has been no general war . Viewed from these shores some happenings may look like positive accomplishments . On a umber of issues , for example , the United States position has been adopted by the General Assembly of the U. N. O delegation forced through the election of Greece to the Security Council in place of the candidate of the Soviet Union . The American-sponsored disarmament relart was triumphantly adopted , while Russia 's was overwhelmingly rejected . At the last meeting before Christmas the Assembly 's Political Committee turned down by a vote of thirty-nine to five the Soviet resolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institutions of Communist countries . There were others . But examined coldly they added up to little more than points for our side in the cold war . America 's insistence on the election of Greece , successful only after a prolonged and public exhibition of arm-twisting , seemed to many delegates a rather petty instance of political spite . At the beginning most of the nations that later switched their votes took it for granted that the so-called " gentlemen 's agreement " assuring a seat to Eastern Europe was intended to give Russia one ally in the Council . Our victory only increased the feeling that we are against Russia even when it is , occasionally , in the right . The American disarmament proposal , too , looked more like an attempt to outflank the Kremlin than like a serious move in the direction of peace . The similarities of the opposing plans were played down , as Lawrence H. Fuchs pointed out in The Nation of December 8 ( Disarmament : Facts vs . Propaganda ) , and even in the secret meetings held to examine possibilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extreme and unpalatable demands : Russia for the immediate abolition of atomic weapons ; the United States for the dated " majority " plan for atomic inspection and control . Still , the fact that the Western proposal for the first time included in one package conventional and atomic weapons and that Russia seems likely to accept membership in the commission to be set up after the Christmas recess gives a small margin of hope . Talks can continue , at least . One of the most interesting episodes in the Assembly was Russia 's charge that the United States is plotting subversive activities within the Soviet sphere , to be financed by $100,000,000 provided for in the new Mutual Security Act . Brushed off briskly as a piece of Soviet impertinence , the resolution actually penetrated close to the heart of American defense policy . A debate on the issues involved would have raised the question : What are our ultimate purposes in the struggle with Russia ? That Moscow 's interests are advanced wherever possible by subversion or revolution or any other useful method , through special agents and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What is still an unknown factor of staggering magnitude is whether Washington , dominating Western defense operations , is committed to the use of similar methods . Representative Mike Mansfield , speaking for the United States in the Political Committee , denied we had any such idea , taking the obvious line that the shoe belonged on Russia 's foot , not ours . But some reporters noted that the real issue had been dodged , for everyone knows the United States is at least trying to generate a spirit of revolt among Russia 's satellites and in the Soviet Union as well . While Mr. Mansfield interpreted the language of the Security Act to refer " only to those people who have managed to flee to this side of the Iron Curtain , " the act certainly does not say that . It appropriates $100,000,000 to enable anti-Communists " residing in " or refugees from the Soviet areas to form armed units of the North Atlantic defense forces . The " or for other purposes " controversial clause was added as an amendment introduced by Representative Charles J. Kersten , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ method whereby the United States can render aid for underground liberation movecnents in the Communist countries . " Later , in attacking the proposed U. N. draft code of " offenses against the peace and security of mankind , " Mr. Kersten wrote Warren R. Austin , chief American delegate to the U. N. , that the code as drawn up " might prevent groups in this country , as well as our government , from assisting in the liberation of the peoples of Eastern European countries and other countries enslaved by the Communist tyranny . " " Containment " is one thing : " liberation " another . For a year or more there have been increasing indications of a shift in American policy toward the idea of freeing the peoples under Soviet rule . In a recent article in the New York Times , James Reston stated plainly that " the policy of the United States government is not only to contain the Russians where they are , but to push them back where they came from . " Language like this horrifies our European allies , who have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enlisted in a crusade against communism or war of counter-revolution . Much as they may object to Communist infiltration or agitation in their own countries , they have no reckless desire to repay it in kind . On the contrary they hope for an easing of tension , an increase in trade , and a consequent improvement of their economic life  --  which would do more than $100,000,000 worth of cloak-and-dagger to minimize the Communist threat . The fear lest American anti-Communist zeal may force a war that is unlikely on any other grounds is a pervasive one , and Russia 's challenge , however impudent , may well have increased it . In any case the issue has now been brought into the open , and it will be surprising if it is not followed up in private by our allies , who want desperately to believe that the Atlantic alliance can be shorn of any appearance of aggressive purpose . The defense program itself has reached a point where this is particularly necessary . With eighteen divisions in readiness on European soil and the pressure of rearmament increasing monthly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They can slow up the tempo enough to ease the economic strain , thus reducing internal friction and instability  --  and this , indeed , is in the cards . But by adopting this course they increase the need of German man-power and productive capacity and increase simultaneously the bargaining power of the West German government . Already Bonn 's price for cooperation is rising and so are the strength and arrogance of the nationalist-military reaction . As long as German rearmament hangs on the creation of a European army  --  itself still a concept rather than a blueprint  --  some latitude for maneuver exists . The fear and distaste with which Western Europeans approach the prospect of becoming brothers-in-arms of their late enemy offer at least a faint chance that a third choice may be sought by Europe 's more realistic leaders . The alternative to reviving German military power is reviving efforts to make a deal on Germany with the Russians . And that , of course , implies a serious attempt  --  not through public speeches or resolutions in the U. N. ? to resolve specific points of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powers over German rearmament and the defense program as a whole may in fact turn out to be the most hopeful development of 1951 . It represents not a mood of defeat but one of independence ; on some of the great issues our allies have learned to talk back , to state policies of their own . " Bevanism " under other names is spreading . The re-cod from war and the demand for positive efforts toward peace can be sensed under the disagreements registered at the U. N. Taken together with the prospect of an armistice in Korea and Russia 's apparent reluctance to force differences to the point of showdown , this mood may be the best omen for 1952.                     