@@241720

Thirteen months ago , a hastily assembled body of some 6,000 men of ten different nationalities was rushed into place between the armies of Egypt and Israel . Thirteen months later , the United Nations Emergency Force , the world 's first international police force , was still there , and almost forgotten by the outside world . It was forgotten because it had done its job : UNEF had kept the peace . Last week , U.N . Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjold flew out to inspect the force he created . <P> Spouting Snow . Among the dunes and date palms of the Gaza Strip , he called on Brazilian and Indian units deployed along the Israeli border , inspected a hospital staffed by Canadians and Norwegians . At their encampment , the Swedes built a big bonfire in his honor near the beach and tried to celebrate his arrival with the traditional Swedish long dance ( they had to abandon it because of the sandy footing ) . At dinner the Indians ( to whom Christmas is not a religious holiday ) provided a group of bagpipers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up cardboard boxes that spouted artificial snow . Then Hammarskjold attended midnight Mass in an army tent , as buglers and drummers beside the altar played solemn rolls and flourishes at the elevation of the Host . In the morning , he went to services in the New England-style Lutheran chapel the Swedes had built at Gaza . On the Sinai border , the Yugoslavs , encamped in an oasis of palms and eucalyptus trees , had carefully arranged golden dates to form the United Nations emblem . <P> From the Gaza Strip in the north to Taba in the south , there has scarcely been a single incident of importance since UNEF troops moved into position . Discreetly , Hammarskjold did not go to Sharm el Sheikh , where Egyptian guns for more than six years barred entry of Israeli ships to the Gulf of Aqaba . Today UNEF soldiers watch as some six vessels a month push up the gulf to unload in the small Israeli port of Elath . But neither the Israelis ( who are grateful ) nor the Arabs ( who do nothing to prevent the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . <P> Gifts for Arabs . Across the Strait of Tiran , the Saudi Arabians have dug gun emplacements but show no evidence of using them . Back in Cairo , Colonel Nasser accepts the presence of UNEF as a reason for not interfering with Israeli vessels in the Gulf of Aqaba and thereby inviting another encounter with the Israeli army . Israel , at present , does not recognize the 1949 armistice agreement with Egypt , and still refuses to permit UNEF troops on its side of the border . But Israeli kibbutzim fraternize with the polyglot army , and Israel 's government station broadcasts regularly in Swedish , Portuguese and Spanish for the benefit of UNEF troops . Nobody says so out loud , but everyone is content to have UNEF stay where it is . Last November the U.N . Assembly voted to maintain UNEF for another year .                     