@@241921

The Quiet American ( Figaro ; United Artists ) . " Innocence , " wrote Graham Greene in the novel from which this film is somewhat speciously taken , " is like a dumb leper who has lost his bell , wandering the world , meaning no harm . " The leper of modern history , as Greene sees him , is the American-he of the " young and unused face " who has made " a profession of friendship , as though it were law or medicine , " and who goes about the world infecting whole continents with the botch of good will . On one level the book is a passionate editorial against U.S. innocence abroad . On another it is , perhaps unconsciously , a revealing study of a new phenomenon of history : a British inferiority complex-the mixture of fury and self-pity with which the old cock of the walk surveys the new . On still another level the book is a nervous and indirect reconnaissance of the borders of that undiscovered country of love to which Greene is always journeying without ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too-and more , and less . Like the book , it profits from Greene 's instinct for weaving the fictional web , for making life look marvelously complex and always come out even . But life is sometimes very odd indeed , and the story sometimes invites a suspicion that Greene has rigged his game -a suspicion certified by the ease with which the Englishman wins it , and by the oafishness with which the American loses . It is a cheap debating trick , and it cheapens the picture as it did the book . But the picture , in the last reel , suffers at the hands of Scriptwriter-Director Joseph Mankiewicz an even more drastic devaluation of its intellectual currency . <P> The American of the title is named Pyle ( Audie Murphy ) , a Harvardman , about 32 , working for a U.S. mission in the Federation of Indo-China in 1952 . " With his gangly legs and his crew cut and his wide campus gaze he seemed incapable of harm . " But he is an idealist . " He was determined to do good , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " His naivete horrifies Greene 's Englishman , a middle-aged newsman named Fowler ( Michael Redgrave ) , whose pipedreams are provided by opium , and whose pipe is prepared by his pretty little Vietnamese mistress , Phuong . ( Phuong is in the picture , but the opium is not . ) Aside from Phuong ( Giorgia Moll ) , the Englishman 's principal passion is his uninvolvement , but the American wants to be mixed up in everything-particularly , Fowler decides , if it happens to be none of his damned business .                     