@@494744

THE NEW REPUBLIC The quizlings , at least those who did n't lie to the Grand Jury , are " criminals " to whom no one can fit a crime . The guilt itself is elusive , because the victim was really this hallucination in the public mind , which suddenly beheld something symbolic and portentous in a child 's game . Quiz shows , as intellectual exercise , are like doing a phenomenal number of deep knee bends , a total waste of energy . There is no intrinsic value in them , except as entertainment . No one , so far as I have read , has asked a critical question ? why are unrigged quiz shows any better than rigged ones ? The producers , a notoriously realistic lot , not at all given to romanticizing their business , apparently found they were distinctly more entertaining when they were produced to create the appearance of conflict and effort . There was no particular harm in this until they became inflated with importance . And this inflation was not altogether the fault of the TV industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had a lot to do with it . There was of course the Time cover story in February , 1957 , searching out significance by the yard and bushel not only in what Van Doren was doing but what people were supposed to think of him . He was to be to intellectuals what Mickey Mantle was to a public that took baseball more as a passion than a game . It was forgotten that Mickey Mantle 's business is performing for money , and that the intellectuals ' job , if indeed there is such a thing , is creating . The root trouble lies in the transformation of journalism and entertainment into full-time business , committed to fill hours and empty pages by the millions , whether or not there is anything to be said . Would quiz shows have absorbed so much energy and attention in another century , when the size of a newspaper depended upon what news there was to be reported ? This is not to say there were not silly fads in earlier times , but I suspect none so artificially inflated . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is geared to war , strikes and extravagances , and the trivia it reports is raised to the same level . Walking from this ridiculous world into the sanity of a TV studio , where bright , neat men talk forcefully and simply about what they are trying to do , a contestant had every right to be impressed . The dialogue is the same for every show : " Look , the people , they 're tired , come home from the noodle-works , they tuned in for a little show . That 's what we 're giving them , something they should forget their feet hurt and their wife got the menopause . For culture we got Sunday and Leonard Bernstein . So who 's hurt ? " Why not ? It was only a game . And it was not only the producers who told Van . Doren that , as intellectual lagniappe , he was making education respectable . It was Time , The New York Times , and probably half the people he met . The contestants were seduced not by the producers but by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the public press . We dream on and on , judging by last week 's issue of Life which announces doom and moral collapse lurking behind the quiz shows . There is no such thing , only a deplorable tendency of Life to see pie in the sky . In the same issue it glorifies the seasonal idiocy of college football . By no stretch of the imagination can its story be read as a detached report . Thus we add pressure to a child 's sport , and an expectancy and hope that ruptures so painfully when some benighted player half mad with youth and the shock of play breaks someone 's jaw with an illegal punch . It started out as a friendly game .                     