@@264170

Many modern composers are dissatisfied-or just plain bored-with the sounds of conventional instruments . To rectify this situation , they go to many lengths . New York Composer John Cage doctors his piano tone with bits of hardware . France 's Pierre Schaeffer and his followers in musique concrete create unworldly compositions out of worldly sounds on tape recorders . Today , on both sides of the Atlantic , composers are experimenting with a sound source with an unplumbed potential for novelty and expression : electronic sound generators . <P> American listeners have a chance to feast their ears on their native brand of electronic composition on the sound track of MGM 's science-fiction extravaganza , Forbidden Planet ( TIME , April 9 ) . Composed and recorded by Manhattan 's husband-and-wife team , Louis and Bebe Barron , it could hardly sound more appropriate . Its basic elements are a kind of trickling-water sound ; a zipping effect , as if somebody were running his thumbnail along a comb ; a high , ominous thrumming , something like the sound telegraph wires make when the pole is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect that repeatedly swoops up to a point of release and then breaks and starts over . <P> Infinite Variety . The Barrons achieve their effects by designing electronic circuits that they think express certain emotional characteristics when attached to a loudspeaker , and they tend to call the circuits " characters . ' ' One expresses anger . Another they call Chloe , because it sounds to them like the lost swamp girl . Some express themselves in a kind of melody , or at least in a series of pitch changes . To provide a sound accompaniment to a film scene , the Barrons kept altering circuits until one expressed what they were looking for . Then they combined it with others , recorded the resulting series of sounds on tape , and edited it to fit . They refuse to consider their compositions music , partly because they can not be sure before the tape is finished just what it will sound like . Their sound track was delivered to MGM at approximately the same price the studio would have paid for a composed and recorded symphonic score @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absent-minded composer named Karlheinz Stockhausen has fun supplying the state-run West German Radio with electronic music . Many of the sounds he makes resemble those of the Barrons , but his attitude is at the opposite esthetic pole . A conservatory pupil first , then an electronic expert , he composes on paper ( his scores suggest a cross between economists ' graphs and architects ' schemes ) , then reduces his ideas to sound . This involves great concentration and endless experiment .                     