@@492610

How Our Allies Tricked Us By DEMAREE BESS Afew weeks ago in Washington I had a talk about the Eisenhower Doctrine with Sen. I. William Fulbright , Democrat , of Arkansas . I went to see the senator because he seemed to he as much puzzled as I was about the Great Middle East Mystery . He was asking his fellow senators why Great Britain and France , our two most trusted allies , had concealed from President Eisenhower and Secretary of State John Foster Dulles their decision to attack Egypt last October . Senator Fulbright declared that it did not seem to make sense that these two greatest beneficiaries of our foreign-aid program should want to deceive our Government . So he was seeking an explanation for what he called " this disastrous and remarkable collapse of our relations with our closest allies , " which he said apparently took place during " the relatively short space of a few months . " Another puzzling aspect of the same mystery was why the President and Secretary Dulles had been so optimistic about Middle East developments only a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the elections  --  and then , a few weeks later , declared that the Middle East presented " the most serious threat that we have faced over the past ten years . " When I went to see Senator Fulbright I hoped that he had made more progress in solving the mystery than I had at the time . Senate committees in closed sessions had been taking secret testimony for weeks from Secretary Dulles , Admiral Arthur Radford , and other high-ranking diplomats and military leaders . Mr. Fulbright is unusually well qualified to weigh such testimony . He is a former university presidentoland as a Rhodes scholar attended Oxford University in England for three years . Since being elected to the Senate in 1945 , he has made frequent study trips to Europe . But the senator said that closed sessions had not proved much more " there was agitation in the town because 1 was appearing with a while company , They did n't get so riled about Millard ; with his ' Viler skin , it was often hard for them to be sure he was a Negro @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stage door into a car , and in a private plane we were flown out to North Carolina . Experiences far more painful occurred all through the tour , but after that sudden plane ride , the University of North Caroline was like an oasis ; the people were very cordial . " BelatIonte is glad he toured the South because he believes that during each performance there was a communication with these white audiences , but he still feels keenly the fact that there were no warm overtures , nothing by way of saying hello to him as a person , from the white persons in the cities in which he appeared . Least year , my husband and I invited Harry to have dinner with us at our home in Coral Gables . Florida . He told me afterward , " I was Feted by some Southerners as a ' celebrity , ' but when I walked into your house , it was the first time I had teen invited into a white home in the South and treated warmly just as a person. ** As a singer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  chain engagements , and esen multiple jobs such as singing two shows a night at the Town and Country night club in Brooklyn , New York , while rehearsing hours on end for the road show Sing , Man , Sing . Finally the schedule brought on chronic laryngitis , and last lune he had to have a siousa nil-vocal-cord operation . When he emerged from the hospital he was conenlightening to him than open hearings . He said that the administration 's version of what had happened in our dealings with Britain and France about the Middle East differed so widely from the sersions of British and French spokesmen and of the Democratic Party that it might take a long time to bring out the essential facts . And that has prosed to be the case , so far as the Senate is concerned . The Senate has asked the State Department to make ti full-scale review of American insolsements in the Middle East since 1946 . That ought to keep the department 's historical section busy for many months . After the review is completed , Senator Fulbright @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Relations and Armed Forces Committees similar to those held in 1951 by the same committees after President Truman dismissed Gen. Douglas MacArthur . That might take many more weeks or es en months . So an official explanation of the Great Middle East Al ystcry has been indefinitely postponed . Congressional investigators have not yet agreed upon an answer to that ' wading question : " Why did British and French leaders deliberately . mislead President Eisenhower and Secretary Dulles about their decision to attack Egypt ? " However , so long as that question is in doubt , Americans will continue to be confused about our relations with Britain and France , and about our new responsibilities in the Middle East . Art interim report therefore seems to be in order . This article is one reporter 's attempt to piece together the Eisenhower Administration 's own account of the Great Middle East Mystery . It is based upon private conversations with a number of the foremost American policy makers , including Secretary Dulles and his principal asfronted with a persistent rumor , which got under his sensitise skin , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was a little edgy when Ile filled his date at Los Angeles ' open-air Greek Theater . With fervent performances he set a new two-week-attendance record , and established himself alongside Victor Borge and Beatrice Lillie as a master of the one-man show . " Two hours and thirteen minutes every night of doing everything I wanted to do ! " Harry exulted . " As long as I live I shall never forget the tribute those people gave me . " Harry now plans to cut out all his night-club singing , eseept for an annual engagement at the Waldorf . He intends to devote his time to folk-music concerts , especially in universities , " Belafonte 's powers of concentration and deep feelings of truth in expressing himself make him much more than a ' voice , ' " says Daniel Mann , the director of such films as The Rose Tattoo , I 'll Cry Tomorrow and Teahouse of the August Moon . " Now that Belafonte has opportunity in film and theater , there will be growth , in his powers and scope . And with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that can make him a major artist . " Evidently the saga of Harry Belafonte is just getting under way . But there is one thing that you can be sure of : he really means what he say s when he comes out singing : sistants who are concerned with Middle Eastern affairs . The opinions expressed here are entirely my own , but the facts acre confirmed by senior Foreign Sers'iCe officers whom I hare known for decades . Their scrsion of events has clarified in my mind developments in the Middle East which previously had been obscure . For one thing , it explains why the administration was so optimistic about the Egyptian crisis shortly before the Anglo-French attack , and why the Eisenhower Doctrine became an urgent necessity after that attack . Actually the President 's proposal to Congress was not properly a doctrine , although it probably will bear that label forever now , What Mr. Eisenhower really asked Congress to do was to acknowledge that the American people have suddenly been stuck with major responsibility for another huge section of the earth . What Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ backed up the President , was this : " Yes , the Middle East is our baby now , even if we have n't yet figured out just how it got left on our doorstep . " As Senator Fulbright pointed out , the administration 's account of Middle East events differs sharply ' from those presented by British and French spokesmen . In one sense this is a crime story . The principal crime was not the Anglo-French attack on Egypt , which followed years of provocation . The principal crime was the Anglo-French concealment of their Egyptian gamble from their chief ally , the United States . During the thirty-three years in which I have been reporting international politics , I can not recall any parallel for this strange deception . In view of the disastrous failure of the Anglo-French gamble , it is not surprising that official viewpoints in London and Paris differ from Washington 's . But it is surprising that so many American politicians and reposers , when confronted with contradictory assortments of facts , have preferred to beliese British and French spokesmen rather than American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Washington came during the recent visit of the French premier , Guy . Mullet . This veteran never has denied that he was a central figure in the October deception , and lie has neser esen intimated that he was sorry . Nevertheless . alter being courteously received by President Eisenhower , he was invited to appear before both houses of Congress and the National Press Club . In those appearances he was gisen demonstrative ovations which indicated more than mere politeness . 1 . Iis Anienean audiences seemed to show more sympathy IA if h fli Is creator of a disastrous French policy than with American policy makers whom he had not only defied but had also deliberately misled . The Eisenhower Administration 's explanation for the Great Middle East Mystery , as related here , may be news to many Americans , as parts of it were to me . The Anglo-French Egyptian fiasco has affected so many vested interests of so many countries and has aroused so much emotional excliemcni that this has been a fertile field for various types of propagandists . The Eisenhower Administration did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ split openly on a major policy with the three governments  --  Britain , France and Israel  --  which possess more politically influential American friends than all other gosemments combined . This policy deep'y disturbed millions of Americans oho are attached to these allied countries by sentimental ties or more practical bonds . The consequence has been that spokesmen for these foreign governments often have found a more receptive audience in Congress and among the Washington press corps than the American administration has . Our own administration 's story of why the Eisenhower Doctrine became necessary goes buck ahnost four years , to May , 1953 . That was the month when Secretary Dulles paid his first visit to the Middle East . The situation which Mr. Dulles found there in 1953 will be described in some detail because it glees the key clue to the Great Middle East Mystery . At that time Secretary Dulles already was an old hand at making foreign policy , having acted as consultant to both the Roosevelt and the Truman administrations , beginning in 1944 . But his activities before 1953 had been confined to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations . He had no firsthand knowledge of the Middle East when he became Sec-retary of State . Mr. Dulles made his flying survey in the spring of 1953 partly because the British Government urged it , for reasons which soon became apparent . The London government was headed then by two of President Eisenhower 's wartime friends , Prime Minister Winston Churchill and Foreign Minister Anthony Eden , When Secretary Dulles first flew to the Middle East the American public showed little interest . Americans then were much more concerned about Korea . where armistice negotiations were dragging out and American soldiers were still being killed almost every day . The chief topic for speculation by American pundits at that time was the possible consequences of the death of the Russian dictator , Joseph Stalin . But in Great Britain four years ago the Middle East held the center of the political stage . The British quarrel with Iranian nationalists over oil concessions had gone from bad to worse for more than a year , and was having repercussions throughout the oil-rich Arab world . The British Government had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nonstop feud , and the horses were pulling in opposite directions . Anti-British feeling was so strong in Arab countries that the entire Bhtish strategic and economic position in the Middle East was threatened . The most serious center of anti-British agitation was Egypt , where revolutionaries headed by General Naguib had thrown out the notoriously corrupt King Farouk in 1952 , and set up a military dictatorship . Thc new regime was conducting what it called a " national liberation campaign , " and its main target was the British garrison of 80,000 soldiers and airmen stationed in the Suez Canal Zone , a strip 100 miles tong and 20 miles wide running through the Egyptian desert . The British kept buses in the zone under the terms of a 1936 treaty which the revolutionaries had denounced , Thc Egyptians were insisting upon unconditional British evacuation , and the Churchill government 's answer had been to move in several thousand reinforcements . The British considered General Naguib the archvillain then , and did not pay very much attention to his deputy , a rather silent man who kept in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Abdel Nasser . The Egyptians were making life miserable for British troops and their families in the canal zone by wholesale sabotage arid terrorism . The British military community was sirtually under siege . They were forbidden to visit nearby Cairo and other former leave cities , and they could not esen get to bathing beaches without armed escorts . Women and children sun bathers were often shot at , and Egyptian children pelted them with stones . Students were being trained as saboteurs in " liberation camps , " and terrorists had penetrated the 20.000 Egyptian civilians employed by the British military . British nerves were on edge and British opinion at home was aroused . A visiting reporter admiringly described how pilots , trying to keep up their morale , played cricket on green matting simulating grass in 100- degree heat with sand blowing in their eves , but dressed in the traditional while shirts and flannel trousers . That was the situation in Egypt when Mr. Dulles paid his first visit there , That trip was an eye-opener to the Secretary , who had not realized that Arab @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hate-the-West " campaign . Their newspapers and radio stations denounced the Dulles visit because , they said , he was mapping out tin anti-Arab drive in concert with Britain , France and Israel . The Secretary was unable lo visit some countries on his Itinerary because unruly mobs had gathered to demonstrate against him . The Churchill government had wanted Mr. Dulles to see for himself what was happening in the Middle East because it hoped he would then support London 's proposed solution . The British plan in 1953 was precisely the same " police action " in Egypt which finally was launched last October . British Tory leaders were convinced that they could capture Cairo and Alexandria , Egypt 's two largest cities , without serious opposition . They proposed thus to set up a more pliable Egyptian government , as they had often done in the past . But they wanted American approval for this operation , although they expressed confidence that British troops would be adequate . Thc French Government heartily supported this British proposal because it blamed Egyptian revolutionaries for rebellions in French North Africa , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the situation as he saw it to the President . Our Middle East policy , he argued , had become dangerously unbalanced because it had not taken into account the rising tide of Arab resentment against us and our allies . Yet the Arabs not only controlled Middle East oil , so valuable to us and essential to our European allies but also were in a position to jeopardize the Sucz Canal and all the chief strategic points . After World War I the British and French claimed as " spheres of influence " the former Turkish territories populated by Arabs . British predominance an that area had been maintained by the Indian Army and the British Navy- . But now London no longer controlled an Indian army , and its navy was sharply reduced . The Churchill government in 1953 expressed confidence that it could re-establish its prestige in the Middle East by forcible occupation of Egypt . ( Continued from Page 78 President Eisenhower immediately and emphatically opposed the British proposal . In that spring of 1953 his administration had not yet completed the Korean armistice , and all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " localized " war . The Middle East was regarded as a particularly dangerous region for us to get mixed up in because in 1953 that was about the only part of the world where Soviet Russia was keeping very quiet . Because of Mr. Eisenhower 's unequivocal opposition to forcible occupation of Egypt four years ago . the Churchill government decided to shelve the project , at least for the time being . The proposal had been discussed only at the highest levels in both governments , and therefore did not become public in either Britain or the United States . But a powerful section of the Tory Party to which Churchill and Eden belonged continued to insist that the only solution to the Middle East problem was an Egyptian occupation by force . Debate on this question between Washington and London was to continue , with periodic intermissions , for the next three years and six months . Time and again the American President and his Secretary of State were urged to change their minds . Time and again they refused . Meanwhile , the British General Staff decided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the British garrison in the canal zone was untenable . So Secretary Dulles undertook to act as mediator %% th the Egyptian Government for a compromise agreement . The arrangement accepted by both sides in 1954 provided for withdrawal of the British forces in stages , with the right to return in case of an " outside " attack during the next seven years . Because Mr. Dulles helped work out the British evacuation at the Churchill government 's request , British advocates of the use of force have accused him ever since of " pressuring " the British into leaving the Canal Zone . Since last October these British charges have been frequently repeated by some American politicians and reporters . Adlai Stevenson used this as a campaign issue , and Thomas Hamilton , U.N . correspondent for The New York Times , has reported this as an undisputed fact on several occasions . The most impressive comment on this report was made by Anthony Nutting , the British Minister of State who resigned from the Eden government last November in protest against British Middle East pol icy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was due to American pressure , Mr , Nutting replied that American influence was not a factor in the British General Staff 's decision to withdraw . lie said the garrison was witha drawn because it was no longer defending the canal , but merely defending itself " against the Egyptian population . " The ill-starred Baghdad Pact provide , another striking example of how British versions of Middle East events have been uncritically accepted by many American politicians and reporters . Almost every day the American press reports somewhere that Secretary Dulles was the au ? thor of the Baghdad Pact , which has been the only defensive alliance against Soviet aggression in the Middle East , and which went to pieces after the Anglo-French attack . But every American policy maker I have consulted declares that , far from being the author of the Baghdad Pact , Secretary Dulles opposed it from the outset . The defensive alliance which Mr. Dulles proposed was the so-called " northern-tier " pact , limited to the three countries of Turkey , Iran and Pakistan . Those three countries adjoining Russia were consida @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , But the British Government insisted upon joining the " northern-tier " pad , and bringing in Iraq , one of its Arab proteges . Mr. Dulles protested that this would be regarded as another form of the old British game of " divide and rule " in Arab countries , and would be especially resented in Egypt . But his objections were overruled . Since last October the Baghdad Pact has been inoperative because no Arab country could afford to consort with the British member . if the " northern-tier " three-country alliance had been earned out as originally proposed , it might provide a firm basis for defense against Soviet aggression in the Middle East today . The only time when the Eisenhower Administration seriously considered backing a forcible occupation of Egypt was after it became known that Colonel Nasser had concluded an arms deal with the Soviet bloc in the autumn of 1955 . By that time Anthony Eden was British Prime Minister , and early in 1956 he made a special trip to Washington to plead with President Eisenhower for support of the use of force . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been in 1953 because meanwhile Russia had openly intervened in Egyptian politics by supplying arms . But the President and his Secretary of Slate finally concluded that forcible occupation even then would do more harm than good to the West . Lust July , however , when Colonel Nasser nationalized the Suez Canal Company , Washington 's policy makers realized that a showdown was near . Robert Murphy , the experienced American Deputy Under Secretary of State . flew 10 London to confer with British leaders . He cabled word that the British and French governments were preparing to invade Egypt as soon as they could mobilize enough forces . President Eisenhower thereupon ordered Mr. Dulles to fly to London immediately . and gave him a personal letter addressed to Prime Minister Eden . The Secretary left for London a few hours later , and while en route in his plane drafted plans for the first Suez conference . Upon his arrival in London , Mr. Dulles was greeted by British Foreign Secretary Selwyn Lloyd with the exclamation , " This is it ! We have neser been more united @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British leaders became more subdued after Mr. Eden had read the President 's letter . Invasion plans were halted , although menacing gestures already had been made with mammum publicity in London and Pans . French leaders were even more determined to occupy Egypt than the British were , because that seemed to them the best way to cut off outside aid to rebellious French North Africa . However , the French also reluctantly agreed to a Suez conference . which was held in London . From that moment until the Anglo-French attack was launched , all moves made in Washington were designed to provide substitutes for the forcible occupation which the President and Mr. Dulles still argued would prove disastrous . But as the fateful October approached , tension steadily mounted . A new arms deal between France and Israel was revealed . Paris sent warplanes and heavy military " hardware " to Israel , and the Paris press noted with undisguised satisfaction that the Israeli Army was preparing for action . It is now unofficially admitted that the Anglo-French decision to attack Egypt was made at a private meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Premier Mullet . No word of what transpired in that meeting was sent to President Eisenhower or anybody else in the American Government . So it is clear that the British and French premiers agreed to conceal their decision from Washington and even from some members of their own cabinets . Even to this day American officials do not know just which British and French officials knew about the black-out plan . But American officials would like to behese that the British Foreign Secretary , Selwyn Lloyd . was not let into the secret . During the three-week black-out Secretary Lloyd spent much of his time in New York , negotiating with the Egyptian Foreign Minister at the United Nations . One day Mr. Lloyd reported to Secretary Dulles , in the presence of several members of the Dulles staff , that the prospects for a peaceful settlement with Egypt through the U , N , looked better than ever before . On the basis of that report , President Eisenhower preceded one of his last campaign speeches with the cheerful statement , " I bring you good news about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as either a deliberate attempt on somebody 's part to deceive American voters just before the elections or as evidence of inexcusable ignorance . But it may have been neither . American officials who were conferring with the British Foreign Secretary at that time are inclined to believe that he was as much in the dark as they were about the Anglo-French decision already made in Paris to invade Egypt . The timing of the Anglo- French-lsraeli attack , coming in the closing days of the presidential election campaign , could not have been more dramatic . That timing may have been fised on the assumption that no American administration would dare , so soon before an election , to oppose the policies of three nations which commanded the sympathy and respect of so many million Amencan voters . If so , the assumption was wrong , For the President , without hesitation , instructed Secretary Dulles to go to New York to present personally the case against our allies . Mr. Dulles had no premonition then of his approaching illness ; he felt line when he left Washington in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was soupy , and the plane had to circle for hours before it finally managed to land at Newark . Mr. Dulles utilized the time to draft the American resolution asking for a cease-fire and to think about his speech . He made the speech without notes , but he told friends who visited him in the hospital a few days later that he would have been glad to consider that speech his epitaph if his illness had proved to be fatal . It is the speech which began , " I doubt that any delegate ever spoke before this forum with as heavy a heart as I have brought here tonight . We speak on a matter of vital importance where the United States finds itself unable to agree with three nations with whom it has ties of deep friendship . admiration and respect , and two of whom constitute our oldest , most trusted and reliable allies . " T The Secretary stayed throughout the all-night session of the U.N . and did not get back to his hotel until five A.M. But he WILLS up at 9:30 A.m. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bud and he drafted follow-up moves in the U.N . while circling the airport . Fle stayed in his office until 6:30 P.M. and late that same night became acutely ill and was rushed to Wdl ter Reed Hospital , where he was operated upon for cancer . The doctors said that sharp symptoms came so soon that they were able to catch the cancer in its earliest stages . The operation put Mr. Dulles out of commission for only thirty-six hours . Within a week he was keeping three secretaries busy in relays in the presidential suite at Walter Reed , and later during Iwo weeks of so-called convalescence in the South he worked on the request to Congress which ultimately became known as the Eisenhower Doctrine . So the Great Middle East Mystery , like most mysteries , begins to clear itself up once you get the key clue , The British and French deceived President Eisenhower and Secretary Dulles last October because they had not been able to persuade them in almost four years of high-level discussions to underwrite the forcible occupation of Egypt . When the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own , they did not want to give the American President another chance to talk them out of their planned invasion . And when the attack proved to be even more disastrous than Americans had predicted , the responsible politicians in London and Paris naturally tried to put as much blame as possible elsewhere . It is not likely that official publications will fully reveal the clients leading to the Eisenhower Duct rine fur many years . The most significant documents in this story were communications between chiefs of state , and such exchanges are not made available even to Senate investigators without permission of all the governments concerned . In this case , British and French leaders are not likely to grant such permission in the near future . No politicians anywhere can he expected to agree to make themselves look bad , especially while they still hold office . Meanwhile , the partial account given here explains , among other things , why President Eisenhower has so vigorously upheld Secretary Dulles against his critics at home and abroad . Last January I attended a presidential press conference at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mr. Dulles had changed us a result of congressional attacks upon his policies , The President replied , " Secretary Dulles , to the best of my knowledge and belief  --  and I keep , I assure you , very close touch  --  has never taken any action which I have not in advance approved . " In other words , the Eisenhower Doctrine bears the name of the man who accepts full responsibility for it . Nobody doubts that the Middle East will present formidable problems to the United States for many years to come , and that Americans are inadequately prepared , to put it mildly , for major responsibility in an area whose politics is almost incredibly complicated . But l believe the facts presented here make it clear that the Eisenhower Administration neither sought nor desired this tremendous new burden  --  either for itself or for the American people . That burden was imposed upon Americans largely through the actions of other governments . Despite this , however , the burden seems to be inescapable . By a curious paradox , one of the most serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today comes from those Americans who arc most deeply attached to the British and French people . In their anxiety to excuse Anglo-French blunders , these Americans have wasted valuable time trying to make it appear that American policy makers were somehow responsible for last October 's unprecedented Anglo-French deception . These Americans have gone to such extremes that they have embarrassed even their British and French friends , For nobody knows better than hardheaded British and French politicians that the western Big Three is not the same today as it was before the Middle East blowup . The Anglo-French fiasco confirmed beyond any further doubt the weakness of the British and French empires in areas which they have dominated for generations . London and Paris are quietly readjusting their policies to conform with the realities of world politics . The American Government is trying to do likewise , and the Eisenhower Doctrine is a step in that direction .                     