@@242024

New Jersey 's Governor Robert Baumle Meyner knows that a presidential prospect can look like Cinderella , but he must also have a sure touch with the fairy godmother 's political wand . Bob Meyner was Cinderellegant last November ; he swept to a second term at Trenton with the highest vote total ( 1,000,000 ) ever registered by a New Jersey Democrat ( TIME , Nov. 18 ) . And last week his political wand struck sparks . Winner in a tight battle for the Democratic nomination for U.S. Senator : handpicked , hand-pushed Meyner Candidate Harrison A. Williams Jr. , 38 . <P> Angry Rival . " Pete " Williams ' margin was narrow , but it left no doubt that Meyner is now in command of the Jersey Democrats . At the beginning of the campaign , Williams , a personable , articulate Oberlin and Columbia law graduate who was twice elected to Congress from normally Republican Union County , was a vote-drawing favorite . Then dissident Democrats in boss-ridden Hudson County broke with Meyner over patronage . Against Williams they put up John J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Shipbuilders Union . Williams ' hopes were dimmed further when New Jersey 's un-merged A.F.L. and C.I.O. , angry at Meyner for not accepting a labor plan for extending unemployment compensation , gave Grogan an unprecedented primary endorsement . On election night Meyner-Leaguer Williams was practically written off as solid , stolid John Grogan roared out of early-reporting Hudson County with an unexpected 72,000-vote plurality . Then the Meyner magic began to show itself . A swollen Democratic primary turnout ( 350,000 ) helped Williams carry 18 of the remaining 20 counties with sizable pluralities . Outside Hudson , labor 's endorsement went sour ; e.g. , Williams carried heavily unionized Passaic County 7-1 . Williams finally edged Grogan by a slim 15,000 votes , but he was the first Democrat in modern New Jersey history to lose Hudson and win an election . <P> Few Enemies . In November , Williams will be up against ten-term Congressman Robert Winthrop Kean ( rhymes with pane ) , 64 , the Republican winner . On the strength of a 40,000-vote plurality in Essex and Union Counties , Kean won by 24,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shanley , who had strong G.O.P. machine endorsement . Trailing as a poor third : sometime ( on and off between 1951 and 1958 ) Senate Internal Security Subcommittee Counsel Robert Morris , vehement anti-Communist and G.O.P. right-winger . <P> Republican Kean is favored in the general election despite Democratic tides and anti-Republican recession rumbles . During 20 years in Congress , he has made few New Jersey enemies , won friends in both business and labor as a liberal but cautious tax expert , social security advocate and fighter for such Administration measures as reciprocal trade and foreign aid . Meyner Man Williams , nominated without Hudson County in the primary , needs a whopping Democratic vote from Hudson County to overcome a G.O.P. opponent in nominally Republican New Jersey . But Pete Williams ' hopes are high , since he knows the unexpected power of the wizardly wand of Meyner.                     