@@487571

Dear Sirs : I am one of the many intimidated members of the unhappy staff of the U. N. We read Leonard B. Boudin 's article Dark Days at the U. N. in The Nation of December 6 with great interest , and we are grateful that there are still some attorneys in the United States who have the courage to defend peace-loving people . I am a national of a country that was invaded by the Nazis . My husband and my parents were killed by them . As I watch developments in the U. N. I see the pattern that Germany and later Austria went through , and I am horrified at the resemblance . Please remember when you write on the U. N. personnel that journalists , writers , and top-ranking directors , as well as the rank and file of the secretariat , read every word said about us ( and there are many here eager to see objective writing on the subject ) . We could not get enough copies of The Nation for December 6 to supply the people who were eager @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ typed . If you could follow up that article with a longer , more explicit one , you would be performing a service to those who do not dare write and ask for another . Many thanks for the work you are doing for us . New York U. N. EMPLOYEY Another Dreyfus Case ? Dear Sirs : After the French Dreyfus Case was legally considered closed the court of public opinion busted it wide open . The Rosenberg case , considered closed by many people today , can be busted wide open as soon as important facts " freely " withheld by our " free " press manage to get loose . This letter will touch on only two of those facts . - One , which has received very limited publicity , is that the jury verdict and death sentence rest on the shakiest foundation  --  the testimony of two self-confessed spies who had the strongest incentive for lying . David Greenglass was unsentenced at the time he testified , and Ruth Greenglass , a co-conspirator in the indictment , was never brought to trial . The American conscience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aware of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals published opinion that " doubtless , if that Green-glass 's testimony were disregarded , the conviction could not stand . " Another fact , which has - received no publicity whatever , is that , whereas scientists , as far back as 1945 , stated that there was no A-bomb secret for us to keep since the scientists of all countries knew it , the lawyers defending the Rosenbergs seem to have operated on the misconception that there was a secret . The trial transcript ( pp. 499-500 ) shows that when the prosecutor introduced a diagram drawn from memory by David Greenglass , allegedly a reproduction of an A-bomb sketch which Greenglass claimed he had given to Rosenberg in 1945 , the defense attorney requested that the court seal the sketch " so that it-remains secret to the court , the jury , and counsel . " The diagram , duly sealed , became inaccessible to - scientists who might easily have exposed it as a brainstorm or fraud . That sealed sketch in the Rosenberg case bears a striking resemblance to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the French military court on the grounds of French national security and unsealed by an aroused public opinion . In this same connection , the transcript further shows ( pp. , 500-501 ) that when the prosecutor asked Greenglass - to explain his diagram , the Rosenberg defense came forth with the request that the courtroom be cleared of spectators while Greenglass was describing it . This explanation , Time said , " made little sense , " and the science editor of ? Life thought his description of an implosion bomb " illogical , if not downright unworkable . " But the dramatic clearing of the courtroom and the solemn sealing of an open " secret , " both done at the inspiration of the defense attorneys , could not have failed to impress the jury , confuse the public , and lend a semblance of moral validity to the unprecedented death sentence handed down . If , as seems to this layman , this was a serious error in judgment on the part of the defense attorneys , they could at this point best serve the interests of their hard-pressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Such a move , even if it carried no weight with legalistic-minded judges , is bound to carry plenty of weight with the court of public opinion before which the Rosenberg 's case must now be actively prosecuted . And - speaking of the court of public opinion , I must sadly report that the left and liberal press , normally effective instruments of that court , are becoming infected with something which lies very close to thought control and censorship . As examples , a left publication , the National Guardian , which was active in publicizing the injustice in the Rosenberg case but failed to note the defense errors , rejected an ad for my recently published pamphlet , " Freedom 's Electrocution , " on the ground that " to pick flaws in the conduct of the defense is now an academic matter . " On the other hand , the New Republic , known as liberal , refused to advertise my pamphlet on the ground that " the Rosenbergs are a Communist cause , and this being so , your advertisement falls in the category of those we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confusion , The Nation , which hospitably , accepted the ad , shines like a beacon of genuine liberalism . Los Angeles myna ' EDELMAN Why the Democrats Lost Dear Sirs : The Nation 's symposium of November 15 , The Meaning of the Election , presents many good reasons for the Republican victory but does not , in my opinion , come to grips with the most important reason of them all . This , I believe , is that most of its contributors were so busy- explaining why Eisenhower won that they failed to ask themselves the even more basic question : why did Stevenson lose ? The answer lies , more than anywhere else , in the inability of the Democratic Party to formulate a program that would provide a really dynamic alternative to the hopes , threats , and promises of the Republicans . Much of the Democratic campaign , in fact , geared itself to two talking points , both of them essentially negative : ( 1 ) " You never had it so good " ; ( 2 ) " We Democrats are really just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you in the methods to be used for combating communism . " The first slogan , as The Nation rightly pointed out in its November 15 editorial , angered multitudes of voters for whom it was simply not true . Not only this , but it antagonized many who recognized that the Democratic Administration deserved no credit for a prosperity based on an artificial war boom  --  a boom , they were afraid , which might collapse overnight if peace were achieved . At a pre-election political symposium here in Philadelphia , for example , a Democratic spokesman was asked from the floor what economic steps the Democrats proposed to take in the event'of a settlement in Korea . Faced by s this question , the spokesman displayed signs of embarrassment and was unable to give any definite reply . Apparently the possibility had never even occurred to him . As to the second talking point , its unfortunate effect was to place the Democrats in the unhappy role of " metoo-ers , " thereby causing them in effect to indorse McCarthyite objectives , even while protesting against McCarthyite procedures . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republicans were right in diagnosing the chief danger to the Republic as Communist subversion , they must be equally right in the methods used by them to combat this danger . This tacit acceptance by the Democrats of the basic Republican thesis prevented them from taking a constructive position effectively distinguishing them from the Republicans on many vital questions of foreign policy  --  notably that of a peace settlement in Korea . Hence when Eisenhower promised to go to Korea , Stevenson was powerless to give any adequate answer . If early in his campaign Stevenson had courageously pledged himself to an immediate cease-fire in Korea as a preliminary to further negotiations , and if he had steadily hammered away on this theme , I am confident that he could have been elected . This , however , he was obviously unable to do , for it was precisely such a cease-fire proposal that the Democratic Administration had rejected at the very beginning of the Korean truce talks and had thereafter consistently continued to reject . The 1952 election demonstrates that the uneasy coalition whiCh today calls itself the Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shreds and patches . It was the realization of this fact as long ago as 1948 which at that time caused some people to look with favor on the creation of a third political party . To point to the subsequent history of that party is no real answer to its supporters . For what has in fact since happened need not have occurred if in the earlier stages so many Americans had not allowed themselves to be intimidated or confused by the intellectual atmosphere which was then already all-pervasive . Now , four years later , many readers of The Nation will perhaps agree that a Truman defeat in 1948 might have been a-good deal better than the Eisenhower-Nixon victory we see today . In 1949 , when I was in China , I was not surprised to find most Chinese intellectuals welcoming the overthrow of the Chiang Kai-shek government , but I nevertheless felt keen disappointment at the failure of these same intellectuals to offer any real criticism of the government that followed . Since returning from China , however , events have forced me to adopt a more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intellectuals to speak out in authoritarian China , I have been compelled to wonder how it is possible for so many well-intentioned Americans in this democratic nation of ours to have retreated , step by step and with amazingly little outcry , from the concepts of decency , fair play , and open-mindedness which were once taken for granted . During the next four years there will undoubtedly be much soul-searching among the many persons who , like myself , voted for the Democratic program , not because it was inspiring or seemed to promise peace , but because it seemed the lesser of two evils . Let us hope that during these coming years we and the world can retain sufficient sanity to save ourselves from the holocaust of a third world war . Philadelphia DERK . BODDE Mugo 's Defense Dear Sirs : Readers of The Nation may be interested to know what finally happened to Mugo-son-of-Gatheru , the Kenya student who was uncesernoniously ordered out of this country at the height of the political disturbance in his homeland . ( See The Terror That Walks by Day , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Lincoln Usisversity asked two alumni who compose the-New York law firm of Mais and MvDougald to represent Mugo . This firm secured the services of an outstanding specialist on immigration law , Jack Wasserman , to assist it . On December 1 a suit was filed in Federal Court asking that cause be shown why Mugo 's visa should be revoked and seeking an injunction against his arrest and deportation . The suit was withdrawn when government attorneys gave assurance that Mugo would not be molested until his case comes up for trial . But Mugo 's case is not fully won , though his lawyers are convinced he has broken no immigration laws . In their desperation to make a case , these is evidence that government lawyers ase going to try to pin a " subversive " lain/ on Mugo because he was active in the militant but non-Communist Kenya African Union . There are indications , too , that they plan to accuse him of " subversion " because of his close association with some of us at Roosevelt College who were unfairly smeared some years ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an extremely important one because the question what constitutes " subversion " under the terms of the McCarran act will be raised . Mugo is penniless . Mais and McDougald are giving their services free , but money is needed to pay for specialist services , secretarial work , and travel expenses . President Bond of Lincoln University and members of his faculty have organized The Friends of Mugo Gathers ' ? a . Committee to Insure an American Education to an African Student . Contributions are urgently needed . Regular reports on the progress of the case will be sent to contributors , along with an audited statement of expenditures . Any funds remaining from the defense will be used to further Mugo 's education . A contribution today will be a real Christmas gift for Mugo . It should- be mailed to Friends of Mugo , in case of Dr. Thomas M. Jones , Professor of History , Lincoln University , Pennsylvania .. Chicago ST . CLAIR BRAKE                     