@@494408

Political " Readjustment " EISENHOWER 'S business administration is proving its flexibility . The defeat in Wisconsin and the downturn in the economy brought hurried conferences and deep thinking . The result , some forecasters with direct White House pipelines report , is to be a major policy reversal : a resignation to the continuance of some Fair Deal programs and a turn to " preventive " economics . The veteran Republican David Lawrence 's US News sadly announces that : ? An unbalanced budget no longer is regarded officially as frightening . It 's almost being taken for granted , as the political climate changes so soon after last November . What Republican policy makers are learning is this : Once people become convinced that government can solve their problems , or give them aid in time of trouble , they will insist on that aid . People , with the vote , will look to government for a guarantee of good times ; will tend to be impatient of any adversity , any " adjustment . " Some of the " preventives " the White House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ winter are : easier money , with lower reserve requirements for banks , smaller down payments on houses and more loans for repairs ; more tax cuts to bolster buying power ; continued high price supports for farmers ? and air-mail subsidies , ship subsidies and other such aids to business to be continued too ; government guarantees for local government bonds to permit states to spend and thus stimulate the flow of money . The net result , David Lawrence 's publication resignedly concludes , is that : Government , that was to grow smaller , probably will end up by growing bigger , as it always has in the past . People 's demands are insatiable . . . Welfare state , instead of being narrowed , will be broadened . The GOP and the Indians IN ITS ZEAL for transferring responsibility to the states , the new Administration is trying to administer Indian affairs by revoking tederal protections . President Eisenhower recently signed a bill ? Public Law 280 ? opening the way for state civil and criminal control over Indian communities regardless of local conditions . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " individual trust protection and federal services to Indians . Another would liquidate all tribal organizations and dispose of their assets within three years . Still another threatens the rights of Alaskan Indians and natives to their lands and waters . The Association on American Indian Affairs charges that the Department of Interior and the Congress are ignoring the " tragic history " of state and local discrimination against Indians . This " abandonment " of legal responsibility , says the Association , has produced " a crisis more acute than any that has faced the Indians in our time , " and " repudiates the promises of a century . " Meanwhile , angry citizens in North Dakota told US Commissioner of Indian Affairs , Glenn L. Emmons , that Indian children are dying in " concentration camp " conditions at the Turtle Mountain Reservation . The Diminishing Fifth THE INDIVIDUAL 'S privilege against selfincrimination , protected by the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution , is slowly contracting under the impact of Congressional investigating committees and the Eisenhower Administration . The two latest thrusts at the ' privilege come from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordered that the security program for federal employees be amended so as to permit action against those employees who refuse , " upon the ground of constitutional privilege against self-incrimination , to testify before a Congressional committee regarding charges of his , alleged disloyalty or other misconduct . " Federal employees are thus threatened with dismissal and disgrace for daring to exercise publicly their constitutional privilege not to be witnesses against themselves , although there has been no indication that an appreciable number of such employees had asserted this privilege and retained their position on the public payroll . A more fundamental assault came from Brownell , who announced that he would ask Congress for a law that would strip Witnesses appearing before Congressional committees of their privilege against self-incrimination by , granting them complete immunity from prosecution , provided the immunity was approved by the Attorney-General . Witnesses could then be compelled to answer all questions on threat of contempt action . Two similar proposals are presently pending before Congress , one of which , the McCarran bill , has already passed the Senate . Bitter debate has been stirred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposal . The Dollar A check of big cities across the nation reveals that money is a little ' , larder to get . In some areas , failures to meet payments on consumer and personal loans is at a postwar high . And repossessions are way above last year 's figures . The explanation most often given : loss of over-time pay . The majority of those in trouble are factory workers paid by the hour . Banks and loan companies are getting tough . Delinquencies are followed up very quickly and loan-application standards have been stiffened . Some lenders are rejecting 80 percent of all applications ; six months ago the rate was 50 percent . No one admits to being worried yet , but the lenders expect the rise to continue . Nov the Unions THERE is an Eisenhower anti-union drive as well as an Eisenhower drive against public power and against farm supports . The instrument , in the case of unions , is Guy Farmer , new chairman of the National Labor Relations Board . Farmer disclosed his hand when in a series of decisions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involving long-established NLRB precedents . He scoffed at the idea that the federal government should protect the right of collective bargaining for workers in what he called " small " firms . He was in the minority then , before Democrats stepped off the board , ' but now he is a member of the majority . The board today consists of three Republicans and one Democrat , and only one member , oddly enough the Republican Ivar Peterson , sharply disagrees with Farmer 's philosophy . A fifth member who agrees with Farmer , one may be sure , will be appointed . Farmer told a group of business editors in Washington last week that he frankly did not intend to follow precedents " when they are wrong. - He asserted that out of 14,000 NLRB cases last year more than 1,400 were " small , " and therefore should not have been accepted by the national board . The meaning of this is clarified by returning to the statement of another NLRB appointee of Eisenhower 's , who declared as he was sworn in that the Taft-Hartley law should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past . Any board member who tries to enforce the " intent " of the 80th Congress will necessarily be rather grim toward unions . Neither Farmer nor his new GOP colleagues has a comprehension of the 125-year-old Jacksonian idea that the federal government sometimes is the most effective American instrument of social justice , the defender of even the smallest unit of our society . Neither does Ike . Another Roosevelt ? ANOTHER Roosevelt may be elected Governor of New York next year as a result of the disintegration of Eisenhower-Dewey ' prestige and the startling recovery of Northern New Dealers from their 1952 defeat . Rep. Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr . has his eyes on the statehouse in Albany ? and much depends on whether the usually reliable New York Daily News poll is right in indicating a landslide victory for Robert F. Wagner Jr . in New York City 's mayoralty election November 3 . Governor Dewey is in deep trouble . The Republican Party in New York as well as New Jersey is splattered with racketeer-racetrack mud ? and respectable newspapers are now editorially demanding that Republicans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although ' still high , is slipping , and election results in Wisconsin and Connecticut suggest that in any case his prestige is non-transferable . GOP candidates for Congress and for municipal offices get a stony reception when they ask the voters to support them on an - I'm- for- Ike-  platform . New Dealers , on the other hand , are riding high in the North . Wagner 's victory in the New York City Democratic primary smashed the schemes of James A. Farley to make a comeback as party kingmaker . If Wagner is elected , the liberal element in the Democratic Party will be encouraged to start an all-out drive for the statehouse . There is talk that Averell Harriman , who pitched in brilliantly to beat back the Farley drive in the primary , would like the New York Governorship himself . But Harriman will be 63 next month ; young Roosevelt is only 38 , and Harriman has no place to go after the Governorship . The New Dealers , having reasserted control of the New York Democratic Party , are not likely to tear themselves apart in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determined to make sure that their tradition continues in the national party . If Wagner wins New York City , FDR Jr . is likely to have his chance at Albany , from which his father leaped to four terms in the White House . What he makes of the opportunity will depend on his own demonstration of political character , dependability and integrity , as a campaigner and at present a member of Congress .                     