@@476336

THAT criticism comes easier than craftsmanship is an axiom as old as human culture . Little love has been lost through the centuries between the creative artist and the " criticizing elves " who undertake to judge his work for pay . Nowhere has this tension run higher than in the theater , for nowhere is creative work so directly or so materially affected by the impact of critical opinion . And seldom , in theatrical history , has the cry of " Foul ! " sounded as shrilly or as frequently as it does on Broadway today . Our theater is strangled in a bottleneck . That bottleneck is made up of a group of men who are hired to report the events of our stage and who more and more are acquiring powers which , as a group , they are not qualified to exercise ? either by their training or by their taste . And it is increasingly becoming the case that these men are deciding what plays are given hearings , what plays make up the institution which is our theater , and what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . . More than five years have passed since these words appeared , one morning , in a paid advertisement on the drama page of the New York Times . Since its signatories , Elia Kazan and Harold Clurman , are today among the most consistently and generously appreciated figures in our theater , they have had little occasion , lately , to repeat their protest . Other smarting producers , though sharing their indignation , have not emulated their audacity . The deathbed of an unsuccessful play is not the most propitious platform from which to launch a reform movement against the current structure of show business . The practical effects of the " Truckline Caf ? " manifesto were nil . Yet its point is as valid and its charges are , in some respects , even better founded in 1951 than they were in 1946 : ( 1 ) on Broadway today , the critics ' authority is absolute ; ( 2 ) their verdict is virtually without appeal ; ( 3 ) such despotic power in the hands of so few men , no matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ health and jeopardizes the future of the American theater . IN niosi- metropolitan societies there have existed certain accredited individuals , supposed experts , whose published judgments have tended to predispose their readers , for better or worse , toward newly presented works of art . In the theater , especially , critics have been perpetually active and frequently potent . Yet theatrical history abounds with instances of plays that either ignored or defied their disapproval . In recent years on Broadway , there have been a number of such rebels ? not only " Abie 's Irish Rose " or " Hellzapoppin " or even " Tobacco Road " ( which has a very peculiar economic history all its own ) , but also plays of serious content and artistic pretension . Such a play was The Old Maid , " adapted by Zoe Akins from a novel by Edith Wharton , which opened at the Empire Theater under the management of Harry Moses in the first week of January 1935 . With one exception , the next morning 's reviews ranged from mediocre to poor . This adverse reception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opening week , receipts fell to around $9,000 the second , and below $8,000 the third . But the producer of the play was an obstinate man who had come into the theater by way of the ladies ' garment business . Besides his natural loyalty to the production of his bosom , he had a passionate faith in " The Old Maid " as a Woman 's Play . He had some experience in merchandising and , above all , he was risking his own money . So he persevered . Around the end of the first month , his faith was rewarded by a 30 per cent jump in business . For the next ten weeks receipts hung between $10,000 and $12,000 a week . At this figure the show could live . Then , one spring morning , " The Old Maid " received the Pulitzer Prize as the best American play of the year . The gross immediately leaped to $16,000 and continued that way into the dog days . The critics ' indignation over the award , the cries of " absurd " and " incredible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With a record of over three hundred Broadway performances and a substantial motion-picture sale on his books , Harry Moses found himself , in the fall of 1935 , not merely vindicated , but also richer by many thousands of dollars . That same year offered another , even more striking instance of survival : that of a poetic drama by one of America 's best-known playwrights . Following an opening night which , according to the New York Times , " did not communicate the beat and heat of glorious drama , " the critics were of two minds , and the reviews of " Winterset " were decidedly mixed . A fortnight later , genuinely concerned with the future of poetic drama on the local stage , a number of critics reviewed the play a second time , more favorably than before . ( This reversal was based , admittedly , upon a reading of the script with which a thoughtful management had meantime supplied them . ) " Winterset " ran at the Martin Beck Theater for many months and its backers received a substantial profit on their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the following year , when the newly formed New York Drama Critics ' Circle met in an upper room of the Algonquin Hotel to bestow its first annual award for the best play of the year , the choice of these same critics fell , by a clear majority of fourteen to three , upon " Winter-set . " Author Maxwell Anderson , in his speech of acceptance , " criticized the Pulitzer Prize as lacking the authority of the Critics ' Award , " thus helping to set up that very bottleneck of " critical authority " which the producers of his own play , " Truckline Cafe , " were so bitterly condemning ten years later . D URING the late thirties and well into the early forties a producer could , with courage or luck or skill , defy a measure of critical condemnation . But within the decade 1935-1945 a drastic change was taking place in the economy of the Broadway theater . By 1945 the critics ' verdict had become absolute , irrevocable , and almost instant in its execution . The records of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Broadway management 's successfully challenging a predominantly adverse critical verdict . II T HE sources of the critics ' present formidable power are not mysterious . They fall into two distinct yet related categories : ( 1 ) Economic . With theatrical costs at their current extravagant level ( both production and running costs having risen out of all proportion to potential receipts ) , no play can expect to live long on Broadway unless , on the morning after its opening , it is formally received into the small but blessed company of the hits . Mixed notices are hardly less difficult to survive than all bad ones . If it 's not a hit , it 's a flop " is a repulsive maxim ; but the canyons of Broadway are littered with the whitened bones of those who have tried to disprove it . Musicals might seem , at first sight , to be in a class by themselves . With a pre-opening sale of over a half million dollars ? acquired through the established fame of its corn.ponent parts ? a big-name musical may coast along for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But this appearance of prosperity is illusory . Half a million dollars ' worth of presold tickets represents a lot of paying customers ? but not enough to keep a Broadway musical running for long . No matter how strong the initial impetus may be , it is still impossible , without substantial critical support , to generate and sustain the titanic enthusiasm required to get the present-day monster musical off the ground . Time was when the average drama could survive if it played to only a few thousand people a week . If it played to 75,000 customers in all , its chances of paying off were good . Today the audience required to get a production out of the red is nearer a quarter of a million for a drama , three quarters of a million for a musical . And since the total number of New York theater-goers has shrunk rather than grown in the past twenty years , the current Broadway pattern has assumed this curious shape : on the one hand , fewer theaters , fewer shows , fewer theatergoers ; on the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duration unknown to earlier times . Today , with good reason , the entire Broadway mechanism ( be it " Guys and Dolls " or " King Lear " that is in the works ) is geared to the concept of the Big Gamble ? its outcome dependent upon one single factor : the impression made upon a handful of newspapermen on the night of the show 's first Broadway performance . ( 2 ) Cultural . This is a time of centralized power and surrendered authority . " Never before have so many people searched so desperately for guidance as today " is true not only of science , religion , and politics . Thesame " anxious turning to guides and oracles " characterizes most recent developments in the realms of business and culture . The consumers ' concentration upon the publicized product and the nationally advertised brand finds its cultural counterpart in the preselected best seller and the smash hit of Show Business . In the theater this audience inertia coincides with a shrinking market ; two evils which grow by feeding on each other . Gone are the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than two hundred productions a year to choose from . Today there are fewer than two dozen theaters in Manhattan , and an average of seventy productions a season . The social habit of regular , selective theater-going has all but vanished from our city 's cultural life . It is a safe guess that of the three-quarters of a million persons who paid to see " A Streetcar Named Desire " during its New York run , less than half were regular theater-goers . The rest were in there " catching a hit , " from motives that have more to do with herd behavior than with individual theatrical curiosity . In the great spiral of success that culminated in a national attendance of over two million , what was the prime mover ? What set off the original explosion from which this great chain reaction ultimately developed , and turned a modest opening on the stage of a shabby Manhattan playhouse into an international enterprise ? The hurriedly written reviews of nine New York newspaper-men ! * III I T wAs the frequently expressed opinion of George Bernard Shaw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . * Not all the dramatic criticism in America , of course , is written on the banks of the Hudson River . Boston has a number of respectable critics ; so does Philadelphia . But theirs is usually the unenviable job of reviewing either road companies of established New York successes or half-baked , loosely-basted productions in their try-out stages . Chicago , once a theatrical center with high critical standards , has today a whirlwind , one-woman dictatorship of the city 's musical and theatrical taste in the person of Claudia Cassidy of the Tribune , who takes legitimate pride in asserting her independence of Broadway opinions . But , since almost all commercial production nowadays originates in New York and is intended primarily for Broadway showing , it is with the New York critics first and last that the authority lies . This is not the practice on Broadway . With every show that opens some three hundred seats are set aside for the press . ( Each critic receives not one , but a pair of seats , presumably on the assumption that he will be more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companion of his choice . ) Fifty-four names figure on the first-night press list . The New York Times has a total allotment of seven pairs of seats . The Herald Tribune and the Daily News get five apiece ; other important dailies , four or three . Among those on the list are four wire services , two Newark papers , George Jean Nathan , Cue , Time , Retailing , the Morning Telegraph , the New Yorker , Vogue , Women 's Wear Daily , the Journal of Commerce , the Wall Street Journal , and the two major radio networks . The second-night list carries between ninety and one hundred names . Yet of these three hundred persons who receive free admissions to Broadway shows , the number of those who exert a direct and immediate influence upon the economic ( and artistic ) destinies of the productions they cover does not exceed two dozen . This roughly coincides with the membership of the New York Drama Critics ' Circle which , as its main public function , bestows annual awards in three categories for the best drama @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Further proceedings of the Critics ' Circle are described thus by one of its founders and leading members : Members of the Circle ask only two things : ( I ) to have the full right to personal opinion and , ( 2 ) not to have to associate socially . After the votes have been taken in a workmanlike manner , one member proposes that the Circle meet regularl ! , once a month at luncheon . A feeling of panic sweeps across the room . The prospect , not of talking to a critic , which is enviable , but of listening to a critic , which is unbearable , alarms everyone . The motion is voted down with a roar of horror and outrage . For balloting purposes each member of the Circle has an equal vote . This equality does not apply to their reviews , however , Between * Once Around the Sun by Brooks Atkinson , Harcourt , Brace , 1951. the weight of Brooks Atkinson 's notice in the New York Times and that of Thomas Dash in the Daily News Record , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to one . I ERE , in their most general categories , follow an opening : First , in a power-are the various types of notices that class by themselves , are the nine accredited reviewers of the metropolitan dailies ? the five morning and four evening papers . The morning papers are the most important . They are read first and they have , by far , the larger total circulation . Dominating the field is the New York Times with the largest " quality " circulation in the city : half a million on weekdays , one million on Sundays . the same class , but of lesser circula-In is the Herald Tribune . A show with tion , of these in its favor is off to a good both start . recent years they have tended to dis-In agree wherever disagreement seemed possible and often where it did not . This has given an additional weight to the verdict of the Daily News , with its monster circulation of in excess of two million on weekdays and four million on Sundays . As a tabloid catering to an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Times and Tribune , the News can not , by itself , assure a hit . Combined with either of them , it is a potent force . Of the other influential papers , the Brooklyn Eagle has a limited coverage , and the Compass , with a distinguished critic in the person of Arthur Pollock , has a somewhat special and diminutive circulation . The tabloid Mirror has a critic of small personal influence ; it is read in the main by non-theater-going people . The same is true of the city 's other Hearst paper , the Journal-American . Among the afternoon papers , the most potent is the Post with a circulation of almost four hundred thousand and a critic with a substantial personal following : Richard Watts . The merged World-Telegram and Sun has a large circulation but its readers are likely , by afternoon , to have had their minds made up for them by the Times or Tribune , and its critic , William Hawkins , is unlikely to change them . Next to the dailies in point of time are the wire services which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country over . They tend to reflect the aggregate opinion of the metropolitan press . So do the radio reporters who actually get the first word out to the public of New York and its environs , but whose influence is fairly negligible . Not so that of the leading weeklies , which either by virtue of their vast coverage ( Time , Life , Newsweek , etc. ) or through the quality of their writing ( Saturday Review , New Yorker , New Republic , etc. ) play a considerable part in shaping national opinion . Since their reports are somewhat delayed and scattered , they do not immediately affect a play 's business ; their final effect , that of broadening the base and consolidating the massive edifice of a Broadway hit , is potent but indirect . Columnists , too , contribute to this process of consolidation . Though they are , collectively , under suspicion of egomania , back-scratching , and frequent irresponsibility , it remains a matter of historic record that Walter Winchell successfully championed " Hellzapoppin " against the unanimous contumely of the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " trades " ( especially Variety ) whose theater reports , although unread by the general public , are of high quality and of vital importance to the professional elements involved . Br I T IS true , then , what they said about Broadway : That the power of theatrical life and death is today vested in those nine newspapermen who , in any particular season , happen to occupy the positions of drama critics on the principal daily newspapers of New York City . ' What manner of men these drama critics are , and how they exercise an authority which economic circumstances , rather than their own ambition , has thrust upon them must be the subjects of our next inquiry . We might begin by dispelling three major fallacies : First ? that the New York drama critics are venal . They are not . While their victims and detractors may claim and adduce evidence to the effect that certain critics , on certain occasions , have shown themselves to be ignorant , stuffy , prejudiced , vindictive , bigoted , somnolent , guilty of log-rolling , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not true that a good notice on a New York daily can be acquired by bribery , direct or indirect , or through influence , or by pressure upon the advertising department . That sometimes , on one or other of our more arbitrarily conducted papers , the critic may have been subjected to some form of editorial pressure is possible ? but difficult to prove. * Second ? that the critics , directly or through their women , forgather in the lobby between acts and compare notes . They do not . ( Vide above : " Proceedings of the Drama Critics ' Circle . " ) Third ? that members of the New York Drama Critics ' Circle arc malevolent theater-haters , cawing like glutted vultures over a stricken field of ruinous failures . This is the silliest of all . To a man , the New York critics are desperately anxious to promote the impression of glamour and excitement emanating from their journalistic beat . Every fall as the new season comes limping onto the Broadway stage , the critics lean forward in their seats , with bated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theatrical thrill . Similarly , after a long mid-season stretch of gloom and ineptitude , at the faintest glimmer of theatrical quality , the drama critics behave like Eskimos greeting the sun . Now and then , of course , the temptations to malice are irresistible . But the plain truth is that the critics dread the prospect of a had play and hate to sit through it , just as sports writers hate to witness an ineffectual prize fight or a crime reporter loathes a dull trial . The drama critics love the theater ? if only in self-protection . Consider their schedule . In the thirty-odd weeks of the theatrical season , the critics normally cover between sixty and eighty productions . At the peak of the season they may be seeing between three and five shows a week , ranging from dramas and comedies to " experimental " ventures and musical spectacles . Each of these must be attended between 8:00 and 10:30 P.M. After that , within less than an hour 's lapsed time , from portal to portal , they are expected to produce a piece @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instance that comes to mind is the evident bias with which certain productions of the Federal Theater were reviewed in the extreme anti-New-Deal papers . Yet here , too , there were clear cases of drama critics refusing to conform and continuing to judge the WPA shows by purely theatrical standards ? and not being ? fired . kind of style , conveying with some clarity the subject matter , the artistic quality , the individual elements , and a general personal impression of the work just witnessed . Is it any wonder that the notices turned out under such conditions sometimes fail to compare favorably with the major works of critical literature ? I NDEED , applied to this particular operation , the word criticism is a misnomer . The function performed by these men , under such conditions , is less that of critics than of reporters ? reporters of artistic occurrences if you will , but of news events nevertheless . Several attempts have been made to postpone the publication of theatrical reviews until the second morning after the premiere , thus allowing the men who cover the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in question . Every such attempt has been blocked on the grounds that last night 's opening is a news event , and that news delayed for so much as twenty-four hours is stale news and therefore unacceptable both to the editor and to the readers of a metropolitan newspaper . What the reader of the drama page of a New York daily paper is looking for is not a well-documented aesthetic evaluation of a dramatic performance which he has not seen ; he wants to be told in terms that he can easily understand what last night 's show was about , how it looked , how it was acted , and whether at six dollars a ticket he should take his wife ? or anyone else ? to see it . The New York drama critic is his readers ' chosen representative in the playhouse on opening night . Brooks Atkinson , for a quarter of a century drama critic of the New York Times , misses no opportunity of restating this point of view . " A play-goer of this generation " ; " this theater-goer " ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a speculative theater-goer " ; " a reluctantly churlish theatergoer " ; " a literal-minded theater-goer " : these are phrases culled at random from his notices over the years . Rarely does the personal view assert itself until after this initial reportorial task has been accomplished . " Having duly rendered a report , this column would now like to make a few grave remarks . . . . " Thus the critic reconciles his personal integrity with a scrupulous discharge of his professional assignment on New York 's most important daily newspaper . Within recent years , the drama critics have found themselves charged with a further and not always welcome function . They are expected to prognosticate a show 's success ; they must inform their readers whether it is a " hit " or a " flop . " So accepted a part of their office has this become that Variety some years ago set itself up as a self-appointed " police service " to expose what it termed " doubtful " or " double-talk " notices and to record mathematically , at year 's end , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This compilation was known as the Critics ' Box Score . For the season of 1948-1949 it looked like this The critics resented this tabulation . " A mugg 's hassle , " one of them called it . And with good reason . A reviewer or even a reporter does not enjoy seeing his function frankly reduced to that of theatrical tipster . And for the conscientious drama critic this type of mathematic computation brings up grave ethical and professional problems which tear him between his personal taste , his reportorial integrity , his anxiety to guess it right , and his desire to promote better things in the theater . No wonder the suppression , this spring , of Variety 's gratuitous " policing job " was greeted with general exclamations of relief . THE average age of the New York drama critics is slightly over fifty . In the scale of newspaper salaries , theirs run moderately high . Their tenure , once established , is likely to be of some duration ; an accepted drama critic " of whose personality his readersare conscious and whose opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a metropolitan paper . Recognizing that the assignment is primarily journalistic , editors tend to favor men with no specialized theatrical knowledge or training . Of the scattering of men and women in America who write with scholarship and perception about the contemporary theater , few hold , or have recently held , the position of drama critic on a New York daily paper . Stark Young , long our most brilliant and sensitive connoisseur of theatrical values , lasted a bare season on the New York Times before he retreated to the more tranquil pages of the New Republic , in the post now worthily filled by Harold Clurman . George Jean Nathan , a mart of increasingly erratic theatrical tastes , but for many years a most perspicacious judge of plays , today writes drama criticism for a small-circulation monthly and a weekly column syndicated in papers that are virtually unread by theatergoing people . John Mason Brown , after some years of service on the New York Post , now writes a weekly essay for the Saturday Review of Literature . Eric Bentley , author of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Thinker ) , is off in Europe , writing another . Rosamond Gilder , long critic and editor of Theatre Arts Monthly , is teaching and writing books . So are John Gassner and Joseph Wood Krutch. ow let us briefly examine the background and professional histories of a few of the current occupants of the Seats on the Aisle . John Chapman ( aet . 51 ) has been with the New York Daily News since 1926 , first as a reporter , then as drama editor and second-string critic under Burns Mantle . For nine years he conducted a Broadway column and continued with a two-year stint as Hollywood correspondent . Upon Mantle 's retirement , Chapman assumed his job . His writing and his opinions both reflect his many years of apprenticeship under a man who professionally and personally loved the theater . He writes with easy efficiency and without pretension or distinction of style . His long experience of show business , including a firsthand working knowledge of motion pictures gives his pieces a valuable perspective . Richard Watts ( aet . 53 ) was for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Sunday column that frequently wandered into general considerations of an aesthetic and social nature . He became drama critic in 1936 . During the war he was Dublin representative of the U. S. Office of War Information and Special Assistant to the American Minister to Eire . Later he represented the OWI in Chungking . Five years ago he became drama critic of the New York Post . His style and viewpoint are more personal than most ; he is one of the more literate and cultivated of our critics , yet it is felt by many that he has never quite realized the high hopes set up in his earlier , more purposeful writing on the Tribune . His successor on the Herald Tribune was , until this spring , Howard Barnes , a man who will be remembered mainly for his energy . As drama and motion-picture critic for the Tribune , during about a decade , he covered nearly all theatrical openings and most of the major film-runnings in New York . He was an efficient reporter when not overtired , but he started and ended with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he covered . A recent addition to the fraternity is John Maclain , former ship reporter on the New York Sun , Hollywood screenwriter , member of the U. S. Navy , columnist and critic , last spring on the Journal-American . I T is a common and distressing sight , on opening nights , to see producer , director , and press agent , together with a number of others connected with the production , defying the fire laws by pacing the rear of the theater , stopping occasionally to stare not at the stage , but into the auditorium , trying to gauge , from the faces of the gentlemen on the aisles , how the show is going . It may be noted , on these melancholy occasions , that the spot at which they stop , and from which they peer , most frequently , is that offering the clearest view of the couple occupying seats D 101 and 102 . Each detail of expression , rictus , or evidence of emotion on the face of the man sitting in D 101 is carefully studied and estimated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theatrical review : that of Brooks Atkinson of the New York Times . With one four-year hiatus , while he served as foreign correspondent , first in China , then in the Soviet Union , Brooks Atkinson has been drama critic of the Times for twenty-five years . Before that he was editor of its book section . He is the author of several books himself and an essayist of considerable charm . He has shown himself , as a drama critic , to be a man of earnest integrity and continuing passion . His journalistic style is forthright and lively , with occasional evidences of that forced energy that comes of staleness or fatigue . He is a man of decided personal opinions , veering sometimes into sharp prejudice when confronted with tendencies which he considers unhealthy or otherwise noxious to the American theater , whose chief guardian he feels himself to be . His approach is basically literary ; his artistic tastes incline to the conservative ; he shows incomprehension , amounting to allergy , in the presence of any pronounced form of theatrical style ; of music and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nevertheless , with few exceptions , the vital and ambitious ventures in our theater ? both the single productions and the burgeoning organisms ? have found him a generous and constant ally . And , alone of his whole fraternity , he has devoted much time and thought to the social and economic problems which confront our stage with ever-growing urgency . Deeply conscious of the responsibility which his great power lays upon him , and using his Sunday column as his pulpit , he has supported with unflagging zeal and frequent eloquence those causes which he considers in the best interests of the American theater . He is second to none in his enthusiasm for the Broadway vernacular and in his admiration for the efficient vitality of the American musical . Yet none sees more clearly or has tried harder to extend the realization that our theater 's best hope of survival lies , not in lavishness of production or in the massive triumphs of show business , but in the textual quality and artistic energy of its work . After a quarter of a century on the shrinking Broadway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ season 's end , there creeps into his column a sense of frustration or a note of despondency ? But never fear , it is nothing that a summer in the Catskills wo n't fix . Come next Labor Day , or before , he 'll be back in D 101 , as strong as ever , his faith miraculously restored in the essential soundness of the taste of that average educated American theater-goer whom he so conscientiously represents . the contemporary theater . It is particularly unfortunate that these special performances should be given for the benefit of men many of whom never really function as critics at all . After they have fulfilled their reportorial function , their tipster function , and , maybe , their guardian-angel function , there is little time , space , or energy left for genuine theatrical appraisal . What appear are , at best , block notices : general impressions rather than skilled evaluations . Since most of the New York drama critics are professional writers of one sort or another , they are least insecure when judging the subject matter or even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every other theatrical department they are generally lacking in technical knowledge and devoid of consistent or considered artistic standards . Direction is judged pragmatically , rarely in terms of its theatrical qualities and vices ; scenery and costumes are judged by their initial impact upon the eye rather than by their final validity within the mood and action of the production they are intended to serve ; acting , in the absence of any serious frame of experience or reference , is judged almost entirely on the " I know what I like " principle of personal attraction or revulsion . The artist whose fate depends upon these judgments takes an ambivalent view of the critics . They are men before whose material power he trembles but whose artistic opinions he finds himself unable or unwilling to respect ; he resents their human and professional frailties all the more since , economically , he hears them speaking with the voices of gods .                     