@@487576

IN OCTOBER , 1952 , I visited Japan on my way to . the International Conference on Planned Parenthood at Bombay , India , just thirty years after my first eventful stay there . I found that thinking men and women were still concerned with the- great problem of how to curb population growth , how to bring the rapidly increasing number of people in their islands into a sane and humane balance with the country 's limited resources . In other ways there was a vast difference between the two visits . The military controlled Japan thirty years ago . Officials were so shocked at the idea of birth control being openly discussed that my lectures were greatly curtailed . I had been invited to Japan by a number of liberal intellectuals known as the Kaizo group , who planned a series of lectures to be given by four Western writers and leaders of thought . The first was Bertrand Russell , the second , Albert Einstein ; I was to be the third . I was finally allowed - to discuss " Population and Peace " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' a public platform . The uproar it official circles over my subject cut short the Kaizo project , As a consequence H. G. Wells , who was to follow me , never went to Japan to deliver his lecture . On my receni visit I was warmly welcomed , invited to speak whenever possible , urged to help in the effort to educate the Japa-nese people to avail themselves of government-sanctioned medical means of spacing their babies . The population of Japan in 1922 was 66,000,000 . Each year this hard-working , courageous , courteous , heaUty-loving people was adding between 750,000 and 800,000 to its teeming millions  --  new lives to care for , new mouths to feed . The available space at that time , although very inadequate , was much greater than it is today , since the military-planned expansion had allowed Japanese families to take up residence in Formosa , Korea , Manchuria , and the islands of the western Pacific . By June 1 , 1952 , 85,000,600 people were living in a space that had been greatly reduced by Japan 's defeat in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fact that no people in the world today are making greiter sacrifices in the effort to lower their birth rate than the Japanese . The idea of family limitation is not new to them . At the time of the Meiji Restoration in 1867 , when the Emperor 's sweeping reforms brought the Islands into contact with Western sanitation and health measures , the population had been stationary for more than a century . The first national census in - 1726 produced the figure of 26,000,000 . The census of 1846 still showed 26,000,000 . The number had been kept down by the practice of infanticide , high infant and maternal mortality , a high stillbirth rate , and numerous abortions . Two children were considered enough for any family to feed and educate . The sharp population increase began shortly after Commodore Perry 's historic visit to Japan in 1854 , which opened some ports to foreign trade . The rise occurred despite continuing high stillbirth and infant-mortality rates . Statistics available for the early twentieth century show some 90 stillbirths per 1,000 births . By 1920 both the birth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 66 per 1,000 . THE time of my first visit to Japan the intelligent people I met seemed eager for information about birth control and , more important , to pass on this help to those who needed it most . They wanted to avoid un-desired pregnancies and an increasing birth rate . The density of population in 1920 was 380 persons per square mile of land area . In Japan , a country of mountains and rivers , only one acre in six is cultivable . This meant that if the people had been distributed evenly over the cultivable land , each square mile of such land would have contained 2,500 persons . Thinking people knew that the increasing land hunger would lead to disastrous , humiliating War . But the military clique which was growing in power at that time had its own plans . Its encouragement of big families and denial of the knowledge of how families could be limited forced women into the cruel practice of abortion . In 1938 a Ministry of Health and Social Affairs was created . From this time on , physical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the same year the Japanese government approved the Eugenic Protection law legalizing the interruption of pregnancy for medical and eugenic reasons . This further increased the number of abortions . After the war the birth rate and stillbirth rate rose sharply in Japan , as in Germany and many other court-tries . At the present time it is difficult to differentiate between stillbirths and induced abortions . Many Japanese women , even though induced abortion is legal and since 1946 has been permitted for economic as well as physical reasons , fail to register abortions as such . By law , abortions after the third month of pregnancy , when the foetus is viable , must be reported . Stillbirths from the fourth month to gestation must be reported by the family but not necessarily by the physician . It is hoped that a new project undertaken by Dr. Y. Koya , Director of Public Health , will produce a more reliable way of determining the number of abortions and stillbirths . Despite the confusion of figures , the conservative estimate of most physicians is that there were one million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is expected to be twice as large , and unless one of the new simple , inexpensive contraceptives is available soon , even larger the following year . Hunger , misery , and overcrowding are part of this desperate situation . Though physicians have improved their techniques of abortion during the past year , it is tragic that women must resort to this traumatic method of terminating an unborn life when they might be supplied with safe contraceptives , easy to use and within their income . Many new simple contraceptives are showing promise in the experimental stage  --  jellies , pills , and injections that include vitamins , hormones , enzymes , and special chemicals . The need for them is great everywhere , but nowhere greater than in Japan . The government recently legalized birth control , the first in the world to take this step. , UnfortunateIy an adequate educational program has not been worked out , one which stresses the important fact that abortion is not contraception , that there are better and safer ways of spacing pregnancies and limiting families . Several interesting health projects were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most fruitful is the series of test studies being conducted in three rural villages , sponsored by the Organization for Research on Populalation Health and directed by Dr. Y. Koya . These studies have proved that the population problem in Japan has shifted from the economic to the public-health field , that the prevalence of abortions has- adversely affected the health of Japanese mothers . I rejoice that the organization has taken the correct strong stand against induced abortions and hope that it will go on to favor birth control by contraceptive methods and so make abortions unnecessary . Abortions threaten the health of the mother without preventing renewed pregnancy at an early date . Next to infanticide they are the worst means of checking population increase . In Japan as anywhere the general . practice of induced abortion merely replaces one evil with another . Let us hope that an end to this suffering , waste , enfeeblement , and despair is in sight . Let us hope that soon a simple , safe contraceptive will emerge from the research laboratories . Japan is ready and eager to take advantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the current rapid increase in the world 's population is urgently needed , not just in Japan but everywhere . Each countrycan cooperate in ascertaining these factors with the hope that the United Nations will eventually propose a sound population policy . Basic requirements are adequate data on birth and death rates , evaluation of attitudes on the spacing of children and on family limitation , and a study of methods of contraception .                     