@@494327

DECEMBER 27 , 1954 almost no trader relations with Russia ; now she depends on the Soviet bloc for 30 percent of her foreign trade : much of her coal and non-ferrous metals as well as an increasing amount of indus ? trial materials . Russia today supplies 90 percent of Finland 's petroleum needs , and a new trade agreement will raise that figure to 98 percent by 1960 . The same agreement will significantly boost the 30 percent over-all trade figure . Since Russian reparation demands were especially severe in metal wares , which Finland did not ordinarily export , the expansion of Finnish industry re The combination of cold war com ? mitments with the need to maintain atomic deterrents against a hot war has severely overloaded the defense machin ? ery of the Western world . And in addi ? tion to this overstrain , defense planning is crippled by the inability of govern ? ments to decide how atomic weapons will affect strategy and diplomacy in the next few years . Britain is just be ? ginning to realize the nature of her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japan the West has ' regarded its atomic armory as the Great Deterrent against world war . Now that - Russia too is thought to have a growing stock of atomic weap ? ons , many observers foresee an atomic stalemate in which co ? existence will be the only alternative to no existence ; whatever doctrinaires on either side may think . For so long as the opponents in a possible war have whole continents at their disposal , even the most devastating atomic blitzkrieg could not be sure of destroying the enemy 's power to retaliate in kind . And , while even now adequate air defense against jet bombers would be prohibi ? tively expensive , defense against the inter-continental guided missiles which will soon be available will be impossible . But if the use of such weapons is likely to be suicidal , a Great Deterrent 's effi ? cacy will depend on a battle of nerves in which a democracy is always at a dis ? advantage . From this point of view , atomic weapons may no longer represent a net advantage to the Western camp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not possibly , match the Communist camp ? . quired to meet these demands left Fin ? land dependent upon Russia as both a customer and a source of raw materials . Now the only , alternative to trade with Russia is a shut-down which would cause unemployment and thus play into the hands of the Communists . Of course , any time she chooses , Russia can try to bring about this condition by halt ? ing purchases of Finnish goods . And the Russian grip on Finland 's economy increases as private firms in Finland expand to increase their sales in Russia and the government accepts Russian loans ( two this year ) . man for man . In a war of flesh the Communists hold all the cards . Thus , ever since NATO was formed its strategy has been based , not on producing equiv ? alent manpower in Europe to the Soviet bloc , but producing sufficient manpower to compel such concentration of forces on the Soviet side as will provide vul ? nerable targets for atomic weapons . The implicit contradictions between the tactical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dearly from Montgomery 's recent speech . In almost the same breath he announced that NATO commanders intended to use atomic weapons from the outset of any future European war , and that it Was suicidal to use atomic weapons unless one had adequate civil defense which no European country now possesses . There is much talk now of trying to reach an international con ? vention in which atomic weapons are graded as tactical , strategic , thermo ? nuclear and so on . But since any attempt to discriminate like this is bound to benefit one-side more than the other , it is difficult to believe that there is a way of escape along these lines . At present the West seems to have settled on the assumption that atomic weapons are still the main deterrent against world war , but that conventional weapons are the main deterrent against local aggression , as in Korea . But every ? where Finance Ministers are protesting that the cost of maintaining both deter ? rents at once is intolerable , particularly since in both fields the rate of increase in both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ esrample , now faces a defense crisis on policy , ' production , and manpower . Harold MacMillan , the Defense Min ? ister , has just announced that Anti-Air ? craft Command will be abolished , and that only a small number of anti-aircraft guns will be retained to defend certain vital targets against low-flying aircraft . Yet , so far as is known , Britain does not yet possess anti-aircraft guided missiles in anything like the number required for even minimal . defense . The Navy is being allowed to run down , - and Britain is concentrating all her efforts on the Air Force and Army . But the Army faces a serious manpower problem . Though Britain still keeps a two-year period of universal national service , 80 percent of her soldiers are serving abroad , and there is no strategic reserve at home . Political , circumstances now permit the withdrawal of troops from Egypt , Trieste and Korea , but the gains here are wiped out by the expected loss of 35,000 men in the next two years through a fall in regular recruiting and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proportion of trained men in the army is falling steadily be ? cause regular service involves exceptional hardship . One battalion has had 19 different stations since 1945 and two others have had only two months in Eng ? land since the end of the war . And in many overseas stations accommodation and conditions are a serious deterrent to service .                     