@@491332

N several occasions since I he Korean truce 0 was signed last July , American relations with the United Nations Organization have been strained almost to the breaking point . A majority of member governments of the UN have been pressing for a Far Eastern settlement which would outrage American public opinion and assure violent opposition in Congress . There have been days during this crisis when American delegates to the UN have even feared that our Government might he forced to withdraw from the organization . This severest test to date for the UN was not precipitated by Soviet Russia , as might have been expected , but by the British Government formed by Sir Winston Churchill 's Conservative Party . I have been reporting the doings of global conferences for thirty years , but never before have I wit-28 nessed anything comparable to the isolation of American representatives in the UN by foes and friends alike on the Far Eastern issue . I can not recall any time during the sessions of the old League of Nations in Switzerland or during previous meetings of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combined with totalitarian states against one of their own coalition as America 's allies did recently in the great glass-walled headquarters of the UN beside Manhattan 's East River . The United Nations behaves , in many respects , like our own Congress or any other vigorous national parliament . Although its delegates come from sixty countries and all the continents , they play up to the folks back home just as American congressmen do ; and they also frequently try to conceal their real motives under mountains of words , That was especially true during those weeks when UN delegates were supposed to he wholly concerned with fixing the time , place and membership of a conference to deal with Korea . For most UN governments obviously were not much interested in what happened to Korea ; their real interest was in seating Chinese communist delegates in the United Nations despite American opposition . American delegates were compelled to stand almost alone for weeks against maneuvers designed to force the Chinese issue to a showdown , and  --  largely because of the position taken by the British Government ? American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inflexible during these manipulations . They received little credit at home or abroad for what they were really trying to do  --  namely , to prevent the UN from harming itself irreparably by forfeiting American support , without which it can hardly function . Only after much damage had been done did British leaders in London finally realize that the tactics they had contrived were far more likely to drive the United States out of the United Nations than to bring Chinese communists in . The basic issue in the UN still remains unresolved , and years may pass before it can finally be settled . But the latest UN crisis , painful as it appeared at the time , has at least persuaded our British allies that President Eisenhower 's Administration is firmly committed on the Chinese issue . The President 's attitude toward the UN in other respects also has been clarified . The Effort to Popularize the UN T HE recent crisis in the UN , culminating in a showdown with our friends as well as our foes in that organization , arose directly from planned changes in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempted to apply . More than a year has now passed since President Eisenhower , almost immediately after his election , told a group of his supporters that he was worried about the United Nations . He explained that he had long since decided that the advantages of American participation in this global group definitely outweigh its disadvantages ; and yet certain developments in the UN were arousing increasing American distrust . One of the President 's firmest beliefs is that no American foreign policy can succeed without widespread popular support , and that it is useless to try to thrust an unpopular policy down the throats of the American people by main force or by so-called " education " from Washington . He declared that , so far as the UN is concerned , he proposed to pay a great deal more attention to popular feelings about it in this country , and try to do something about the main sources of distrust and misunderstanding , As a starter , Mr. Eisenhower underlined his own interest in the UN by elevating the chief American delegate to Cabinet status , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Henry Cabot Lodge , Jr. , who had acted as the President 's original campaign manager and was one of his earliest and most vigorous supporters . Lodge had been so prominent in the Eisenhower campaign that he was presumed to be in line for almost any job he wanted ; he bad frequently been mentioned either as Secretary of State or Defense . So his appointment to the UN was widely misunderstood at first as a comedown in his political fortunes , possibly due to his defeat for reelection to the Senate from Massachusetts or because of rumored dissatisfaction with his role in the presidential campaign . But it soon became apparent that the move was designed not to demote Lodge , but to elevate the status of the United Nations in Washington . As soon as President Eisenhower assumed office , the status and behavior of the American delegation to the UN began to change , and the change became more pronounced after Lodge took full command 1 last June . Lodge 's predecessor as chief delegate was ex-Senator Warren Austin , a widely respected Republican appointed by President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy then in vogue . But the Truman Administration never had taken Mr. Austin into its inner counsels as it might have done a veteran Democrat . Moreover , Mr. Austin is a dignified New England gentleman who was seventy-six years old when he turned over his post to Lodge ; and the inborn Austin courtliness scorned the " diplomacy by insult " which communist politicians have made habitual . Lodge , a quarter of a century younger than Austin , went to the UN in wholly different circumstances . IL was understood that he would sit regularly in the Cabinet at Washington and in all meetings of the State and Defense departments and of the National Security Council involving the UN . It was made clear to other UN delegates that Lodge I would have access to the President at all times , and that UN affairs would thus he brought more intimately into the American Government 's over-all plans . For months before Lodge took over be worked with other department chiefs and special- ) This and similar red tape led some New York lawyers publicly to recommend the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a distrihulion committee , charged with making all dispositions of principal and interest . The committees , composed of leading citizens usually appointed by the trustee banks and civic associations , have the widest latitude . In New York , at least , the duties of the committee are not so arduous as they might seem , and the members have to meet formally only three or four times a year . Between sessions the members receive detailed reports from Director Hayes . Despite the obvious temptations , the members bend over backward in their objectivity toward philanthropies with which they may themselves be connected . A committeeman once slipped to t he unorthodox extent of signing a routine appeal for a charity of which he was president . He promptly received a typically smooth letter from Hayes which pointed out that he was unhappily involved in a conflict of interests . Ralph Hayes and his distribution committee have fairly complete discretion in handling nonspecitied funds . In the summer of 1936 , for instance , a Brooklyn woman left $56.000 with the vague instruction t hat it be used for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tribune Fresh Air Fund got part of it , on t he sound theory that sending youngsters to the country made them suffer less , both physically and mentally , from the city 's hot pavements . A grant was made to the summer camps from another fund , which had been set . up " for purposes conducive to the welfare of girls . " Well , girls needed fresh air just as much as boys , in the view of the Community Trust . Its management did not blink when a few dollars were spent at Camp Wisnicarehehindyou , or some such place , to teach the young females how to dress neatly , fix their hair and meet people . The lessons were rated an admirable contribution to the welfare of the sex , young or old . CAN THE UN SURVIVE ITS TOUGHEST TEST ? ( 120iititnied frern rage 29 ) President 's conception , it , is at least as useful to explain congressional viewpoints to friendly UN delegates as it is to explain the UN to Congress . In Ledge 's frequent appearances before congressional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he can take members of Congress into his complete confidence and ask their advice . This attitude has made it easier for him to resolve congressional misconceptions about the UN . For example , one charge frequently made against the UN is that it interfered with military operations in Korea and thus deprived the United States of a victory there . Lodge had all the records examined and satisfied himself that the UN itself did not initiate a single military order or even request to any of the American commanders-inchief who acted as trustees for the UN during the Korean fighting . A few allied governments did make representations to the American Government , but they did this through their embassies at Washington and not through the UN . So whatever restrictions were imposed upon Far Eastern commanders came only from the American Govern-overn- Neither race nor sex plays any part in the decisions of the New York trust . In 1930 it received a sum of $17,000 from an organization called the Indian Lace Association . The association had been started in the nineteenth century by some Eastern ladies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did it by teaching them to make lace , which they sold in the big cities . But with the decades the economic condition of the Indian women improved and they were not as isolated . The balance of the lace association was turned over to the Community Trust and called the Sybil Carter Memorial Fund , after its founder . Hayes was told merely to help Indians , so he started a scholarship fund for boys and girls in school or college . Today his mail is likely to include letters of gratitude signed with such names as Thelma Swift Cloud or Magdalene Hope Turning Heart , of Wakpals , South Dakota . Among the numerous responsibilities of the Community Trust is to look with a cold eye on excellent charities which are running in the red . " If I 'm to settle for a deficit , " Hayes once wrote , " I want to be consulted before it is incurred . " The trust has excellent sources of information to guard against this peril and also protect its donors from the peculiarly despicable type of thief who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charity . It must also obtain rulings from state and Federal tax authorities which establish beyond any doubt the legality of income and inheritance deductions . These are time-consuming but routine activities . The real fun , in contrast , grows out of potential founders who yearn to benefit their fellow men , but do n't know quite how to go about doing so . Endless hours are spent exploring possibilities and making suggestions . In 1936 the late Herbert L. Griggs , a retired New York banker , needed guidance on how to bring comfort I , o victims of arthritis , a disease from which his wife suffered painfully . Mr. and Mrs. Griggs did not . ment , through the President , the Joint Chiefs of Staff or the National Security Council . Lodge also has welcomed , rather than resented , the investigation of UN affairs by congressional committees , and this attitude is in accord with a general order given by the President to all his Cabinet officers . Congressional investigators have been chiefly interested in the UN because of alleged penetration of American communists into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a great deal of time , publicly and privately , with Senators Joseph McCarthy and William Jenner , chairmen of investigating committees . He has discovered that the American Government was almost unbelievably careless , at the time the United Nations was being organized , in its attitude toward the selection of American citizens for the permanent staff . The organization required more than 4000 permanent employees , most of them specialists of one kind or another , and it was agreed that these men and women should be selected on the widest possible geographical basis , with all member countries represented . But inasmuch as UN headquarters was being established in New York , American citizens were in particular demand because of their availability . The records show that Trygve Lie , of Norway , the UN 's original Secretary-General , asked JunUAry 16 , 1954 want , to finance more medical research ; this need , they felt , was already being met . What they desired was to make the dreary lives of arthritics more endura ble . Before outlining a proposal , Hayes wrote to more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Griggses read the replies and then set up a foundation , which after their deaths came to $300,000 . Following the scheme which they had approved , the Community Trust has given small sumo through several hospitals to individual sufferers for better food , crutches , special beds or chairs . Sometimes an arthritic can hold at least a part-time job if he can get to and from his work . In such cases taxi fare is provided . In others among the sad cases a gift of just nine dollars will buy specially designed shoes to make walking tolerable . Last fall the Griggs fund was broadened to help cripples other than arthritics , as its founder had suggested that it might be . One method was by the simple device of placing wheel chairs in the Central Park , Bronx and Brooklyn zoos . The aged and lame , young or old , may use them to look at the animals and birds in comfort . The scope of t heir narrow lives is enlarged . If the chairs are a success , more will be given to New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the wheel chairs has been a bare $2000 . A little thing for a foundation with an annual income of $1,000,000 to do ? It does not seem small to people handicapped by the degenerative diseases of their failing years or to children so lame that they can not walk among the treasures and wonders of the museums and the zoos . The New York Community Trust , free from the dead hand of outdated wills , can specialize in the small but important things of today . And it does exactly that . It is the job of community trusts , as Ralph Hayes has said , to " stand in the shoes of founders who have moved along to heaven . " Washington to pass upon the applications of American citizens in 1946 , but nobody in our Government showed any interest in the matter then . About a year ago a New York grand jury reported that the UN 's American employees included many suspected communists or fellow travelers , and congressional committees have been since looking into this report . Most of the suspected men and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Amendment and declined to answer questions . Almost all of these people had previously worked during the war years for the Washington Government , and most of them had been strongly recommended to the UN by American officials . So it was obviously the American Government , and not the UN directorate , which had been mainly responsible for the fact that these Americans found UN employment . But the Eisenhower Administration was lees interested in fixing blame for past sins of omission than in clearing up a situation bound to create popular distrust , . Soon after he took over , Lodge reached an agreement with Secretary-General Lie that all Americans who refused to answer the questions of congressional investigators should be discharged . But a number of these Americans appealed to the UN 's Administrative Tribunal which had been set up in 1949 , with American support , to profeet the rights of the permanent staff . A panel of the tribunal , representing Britain , France , Egypt and Sweden , came to New York last spring from its permanent seat in Geneva . Switzerland : and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American delegation was given the impression that no further difficulty could he expected . But suddenly , in the midst of the critical Korean debates and without notice to Lodge , the tribunal announced that it had unanimously ruled that eleven of these Americans had been discharged without sufficient cause and were therefore entitled to compensation . The awards made , totaling $183,000 , had to be included in the UN Assembly 's budget so that they would come up for a vote . They might also be subject to congressional debates on appropriations for the UN . One New York newspaper commented at the time : If the tribunal had deliberately planned to affront the United States and antagonize American opinion , it could not have found a more effective way than to declare ' illegal ' the firing of these employees . " Politically speaking , that was unquestionably true . as a dumfounded Lodge admitted to a Senate subcommittee . But the members of the tribunal were not supposed to consider the political consequences of their decisions , but merely to interpret the rules which had been adopted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegation was thus forced into the unhappy position of trying to persuade the UN Assembly to reverse the tribunal 's decision , even though some of our own legal experts concurred with the tribunal 's findings . What Lodge and his associates had hoped to do was to dispose of this inherited mess before it had done further damage to the UN 's prestige among Americans , but the tribunal 's findings had the opposite effect . The only real beneficiaries of this affair were members of the Soviet bloc , who could stand on the side lines grinning at American discomfiture . What made the matter particularly unfortunate was that Lodge had reached an agreement with both the old and the new Secretaries-General of the UN which would have been acceptable to congressional investigators , and thus would have removed this source of distrust . During this same period the new Administration was undertaking to resolve an altogether different kind of American doubt about the UN ? namely , whether the UN Charter threatens to override the American Constitution . The American Bar Asso ciation and Sen. John Bricker , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a constitutional amendment to clear up this and other phases of our treaty-making powers . Previous administrations tried to dismiss this movement , which started in 1944 , by calling it " party politics , " since Republicana were most . prominent in it . Naturally the Eisenhower Administration has taken a very different attitude toward the Bricker group , and has been laboring for months to produce a compromise amendment which is expected to he approved at this session of Congress . The President has been particularly anxious to settle this dispute . He has discussed with Bricker supporters all possible means of removing doubts about conflicts between the UN Charter and the Constitution without multiplying the difficulties of negotiating with foreign governments . Some port ions of the Bricker amendment threaten to entangle the President 's treaty-making powers in an additional mass of red tape . What the President wants to straighten out , if possible , is the situation noted three decades ago by Newton Baker , then Secretary of War , who wrote : " The deadlock between the Executive and the Senate every time we face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only disgraces us before other nations but in some future world crisis may ruin us . " However , the President , fully recognizes that this constitutional issue was brought to a head by the Korean war . Undoubtedly this was nothing less than a war , and one of our biggest , and yet Congress never was given an opportunity to declare it . as the Constitution says it should . But the Constitution also says that " ' all treaties made , or which shall be made , under the authority of the United States , shall be the supreme law of the land . " The UN Charter is such a treaty , which was overwhelmingly approved by the Senate in 1945 , and President Truman invoked the UN Charter as the legal basis for initiating and waging the Korean war . So it has been argued that we went to war in Korea illegally according to one part of our Constitution and legally according to another part . which makes treaties like the UN Charter supreme . Obviously , if the UN Charter has really superseded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American people in war , then the situation should he cleared up . On that the Bricker group and the White House agree . The Eisenhower Administration is fully aware that this legitimate debate ' HIE SATURDAY EVENING POST Jeninery I6 , MI has further increased popular distrust of the UN , and plans to settle the issue so definitely that the public will he reassured , Neither President . Eisenhower nor any of his chief advisers are advocates of " world government " in any form , and they have never pictured the United Nations as anything more than an organization which offers hopeful possibilities of serving to bring to-get her for mutual purposes all those national governments which are its mem hers . But it is the Chinese communist issue which has stirred up more American distrust of the UN than all other sources combined , and it is ironic that our closest ally , the British Government , is chiefly responsible for putting new life into this explosive controversy . This issue lint arose four years ago , after Chinese communists drove Gen. Chiang Kai-shek 's government into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Labor Party , did not bother to consult its American allies before promptly recognizing the new regime and attempting to resume normal diplomatic and trade relations with it . But the American Government , having been much more deeply committed to the support of Chiang Kai-shek than the British ever were , did not follow the British lead . This divergence between British and American reactions to the communist conquest of China , resembled , in a very striking manner , the reactions of the two countries to communist conquest of Russia three decades earlier . Washington refused to recognize the Soviet Russian Government until it had been established for sixteen years ; but London resumed relations with the Moscow regime as soon as it became obvious that it was in the driver 's seat in Russia . The divergences between American and British policies toward Red China , like the similar divergences toward Russia several decades ago , would have caused little friction if British officials had not endeavored to extend the same policy to the United Nations , At the earliest possible moment . in 1949 after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supported moves to expel Chiang Kai-shek 's representatives from the UN and replace them with communist representatives . None of those British officials were procommunist and no variety of communist conspiracy was involved in their behavior . They were merely convinced , as were our Canadian neighbors and several other noncommunist member governments in the UN , that China might settle down more quickly if Chinese communist leaders were admitted to t he UN and thus thrown into contact with people on our side of the Iron Curtain . Before the Korean outbreak the Truman Administration  --  and even some Republicans , including John Foster Dulles  --  seemed to favor this British viewpoint about Chinese representation in the UN . In fact , early in 1950 only a few weeks before war began in Korea the American Government announced that it would not attempt to use its veto in the UN Security Council to oppose the seating of Chinese communists . But a vigorous counteroffensive against such action . was started in Congress , led in the Senate by William F. Knowland , of California , and in the House by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it happened Oit , even before Korea , opposition to the seating of Chinese communists in the UN had become largely identified with Repuh licans , and this became increasingly true as Republican criticism of the conduct of the war mounted . The Republicans were thus far more deeply committed on the China issue than the Democrats ; there was no prospect that the new Administration could tolerate the seating of Chinese communists in the UN for many years . However , this issue also became involved in party politics in Great Britain , and the Conservative Party was constrained to approve publicly the original position toward Red China taken by British socialists . Washington reached an informal understanding with London that the Chinese issue in the UN should be deferred so long as fighting continued in Korea , but soon after the truce was signed last July the British Government renewed its attempts to get the American Government to reconsider our opposition to admitting Chinese communists to the UN . This was the real issue at stake beneath the surface of debates in the United Nations about the Korean conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clark 's headquarters in Tokyo clearly provided for a two-sided political conference between actual combatants in Korea , with sixteen members of the UN coalition on one side and communists on the other . A British general participated in the negotiations in Korea . so that his government presumably accepted the agreement signed there . Nevertheless , two days after the Korean truce , the acting British Foreign Secretary , Lord Salisbury , made a speech in the House of Commons proposing that the conference be widened into a " round table " to include , among other so-called neutral nations , the government of India , which he described as " a great Asiatic power with special responsihilit ies . " This Indian proposal , coming entirely out of the blue so far as Lhe American Government was concerned , appeared to be wholly illogical . If any " great Asiatic power " which had not participated in the Korean fighting had " special responsibilities " concerning Korea , it was surely Japan rather than India . For many centuries Japan has been closely involved with Korea , while India @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and has shown almost no interest in what happened there . The real motives behind Lord Salisbury 's proposal began to appear the day after he spoke , when the acting British Prime Minister , R. A. Butler , told the Commons that he hoped the Korean conference would settle some things beyond Korea . In Lhe course of thie speech . Mr. Butler said : " This brings me to the question of Chinese representation in the United Nations . This matter , strictly , can be decided only by the United Nations , and not by the political conference . All the political conference can do is to make agreed recommendations . " On that same day , in New Delhi , the capital of India , Prime Minister Nehru told a press conference that he unequivocally supported the seating of Chinese communist delegates in the UN . Until this was done , he said , the UN never could function efficiently nor could Far Eastern problems be settled . British political correspondents , noting these various moves , publicly stated that they were planned in London in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the UN . The plan was that I he " round-table conference " should vote overwhelmingly to recommend the seating of Chinese communists in the UN as part of a Far Eastern settlement . This recommendation was expected to have a decisive effect upon the UN General Assembly . One curious feature of this affair is that Lord Salisbury , whose friendliness to the United States always has been pronounced , made his Indian proposal without consulting any American about it . He appeared to he genuinely astonished and chagrined when his proposal caused an open showdown and split in the UN between Britain and the United States . He must have been badly informed about the state of American opinion on the Chinese issue ; most of the British correspondents at the UN , in fact , blamed Korean President Syngman Rhee rather than American opinion for the American stand on India . They gave the impression that if Doctor Rhee had not objected to the inclusion of India in the Korean conference , Americans would have supported the British proposal : but the American delegates were well aware that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the real issue . Eventually the British officials who had contrived this little scheme were forced to recognize that they had outsmarted themselves . As Prof. G. F. Hudson , of Oxford University , has written : " Britain can hardly afford any longer the luxury of two separate policies in Europe and Asia : to combine with America in order to resist Soviet expansion in Europe and to combine with the Soviet bloc in order to thwart American policy in the Far East . British maneuvers to exert pressure by forming diplomatic cornhinatioes with communist states against America can only serve communist purposes . " The chief effect , in this case , was to increase American popular distrust of the United Nations , and thus to multiply the difficulties of the Eisenhower Administration 's attempts to promote public confidence in the international organization . It has been very disturbing to the American delegation to observe how often some of our best friends in the UN persistently ignore the vital factor of American popular and congressional support , without which no policy will work . At the other end of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many Americans still have an exaggerated impression of what the UN can be expected to do . Mr. Lodge undertook to correct that impression when he told the House Foreign Affairs Committee : " Many persons at the end of World War II pictured the United Nations as an automatic peace-producer .... The truth is that there is no automatic device for peace . If the UN is as automatic as a burglar alarm , it is doing well . But what happens after the bell rings is up to the members , and you will get results solely in proportion as you contribute . The UN is primitive , it is evolutionary , its cost is small , it is an intelligent first Step , it stands between us and international anarchy . " Mr. Lodge made that statement before he discovered , during the recent Far Eastern controversy , that allies in the UN can sometimes he even more disturbing than open enemies . But he told me that his views have not been altered by the rough handling he got on this occasion from friends and foes alike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force a showdown on the Chinese issue , Washington will continue its efforts to incr American understanding of the ret.ture of the United Nations  --  and esAially of its limitations .                     