@@494665

Christianity and the Campus by AMOS N. WILDER ANYONE interested in religion and the intellectuals , or religion in education , could not have asked for a better exhibit than was offered last April in the animated discussion that arose in the Harvard yard . For two or three weeks the university was convulsed . Beginning with a controversy affecting the campus Memorial Church , all angles of religion at Harvard , past and present , came under review . No other explanation is possible for the intensity if not virulence of the debate than that some kind of avoidance or repression had preceded it , no doubt the peculiar kind of repression characteristic of academic and perhaps peculiarly Harvardian taboos . Yet the fever passed as rapidly as it arose . The president was quoted in the sequel as saying that the discussion was a " flash of light that brings a devastating clarity . It demonstrates that Harvard can have a storm blow up , and can survive ; that is what makes Harvard . " The storm lit up a lot of things with devastating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Amos N. WILDER is Hollis Professor of Divinity at the Harvard Divinity School . The most recent of his many works is Theology and Modern Literature . it threw on wider religious attitudes today as for its bearing on university matters . Whatever the immediate occasion , the perfervid and ramifying character of the discussion suggested that something new was happening in the religious scene . Perhaps one can say that the rising tide of the current Protestant renewal , whether as understood or misunderstood , had washed up upon one of our great redoubts of learning and the reaction was staggering . What came to light was the always uneasy co-existence in American life , the tacitly suppressed conflict , of the old Puritan heritage on the one hand and the robust rationalist and skeptical tradition of the founding fathers on the other , a legacy which in all periods of our history has been allergic to religious obscurantism and divisiveness . There are of course other religous strands in the complex skein of our society but the tension of these two is an old one . In New England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the anti-Calvinist , and anti-Trinitarian and transcendentalist reactions of the past . And in the American college the tension appears with special clarity no doubt because both poles here are more sophisticated , and for that matter , overlapping . In this Cambridge episode , in any case , this hidden conflict certainly came into the open . The emancipated rationalism tracing to the Enlightenment is doubled in the American university by the skepticism proper to scientific method , and this is redoubled by the understandable bitterness of intellectuals with regard to many features of institutional religion today . In the eyes of many modern intellectuals contemporary religious practice appears not only stultifying and authoritarian but sheerly incompresensible . On the other hand , religious interests at Harvard are also sophisticated , which is even more puzzling to the agnostics : they want religion to fall into a formally dogmatic or obscurantist type which they can classify . They can respect and reject Catholicism : here is a massive cultural organism and tangible authority . They can make sense of fundamentalism ; it enters the arena with solid propositions unacceptable though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is sophisticated about religious language and symbols baffles them , especially because it is just as disabused about religious institutions and religiosity as they are . They can not but see this kind of Christianity as disingenuous . They are uncomfortable in the presence of a vigorous and fluid form of the tradition in which the usual normative creeds and doctrines are dissolved in a process of reformulation . For what gives a new acuteness today to the old tension in our colleges between the agnostic intellectual and the religious legacy is the new Reformation now in course in Protestantism . What is vaguely spoken of as neo-orthodoxy ( it has many forms ) , the new grasp of the substance of the tradition , the ecumenical movement with its worldwide vigor in doctrine , worship and social realism , the disengagement of the church from secular complacencies , the repudiation of religious sentimentalism , the new realism with regard to the American Adam and his moral illusions ? all this represents a growing impact in university life as well as elsewhere and is vaguely sensed as a threat in academic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in either learning or religion ; the vitality of religious faith originally fostered the college and the university and has often renewed their intellectual power . Higher education might well take alarm if the new vigor of religion took the form of revivalistic or dogmatic anti-intellectualism . But the current deepening of Protestantism as one finds it in university divinity schools and many others , in university departments of religion and those of many colleges , in the movement for church unity , and in the more influential theologians in this country , has no relation to the current popular religiosity . In fact it is its most severe critic . The alarm that accentuated the religious controversy at Cambridge was acute for another reason . Academic liberalism with its values of objectivity and dispassionateness , if not neutralism , is threatened from within by strictly intellectual forces . Scholars , scientists , critics and histor ians have long lived in a secure world of departmental immunities and unchallenged ideas about method . Their younger colleagues are revising the presuppositions about scientific work and inter-disciplinary frontiers . Social thinkers and theologians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plenty of allies in college departments . MHE ISSUE at Harvard , as those who read this Journal I recall , arose first over the Memorial Church and the question as to whether or in what form private services , weddings and funerals , could appropriately be held there for those belonging to non-Christian faiths . The Harvard Corporation , though reaffirming the " essentially Christian character " of the Memorial Church , denied however that the university thus intends to " assert the validity of the tenets of any denomination or creed " and agreed that " such private services may be conducted in the Memorial Church by an official of an individual 's own religion when this is desired , provided that he is willing to do so notwithstanding the church 's essentially Christian character . " This ruling , representing not a reversal but a broadening of a long-standing policy , was generally approved in the university , though there were those who would have preferred to see the church dissociated from any specifically Christian connection . A strictly sociological observation can be made here . There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ baptisms and funerals , and not only by those connected with the school in question . This reflects the fact that an increasing number especially of intellectuals no longer have a parish church relation . Lacking a church or synagogue connection many will prefer the less formally ecclesiastical setting of a school or college or seminary chapel for such ceremonies . In the case of marriage , such individuals evidently desire a religious ceremony rather than the services of a justice of the peace . In the case of funerals similarly , a chapel occasion is preferred to one in a funeral parlor . The situation points to the alienation of many from the religious institutions but also to their continued acknowledgment of the religious tradition itself . The increasing use of academic chapels by those of non-Christian background indicates this same detachment of many from the synagogue or other institutional group . It was of interest in the Harvard discussion that representatives of one of the leading Jewish seminaries in this country as well as of the Islamic group in Cambridge both urged that the Christian identity of the Memorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religious institutions are not happy when their detached or disaffected members seek non-ecclesiastical or less formal religious auspices for such occasions as these . Yet much can be said from the strictly religious point of DECEMBER 15 , 1958 view for a special ministry open in this as in other ways to a college chapel , provided always that the parties are not irresponsible in seeking this form of religious sanction . The hospitality of such a chapel for a religious ceremony should not be sought by Christians or any others if all that is desired is a socially acceptable function . If the building in question is defined as Christian and not seen as a shrine of all faiths or as an academic assembly hall , those who avail themselves of it will wish to take this into account . Whether a college chapel today should be defined as in a special sense Christian is , however , a debatable point with many , even in those institutions which were founded as Christian colleges . The question may take different forms . In one case an old college may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interconfessional . In another case an existing chapel has been viewed as Christian for generations ; suddenly to redefine it as not Christian would seem to be taking the axe to a taproot of the school 's sentiment and vitality . The undergraduate college will offer one problem ; the university another . In the Harvard discussion much was made of the fact that the whole sociological and religious picture has changed since and faculty , indeed of alumni and governing bodies , has so changed in point of religious affiliation and outlook that a Protestant definition of the chapel can be seen as anachronistic . To maintain the Christian identity of the Memorial Church today thus seems anomolous and divisive . According to this view , the church should offer itself as an altar or sanctuary for all faiths , including the most tenuously spiritual . It was of interest to see who sided with the view that the church should be divested of its special Christian character . It is not surprising that many argued this way for whom religion was a matter of indifference . One can also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerned to avoid any divisiveness in the household of learning . Again , we can see the logic of this view for those left-wing churches whose members tend to see all the higher religions as essentially alike , and who prefer to draw the line of distinction in these matters between liberalism and dogma or between reason and superstition . What was more surprising was the agreement with this open , non-divisive attitude of some who belong to our theologically and ritually traditional churches . The churchman who is consciously restrictive with regard to his own altar or body of communicants lined up with the tolerant when it came to the college chapel . He did so because from his point of view a service in a school or college chapel ? unless that chapel is consecrated according to his own usage ? can hardly be of true churchly character . Why then should not such a chapel be freely 15 used by all ? The free churchman on the other hand will see a Christian service in a college chapel or a summer camp setting as ' having the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with it the same claim on the integrity of the worshipper . This issue of wide open eclecticism in an academic chapel forces those responsible back upon fundamental theological considerations . If as in the Harvard case the building in question is defined by long tradition as " essentially Christian , " it is not easy to see how it can be redefined either by formal decision or by tacit change of custom as completely non-confessional and inter-faith . To do so is to deprive the edifice of its mana , its " charge , " its worshipful integrity . It then takes on the neutral emptiness of the living room of a justice of the peace . As two professors wrote to the Crimson ( neither of whom was carrying a brief for a rigid position ) : A church is not a cafeteria in which all religions may be served to all comers . Any church is some church . Whether it was proper for the memorial to the Harvard dead of all faiths to have been given the form of a Protestant church is not now the issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Protestant church and as such has its own order of worship and other rules . It has its own sacred symbols ; its cross is not something to shift around like a piece of stage scenery . This attitude is easily chargeable with dogmatism . Unquestionably it has some divisive implications . The appeal of a wide inclusiveness is at first much the more plausible . But general tolerance , amicableness and good feeling are not to be sought at the expense of clarity , and least of all in the responsible atmosphere of higher education . A university thrives more on honestly faced tensions and pluralisms than on the covering up of issues . A distinction is to be made between a blanket tolerance and a costly one which insists on frank confrontation of radical differences . Interfaith patterns should be lived with creatively by honoring the responsible convictions of the parties and not obscured by an indifferentism which sometimes appears even in religious groups . Protestant position on this matter today will there-after be more catholic and hospitable toward other responsible faiths , in part because it acts from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Prot-estant Divinity School is that it will welcome Jews , Cath-olics , Orthodox , Moslems , etc. , to its faculty ( though the welcome might not be reciprocated ) . The implica-tions for a Christian chapel in a college are that services for other faiths are to be welcomed where responsibly requested and when the distinctive values of such a Chris-tian chapel or church are not thereby blurred . We have all heard of war situations abroad in which Catholics , Protestants and Jews placed their buildings at one an-other 's service when this or that congregation had been bombed out . Near Frankfurt-am-Main there is a church where under a common roof Catholic and Protestant services have been held for generations . In all such cases , however , we do not have a blurring of convictions and traditions but special courtesies and charities pending a desired and ultimate reconciliation . T HE discussion of religion on the Harvard yard , as in similar controversial campus situations today , has shown us how widespread is the misunderstanding of contemporary Christian life and thought . Many scholars and scientists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hardly know what has happened . Their picture of Christianity is the one they had acquired when they left Sunday School in their teens or when they revolted in college from the stifling forms of belief in which they were brought up . They are capable grammarians , ideologues , cataloguers of phenomena , statisticians of knowledge , clerks in the emporium of learning . But this is a far cry from humane wisdom or discernment in the world-drama . Many even of our first-rate scientists and masters of learning are veritable innocents in the field of religion . They live in a different solar system , in admirable self-denial and single-mindedness . The human religious problem is buried for them beneath a life-time pre-occupation with specialized disciplines . The less imaginative type evidences a kind of arrested development . Until retirement , with a contagious boyish zest , they starve their souls and devote themselves to playing with ever new combinations of this or that glorified mechano-set , all , indeed , very useful for the extensions of the frontiers of science and the national defense . The academic agnostic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theory of nature . The God-question is for him one of physics and astronomy or of the ultimate constituents of matter . Characteristic also is the similarly 18th Century point of view that the truth or falsehood of religion is a matter of clear propositions , rational or irrational concepts , intellectualized dogma . All in all , there is suspicion of the symbolic and imaginative dimensions of culture which often carries with it a deafness not only to religion but to literature and the arts . If one can take the Harvard discussion as somewhat typical we can say that in American college faculties two points of view , each one persuasive and admirable , will be found among the more responsible scholars . I have in mind now the whole question of religion on the campus and not just the chapel issue . On the one hand we have what probably represents a majority view . This majority , which includes many of the most distinguished scholars , is that of an agnostic but devoted concern for learning and the search for truth . They stand for the ideal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from any kind of pressure or authoritarianism . At the height of the Harvard controversy the intervention of such a group called for a complete openness of attitude in the university on the religious question , something which they , spoke of as the " Harvard of William James . " Here is expressed the great university tradition of unprejudiced objectivity and freedom in the community of learning . Much of this the churchmen and theologians in the faculties could fully accept , but not the presuppositions that go with it . For the hidden sleeper in this ostensible freedom and tolerance is that wittingly or unwittingly it opens the door wide to positivist indoctrination and dogmatic relativism . In this stand for an untrammeled pursuit of truth , safeguards are set up against authoritarian pressures of all kinds including those of religion but not against equally authoritarian negations . The other admirable position , one rooted in the history of the medieval as well as the Anglo-Saxon university , while accepting much of the above calls for something more . It asks for full recognition , in ways appropriate to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ university , and of our society , as a profoundly corrective factor in this same search for truth . This demand bears not only on such specifically religious features of a campus as its chapel or Divinity School but also upon the undergraduate curriculum . It asks that our vital religious traditions ? to the same degree at least as our political and democratic traditions ? should be responsibly dealt with . They should have full freedom in the open market of higher education and learning to make their impact and be assessed and criticized like all the other main forces of culture and the intellectual life . This means more than a merely external descriptive treatment of religion , however expert . Such a form of presentation limits excessively the wrestling with values and life options which education should offer the student . When it comes to the social sciences and political studies our colleges do not hesitate to present persuasively the issues of the American democratic faith . Why should the teaching of religion be restricted to a cautious balcony view ? Germinal education requires the inside view and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not mean that religion should be taught sentimentally or by men bent on indoctrination , or that there need be a separately organized department of religion , or that religion should be taught in isolation from related fields in the arts and sciences . Moreover , my plea is only justifiable in higher education if the religious subject matter is offered in a form open to critical examination and scientific ' method . But this has long been the case in our best college departments of religion . Where exceptions arise , or where presuppositions appear too clearly in the teacher , these cases should not deter us any more than we are deterred by analogous elements of dogmatism in other departments of arts and sciences . In all areas of college instruction the danger of authoritarian indoctrination should be controlled by policy in appointment and by the intellectual morale of the campus , not by excluding controversial subject matter from the curriculum .                     