@@487578

ARE we going to allow the organized film distributors , by using economic pressure , to force newspapers to curb their critics and commentators and modify their business policies to please the moving-picture interests ? This question has been given new urgency by a recent incident in Copenhagen . Since distributor organizations comprise both American and foreign film buyers , the affair has serious implications for the United States as well as for Denmark . When Copenhagen 's Politiken , one of the two leading Danish newspapers , upheld its film critic , Harald Engberg , who had been attacked by the film distributors for assessing pictures solely on their merits , the distributors responded with a boycott , withdrawing advertising from the Politiken and its sister paper , the Ekstra Bladet . They gave as their reason the fact that business was no longer what it used to be and that the advertising rates of the Politiken were too high , but their action was plainly retaliatory . The Politiken 's rates are the same as those of the largest competing newspaper , which has an only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business . The Politiken 's critic is a genuine film enthusiast . He has by no means confined himself to the praise of highbrow and " art " productions but has always applauded good , entertaining , light-hearted films , even if of no special depth , so long as they showed some originality and taste . For the distributors , however , this was not enough , as was made abundantly - clear in an article which appeared in the Biograf Bladet , their special publication . The distributors took the position  --  and herein FREDERICA KIRCHNER is an American journalist now living in Copenhagen . - lies the danger to a free press  --  that films deserve special consideration from newspapers in return for the steady advertising inserted by the theaters . Soon after this article appeared , a reduction in advertising rates was demanded . Citing its obligations to the public , Politiken refused to fire its critic and ignored the demand for lower rates . In the meantime Mr. Engberg had been invited by the University Student Union to speak about the Danish film industry at a public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showed examples of good Danish films as well as of inferior ones . He also pointed out that , through special legislation enacted to encourage Danish film production , theaters which show Danish films exclusively receive special privileges from the government ? and that since 1949 the Danish film producers , who own some of the largest of these theaters , have also benefited from tax reductions which amount to a large yearly total . In return for these subsidies the producers agree to bring out each year a modest number of films measuring up to a high artistic or educational standard . The critic then charged that the producers have never carried out this agreement , and that fifteen of the sixteen to eighteen films they make each year are neither artistically nor educationally significant . Shortly after this lecture the storm broke . The boycott was applied and at this writing is still in effect . Politiken 's directors and shareholders , to their credit , have refused to be intimidated . Believing that what is lost in advertising revenue will be compensated for by increased prestige and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have upheld the right of staff members to express opinions in line with their convictions . Their stand has been supported by university and other groups and by many prominent individuals ; commendatory letters and telephone calls have arrived in a steady stream , and many have been published . The case developed an ironical twist when it appeared - that some of the theater owners , for various reasons , were not in sympathy with the boycott . Exhibitors , however , are largely dependent upon the distributor organization , and dissenting members risk penalties . Although there is a law designed to prevent block booking and other control mechanisms directed at individuals , the practice can defeat the intentions of the law . The affair has acquired such notoriety that two members of Parliament have addressed questions to the Minister of Justice . In effect , they have inquired whether distributors , by means Of contracts with the individual theater owners , may limit the owners ' freedom of action , which is guaranteed by existing laws . If the dispute is not soon settled , there is likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of great interest , for so far Denmark has always effectively protected its people 's Civil rights . 