@@476277

IN OCTOBER 1949 when Barnard College began its sixty-first academic year , and also launched a $10 million Development Plan , Dwight D. Eisenhower , ex officio president of Barnard as part of Columbia , greeted faculty and students in assembly . Bareheaded and diffident in his academic gown , he addressed the company on the importance of privately financed educational institutions like Barnard , concluding with the words : There never was a truer thing said than that " The price of liberty is eternal vigilance , " and in no other direction must you he more vigilant than in supporting private educational institutions . If you profit by every opportunity you have here , if in doing so you achieve a thorough understanding of what this school is for , and do your utmost to insure its perpetuity , then , in your own way , and very specifically , you will help your country and the world . Following him came Barnard 's dean and actual head , Millicent Carey McIntosh , an attractive , athletically built woman in her early fifties with a well-tailored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light brown hair combed back under her cap . The audience settled itself for further uplifting remarks . Instead , fixing the group with her eye and speaking without notes , the dean discussed the necessity , in a year when the college was raising money for new equipment , of taking care of the " material resources " it already had . College women , she pointed out , were apt to be messy and careless with college property . " It is no use having these higher graces , " she said , " if we undermine them with the most primitive sins of housekeeping . " Several of the girls remarked later that they had found Eisenhower by far the more inspiring . However they remembered to watch their cigarette butts on the campus and the books they took from the library . This is not to suggest that Mrs. McIntosh is not usually a highly inspiring speaker . Few students take cuts when she is scheduled to talk in assembly . Her announcements to the college about new administration policies and such important changes as last year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they know and share in all Barnard 's moves . At the same time her speeches almost always fire listeners with something of the speaker 's zeal . Her persuasiveness is grounded in sincerity . The $1,000,000 which John D. Rockefeller , Jr . gave to the Development Plan , shortly after Mrs. McIntosh went to see him last year , is generally recognized on the campus as his personal statement of faith in the dean 's aims . Mrs. McIntosh is frank in her desire to make Barnard a leader in women 's education . But in moving toward this end she seldom loses sight of the practical . When she was appointed dean five years ago , she declared in her first speech at the college that she was not so much concerned with women 's rights as with " college women as people ; as human beings living with men in contemporary society . " Many she continued are questioning their education and wondering whether it has given them the best preparation for the life they actually have to lead . Most women expect to marry and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as I know , been bold enough to formulate views on what gives the best preparation for marriage . This statement coupled with Mrs. McIntosh 's own position as wife and mother brought consternation to certain ranks of the Barnard faculty . The great days of the coIlege 's academic glory , they reluctantly confided to each other , were over . Henceforth the trend would be toward majors in home economics and child care , classes in cooking and housekeeping . A few months after Mrs. McIntosh took office , in the fall of 1947 , they realized they had been mistaken . The new dean was " bold enough " to formulate her own views on the subject she had raised . " I am convinced , " she said in a later speech , " that a liberal arts college , given an intelligent girl , is the best possible preparation for marriage . " ALTHOUGH the one new course Mrs. McIntosh herself has introduced at Barnard , " modern living , " required for all freshmen , is designed to give its students insight into personal problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new course on " the family " open to juniors and seniors , it is notable that she takes equal pride in a new course in practical politics and that at meetings of Columbia University 's Committee on Educational Policy , on which she is the only female member , her voice is one of the loudest in insisting that advanced courses in the classics be maintained , however fast the modern world seems to be swerving toward the vocational . She is sensitive to criticism of Barnard 's academic standards and will take considerable pains tokeep a high rate of scholarship in the faculty . Not long ago a brilliant woman bacteriologist , so outstanding that she drew students from Columbia Graduate School as well as Barnard , left Barriard 's botany department . There was only enough money in the budget to provide an instructor to replace her . Mrs. McIntosh took her problem across the street to Columbia 's graduate and undergraduate deans . If they thought it worthwhile to add a certain amount to the salary Barnard could offer , she explained , a " crackerjack bacteriologist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? at a mutual saving . When the two men suggested that perhaps Columbia should hire the professor and Barnard share in the expense , she tactfully pointed out that it was Barnard and not Columbia which already had the laboratory . The others saw her point , and arrangements were made . It was probably only chance that the new professor , like her predecessor , turned out to be a woman . At any rate she was eminently qualified . But it is possible that Mrs. McIntosh , who is in some ways as feminist as any of the agitators for women 's suffrage thirty years ago , has enjoyed watching Columbia men file into Barnard to sit at a woman professor 's feet . She has been equally eager however to make similar arrangements working in the opposite direction . And by opening Columbia to the girls in this way she has built up Barnard 's offerings in ancient history , Latin , Greek , physics , and mathematics . In her current plans to establish a department of Latin American affairs she is open about her intention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " And the new religion department is a joint project of Barnard , Columbia College , Columbia Graduate School , and the Columbia School of General Studies which offers adult education on the college level to older men and women with full- or part-time jobs . LL this is part of what Dean John A. Krout of the Graduate School calls Mrs. McIntosh 's " federation of Bar-nard into the larger life of Columbia without any loss of its independent status . " Set across Broadway from the rest of the university , Barnard has its own head , buildings , faculty , and board of trustees . In the years when for-mer Dean Virginia Gildersleeve was building up the college 's prestige in a world sometimes hostile to higher education for women , a large part of the male side of the university regarded it as a slightly frowzy nunnery , dedicated to the turning out of slightly frowzy feminists , and , as such , much better left alone . It was always possible for Barnard students of high standing to take courses at Columbia and for Barnard professors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ street . But the procedure involved was often complicated enough to discourage applicants , and Columbia attendance at Barnard courses was unheard of . Today the trend is away from such rigid separation and Mrs. McIntosh has been quick to capitalize on it . The traces of distrust which persist in some older Columbia quarters at the spectacle of vastly increased numbers of Barnard girls in Columbia lecture halls have been largely balanced by an appreciation of the new dean 's tolerant attitude toward extra-curricular exchanges . Elopements between Barnard and Columbia have risen sharply since she took over ? without , in most cases , interrupting either student 's college career . And there is a strong feeling at Columbia that Mrs. McIntosh , far from resenting , " rather welcomes " such inevitable attentions as midnight serenades of Barnard 's two residence halls after a Columbia beer party , provided , of course , they do not go too far . When , after a football game or dance , Columbia boys in a time-honored tradition tear down the Barnard fence , the dean merely requests that the responsible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actual expense turned out to be $100 more than the estimate ? and consequently $100 more than the boys had raised ? she reasonably decided it would be unfair to ask them to collect so much more ; Barnard would have to foot the difference and take consolation in a superior fence . Her stock with Columbia undergraduates rose high two years ago when the staff of the college humorous magazine got out a bogus issue of the Barnard college paper , the Bulletin , and surreptitiously distributed it all over the Barnard campus in place of the real issue published that day . The humor was crude enough to ban the paper from secondclass mailing privileges , had its editors been foolish enough to seek them , and the dean herself was one of the chief victims . But she had a single remark to make to Columbia on the subject . " All I want to know , " she said , " is who is going to pay the printing bill for this week 's Bulletin , since you suppressed all the real copies . " WHEN people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most unusual woman college head in the country , " they are usually thinking of her private life . As the wife of Dr. Rustin McIntosh , head of Babies Hospital in New York , Carpentier Professor of Diseases of Children at the College of Physicians and Surgeons , and one of the foremost pediatricians in America , she is married to a man whose career is at least as impressive as her own . As the mother of four sons and a daughter , whose ages now range from seventeen to eleven and whom she has largely brought up herself , she is a remarkable example of the ability of an intelligent woman to combine family life with a career . She is also unusual in the extent of her activities . Her thirty-five memberships go from vicechairman of the Committee on Forgotten Intellectuals and Professionals to corporation member of Manhattanville Neighborhood Center ; from director of both Bryn Mawr College and the Brearley School to sponsor of the United Negro College Fund and member of the advisory council of the Home Term Court of the Magistrate 's Courts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ woman director of the Home Life Insurance Company of New York . Her speaking engagements , not always to educational groups , would be the despair of many women faced with nothing more time-consuming than running a well-organized household . She is emphatic about her opinion that there should be more women in politics and is an articulate supporter of the League of Women Voters . But her prime concern has always been education , and there are few branches of it in which she has not had firsthand experience . When she went to Bryn Mawr College as a freshman in the autumn of 1916 , she was a shy , na ? ve girl from Baltimore , one of the six children of parents who were both Quaker ministers . At that time her aunt , M. Carey Thomas , one of the great leaders in women 's education and a feminist so extreme that she discarded her first name , Martha , for the more masculine-sounding Carey , was Bryn Mawr 's president . Under her influence her niece developed a high regard for the academic tradition and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ She became a leader in sports ( she still plays a fast game of tennis ) and undergraduate organizations , and she graduated magna cum laude , majoring in English literature and minoring in Greek . An uncomfortable feeling that her aunt was forcing her into an academic pattern sent her defiantly home after graduation , to organize clubs and classes for factory girls in Baltimore 's YWCA . Her sympathy with labor 's cause almost persuaded her to make workers ' education her life work , but she eventually realized that it was not really her main interest . She left for a year in England , to study economics at Newnham College , Cambridge ; taught English for a year at Rosemary Hall in Connecticut on her return : then took her Ph.D . in English at Johns Hopkins . In 1926 Miss Thomas had the satisfaction of seeing her niece return to Bryn Mawr as instructor in English and two years later become , first , freshman dean and then acting dean of the college . Shortly afterward she received a blow to her now well-developed ambitions for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brearley School for girls in New York City offered Miss Carey the position of headmistress , and she accepted . To Miss Thomas this meant simply that she bad turned her back on higher education for good . A second , and still more unexpected . blow for Miss Thomas followed . Hitherto Miss Carey had had little time for men , and vestiges of her shyness were apparent on social occasions . But in 1931 Dr. Rustin McIntosh , whom she had met in Baltimore through one of her four brothers , while he was studying at Johns Hopkins , came to the College of Physicians and Surgeons in New York . The next year they were married . " He 's the most attractive man I 've ever seen , " Mrs. McIntosh explains today , adding with amused satisfaction . " All my friends were terribly surprised when he married me . " Her aunt was both surprised and shocked . When neither of the Mclntoshes considered the possibility of Mrs. McIntosh 's giving up her work , Miss Thomas changed her opinion . " Millicent can do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a friend a little later , " by proving that she can hold down a husband and a job like the headmistress of a big school . " Nevertheless when Mrs. McIntosh 's first children turned out to be twin boys , one of the telegrams that poured in struck a discordant note . Signed M. Carey Thomas , it said , in effect , too bad they could n't have been girls . ( Mrs. McIntosh obliged by producing a girl next , before going on to two more boys . But it might be interesting to know what Miss Thomas , since dead , would make of this grandniece now . At sixteen Susan McIntosh attends the Putney School in Vermont so that she can study dairying and scientific farming . And her present plans for college involve neither Bryn Mawr nor Barnard but either Cornell or the University of Iowa . ) RS . McIntosh has often said that her seventeen years at Brearley were an invaluable preparation for her present job at Barnard . Brearley was originally established in a strictly classical tradition by a group of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as their sons . When Mrs. McIntosh arrived , the school had just moved into new buildings along the East River and planned to expand its school day from a few hours of concentrated study in the morning to the afternoon as well . This gave her the opportunity to introduce sports , art , music , and dramatics . It also necessitated a sharing of authority . Mrs. McIntosh divided the school into four age groups , each with its own virtually autonomous head . The heads were responsible to her , but they were expected to make as many decisions as possible themselves . This policy , which she has also followed at Barnard , has been varyingly described as " a great ability to get other people to do her work " and " highly creative administration . " To a lesser degree she has applied a similar practice in her domestic life . Feminine guests of the McIntoshes have become accustomed to the fact that , if they know their hostess well , the family darning basket is quite apt to be passed around with the after-dinner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ darning sometimes gets the alternative of a hem to turn tip or a shirt needing buttons . On the academic level , Mrs. McIntosh 's delegation of responsibility has been even more successful . Part of this is due to her knack for sizing up and choosing the right person for the right job , part to the great loyalty she always feels for the people she has chosen ? which produces a correspondingly great loyalty in return . She also accepts the often trying corollary of such a system : she does not interfere , unless asked to , in a delicate situation where she has already turned the decision over to someone else . Since some of her friends believe that she has a secret conviction that she could personally set right a good many of the ills of the world , this discipline is strongly to her credit . uNDER her leadership , . Brearley grew and maintained its position as one of the best preparatory schools in the country . Outsiders who inquired whether or not the headmistress was " progressive " usually received a standard reply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . She 's sympathetic to any approach that makes learning more interesting . But she does insist the girls learn . " All but one of her children were born during a school year . In each case she worked until almost the event itself and returned shortly afterward . When the twins arrived , the school got a holiday . Susan 's birth the next year was announced at a fire drill , and Susan herself appeared in her mother 's arms three weeks later at assembly . Largely because of her own productivity , Mrs. McIntosh feels , the faculty decided that she was the obvious person to teach physiology to the eleven- and twelve-year-olds . She took on the assignment and presented the subject in such forthright , personal terms that her pupils were enchanted . She also taught senior English , the Bible , and two courses close to two of her educational crusades . The first of these , general languages , was given the year before the students took Latin . Concentrating on the history of language , the general principles behind all languages , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her intermediate girls to the point where they could guess translations of German , Spanish , and Italian when the only two languages they actually knew were English and French . Today she is still concerned with what she feels is a faulty approach to language study in American schools and colleges . After her first year at Barnard she called a conference of teachers of French to discuss methods of procedure , and after a trip to Europe last summer she was struck again by the disadvantage Americans with a poor grounding in languages suffered from ? and by her desire to do something about it as soon as she found time . A second course which she worked out and taught at Brearley was ethics , in which she related immediate situations in which the girls might be involved at home to classical points of view about ethics and morals . It is possible she has carried over some of this to Barnard 's present modern living course . One of her current regrets is that she is not teaching . But when she supplanted the standard freshman hygiene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so that after the college doctor and a member of the sociology department had given their points of view , she could take over the last lectures and fill in with comments on contemporary family and social relationships . Her first lecture is concerned with " the ability to be interesting oneself , " and her notes for a later session read : The changes since 1914 in the relationship between the sexes with references to : ( I ) The emancipation of women ( 2 ) The increase in alcohol as a social device ( 3 ) The flight from orthodox religious belief ( in hell-fire , etc. ) ( 4 ) The universality of the automobile ( 5 ) The teachings of Freud ( 6 ) The Kinsey reports . AT BREARLEY Mrs. McIntosh got to know all the 550 students and concerned herself directly with their problems . She introduced psychological and aptitude tests , a course in remedial reading , and from time to time recommended psychiatric treatment for a child whose emotional problems appeared to be particularly deep-seated . ( At Barnard she has added a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the right college for each individual child interested her so intensely that some recalcitrant parents , faced with a very positive and unexpected recommendation , used to feel that a headmistress 's intervention in such matters should be more limited than it appeared to be at Brearley . The fact that Mrs. McIntosh followed the same practice in her own family and sent each of her children to the school he chose or that seemed best suited to his needs was a poor consolation to an ambitious father or mother who had just been told that his daughter would be happiest in a small junior college . At Barnard with its 1,100 undergraduates Mrs. McIntosh has accepted the fact that many of the girls will never be more than vaguely familiar faces to her . To compensate for this she has set up a system of class advisers carefully chosen from the faculty and herself meets regularly with the head of the Undergraduate Association , the editor of the Bulletin , the four class presidents , and other undergraduate officials . She hires sitters for her youngest son from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a week for any undergraduate who wants to see her for any reason -- even if it is only to meet her . A particularly unhappy-looking or untidylooking girl whom she passes on the campus is also apt to draw the dean 's attention . Very often she investigates later to find out.the girl 's name , background , and probable reasons for misery . If she hears of a specific undergraduate difficulty , she deals with it immediately . The year that comprehensive examinations in major subjects were introduced for all seniors , the dean interviewed each girl who failed . One of them , who came from the Middle West , was chiefly upset by the fact that she was afraid to tell her family , who were planning , at considerable expense , to come on and watch her graduate . " What 's their telephone number ? " asked the dean . The girl gave it to her , and the dean put through the long-distance call while the girl sat in her office , explained to the bitterly disappointed mother that her daughter would have a chance to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could go through all the festivities of commencement with her class , and that she , the dean , personally hoped that the family would carry through their original intention and attend . I N SELECTING Mrs. McIntosh as dean , the trustees of Barnard recalled that some years before Miss Gildersleeve had mentioned her as her " ideal successor . " After investigation , they were equally impressed by her record , administrative ability , and talent with young people . For a long time they were not at all certain they could get her . There were projects at Brearley that she wanted to see through , commitments she felt she had to the school . Her final decision was motivated by the fact that she had been . at Brearley seventeen years and firmly believed no one should stay in one administrative position for more than twenty , and by the challenge of appealing for funds for Barnard and the grounds on which such an appeal could be made . Two-thirds of Barnard 's students are nonresidents and well over half of these come from New York public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every state in the union and , at the present time , from Puerto Rico and thirty-four foreign countries . " All these , " Mrs. McIntosh once said , " result in a group of undergraduates who are rewarding to teach and exciting to know . Other colleges and schools claim to be democratic in their choice of students , but at Barnard for the first time I saw democracy in action on the campus . " The diversity of students plus the college 's relation to Columbia and its setting in New York City with countless facilities to be used as a laboratory , Mrs. McIntosh believes , give Barnard a unique position . To parents who object that they are afraid to send their daughters away to New York where " they may get in trouble , " she has a ready answer : " A girl who is going to get in trouble can find it anywhere . " In her fund-raising speeches she stresses the advantages of the city , the need to raise Barnard faculty salaries to Columbia 's level to keep up the exchanges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for new courses , and her own ambition to have more seminar rooms where small groups can meet . WITH the demands of fund raising , Mrs. McIntosh found almost as soon as she came to Barnard her position needed clarification . Since the dean of Barnard has the responsibility of a college president anywhere else , she decided to become a president in everything but name , and give the dean 's job to someone else . To this end she abolished the elaborate system of assistants to the dean that had been in operation and substituted for one associate dean two : the first to deal with general curriculum and faculty problems ; the other to take charge of student credits , transfer-students from other colleges , and majors . ( Characteristically one of these is a man and the other a woman . ) Almost all of the other professors were put on some committee , one of the most important of which was the curriculum committee to handle long-needed changes in that field , postponed during the war , and to report to her . In her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deal too fast . She left the curriculum committee gaping when she told them she expected them to be through their work in three months . When they not only protested but demonstrated that this was impossible , she let them proceed at their own rate ; but during her first months several of her deputies felt that their chief energies were going into a desperate attempt to slow the dean down . She has never completely lost the tendency to try to make other people progress at something approximating her own pace , or dispelled the suspicion that she frequently acts on impulse after hearing only one side of a question . But her readiness to accept criticism and correct her own mistakes , the quite staggering amounts of work people under her leadership have found themselves suddenly able to accomplish , and the sense of enthusiasm and progress she has brought to the whole campus are accepted at Barnard today as more than compensations . All in all , her conquest of Barnard was as swift as some of her administrative decisions . What resistance there was to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thirty-six years under Miss Gildersleeve , evaporated long before the first semester was over . The faculty found they enjoyed their new responsibility . At the same time the dean was ready to take over the disagreeable chores of refusing a promotion or explaining sources of dissatisfaction to a professor , instead of leaving it to the department head . She was remarkably well informed about everything on the campus , concerned about faculty housing , and interested in faculty families . Invitations to a college function , sent from Mrs. Rustin McIntosh instead of Dean Millicent Carey McIntosh , always included non-faculty husbands and wives . Since she did not move into the deanery but remained in her house on Fast 87th Street , the duplex apartment where Miss Gildersleeve had lived was made available to faculty members for entertaining whenever Mrs. McIntosh was not using it for official dinners or parties . H ER manner on campus has always been informal . For the first three years she droVe up each morning in a Ford station wagon , after dropping off her various children at schools along the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at boarding school , she has substituted a new Nash . She signs personal memoranda Millicent McI. , or , if she knows the recipient especially well , Milly McI. , or just Milly , and she is referred to all over college as Mrs. Mac . Despite her effectiveness on the lecture platform she is at her best with individuals or small groups . She talks'much better than she writes , where she suffers from what she describes as " the Ph.D approach , " and she likes personal contact . The head of one department who reports to her frequently explains . " She always gives you the feeling not just that she is listening to everything you say , but that she sees it from your point of view . " She applies this not only to professors and undergraduates but also to union representatives of the maintenance workers on the campus , alumnae with various problems , the director of the public relations department , trustees , and regional heads of the Development Plan ? all of whom she may see , in rapid succession , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , has its drawbacks . Some people confronted by the dean 's undi. vided attention have mistakenly assumed that she was agreeing with them ? and been sadly disillusioned later to find that the reverse was true . Her sense of humor , which is personal and unexpected , can also be disconcerting . " She never laughs when I say something I think is funny , " a fairly close acquaintance objected once . " And then a perfectly innocent remark will set her off . " IV THERE are those who hold that Mrs. McIntosh is not intellectual , that she is extremely sensitive to the climate around her and thus given to flirting experimentally with popular ideas , and that she is better at taking up and developing other people 's ideas than at evolving her own . Nevertheless there are certain educational points , like the teaching of languages , on which her opinions are definite and set . One of these is the responsibility of any educational system to teach its students to express themselves clearly and concisely on paper . Her first year at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her time , she visited each section of the required freshman English course and hammered into the students the necessity of learning to write decent English . " None of us ever forgot it , " one of them recalls . A second point on which the dean has often expressed herself is the importance of a study of history , now another required course at Barnard . A third is her belief that all education should instill a strong moral sense . She has sometimes been misquoted as favoring " broad general studies " over too much specialization ? but only by those who have failed to take note of her sharp remarks on the senselessness of " a scattering of information " and the valuable mental discipline of mastering one field of knowledge . The misunderstanding may come from her frequent statements that education should address itself to the individual and " prepare students for life . " This in turn is closely related to her opinions on women 's education , which have also caused confusion . She has not altered her conviction that " a liberal arts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she is willing to admit that the methods used in modern colleges have often failed to achieve their end . The amount of criticism leveled against women in general in recent years is to her irrefutable evideuce of something wrong ? and quite possibly wrong with women 's education . When Marynia Farnum 's Modern Woman : The Lost Sex came out , Mrs. McIntosh dutifully read it each night before she went to sleep . As she progressed , her irritation rose to such a pitch that her husband finally asked her why in heaven 's name she did n't throw the book away . " Because , " she replied desperately , " she has a certain number of good points to make . " The difficulty , she has finally decided , is that contemporary college courses are often given in a way that emphasizes scholarship rather than meaning . A girl who studies them may legitimately feel that she is being prepared only for graduate work and may lose sight of the fact that the " training of her mind , the cultivation of her imagination , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equally well for a career , or marriage and bringing up children . " The primary task of human beings , " Mrs. McIntosh wrote recently in answer to a question about her views on women 's education , " is to understand their own natures , and to discover the fullest possible development of the qualities with which they are endowed . " This , she continued , holds for men and women alike . Education fails when its instruction fails " to relate the subject matter to the student 's experience of what is important . History teachers , for instance , can present their subject , " she suggested , " not only as a succession of facts but also as a revelation of basic truths in human behavior , of basic philosophies which have led to human decadence or progress . " s HE expects most Barnard graduates to marry . She does not expect them to retire into the home when they do . If a career is not possible , or if they choose not to have one , they should take an active part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a woman a poor mother annoys her . The lack of them , she believes , is equally apt to make her a dull , frustrated , or domineering one . " The fact that a woman has a baby , " she once wrote , " does not mean that she is the only person qualified to do his laundry , to wheel him in his carriage , to put him to bed for his nap , or even , when lie is older , to keep an eye on him while he plays . She may be much better qualified to teach arithmetic . The mother is , I agree , the best person in the world to feed her baby , bathe him , and tuck him in bed at night . But usually these pleasant duties can be combined with a job . " This statement was obviously drawn from life . When the McIntosh children were younger , their parents had a cook , who has remained with the family ever since , and a housekeeper . But their mother was always there in the evenings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put them to bed . If one of them was sick , she dashed home from Brearley at lunch to sit with him . The McIntosh children also made frequent appearances at Brearley . Now that they are older , and more self-conscious , they seldom penetrate the Barnard campus . And there have always been Christmas vacations , spring vacations , and long summer vacations when the whole family is together . At every qpportunity they retire to the family farm at Tyringham , Massachusetts , where everyone wears blue-jeans , shares the housework , and at the end of each summer puts up enough vegetables from the garden to last the winter ; and where there are frequent camping trips and other expeditions . Last summer , when Dr. McIntosh was asked to address an international medical conference in Zurich , the family used this as an excuse to tour Europe together in the station wagon . Mrs. McIntosh refused to see any European educational authorities , and the Barnard trustees , alarmed at the possibility of losing a valuable property , read with mounting horror her letters describing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from country to country , and swims across some of the Continent 's fastest streams . If anyone points out to Mrs. McIntosh the rare opportunities for being with her family that her career has offered her , she delivers an impassioned appeal on another of her favorite topics : the advantages of teaching as a profession for women . She wants to see talented women enter teaching on the secondary as well as college level , and held an interschool conference on the subject recently . Her present Barnard faculty is evenly divided between men and women , and she hopes to keep it that way . RS . MCINTOSH has drawn a sharp line between her professional and private lives . At home she relaxes , and visitors to the house often feel that Dr. McIntosh , and not his wife , is the dominant personality . She does housework without enthusiasm but takes a lively interest in her children 's concerns , which currently include amateur theatricals , T. S. Eliot , and the United World Federalists as well as Susan's. passion for livestock . She is also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the children take after their father , a gifted amateur pianist , and have learned to play various instruments . Both the elder Mclntoshes enjoy living simply , invariably choose day coaches over Pullmans when they travel , and prefer to drive . Each has also been willing to make concessions to the other 's career . In the late thirties when Bryn Mawr was looking for a president , there was a persistent rumor that the authorities would like to interest Mrs. McIntosh in the position . Friends connected with the college went so far as to inquire about possibilities for Dr. McIntosh at Philadelphia hospitals . With his ability , they argued , - he would be successful anywhere , and he himself raised no objections . His wife did . His positions in New York , she felt , were " the best in the world for him . " But when she discussed the subject with him , she put it on a different basis . The children , she said , were doing well in New York ; why move them . Later , when she was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offer , a Barnard trustee sought out Dr. McIntosh to enlist him on the college 's side . He and Mrs. McIntosh had already talked the matter over in detail , and both realized that the new job would involve far more travel , night work , and evening functions than Brearley . But he merely replied mildly to the trustee that if his wife wanted the position he imagined she 'd take it , and he certainly had no intention of trying to dissuade her . Mrs. McIntosh is fully aware of her good fortune in having a husband who takes this point of view . A friend of both of theirs regards the matter differently . " Rusty is the wisest man I know , " she says . " Can you imagine what would have happened with all . Milly 's energy if she 'd had no outlet except husband and family ? " 