@@487525

THIS week the harsh realities of life were brought home to Alan Valentine , who first tried to admin-ister the Economic Stabilization Agency on the theory that the best way to handle a forced-draft inflation was to sit on his hands , and belatedly came to the conclusion that the only possible course was to freeze automobile prices and wages . Temporarily defied by General Motors and facing a serious revolt by the Wage Stabilization Board , Valentine today saw a major decision on wages taken out of his hands by the White House . Presidential Assistant John R. Steelman announced settlement of the rail labor dispute in an agreement raising wages , approving future increases to match rises in the cost of living , and edging strongly toward the doctrine that additional increases might be justified by improvement in production rates . This settlement was directly contrary to the order Valentine last week tried to stuff down the throat of the Wage Stabilization Board , canceling out the cost-of-living and productivity increases now included in contracts covering hundreds of thousands of workers . Obviously it meant that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not yet clear is whether Valentine has any notion of what to do about inflation . There is no secret about his basic philosophy . He is represented as having " continually suspected " that " voluntary " price and wage controls would not be sufficient and that eventually we should be " driven " to selective controls . This suspicion , it appears , was strengthened when the success of the Chinese counteroffensive dictated a huge increase in our mobilization program . But he still is not convinced that we need across-the-board price controls . If he is now prepared to urge Congress to pass stringent new national rent legislation and to amend the Defense Production Act to permit effective ceilings on food prices , no one in his stabilization agency will admit it . Yet wage stabilization without rent control and food ceilings is manifestly unworkable . The reason Valentine is not yet persuaded that across-the-board controls are necessary is that he distrusts the idea of controls . As a matter of political philosophy , he does not want the intrusion of " unnecessary " controls in the operations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ceilings are at best stop-gap measures which do not strike at the underlying causes of inflation . And he has deliberately kept his staff small because he does not want to ' - :add thousands of people " to the public pay roll unless that is " necessary . " Since he was sworn in on October 9 , his staff has grown from 5 people to about 250 ? half of them on loan from other federal agencies . The result is that he now has no organization to administer even selective controls , and once again reporters are told that it will take " at least " the familiar " sixty to ninety " days to build such an organization . There is strong reason to suspect , furthermore , that Valentine gave a green light for the 5 per cent increase in the price of steel announced in connection with wage rises for steel workers . This is denied by the ESA , but Valentine was consulted in advance about the proposal to raise prices . A Congressman says that Valentine told a closed committee hearing that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent  --  which in effect might be considered by the steel companies as approval of the increase actually made . In any case , having failed to build an organization or reach definite conclusions about controls on food prices , Valentine suddenly started to crack down . Michael DiSalle , the new price administrator , ordered automobile prices rolled back to December 1 levels . And Valentine himself turned up at a meeting of the Wage Stabilization Board at eleven o'clock one morning with an order which he proposed to issue at noon , knocking out the cost-of-living and productivity clauses of the automobile wage contracts . He did not offer this order as a suggestion or a basis of discussion ; he had not consulted the unions in advance . Only the violent protests of the Wage Stabilization Board , composed of three members each from management , labor , and the public , changed Valentine 's mind . Few people , perhaps , will be consumed with sympathy for General Motors , which met the price-rollback order with a refusal to sell its 1951 models . A corporation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following the outbreak of the Korean war , at an annual rate of $1,900,000,000 before taxes , is not a candidate for the poorhouse , and public reaction undoubtedly was a factor in G. M. 's surrender after a four-day rebellion . But to freeze automobile prices after allowing steel prices to rise , when steel is a basic material for automobiles , is not a price-stabilization policy . To try to freeze wages by destroying contracts entered into in good faith , wo-hout advance consultation with the people directly involved and without outlining broad action on food and rents , is not a wage policy . A play-by-play account of how slowly ESA has developed is a story of futility unlimited . On October 9 the staff consisted of Valentine , two secretaries , William Parsons , an assistant secretary of the Treasury on loan from that department , and W. W. McClanshan , a newspaperman named as public-information officer . Within the first week the staff grew to fifteen persons , occupying three rooms in the Reconstruction Finance Corporation building in downtown Washington . On October 20 H. Graham @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on loan as general counsel ; he has now returned to the Justice Department as head of the Anti-Trust Division , and Francis P. Whitehair , a lawyer from Deland , Florida , has been appointed permanent counsel . The first major appointment of a permanent ESA official came on November 1 , when G. Griffeth Johnson became assistant administrator for economic policy . On November 28 the Wage Stabilization Board , headed by Cyrus S. Ching ( on loan from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service ) , held its first meeting . On November 30 DiSalle was named price administrator , December 30 , 1950 and not until December 14 was Admiral John H. Hoover ( Retired ) appointed as director of investigations  --  the job covering the entire field of complaints against excessive prices and enforcement of ceilings . The personnel division is still being run by an acting director , Donald Smith , on loan from the RFC , who in turn replaced another official lent by another agency . The 250 persons now on the staff are housed in a ramshackle structure rejoicing in the name @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stairs as their slowly expanding organization requires more space . ESA has not been completely idle under Valentine . Consultants with OPA experience , such as James F. Brownlee , have been brought in on a per diem basis . Conferences are taking place this week on scrap prices , and others are scheduled for January on steel , copper , zinc , and lead prices . These discussions consider existing " price situations " and what the industry spokesmen think should be done , if controls are adopted , to avoid 691 errors committed by OPA during World War II . Very little has been done in the field of food prices , because the Defense Production Act forbids ceilings on farm prices which are at present below parity , and only beef , lamb , and veal are now above parity levels . Valentine could say today only that the meat-price situation is being discussed . DiSalle 's general directive asking industry to hold the line on prices , and threatening mandatory controls if the request is not honored , is an attempt to plug loopholes that existed under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making low-priced goods and concentrate on higher-priced items . But no rollback is in prospect under any circumstances beyond December 1 price levels , and no penalties will be imposed , under present plans , on a business man who decides to bet that even a rollback to December 1 will prove impossible after ESA gets its organization set up " sixty to ninety days " from now .                     