@@476726

I standard comment with which Prime Minister Pandit Nehru greets Western visitors . Indeed it does . The gap between India and America is growing fast ? and nearly all Indians , plus a good many sentimental Americans , put the blame entirely on the United States . They accuse us of failure to " understand the Eastern mind " ; and they often talk a good deal about the " spiritual qualities " of the Orient and the noble character of Nehru . Rarely is there any hint that Indians might fail to understand America , or to appreciate the spiritual qualities of the West . When I returned recently from ten strenuous weeks in India , I was convinced that misunderstanding is by no means a one-way street .. As I visited universities , research institutions , and government agencies , I found myself under the constant provocation of challenging argument , misinformation , inverted racism ? and a searching curiosity about America . Since I was a private visitor , with no official responsibilities , I could afford to give frank answers , which often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For example , the audiences at my lectures were always startled when I reminded them that America had been drawn into World War II because an Asiatic power had attacked us . They have swallowed so much anti-colonial propaganda , which invariably casts " Europeans " in the role of aggressors , that they could hardly credit the fact of Pearl Harbor . ( A minor , but curious , item of misunderstanding is the way in which Indians normally use the term " European " for all Westerners , including Americans ; but it does not seem to include the Russians . ) Moreover , when I pointed out the reason for Japan 's attack ? the fact that America was the only consistent defender of China against Japanese aggression ? my listeners often seemed to feel that I was inventing a debater 's argument . The historical truth simply did not fit their preconceptions . The remark that " it looks different from New Delhi " often is accompanied by a rather smug assumption that India has a monopoly on virtue , and that it alone presents " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Red China ? nor for Formosa . New Delhi does n't speak for Japan either ; it does n't even think of Japan . In Indian minds , the Japan of the past is somehow curiously merged with the responsibilities of the British ; and the Japan of the present and future is confused with the responsibilities of the United States . When an American points out that Communist aggression in Korea was essentially aimed at Japan ? and notes that Japan therefore is more concerned with the future of Korea than India is ? his Indian listeners seem to freeze . Similarly , I observed English was one of the most important forces in developing a national point of view . Today ? and this is surely a paradox of Indian " nationalism " ? a major consequence of independence is to weaken the hold of English . At the same time , the regional languages ? there are about ten important ones ? are becoming Lite vehicles of local political movements which threaten to split up the country . The establishment of the state of Andhra ? breaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merely one example ; there are many similar movements in the making . in the south , the Communist party has made itself the spokesman of regional nationalism , and an unholy mixture of Communist slogans and parochial demagoguery has put the dominant Congress party in the untenable position of having to support the local patriots in order to keep local electoral support , although this at the same time weakens the central government . IN MODERN history India has been unified only twice , once by the Moguls and once by the British . In both cases , the job was done by force . Now the dominant tendency in India is toward disintegration into provincial and linguistic groups , rather than toward the development of a strong national state . Everywhere people are demanding that schools , courts , and political discussions should be conducted in the native provincial language , and the danger that India 's intellectual and cultural life may once again become wholly parochial frightens the country 's educational and cultural leaders . The older leaders made their careers in a national setting , and they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matured . Radakrishnan 's academic career illustrates this " national " pattern ? from one university and province to another , contributing to a national perspective as he acquired it himself . Today the younger men arc compelled to teach in the local languages , and this fact itself limits the horizon of their careers . Movement from Mysore to Calcutta , from Madras to Benares , will be more restricted in the future , while publications in the provincial languages will , of necessity , have a more limited audience . The English language is still a unifying force which enables intellectuals to communicate freely with all sectionsof their country ? and with the world as well . But the handwriting is already on the wall . Even in my own experience , in dealing with the younger groups I was noticeably restricted by their more limited ability to speak English . The New Crop of " Intellectuals " T HERE are colleges in India ? Bethune in Calcntta and St. Stephen 's in New Delhi are good examples ? whose faculty and equipment match the best anywhere in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enrollment is huge , teachers ' salaries are callously low , faculties have been diluted with poorly-trained young teachers , and there is characteristically " leftist " agitation on the campus . Everywhere the local Communists ? and some Communist " youth leaders ' . are in their thirties ? exploit local issues ; and it would he foolish to deny that there is plenty of ammunition for their agitation . For example , I found many colleges with equipment for a thousand students trying to adjust to an enrollment of more titan six thousand . And the prevailing examination system ? administered by outsiders who know neither the students nor the faculty ? encourages a form of fiscal exploitation . Rejection of 70 per cent of the candidates for degrees becomes a vested interest of higher academic authorities , because examination fees have become indispensable to college finances . The Congress party , which used college students in its own struggle against the British , now finds it hard to cope with Communist enemies who use its own favorite weapon . I met many educational administrators who seemed resigned to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one hand , and their own faculty and students on the other . Two Indian universities were closed during my visit , as a direct result of Communist agitation . At one of them I arrived on the day of the closing . The local administrator was obviously unprepared for the entertainment of a foreign visitor under the circumstances . As we talked about the events of the day , I asked him to translate one of the student leaflets that had been distributed at the college gate that morning . He was astonished when I correctly guessed the contents of the third paragraph , after he had translated the fore , calls first of all for the reconstruction of agriculture : even its industrial chapters are directly related to the increase in farm output . This Plan calls for nothing that has n't already been tried in the long history of American agricultural development ; and ow aid program is geared directly into the Indian government 's farm plan . The fulfillment of the plan seems to be in excellent shape , but the objectives are relatively modest . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conic either from foreign sources , or from the Indian people themselves . To secure the capital from the Indian people , by the Russian technique of paying them less and.charging them more , would require a rut Idessly autocratic government . Instead , the plan is committed to the democratic method of raising capital From voluntary savings and direct taxation . It is disheartening , however , to study the modest figures and discover that even if the plan is totally successful , the actual gain in income per capita over the , five-year period will be very . slight , because the annual increase in Indian population ? between five and six million a year ? will make it necessary to provide for some thirty million additional mouths . The Wrong Kind of Education a pathetic misdirection of educational effort in the past , which persists in spite of a shelf of government reports which unerringly diagnose the basic malady : everyone wants a white-collar education for a white-collar job ? and there are not enough white-collar jobs ? while no one seems to want an education that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sanitation , and education . There are some splendid exceptions here and there ? agricultural colleges , engineering schools , teacher-training colleges . But the overwhelming majority of Indian colleges anduniversities are grinding out a poor copy of English liberal-arts education of the time of Macaulay , which was transplanted to India in 1835 to give England a clerical and administrative service , " a class of persons , Indian in blood and color , but English in faith , in opinion , in morals , and in intellect " ( to use Macaulay 's own language in his classic Minute on Indian Education ) . The result today is a mongrel product , trained to be verbally proficient in studies for which there is little use , and disdainful of ( or at best uninterested in ) the type of training that would fit the everyday needs of India . I T IS popular to blame the British for a poor start , but the malady is more deeply rooted than rhetoric may suggest . ( There has been no hesitation in rejecting other cultural imports of the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficulty seems to be an incompatibility between Indian attitudes toward labor and material productivity on the one hand , and a vague general desire for the fruits of material productivity do the other . There is much talk of freedom and technology in India ; but there is very little awareness that the material well-being of the West is largely a by-product of Western spiritual and moral ideals , plus a positive attitude toward work . The educated Indian commonly considers manual labor ? or even a foreman 's job in a factory ? as beneath his dignity . Eleanor Roosevelt tells in her latest book , India and the Awakening East , of a conversation with Nehru in which she asked whether it would be possible to link India 's spiritual faith in renunciation with the desire for material improvement . Where ? she asked ? would India get the incentives for the hard work that would he required for the betterment of her living conditions ? Nehru , and many Indians with him , think of spiritual values as one thing ? and of material progress as another . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but they have missed the essential lesson of the interdependence of moral attitudes and material progress . Or ? as Mrs. Roosevelt politely summarizes it ? " the discussion was inconclusive , and Nehru gave me no feeling that I was wrong . " This is precisely the moral vacuum which Communist propaganda is endeavoring to fill . The gap between moral preachment and The ideological no-man 's land between Gandhi 's disciples on the one hand and the Communist party on the other is currently filled by strange hybrids , ranging from fanatical Hinduism of the type that led to the assassination of Gandhi to extreme forms of nineteenth-century rationalism ; from Vedantic communism , to the Fabianism of leaders like Nehru whose chief quarrel with the Socialists is their unwillingness to accept his soft foreign policy toward the Soviet Union . Almost anything can still be expected to emerge from the present fluidity of political Forces . I have great faith , however , that responsible participation in political decisions ? such as India 's military role in the Korean armistice ? will throw the ultimate decision to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ torestrict our cultural anti exchange programs in India ? or to reduce our economic help . The deep tendency of Indians to confuse the slogans of Communist propaganda with the idea of anti-colonial " nationalism " is a challenge to American political intelligence . American observers frequently make the mistake of confusing Nehru with the Indian nation . Nehru 's intellectual and political position is " dated " ? it is a viewpoint rooted in the Laski-Benes period . Even India 's Socialists are more concerned with the modern problems of freedom than the veteran Nationalist leader whose views were crystallized by his life-long struggle against " colonialism . " Whatever may have been the case in the past , support of Nehru is not necessarily identical , today , with a policy of support for a strong and independent India . 