@@494328

Portraits from DEAR STUB the letter began . Sterling Cole , the ele- gant Chairman of the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy left out the familiar greeting . The rest he read to the committee members summoned in lame duck session to rush the Dixon-Yates contract through . The letter , signed Dwight D. Eisenhower , and dated November 10 came as a last minute reprieve for two ser ? vants of a larger cause , the chubby and expressionless Edgar Dixon , and the aged and sleepy Eugene Yates . For the Administration witnesses had failed miserably in six days of testimony to prove either the soundness of the project or the necessity for haste . Lewis Strauss was arrogant and refused to discuss the rush . Rowland Hughes was apologetic and muttered in a feeble way . Kenneth Nichols was stubborn in bearing the main bur ? den of rationalization until he fell under its weight . The eight Democrats on the committee were justifiably angry as they listened in vain for answers to their searching questions . The 10 Republicans were understandably glum . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And two of them seemed ready to join the Democrats in holding the contract for the new Congress to consider . There it would have died . Then , for the second time , Mr. Eisenhower intervened . He set forth fake assumptions , posed fake alternatives and so reached fake conclusions . In the weakest of mod ? em Presidential statements , he pressed approval of the contract through . Dear Stub . . . . The core of the letter is " the very im ? portant truth " which the President would have the nation believe , the " partisans " of TVA ignore . It is that " IF the federal government assumes responsibility " for the valley 's power ( italics mine ) " it has a similar responsi ? bility with respect to every other area and region and cor ? ner of the United States of America . " Thus , concludes the President , the nation can not authorize one more steam plant for the valley unless it is ready to undertake a " gi- gantic power development " for the entire nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signature of the United States . The federal government very plainly assumed the responsibility for the valley 's power supply when it amended the TVA . Act in 1939 . When Mr. Eisenhower took office he swore to uphold that law , as he had done in the course of the 1952 campaign . Even if the govern ? ment 's ultimate purpose is to amend the law and thus totransfer responsibility , its duty is to approach TVA in the spirit of an investor guarding his property rather than as a conqueror disposing of enemy loot . Further , the Congress was not as irresponsible as the President would now have us suppose . It created the TVA in recognition of a unique opportunity in a country whose size and diversity create widely varying needs . The President 's " logic " is , of all the arguments cited to pre ? vent progress , the most ancient and discredited . You ca n't regulate child labor unless you regulate all , labor , the opponents of progress maintained ; you ca n't build public housing unless you build all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fixing all wages . The nation has progressed by rejecting this thesis which is as meaningless for citizensset apart by geography as for those distin- guished by social and economic levels . The federal gov ? ernment is under no'obligation to build a B-36 base in Connecticut because it builds one in Texas ; to construct . a drydock in Denver similar to its drydock in Norfolk . No one holds that because the government finances huge irri ? gation projects in the dry lands west of the Mississippi it must finance similar projects on Martha 's Vineyard and in Maine . Because the government undertakes to devel-i i op for the nation the benefits nherent in the Tennessee and the Columbia , it does not follow " logically " that it must harness the trickle that ekes its way down Tombig ? bee Creek and Turkey Cock Run . In fact , to argue thus , as President Eisenhower does , is to maintain that the only durable investment of federal administration is , the cookie cutter . pRESIDENT EISENHOWER , however , is committed to this ludicrous view . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sentative Cole , " that the project for building new plants at federal expense . . . is wholly indefensible unless it should become part of a vast national plan . " A fine dis ? tinction may be drawn between new steam plants and new units for existing plants . For these have been recom ? mended as part of next year 's budget by General Herbert Vogel , the new Chairman of the Board of Directors of TVA . It seems more probable , however , that the Presi ? dent has reversed his own appointee , and barred from the budget.those appropriations necessary for TVA 's efficient , operation . If this is true , then the worst fears of the val ley residents will be confirmed . Mr. Eisenhower will have committed the power of the Presidency to an effort to undermine the great agency he is legally compelled and personally committed to uphold . The Dear Stub letter admittedly maintains the fiction that the Dixon-Yates contract is good for TVA . The validity of this view is indicated in the official protest against the TVA contract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Directors of TVA , and sent to the Bureau of the Budget on July 2 : The most serious aspect of this whole arrangement is the lack of control which the TVA Board would have over the costs TVA would incur . The contract would be between Dixon-Yates and the Atomic Energy Com ? mission with the administration of its terms exercised by AEC on behalf of the government . Since AEC con ? templates that TVA would pay all costs , exclusive of taxes , neither AEC nor Dixon-Yates would have the normal incentives to insist on economies in construction and operation . The TVA Board is charged under the TVA Act with the responsibility for successfully carry ? ing out the provisions of the Act including widespread distribution of power at the lowest possible rates ade ? quate to make the power projects self-supporting and self-liquidating . We fail to see how this Board can carry out its responsibilities and be held accountable for efficient and economical performance when the crucial managerial function of cost control is assumed by an ? other agency ? an agency with no stake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrangements , the construc ? tion of the facilities or their operation . Believing this , is the TVA Board compelled nonethe less to sign with the AEC , to buy Dixon-Yates power , and thus to violate the spirit if not the let- ter of the law ? By pursuing its stub born course , in pressing the Dixon-Yates contract while forbidding new steam plants for TVA the Eisenhow ? er Administration is forcing in the most harsh manner a re ? consideration of the powers of the Presi ? dent , the status of TVA as an inde pendent agency and the rights and duties of TVA direc ? tors and staff . In TVA the Congress created an independent agency without preCedent whose status between the executive and legislative branches has never been closely defined . The Act declares that the TVA directors shall be " appointed by the President By and with the advice and consent ofthe Senate . " It makes no mention of the President 's pow ? er of removal but provides that the directors " may be re moved from office at any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Representatives . " The Pres ident , of course , retains the implied power of removal that derives from his constitutional authority over all the executive branch . He can not change , but must adminis ? ter the laws ; within their framework , all federal officials work for him . When a TVA director , Dr. A. E. Morgan , refused to report to President Roosevelt the President in fact removed him . His grounds were contumacy and the Supreme Court declined to review the case . CONTUMACY is not the only legitimate ground on which the President can remove the TVA directors . While they serve , the directors are ' responsible less to the President than to the governing law . The TVA Act requires ' that , " All members of the board shall be persons who profess a belief in the feasibility and wisdom of this Act . " The directors are further bound to provide " conscientious performance under the statute . " While they report to the President , ' they are not part of his political ? cal administration ; their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whims , but to administer the agency in accordance with the terms of the Act . The di ? rectors are legally entitled and morally obligated to refuse to enter into a contract with the Dixon-Yates syndicate or with the AEC , if they believe the contract is harmful to TVA . The President may then remove them and propose to Congress the names of men who share his interpreta tion of the statute ; but he can not himself sign the Dixon-Yates contract or order it signed . For the directors then , the conflict is urgent and real . They are bound by the Act . They are further bound by existing contracts with the distributors of TVA power . The distributors are avowedly opposed to the Dixon-Yates contract and on record as preferring a dim-out of power to a surrender of the basic prerogatives of TVA . For them , and for the directors they look to for leadership , the issue is whether ' TVA is to continue to function as the nation 's lowest cost power producer or whether the economies created by an integrated and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ By fighting for principle TVA has won the respect of the valley and the nation . Many times Kenneth McKel ? lar used his key post in the Senate to tie the future of TVA to special deals for patronage , for payroll padding , for projects that were mot justified on merit alone . Each time TVA was offered the choice of behind-the-scenes compromise or a ripper bill that threatened its whole existence . By standing fast the directors made TVA what it is today . Now the directors and the staff of TVA , their distribu ? tors , consumers and supporters face the largest and hard ? est of tests . General Vogel may snap to at the President 's commands . But Harvey Curtis and Raymond Paty form the majority of the Board . They can not believe that their objections to the Dixon-Yates plant voiced in the July 2 letter have been met by subsequent revisions in the con ? tract . They must fight where they can . But where is the battle to start and stop ? On one battlefield or another the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the contract is defeated , the freeze on TVA may continue while Mr. Eisenhower remains in the White House . The obligation presses upon TVA supporters to search for a new way of financing future needs . One method is by the construction of municipal steam plants integrated in the TVA system . Memphis , on its way to becoming one of the 10 largest cities of the nation , is determined to build a steam plant rather than place its future in the hands of Dixon-Yates . Nashville , Knox ? ville and Chattanooga could follow suit . There the ex ? pansion would stop . The waste in reserve capacity would be considerable and yet the needs of smaller communities and rural areas would not be met . A second method is for the seven states of the region to take over from the federal government respOnsibility for TVA . In the last resort the seven states will act to save the system . But the difficulties in an interstate au ? thority would be immense . Sixty percent of TVA power is used by one state ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a minority as a power supplier and private util ? ities still dominate the state legislatures . The simplest of interstate agencies , such as the Port of New York Author ? ity have had a far from happy history . " The truth is , - said one expert to me in Knoxville , " if there was no fed ? eral government in existence we would have to create one to manage this system . " A third method , much ' discussed in the valley , is for the TVA to finance its expansion by issuing bonds . For months bond brokers have been canvassing the region . A successful precedent exists in Ontario for a bond-financed authority . Ontario Hydro is owned by the mu ? nicipalities and rural districts of the province . It sells them power at cost , and its record of rates and electricity used is unsurpassed . It finds an eager market for the $200 million it offers each year in low interest bonds . By these means Ontario Hydro has financed an expansion of capacity by 84 percent since 1945 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the TVA board could be given its open end authority to issue bonds then this might point to a solution . However , Ontario Hydro started from scratch . Congress as sole investor in TVA is unlikely , to surrender the control of new bond issues , and this con ? trol manipulated by the utility lobby , could be as crip ? pling for TVA as the present method of annual appro- priations . New York banks and holding companies took from the Tennessee Valley the control of its power sup-. ply . Congre'ss in turn took that control from the dis- , credited utility empires and held it in TVA . Given the right climate , a restoration of control to the valley would logically complete the circle . But in the climate of hos ? tility generated by the Eisenhower Administration , revi sion of the Act is more likely to end with the power supply back in utility hands . So the valley residents are prepared to fight out the present battle on today 's prepared trenches . From the first gun to the last there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From the beginning to the end there was that irreconcilable conflict between those who believed the national wealth of the United States best can be developed by private capital and en ? terprise and those who believe that in certain activities related to the national resources only the great strength of the federal government itself can perform the most necessary task in the spirit of unselfishness , for the greatest good for the greatest number . So wrote George Norris of the struggle to create TVA . Then , as now , $5 million was the price offered by a pri- , vate trust to take title to the valley 's power . Then as now , in Norris ' words , " It was said and accepted without question by millions of Americans that private enterprise could do no wrong . " Three years of struggle ended Ford 's offer for Muscle Shoals . Three more led to the first TVA bill . President Coolidge killed it with a pocket veto . Norris brought it back to life . President Hoover vetoed it again saying " That is not liberalism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But Norris had just begun . He toured the graveyards of the valley , rubbing clean the inscriptions on tombstones to prove that hard labor caused by lack of water and power cut the lives of the valley women short . He linked TVA to a new right ? the right of low-income groups to electricity ? and to much more . He called TVA the Second Emancipation . Armed with that forward-looking concept he won . CRITICS of TVA murmur today that it lacks a forward looking concept . They see cheap power as an ac ? cepted way of life in the Southeast . They fear that in the new dynamics of industrialization and urbanization , TVA as a center of vision and planning , has not kept ahead . They smile at the President 's cry of warning that TVA is creeping socialism and wish that in the broad sense this were true . Local pioneering of course is im ? portant in the long run . For the present , however , TVA is still a yardstick for the nation , an inspiration for the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ status quo . It was a conservative status quo in the days before the New Deal . Then the radicals were those who wished to overturn the status quo on the left . It is a liberal status quo today , and today 's radicals are the Eastern bankers and their intellectual children who tear at society 's intricate web in the name of rightist doctrines and abstract ideals . Fear of creeping socialism dictated the letter to Dear Stub . But when the President strikes at TVA he hits not the wraith of socialism but the flesh and blood of the farmers , the tradesmen , the businessmen of the valley , the prosperity of free enterprise there rests on cheap power ; the basis of family living is on TVA. 