@@494352

The Masters of the Mobs As a clinical examination of ten choice specimens ? technically eleven , but Pa and Ma Ferguson , of Texas , really constitute one ? this book is superior to anything else as yet turned out ; and as an examination of the political phenomenon known as demagoguery it has great merit , although it falls somewhat short of being definitive . With a scrupulous adherence to the documentary record that one might almost describe as loving care Mr. Luthin traces the careers of James M. Curley , Theodore C Bilbo , William Tale Thompson , William H. Murray , Frank Hague , the Ferguson , Eugene Talmadge , Vito Marcantonio , Huey P. Long and Joseph R. McCarthy . The sketches are preceded by a chapter on ' Wasters of the Masses " in the early twentieth century , and followed by one on " The Mark of the Demagogue , " summarizing the work . There is an introduction by Allan Nevins that is a little masterpiece . In what it presents , the work comes close to being flawless , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ balanced and his style is lucid . His ten autopsies are conducted with a neatness and dispatch that must , command the admiration of every literary pathologist . Criticism is driven from what he did to concentration on what he failed to do , and that centers pretty much on his concluding chapter in which he turns from the individual to describe the genus . For one thing , he omits all discussion of the inconsistent demagogue . His ten specimens remained unaltered froth first ... to last , but we have had conspicuous examples of both reformation and de formation . Pitchfork Ben Tillman , for example , began as the rankest of demagogues , but ended as a crusty , but rather valuable conservative ; Tom Heflin , on the other hand , began as an admirable liberal , only to degenerate into a rabble-rouser . His subject was demagogues , not demagoguery , so perhaps it is captious to criticize him for omitting any discussion of what might be called the hard core of demagoguery . Nevertheless , it seems to be the fact , and if it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a proportion of the electorate , perhaps as great as three per cent , is prepared to believe anything provided it is obviously not true . Mr. Luthin quotes Frank Kent 's remark that " the great bulk of voters belong to this moronic underworld " hut without agreement ; yet there is much evidence that any proposition that is fantastically unreal may be expected .. to draw some four million adherents . These are the persons for whom the world of reality is too hard , so they are driven to take refuge in whatever fan tasy is vividly presented at the moment ; These are the diehard McCarthyites ; they are allergic to fact , so the more McCarthy is exposed , the more frantically they adhere to him . However , they ' are so small a minority that the demagogue can not prosper with them alone ; he succeeds only when circumstances drive a certain number of otherwise normal voters to join this lunatic fringe . Hysterical fear of Communism operated to make McCarthy formidable , but without it he would still commanded several million fol This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a careful analysis of it would be a contribution to the theory of democracy . Mr. Luthin does not supply it , but he does offer two suggestions that are coM-forting to believers in the republic . One is that exercises it is an exceptional l dema influence who beyond one state ; the other is that even within the afflicted state ten years is a long run for such a character . Four to six years will finish off most of them , So while the picture he presents is revolting in detail , in the large it is by no means so bad . Here are ten aPPari " dons , any one of them a potential Hitler ' who have appeared within the present century , yet not one of them has achieved anything permanent , except , indeed , as the shock they have adminis ' tered has stimulated better government in some backward areas . American Demagogues may furnish ammunition to some short-sighted critics of our sYs " etenm , ubruagt itnghe. judicious will find it rather 