@@494549

Can . Sir Anthony Survive ? I can HE chief Eden political topic pic in Some London don is that the long g Sir Anthony fire will greatly strengthen his position ; others are no less certain that his disappearance is only a matter ? of time . . But perhaps the best way to appreciate the drama is to divide the story into two acts . In the first Sir Anthony appears as the great Commander ? cool , imperturbable and resolute . In the second the same performers are still on the stage but all are now in different clothes and playing different parts . The swords and pistols and other deadly instruments that gave such a bloodthirsty tone to the first act have been put away , and meek and cooing doves flutter ostentatiously about - the stage . In the early phases Sir Anthony 's warlike utterances and manner deeply angered more than half the nation . As the crisis developed , the Labour and Liberal Parties , the Trade Union Movement , and most of the Press all came out against him ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Prime Minister made the fatal mistake of offending the non-conformist conscience . Ordinary people are disgusted by the government 's bullying of a weaker power , the bombing by the RAF , and the unpleasant tone of gloating that is creeping into the bellicose newspapers . Lady Violet Bonham Carter , Asquith 's daughter and so far on the right-wing of the Liberal Party that she has always been very close to the Conservatives , puts the point admirably in a recent letter to The Times , " I am One of millions , " she writes , " who watching the martyrdom of Hungary and listening yesterday to the transmission of , her agonized appeals for help ( immediately followed by the description of our successful bombing ' of Egyptian ' targets ' ) have felt a humiliation , shame , and anger which are beyond description . . . . Never in my life-time has our name stood so low in the eyes of the world . Never have we stood so ingloriously alone . " At this point it was clear that liberal opinion has ceased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neon-flashing smile --  -- -all this not only irritates but seems in bad taste . By , this time he had not only staked his own future on the Egyptian adventure but had committed his entire flock . In the Hitler era there were Conservatives who saved the good name of the party by having the courage to defy the Whips and vote against the official line . In 1956 not a single back bencher in the Commons has so far had the courage to rebel and none of the ministers who are supposed to have moderate ' views has left the government . The leaders and the rank-and-file are equally indicated . The resignation of Mr. Anthony Nutting does not really alter the argument . Mr. Nutting has never been liberal-minded and is almost the last person one would suspect of having the nonconformist conscience concealed about his beautiful person . This is no John Bright , no Gladstone storming the country to rouse Britain against the iniquity of oppression . Made in Sir Anthony 's own exquisite image , the chief interest of his resignation is that he owes everything to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stabbing a sawdust Caesar . While the RAF were bombing Egypt , British Conservatives grew increasingly unhappy and confused . . . . Only the members of the Suez group on the extreme Right felt like opening bottles of champagne . " This is the first time for three years , " one of them said the other day , that I 've not felt worried about the Middle East . " Others have been congratulating themselves or converting the government to their views . Despite all the odds they feel they have at last succeeded in imposing their policy on Sir Anthony and his colleagues . This was not the right interpretation because what had happened was not so much the triumph of the Right as the final bankruptcy of the liberal elements within the Conservative Party . Until three months ago it would have been said by most observers that the Conservatives had become civilized ; it was supposed that they had abandoned the swashbuckling of former days and had come to realize , though . with many a nostalgic glance toward the past , that we , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settled by the brisk dispatch of a gun boat or the advance of the thin red line of the Brigade of Guards . Sir Anthony himself would have subscribed to this view before the present escapade . Some of us remember the words he used in 1945 ? they were , we felt , among the finest ever to have come from a Conservative . " It is excellent , " he said , " to'have a giant 's strength ; but it is tyrannous to use it like a giant . " And then , all these years later , we have the cynical postscript ? the defiance of international law and the RAF bombings . Because of the failure and cowardice of the moderates the Suez group has been able to make all the running . It is they who have had a policy ? they who have always threatened rebellion and resignation . Since the start of this crisis the case for moderation has never been put , and since the rest of the party has not been given a clear alternative , it has subconsciously come to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but enough of it to make them acquiesce in Sir Anthony 's policy . A climate was thus created ? a general feeling that Britain must be more adventurous , bolder and more heroic ? Elizabethan , in fact . Thus only one kind of pressure was exerted on the Prime Minister , and , being the weak man he is , he eventually succumbed to it . A T this stage in the drama , Conservatives could conveniently be divided into three parts . On the extreme Right were the delighted members of the Suez group . In the center ? and the center might be'said to hold 75 percent of Conservatives ? are the ' bewildered , the uneasy , the well-intentioned sheep . Surely things can not be quite so bad as everybody made out ? Sir Anthony has been a diplomat all his life : he must know ? may still , perhaps , have some secret ace that he will suddenly produce at the last moment . As worse news arrived by every post these Conservatives managed to forget the world 's condemnation by dwelling on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Nasser was about to resign or would providentially be shot ; and they discerned silver linings on the blackest nights . Their attitude came out perfectly in the revealing scene that occurred in the House of Commons when Sir Anthony announced that there had been a cease-fire at Port Said . Taking this to mean that Britain 's intervention had already brilliantly triumphed , every Conservative jumped to his feet , cheering and waving . Twenty-four hours later these same people were going wild with joy for exactly the opposite reason . It was Sir Anthony , and not Nasser , who had capitulated . To be fair one must remember that every Conservative back bencher has been subjected to all the subtleties of the party managers . In the Labour Movement the course of true love is always accompanied by the heartening sound of breaking glass and the sight of a lovely black eye is considered to be a sign of undying affection . But not in Conservative circles . We have been to Eton or Harrow , to Oxford or Cambridge ; we belong to the best clubs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not brawl in public . We are loyal to our leaders and we invariably put the Conservative Party first . This was the situation when the curtain came down for the interval on the Monday night . The " Wogs , " as high Tories call the Egyptians , were being overwhelmed and Sir Anthony 's critics would soon have to eat an indigestible meal of their own words . T HE scene completely changed on Tuesday evening after Sir Anthony announced the British and French cease-fire . A wave of relief and hope swept through the Conservative ranks . Ignoring all the realities ? that Britain had in fact capitulated to a Russian ultimatum , that Nasser might now be stronger than ever , that the Syrians had blown up two pumping stations and cut off the flow of oil for perhaps 12 months ? the government 's supporters completely gave themselves up to the thought that the drift towards war had at last been stopped . Only among the members of the Suez group could one find a slight suspicion that the millenium might not have broken out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the next morning that the allied forces had managed to dash forward before the cease-fire came into operation and seize Ismailia . " That puts us in a , much stronger position : : one of them said . When asked what he thought of the report that Russian aircraft were flying across Turkey , presumably on their way to the Middle East , he paused for a moment and stroked his chin . Then he added , diminishing the whole distasteful subject , " That was to be expected . " For the time being the general mood is all for unity . Whatever mistakes may have been made in the past , the duty of every good Conservative is to rally round the Prime Minister and help to restore the old links with America and the Commonwealth . There must be no more talk of rebellion . " I nearly got lynched in my club the other night , " a Conservative back bencher remarked , " when I dared to cast a slight doubt on Sir Anthony 's capacity for statesmanship . " Some Conservatives have even been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greatest triumph of his career . The crisis , the Tory Daily Mail says , " is over with the main object achieved and without any of the major disasters so freely prophesied . Britain and France have done what they set out to do . They have stopped a war between Israel and Egypt , prevented a bigger conflict , and opened a new and more hopeful chapter in the Middle East ? though it is going to be a long job . " Wishful thinking could hardly go further . The reflective reporter of these events must not allow himself to ' be influenced by the prevailing joy . There is going to be a long and heavy bill to pay for the work of these last three months , and the temper will change when the Conservatives get down to counting the cost . However , there is no reason to compare the present situation with the Munich days . In 1938 Churchill and the Churchillian policy provided an alternative to appeasement : in 1956 all Sir Anthony 's chief rivals ate , in their several ways , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dilemma that faces the potential rebels and it adds to their difficulties and frustration . For these reasons one 's feeling is that nothing very sudden or dramatic is likely to happen . If Sir Anthony pulls it off , his followers will rally round him and hope that he will regain his old authority in the country . If the war drags on , if Britain gets bogged down in the Middle East , if the guerrillas get to work , then the Conservative rank-andfile will repudiate their leader . At the moment it looks as if Sir Anthony 's career will end in a whimper and not with a bang .                     