@@494160

Kennan and Kennanism by THOMAS P. WHITNEY IT 'S NOT a little surprising to realize that the recently published Russia Leaves the War is actually George Kerman 's first book . ( Kennan 's two previous works published in book form were , separate sets of university lectures written for delivery as such . ) So considerable has Kennan 's impact been on American thought and so . Widely known has his name become that one involuntarily begins to think of him as a profuse author Whereas in reality he has written very little for publica. non . Till his new work he expressed himself solely through brief and concise essays ? several magazine articles , a half dozen or so serious lectures , a few brilliant diplomatic dispatches made available to the public . This in our prolix age is a tribute , incidentally , to the continuing though generally forgotten value of economy and precision in expression ? and to George Kerman himself . It also makes of the publication of Russia Leaves the War an obviously important event . Russia Leaves the War is diplomatic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relations from 1917 to 1920 , it covers the initial period from the revolution tin March , 1918 . Some 500 pages in length , it 's a scholarly study in the full sense ? with footnotes , quotations and bibliography . Russia Leaves the War is factual but not dry . For though Kennan is writing about diploMacy , he never lets the documents blot out the events and personalities . Many of his descriptions are vivid . Take , for example , his account of the end of American diplomatic representation in Petrograd : By the evening all was ready . In the Embassy building the last bags were dragged out , the last doors slammed . The Ford had to be abandoned , temporarily , to the uncertainties of the time ( it later turned up in Vologda ) . Thus the Ambassador made his departure in the sleigh , behind the horses with the American flags at their ears . The Russian servants stood stolidly in the entryway , waving good-by , their feelings buried under that unpenetrable blankness of expression that had become with the ages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The sleigh , presided over by the vast bundled figure of the coachman , Andrei , moved off briskly and quietly into the darkened streets , down the straight line of the Liteiny , rimmed with enormous snowbanks , left onto the wide expanses of the Nevsky Prospekt and so to the Nikolayev Station . With a vignette such as this now and then Kennan does more than tell the reader about events as a chronicler or analyst . He puts the reader in the midst of things . The spirit behind the book can perhaps best be pointed up with -a remark which Kennan himself made in my ? presence some years ago . He was telling how as a young diplomat , stationed in the Baltic States , he had embarked on a work which he never was able to complete ? a study of Anton Chekhov . As best I can remember his words , he said : The deeper I got into the subject , the more I came to feel I could not understand Chekhov or make readers understand him without first understanding myself the total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' to know the color of the sky on any given day in his native city of Taganrog during the years he lived there . The book abounds in little brief brush strokes of revelation , many of them obviously originating in Kennan 's own personal experiences and observations . He tells , for instance , how two Americans , Edgar Sisson and Raymond Robins , fell out with each other : It had been an eventful and trying winter , producing that crystallization of human relationships into strong antagonism or firm friendship which has been the invariable effect of the Russian atmosphere on Americans fated to live within it . The full truth of this remark , as of many others in the book , can be fully appreciated only by people who have lived in Russia . One might say , in fact , that Russia Leaves the War is as much worth reading for the sake of such asides of wisdom as for the main narrative . In them there is no little insight into the attitudes ? yes , and the prejudices also ? of the author @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point that there are great advantages in a man who is a career diplomat writing diplomatic history and a man personally familiar with Soviet-American relations writing about those relations . Kennan , incidentally , found the research for his book fascinating precisely because he discovered in the course of it the origin of so many of the peculiarities of foreign diplomatic dealing with the Soviet Union which have annoyed and puzzled all Western diplomats for the past quarter century . But it is fair to assume his greater interest in undertaking the work was to discover some truths which would contribute to the understanding of Soviet-American relations . T HE most important truth he did discover , it seems to me , and one which constitutes the principal theme of Russia Leaves the War , is the fact that in Soviet-American relations ignorance of Russia and the nature of BOIshevism on the one hand , and starry-eyed naivete about them on the other cause great harm . This was not precisely a new discovery , of course , but Kennan demonstrates with great clarity that they , go right back to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of many myths of later years . One can be sure that the same theme will emerge with even greater prominence in the second volume which will shortly , I am told , be nearing its completion . With publication of this second volume George Kennan 's incursion into intensive historical research and writing on this scale will presumably come to an at least temporary halt . During the coming year Kennan is scheduled to present more than two dozen lectures at Oxford . He lavishes exquisite care on each lecture he writes . Obviously this Oxford series will take most of his energies for all the period he is in England . Kennan 's diversion from historical research to university lectures , however , should not be regretted . He has now shown that he can write history successfully and has made a major addition to knowledge of Soviet-American relations . But the fact remains that while there are many good historical researchers in the United States there are few significant political theoreticians . Kennan , of course , is one of these latter and certainly the most vital and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ analysis of the Soviet Union . We are entitled to hope that his year at Oxford will see him expand further his theses of political philosophy . Whenever one starts discussing George Kennan one must always at some point return to his first magazine article , written nearly ten years ago , the article which achieved fame for him and stated the theory of containment . ( " The Sources of Soviet Conduct , Foreign Affairs , July , 1947 . ) The Soviet regime , Kennan then wrote , requires an enemy abroad to justify dictatorship at home . Soviet Communism always postulates antagonism between Socialism and Capitalism ? and this means that on Moscow 's side there can never be any assumption of community of aims with capitalist countries . Thus the Russians are going to be difficult to deal with for a long time The dogma of Kremlin infallibility requires absolute discipline . These are twin pillars of the system and give the entire Soviet apparatus unshakable stubbornness in orientation . But the system sets no timetable for overthrow of opposing systems . The Kremlin can afford to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult to deal with than that of such individual conquerors as Hitler and Napoleon . It leads to the conclusion that the main element of any US policy toward the USSR must be long-term , patient but firm and vigilant containment of Russian expansive tendencies . Adroit and vigilant application of counterforce at shifting geographical and political points can thwart Soviet pressure against the free institutions of the Western world . The article continued : If the Western world should manage to contain the Soviet Union over a period of 10 to 15 years the Soviet regime itself will have to face very serious problems ? the fatigue of Soviet people , the disproportions of the Soviet economy , and above all the crisis of transfer of power which must ensue on Stalin 's death . The possibility exists at least that Soviet power carries within it the seeds of its own decay . Kennan concluded : The United States must expect that the Soviet Union will continue to be a rival in world politics . Containment can prevent Russian encroachment on the interests of a peaceful and stable world . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States can influence internal developments in Russia and Communism , not so much by propaganda as by deed and example . The United States can increase the stress under- , which Soviet policy operates and , even promote tenden- cies which must lead either to a break-up or to a gradual mellowing of Soviet power . Thus the decision will really fall in large measure on the United States . It is a test of the worth of the United States as a nation among nations , This Kennan wrote six years before Stalin died . Looking backward one must admit that Kennan 's outline was remarkable for its penetrating analysis and perspicacity . Much of what he wrote has now been justified by history . Many of his phrases have entered into the common vocabulary . One must also say in examination of the Kerman thesis of containment , not as it has been distorted and oversimplified in political debates but as he himself stated it originally , that insofar as the United States has been successful in thwarting Soviet expansion since then it has been through application of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Re publican Administration as to preceding Democratic rule . The difference between containment and " liberation " policy ? as the latter is actually practiced by the government ? is quite specious. ow , it should not be forgotten that Kerman in postulating containment made the major , point in success of such a policy the strength and self-confidence of the United States : It is rather a question of the degree to which the United States can create among the peoples of the world the impression of a country which is coping successfully with the problems of its internal life and with the responsibilities of a world power and which has a spiritual vitality capable of holding its own among the major ideological currents of the time . This Kerman wrote in 1947 . In 1951 he added : No iron curtain could suppress , even in the innermost depths of Siberia , the news that America had shed the shackles of disunity , confusion and doubt , had taken a new lease of hope and determination , and was setting about her tasks with enthusiasm and clarity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these fundamental statements of Kennan that the US Government has not yet created , nor in fact , so far as can be ascertained , ever dreamed of doing the things necessary in order to create , that degree of national strength and self-confidence which could assure a long-continued success for containment ? or any foreign policy . It is a hard fact but true that American society is engaged in a long-term competition " for keeps " with totalitarianism . As things are , however , neither of the two major American political parties accepts the consequences of this position or concerns itself with the national interest of the country in the sense of ultimate survival in this competition . Both are in what amounts to a conspiracy to prevent the United States from coming to terms with the harsh reality of 1956 and the future . Given this state of affairs even a considerably more skillfully conceived and implemented foreign policy than that we now have could not exploit in more than minor degree the extraordinary opportunities which have opened up since Stalin 's death ? opportunities symbolized by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limitations of diplomacy are set by internal affairs . It 's by far the most important teaching of Kennan that America 's succeess in the world depends on America 's willingneess to face her problems at home . The revolutionary consequences of this modest idea for American foreign policy and domestic-politics as well if it should ever sink into the American consciousness are difficult to imagine . 