@@184885

It had seemed , amid the urgent preoccupations of the cold war , like a cloud no bigger than a busy diplomat 's hand . Then , suddenly , the dispute over Cyprus was a nasty , swelling storm of the kind that takes lives , topples governments and jeopardizes alliances . By last week , with Cypriots and Greeks inflamed against Britons , and with Greeks and Turks torn apart in a revival of an aged hatred , the case threatened to crumble the long southern flank of the NATO defense network . NATO 's southern commander , U.S. Admiral William M. Fechteler , hastened to Athens and Ankara to examine the breach . U.S. Secretary of State John Foster Dulles sent an urgent message to the Greek and Turkish Premiers : " The partnership of Greece and Turkey constitutes a strong bulwark of the free world in a critical area . If that bulwark should be materially weakened , the consequences would be grave indeed . " <P> What had caused the mild winds of discontent on a small Mediterranean island to blow up into a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began with some inept diplomacy in London . The British , having turned Cyprus into their Middle East military-command post , decided the time had come to do something about Greece 's demand for enosis ( union ) with Cyprus and its dominantly Greek ( 80% ) population . Instead of seeking a direct Anglo-Greek settlement , British Foreign Secretary Harold Macmillan polished up an old British plan for limited home rule , already rejected by the Greek Cypriots , and made the mistake of inviting the Turks to join him and the Greeks in London . In his first few months in office , Macmillan had disappointed many who had expected good things of him . The Cyprus case , his first solo venture in diplomacy , represented a chance to recoup . But the Foreign Secretary made no advance soundings of either the Greeks or the Turks , was taken by surprise when the Turks took a vehemently strong position against any hint of eventual self-determination and even against Macmillan 's gesture toward home rule for the Cypriots . Far from building toward an agreement between Britain and Greece @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequences far worse than would have resulted from no talks at all . <P> Act II , Scene I. Tempers simmered on all sides-in Turkey , in Greece and on Cyprus . A small bomb exploded in the Turkish consulate in Salonika and triggered wholesale riots against Greek minorities in Istanbul , Izmir and Ankara ( TIME , Sept. 19 ) . At first , under martial law and strict censorship , much of the story of the riots ' nature was suppressed by the government of Turkish Premier Adnan Menderes , who has a supposedly democratic regime but cracks down on free speech and free press with totalitarian ease . But by last week , from piecemeal reports , diplomatic dispatches and the tales of travelers from Turkey , the outside world began to learn how wanton , yet organized , the riots were .                     