@@487605

HOW we shall miss Art Hays ! Here was one liberal on whom the tag " wishy-washy " could never be pinned . Neither was he cautious , or ambiguous . He gave the idea of liberalism warmth , vitality , elan , even fun when possible . In his political beliefs  --  or rather his inclinations , for he was agnostic about politics and religion both  --  he avoided extreme positions . He said , " I would accept for the time being the ' general structure of capitalism , ' but I would modify it gradually ? I would follow the path of giadualness to mold and transform , not violently to uproot . I would insist ' that gradualness implies action , and is not a polite name for standing still . ' " He said this , but he would defend to the last appeal the right of a man to expound a doctrine of revolution , of violent uprooting ; for the-one thing he would not compromise was his commitment to freedom . At the end of his book " Democracy Works " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free speech , free press , free assemblage , and democratic rights with the fervent conviction that progress and civilization demand a society in which men are free to inquire and to differ . . . . Liberty is an end in itself . . . So Art Hays defended the right of Communists to be ? Communists as firmly as he did the rights of Tennesseans to learn about , evolution . And if , as a consequence , he was called a Communist himself , the slander bounced off the armor of self-confidence that was the old-fashioned liberal 's best defense against scoundrels and idiots . But he had complete understanding of the situation of those with thinner armor . He knew how the methods of politir cal inquisition could trap , confuse , and bring to ruin innocent people whose past record or economic position or nerves made them vulnerable . As general counsel of the American Civil Liberties Union he devoted his immense skill as a defender to the safeguarding of their rights , and thus of the democracy he loved so stubbornly . He had another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less than common in an area of political action cross-hatched with factional and per= sonal rivalries . He - was magnanimous . He did not try to monopolize headlines , honors , credit . He knew how to accept help and counsel , how to turn responsibility over to others . He could not be petty or vindictive in any relationship . This quality sprang , it can be assumed , from the merger of modesty and humor with total self-confidence that gave Art Hays 's personality its particular savor . But with all this he was a tough and supple fighter , as his opponents knew . The list of his battles for civil rights includes the most important of the last quarter-centurythe Scopes evolution trial , the Scottsboro boys , Sacco-Vanzetti , the Reichstag Fire trial . But for each of these histOric cases were dozens that never made news and to which he gave equally of his skill and attention . The Nation 's editors have every reason , public and private , to grieve at his going . He was a part of our life for a generation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when a clear and strong gesture of support was called for . In a time when hate-and-fear vendors cry their wares down all the streets and along all the air waves of the land , Arthur Hays can be badly spared . It remains for us who knew him to bring to the fight for freedom some share of the high-hearted valor it has lost with his going . The Shape of Things The President 's a Piker The only items in the President 's proposed domestic legislative program that seem designed to bolster the economy are suggestions fora continuance of the public-housing schedule ( 70,000 additional units in a two-year period ) and a ten-year-long national highway program . By any reckoning this is a meager program . Nowadays it is generally , agreed that output should expand 3 per cent per annum  --  some economists say 5 or 6 per cent  --  if we are to avoid economic stagnation . With 800,000 new recruits entering the labor market each year and with labor productivity continuing to expand , nearly two mirlion new jobs must be provided each year if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course , another aspect to the matter . In failing to provide full employment last year , Walter Reuther assures us , the Administration wasted approximately $30,000,000,000 . If all unemployment had been eliminated , enough additional income would have been provided to permit federal social-security payments of $200 a month and-the construction of 500,000 more homes and of hospitals with 250,000 beds , not to mention a doubling of the public outlay for education . The President 's economic advisors must have a good deal more daring than they have shown to date if we are to reach the President 's goaLof a 500-billiondollar national output by 1964 . Justice or Efficiency ? The main conclusions and recommendations of the recent statement of the American Association for the Advancement of Science on the necessity for revising the security- program will be widely applauded , as they deserve to be , but in some respects the report is disappointing . In its main recommendation  --  that emphasis should be shifted from attempting to conceal scientific secrets to creating " the most favorable circumstances for the advancement of science " ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and values of the efficiency expert or cost accountant . We can " afford the time that goes into the investigatory process itself , " we can even justify the " money costs , " but " can we afford to have government service become less desirable " ? The assumption is made throughout that the test of a security program must be : Does it afford the government the largest measure of return from scientists that is possible without endangering the nation 's security ? But this is not the basic test . Govern ment owes certain obligations to the individual , whether he is a brilliant , indispensable scientist , a janitor , or a Broadway confidence man . In the last analysis the security of a democratic regime consists in the extent to which its key institutions recognize the basic value of such a society : the worth and dignity of the individual . The A. A. A. S. report ignores this aspect of the problem and accepts . Without qualification the proposition that " disloyalty , " undefined , " is not to be tolerated . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the report one notes the name of Dr. Edward U. Condon , retiring president and chairman of the board of the A. A. A. S. Three days after the statement was issued Dr. Condon resigned as director of research for the Corning Glass Works rather than , submit to another security check . Cleared four times , he announced his unwillingness " to continue a potentially indefinite series of reviews and re-reviews " land expressed his lack of confidence in the possibility of " securing a ' , fair and independent judgment " in any review of his latest clearance . Obviously Dr. Condon must have grave doubts concerning the standards by which security is nowadays measured , or he questions the impartiality of the reviewing panel or the fairness of the'procedures followed . Whatever his specific reasons ; Dr. Condon 's remarks point up the serious omissions in the A. A. A. S. statement . Does the board of the A. A. A. S. really believe that the harassment of Dr. Condon and Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer is unrelated to partisan politics ? The Atomic Scientists of Chicago cite Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " with the security program . On the same day that Dr. Condon issued his statement the A. A. A. S. refused to accept as an affiliate the Society for the Social Responsibility of Science , which includes among its members three Nobel Prize physicists ? Dr. Einstein , Dr. Max Born , Dr. Hideki Yukawa . The refusal prompted Dr. Victor Paschkis , a founder , to remark : " It is a comment on the times that a society dedicated to fostering the social responsibility of scientists has no place in the over-all organization of science . " Curing or Creating Hysteria ? At the request of the Los Angeles County Medical Association , the California Senate Committee on Un-American Activities held hearings earlier this month ostensibly to uncover " Communist infiltration in the medical profession . " But it soon became clear that the real reasons were to lay the groundwork for a bill making the licensing of physicians dependent upon a loyalty oath , similar to legislation now being drawn up for lawyers , and to aid the medical association 's ultraconservative leadership in its fight against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the Community Medical Center , which under the presidency of Stephen H. Fritchman , minister of the First Unitarian Church , has for years been providing good medical care for low-income people . Most of the dozen or so witnesses called  --  practically all of them doctors or nurses  --  refused to cooperate with what Dr. Thomas L. Perry , a pediatrician , termed the committee 's attempt to introduce " politics into the field of medicine . " Dr. Frederick Reynolds pointedly remarked that " doctors should cure hysteria rather than create it . " The Citizens ' Committee to Defend American Freedoms is helping to mobilize public opinion against the planned legislation , which would deprive many people not only of high-quality medical care at low prices but also of their free choice of a doctor . The latter , ironically , is precisely what the medical association 's reactionary leadership maintains it is fighting for . 