@@487585

THERE can be no assurance that even the , most . sincere effort will , at this late date , bring about an acceptable all-Getman settlement . But one thing is certain : unless that effort is made , the NATO treaties , if ratified , will never be carried through in such a way as to achieve their purpose . The NATO plan can be redeemed from failure only by proving to the peoples of Europe that it is Russia , and Russia alone , which stands in the way of an honorable and satisfactory all-German " settlement . The first requirement of a Western program for an all-German settlement is that it must provide not only security but a sense of-security for the people of France and the other countries of Western Europe . It - must provide reasonable assurance against German domination , aggression ; or betrayal , as well as maximum attainable security against Communist subversion or Russian military attack . Second , the proposal must - seem just and desirable to . the majority of the German people . It must restore their unity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peacefully prosperous economy . It must , settle the question of Germany 's frontiers in such -a way as to minimize the risk of future revisionism . Third , the proposal must give Russia the assurance that Germany will not be -- come either a pawn or a partner , much Less a prime mover , in an anti-Soviet coalition . JAMES P. WARBURG , author and publicist , has been primarily concerned with American policy Iowa , d Germany . This article is a condensed version of a proposal which the author submitted to the Eisenhower Administration before it took office . The proposal is discussed in detail in Mr. Warburg 's latest book , " Germany , Key to Peace , " published by the Harvard University Press and copyrighted by the President and Fellows of Harvard College , 1953 . Deceniber 19 , 1953 Fourth , the proposal must be such as to assure the Czechs and the Poles , much as it assures the peoples df Western Europe , that the new Germany will not become a menace to their security , prosperity , and freedom . - There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 1 ) the final determination of Germany 's frontiers ; ( 2 ) the rights Germany shall or shall not be given as to the Maintenance of military forces and the manufacture of arms ; ( 3 ) the rights Germany shall of shall not be given as to the joining of alliances ; ( 4 ) the obligations , if any , which Germany shall assume for further reparations ; ( 5 ) the degree to which Germany shall be left free to determine its own economic structure , ( 6 ) the degree to which Germany shall be left free to determine its own political structure . These are not the only problems involved in a settlement , but they are the most important . 1 . Frontiers . At Potsdam , in August , 1945 , Britain and the United States agreed to let Russia annex the northern half of East Prussia with its Baltic-port of Konigsberg . They agreed further to place " under Polish administration , " subject to the final determination of a German peace treaty , the following German territory : the southern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and all of Pomerania , Upper Silesia , and Lower Silesia . Some ten million German inhabitants were evicted from these lands and forced to migrate into the rump of Germany , in addition to some three million Germans evicted from Hungary and Czechoslovakia . One thing upon which practically all Germans agree is that they wish to restore Germany 's 1937 frontiers . To accomplish this in whole or part will be the major aim of any future all-German government . The greatest danger that a new German nation might be won to an alliance with RuSsia lies in a possible future German deal with Russia at the expense of Poland . So long as the present frontier stands , this danger can not be eliminated . A peace settlement must therefore provide for an adjustment of the frontier which will deprive the Kremlin of this powerful instrument of seduction . This must be a sine qua non in any Western proposal for a settlement . , Since the Kremlin is well aware of the value of its present position , negotiations may well break down on this point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western powers must be both firm and precise . There would seem , in this case , to be ample room for a reasonable compromise , even though the Western position has been weakened by delay and morally undermined by the formal recognition of the Soviet annexation in East Prussia and by French quasi-annexation of the Saar . CONSIDERING all the circumstances and all the water that has flowed under the bridges since Yalta and Potsdam , the writer suggests that the Western powers make the following specific proposal : That Germany shall be permanently deprived of East Prussia and Upper Silesia , but that the remaining former German territories annexed by Poland in 1945 be returned . This proposal is based upon the following reasoning : East Prussia became a strategically provocative German island when the Polish Corridor was established after World War I. Most of its rich agricultural land was owned by a relatively small number of Junker families who through alliance with the military clique had for years drawn heavy subsidies from the German taxpayers . Its loss will not seriously hurt the German people . Its annexation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ukraine . There was no justification whatever for the Russian seizure of the northern half of ' the province . Stalin simply de-manded the cession , and Truthan , Churchill , and Attlee agreed . Having , 541 since then , formally recognized this annexation , the Western powers can not now demand or even suggest that Russia give up this territory to Poland . Yet it is not altogether out of the question that Russia might voluntarily make such a move  --  perhaps retaining some sort of rights to the port of Kcinigsberg  --  in order to retain the good-will of Poland , provided that an otherwise acceptable settlement of the German problem could be reached . The case for recognizing the Polish annexation of Upper Silesia rests on different grounds . The population of this rich industrial province is partly Polish , and the territory has at various times belonged to Poland Moreover , a peaceful Germany does not need the coal fields and the heavy industry of Upper Silesia if it retains its coal and industry in the West Ceding thiS area to Poland would give that country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps as important ? make Poland a second - source of coal supply for the other countries of Europe . The reason for restoring the agricultural provinces of Lower Silesia , Pomerania , and Brandenburg to Germany is that , without these lands , the new Germany would have to become a heavy importer of foodstuffs , and hence a heavy exporter of manufactured goods . This would- make Germany an unnecessarily severe competitor for Great Britain and the United States in the markets of the world . A second and equally important reason for the return of these provinces is that it would relieve the population pressure within Germany and make possible the resettlement of some of the now homeless refugees . A census of these expelled persons , as well as a study of the density of Polish settlement in the annexed territories , would help to determine whether all or only a part of these agricultural provinces should be returned . THE WESTERN powers can not logically or morally sustain the foregoing proposal for eastern frontier revision unless they rectify their own position with respect to the Saar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the French before any approach is made to the Soviet Union , and such a settlement will not be easy- The Saar issue , more - than any one single factor , has poisoned recent Franco-German relations . It has become the symbol of irreconcilable nationalism in both France and Germany . The real significance of the Saarland is economic rather , than political . The disputed area comprises only 2,835 square kilometers , densely populated by about 950,000 German-speaking and ethnically German inhabitants . This small area contains extremely rich coal deposits , ' producing annually about 15 , - 000,000 tons of high-grade coal . In addition , a highly developed metallurgical industry produces pig-iron and about 2,500,000 tons of steel per annum , using the iron ore of neighboring French Lorraine . This economic interdependence of the Saar and Lorraine led Bismarck in 1871 to annex Lorraine to Germany , claiming that the Ruhr and the Saar - needed " the iron ore of the French province and that this justified Germany 's taking it . Much the same argument in reverse is now put forward by France . Morally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is as indefensible as Bismarck 's claim to Lorraine . There are , however , certain extenuating , circumstances . While Bismarck 's claim rested , at bottom , upon the need to build a dominant Germany , the French claim rests , at bottom , upon the need to prevent France from being dominated by Germany  --  not upon the desire to-make France the most powerful nation on the Continent . French production of steel totals only a little over 10,000,000 tons per annum . The output of the German Ruhr is over 15,000,000 tons , with considerably greater potential capacity . If the Saar remains integrated with France , German and French steel production will be almost equalized . If the Saar is returned to Germany , France will produce only about 60 per cent as much steel as Germany . This is what lies at the heart of the dispute . One might suppose that if the Schuman Plan merger of coal and steel production - is assumed as a reality , these nationalistic considerations would be rendered obsolete . However , French insistence upon retaining the Saar  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Germany=arises not only out of anachronistic nationalism but also out of the realistic fear that the watered-down Schuman Plan merger will result in German domination of the six-nation pool . This fear is justified by the fact that Britain 's abstention and the influence of the British decision upon other nations have kept the Schuinan Plan from embracing a larger part of Europe , in which the German influence might have been diluted . French fears are also justified by the unwise concessions made under American pressure to the Ruhr monopolists. - - - The first step in the Western proposal should therefore be the suggestion that the Saarbe placed for a certain number of years under a United Nations mandate , guaranteeing its political independence until its status is finally determined by a plebiscite . The second step should be that . the Saarlanders be permitted , without interference by France or Germany , to elect a new Constitutional Assembly , to adopt a new constitution and to elect a new government . Through this process the Saarlanders could freely debate and determine what their government 's economic policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be an Anglo-American agreement to reconsider and revise the concessions made to the Ruhr monopolists , in such a way as to insure so far as possible the restoration of the.Schuman Plan to its original , single-free-market concept . 2 . German Rights as to Militarization . French security ? European security , for that matter  --  can not be achieved by any plan which provides for a rearmed and divided Germany , it can be achieved only by a plan which reunites Germany and keeps it demilitarized until such time as an effective system of collective security can be brought into effect . - The Western powers ' Should propose that under the peace treaty Germany shall be kept-disarmed and demilitarized for a period of five or perhaps ten years , with the explicit provision that if universal disarmament shall not have been achieved at the end of that period , all restrictions applicable to Germany alone shall be lifted . The Western proposal should further provide for continuous inspection by a United Nations commission to enforce German disarmament and demilitarization , with any violations to be reported at once to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over its duties as soon as the occupation forces of the four powers are withdrawn ; this should be not later than one year after the signing of the peace treaty . This proposal would satisfy both French and RuSsian fears of a resurgence of German military power . It would give Germany no just grievance . Finally , it would put a premium upon the early translation into action of the present , universally hypocritical lip-service to universal disarmament. , 3 German Rights as to Alliances . A parallel formula should be applied to the question of Germany 's right to enter into military alliances . This right can not be denied permanently to Germany any more than the right to maintain armed forces . The Western powers should propose a guaranty of German neutrality by all the signatories of the peace treaty for the period during which Germany is denied the right to rearm , if at the end of that period German rearmament is permitted  --  by reason of failure to achieve universal disarmament  --  then the guaranty shall lapse and Germany shall have the right to enter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the proposal is probably the crucial point in working out a Western program . The United States has insisted up to this point that a united Germany must become a member of the NATO alliance . Russia can not reasonably be expected to agree to any all-German settlement . on that basis . In this observer 's opinion , neither Britain nor France will in the long run support the American position if Russia takes a reasonable attitude on other aspects of a settlement . Unless we are prepared to yield on this question , there will be no point in making any proposal .. Whereas the make-or-break point for Russia will probably arise over the question of Oder-Neisse frontier revision , the makeor-break point for us will be the decision as to German neutrality . 4 . Reparations . ' The question of reparations has been unnecessarily confused by - the sloppiness of the original Yalta and Potsdam agreements and by subsequent Russian refusal to account for the reparations illegally extracted from the Soviet zone . It is suggested that the Western powers make the following concrete proposal : ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assets shall cease , except perhaps for a small number of specific plants still to be designated for removal ; ( 2 ) that there shall be no further reparations out of current German produttion until after Germany shall have repaid Britain , France , and the United States the sums they have invested in West German relief and reconstruction ; ( 3 ) that after the three Western powers have been repaid , a fixed total amount , to be agreed upon for each country claiming further reparations , shall be paid out in annual pro rata payments , but only to the extent that such payments can be made with , out depressing the German living standard below the West European level . These annual payments are to be made by Germany only during the period of enforced demilitarization. - -5 . Economic Organization . The four problems of unification already discussed are very largely matters in which the , chief difficulty will be to achieve four-power agreement . The two remaining major items , which concern the economic and political organization of the new Germany , require German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ analysis , the basic structure of the economy of the new German nation will be determined very largely by the political nature of the all-German state . 6 . Political Organization . Just as the four occupying owners will have to recognize that they can not determine the nature of ' Germany 's economic organization , so also they will have to accept the fact that there is not very much - they can or should do to determine its inner political structure . The Western powers should insist  --  as they already have done  --  that an all-German government come into being as the result of free campaigning by the political parties and freely held , elections . They should insist  --  as they already have done  --  upon the constitutional guaranty to all German citizens of the political freedoms . The Russian note of March 10 , 1952 , indicated possible Russian acceptance of these demands . It remains necessary to nail down a solid agreement as to these basic matters . We can not be sure that a new Germany , so created , would become a peaceable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ united ! Germany is given justification for feeling itself treated as a permanently second-class member of the European family or if Germany again becomes the object of competitive wooing by Russia and the West , then the chances are that Germany will once more play off East against West and become arrogant , aggressive , and unmanageable . If , on the other hand , the new Germany , - being neither wooed nor treated as an inferior , is permitted to work its way back to a position of earned equality , then the forces of peaceable industriousness and reason may be expected to gain the upper hand . One thing , however , is certain : if an all-German settlement such , as here proposed can be reached , the chances for creating a favorable European context will be vastly improved . To the extent that Germany ceases to be a bone of contention , the strains of the . cold war will be relaxed . A Germany whose neutrality is respected by both sides can become not only a buffer but perhaps something of a bridge over the cleavage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                