@@487538

NEARLY two years have elapsed since President Truman in the fourth point of his Inaugural ? Address proposed a bold and expanding ' program of economic aid to improve conditions of livelihood in the underdeveloped areas of the world . Whatever the motives which led to the formulation of Point Four , it constituted the most hopeful concept which had emerged in world affairs since World War II came to a close . Unless and until the fate of the less privileged peoples becomes the active concern of the more privileged and the concept of a common humanity is reflected , in more nearly equal living standards and in a more general realization of human rights , there can be no stability in the world and no peace that is worth the name . If the fruits of this bold imagining are so far negligible , this is not to be attributed to indifferenCe to the President 's lead . No international issue of recent times has been more fully debated ; volumes of speeches have been devoted to it and mountains of documents have accumulated around it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and elsewhere . Appropriations to imGERALD BAILEY was director of the British National Peace Council from 1930 to 1949 . He is a member of the Friends ' World Committee for Consultation and acting chairman of the International Liaison Committee of Peace Organizations . plement Point Four have been made and remade in Congress , leaving the observer in some bewilderment as to what is and is not likely to be accomplished . At Lake Success , it is true , the modest Technical Assistance Program has been launched and its operations begun , but a more  --  far-reaching scheme of aid through capital development is still in its embryonic stage , and not even the most optimistic estimate  --  assuming that the necessary resources are not to be wholly absorbed by the armaments race  --  offers ' hope of any solid outcome in the foreseeable future . There has been , that is to say , a disappointing disparity between promise and performance . But the delay will be profitable if it makes possible a more realistic assessment , not of the practical difficulties , which are obvious enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of economic aid from one group of countries to another . So far the economic and technical problems have been thoroughly explored , but at the expense of the sociological , psychological , and political factors on which the fate of any mutual-aid program must largely depend . Some of these considerations were raised in the conference of the Institute of Pacific Relations held recently in Lucknow , India , and it is to be hoped that the findings of this meeting will be widely publicized and studied , especially in those Western countries whose 570 business it is to prepare assistance programs and put them into effect . A similar approach was made by a conference in a Western setting held at Royaumont near Paris early in September under the auspices of the International Liaison Committee of Peace Organizations . The Royaumont conference met to consider the problems of the so-called " backward " areas of the world in their relation to the establishment of peace . The meeting had the advantage of the leadership of anthropologists such as Dr. Alfred Metraux of UNESCO , and trained observers of Asian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Nation , Robert Guillain , foreign editor of Le Monde , Dr. ' Solomon Trone , an American engineeer with wide experience in problems of industrial development in Russia , India , China , Japan , and South America , and Dr. Rita Hinden of the Colonial Bureau of the Fabian Society in Britain . There joined also in its discussions Japanese , ' Indians , and Africans , including in this last category leaders of nationalist movements in Morocco and Madagascar . The meeting was able , therefore , to judge how economic aid is viewed from the receiving end . There was a vivid awareness at Royaumont , as there was at Lucknow , that unless the West correctly estimates the strength of-nationalism in the underdeveloped areas of the world today and its dominance . over all ideological or economic factors , it will woefully misjudge current trends in Asia and Africa and the reactions of Asian and African peoples to offers of Western economic aid . However stringent their economic needs , the governments and peoples of Asia and Africa will not , save under the severest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ struggle to win it  --  for the benefits , attractive though they may be , of external economic assistance . They are determined to run their own affairs , or where , as in India , they already have political independence , to insure that this independence is not compromised in the economic field . It is a primary necessity of Western policy , therefore , that it should remove from the minds of the receiving peoples the suspicion that the real motive of Western economic help is the perpetuation of colonialism or the establishment of a new form of pooled imperialism scarcely distinguishable from the old . The controlling idea in any scheme involving foreign aid must be , not a thinly veiled self-interest , but a disinterested concern for social justice . TT IS no less important that the West should think - a-  straight about the relation of projects for economic assistance to the purpose of resisting the spread of communism . It is axiomatic that communism thrives on human misery and hopelessness , and if the , West should succeed in lightening the burden of existence for millions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incline them toward democracy on the Western model The NATION and correspondingly strengthen their immunity to the appeal of communism . And since the " Western " democrat obviously hopes to see his kind of democracy prevail , he can not be indifferent to this aspect of the problem . Even so , it is necessary to warn against allowing opposition to communism to become the dominant motivation in this effort . If the West makes this appear its primary purpose , it will fail not only to win the desired response to its economic- projects but also to win political support . To the masses of Asia and Africa communism promises a release from intolerable conditions of daily living . Those who have enjoyed liberties will struggle to retain them . For those who have never enjoyed them the issue scarcely exists . To expect them to participate in a crusade against communism is to cry for the moon . If this is what we ask as we come " bearing gifts , " we shall assuredly be disappointed . To conceive of the defense of democracy in terms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  in the West no less than the East . Ultimately the only way to preserve democratic values is for the democracies to uphold those values where their own jurisdictions run  --  in their home countries and in the still unfree territories which they control . In all conscience that will keep them busy enough . One other idea is worth bringing in at this point . No economic program , we may be sure , can be put into effect well enough or quickly enough to disarm communism or nullify its , propaganda on the theme of Western " warmongering " or " imperialism " ; we are deceiving ourselves if we think that it can . Unwarranted assumptions are too often made , especially in . America , about the effect the Marshall Plan has had on the growth of communism in Europe . Certainly Marshall aid weakened the efforts of European Communists to exploit postwar difficulties for their political ends . But no one could ' seriously claim that Marshall aid has disposed of the problem or insured once and for all the survival of democracy . Still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could achieve these results in Asia or Africa . What is needed is a much more complete and consistent application , in Asia , Africa , and at home , of the principles they profess , together with a policy of disarmament and peace for the world at large . Three further considerations bearing on the organization and the distribution of economic aid should be mentioned . The first is relevant to - what has already been said about the need for a dynamic democracy whose attractions are self-evident and which commends itself , by - Its practices rather than its professions . In considering its responsibilities toward the underprivileged , it is not enough for the West to- think in terms of material benefits , however urgently necessary . It is important also to recognize and satisfy the demand of the human spirit for December 16 , 1950 a sense of purpose in living which transcends the purely Material . Communism has moved into the moral and political confusion which the West has allowed to develop in Asia and elsewhere , bringing not only promises of justice and equality but also a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simple , and clear . If the non-Communist democracies are to commend themselves in these areas they must evolve an appeal and a technique which are no less effective . They too must offer faith , as well as hope , to the destitute . The second consideration is akin to the first , but it applies particularly to the more primitive areas requiring technical assistance . Not the least important , though often the most neglected , desideratum in programs for development in such- areas is that the planning should take into account both the wishes of the peoples concerned and their native cultures . Progress demands too high a price if it wantonly destroys a functioning society without enabling a better , but still an appropriate society to take its place . The third consideration would stress the necessity of thinking of economic assistance not in terms of governmental or intergovernmental action operating at a level remote from the peoples to be helped but preeminently in terms of human relationships and of the contribution which unofficial organizations and even individuals can make to the total effort . Wherever possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cooperation of local groups and associations . In addition , certain projects could be carried through by international teams of volunteers working side by side with the people of the area concerned . The American Friends Service Committee , which has a long experience in relief activity- in all parts of the world , is already informally considering the possibility of cooperating in this way with the governmental and inter-governmental action under discussion at Lake Success and elsewhere . Such participation might go a long way toward disarming the fears and suspicions of the peoples concerned : Time ? Danaos et dona ferentes is a sentiment to be reckoned with no less today than of old. , It is perhaps fruitless , at this stage , to speculate on the prospect of putting into operation any aid program of world-wide dimensions in the early future . Britain and571 its partners in the Commonwealth are now committed to a considerable project  --  considerable , that is , in the light of their available resources  --  of financial and other assist- ance to Southeast Asia , not only Commonwealth countries but dependent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ non-American to discuss , - vital though the question is , how substantial a contribution the United States is likely to make to the overall effort , though one may properly share American anxieties on this score in the light of recent Congressional elec. tions . Whether what is accomplished by these various approaches will amount to a grand design , commensurate with the size and urgency of the need , remains extremely doubtful . The obstacles are formidable . There is indifference or hostility in many places which amounts to isolationism , though it is not now respectable to use the term . There is a genuine fear , especially among American taxpayers but among British and others as well , that the financial burden would be insupportable . There is , above all , the extremely pertinent factor of rearmament on an unprecedented scale . As long as so vast a proportion of world resources is being absorbed in military preparation , the job can never . be done properly . This was the governing assumption of Senator Mc.Mahon 's resolution linking radical , general , and controlled disarmament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was also the premise of the Indian resolution introduced in the Political Committee of the General As-sembly , stressing the threat to stability and peace in " the prevalence of hunger , disease , and want " and " the existence of large armaments , " and calling for " the creation of a . United Nations Peace Fund for the development of underdeveloped areas " and the preparation before March , 1951 , by each member of the United Nations of a " scheme setting forth the principles and the scale on which it would be prepared progressively to reduce its armaments and contribute to the above-men , tioned fund . " The Indians withdrew this particular resolution on tactical grounds , but there is no reason to believe that they have abandoned it . A linked program of disarmament and mutual welfare , vigorously pursued and universally applied , is in fact the only truly realistic peace policy open to the West today .                     