@@494713

Teaching Science There was a time when forebodings of catastrophe drove whole com-munities to their knees and to their priests . Today science is the shrine to which great numbers turn for salvation . We expect medicine to save us from ourselves , automation and IBM to save us from stultifying fac-tories and offices , and atomic physics to save us from the rest of the human race . Shortages of personnel in these fields alarm us , while equally critical shortages of ministers or artists leave the public un-moved . When the Sputniks jarred our faith last year , there was no thought of overthrowing the temple . Nobody suggested that the nation was socially or morally inferior . The trouble , everyone agreed , was with education . And so scientific deficiencies joined juvenile delinquency , political apathy , and racial intolerance as responsibilities of the schools . Nobody familiar with the American high school was much surprised to hear from Ellsworth Obourn , of the US Office of Education , that last year 's " crash program " for education in science has not yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only about $5o million of support , which is not enough to launch even an educational missile . The schools are still plodding along the well-marked path laid out a generation ago , teaching a little science rather badly to a few students . Almost half , for example , do not offer any physics course to anybody . Almost none offers a physics course with a teacher who understands theoretical developments of the last generation , which means almost none offers a physics course worth taking . The main reason for lack of progress has been lack of teachers . A mathematics teacher may not be able to get a job elsewhere ? although this is increasingly rare . A history or English teacher may hope to find enough good books , bright colleagues and responsive students to help him stay alive ? spiritually as well as physically . But no high school can offer the time , money or laboratories for scientific research , and without research a scientist is no more than an ambulatory encyclopedia of outdated facts . With a few God-given and well-publicized exceptions , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high school are those to whom the subject is a male equivalent of home economics . Chemistry is high class cookery , in which the boys make the stuff in the beaker turn green , while the girls across the hall make the cake rise . Even the best high school teachers , working with students and budgets beyond the reach of most communities , have been able to arouse only a few students with any passion for discovery , and have been able to accelerate these only to the level of college sophomores ? a gain of 12. months over the student whose first science course meets the day after college registration . And the more typical teacher described above has a profoundly negative effect . He convinces many students that science is a farcical bore , and he fills their minds so full of misconceptions that many college professors now say they would rather have students who have never studied science at all but who have had four years of intellectual discipline and technical preparation in mathematics . If we want to recruit more students for science ? and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should look more carefully at studies such as those sponsored by the US Office of Education which show how great scientists are recruited to the profession . Curiosity is rarely fired in high school , but rather in college , where science comes to mean research and discovery , instead of feats of memory . More particularly , the crucial factor is very often a close association with a professor through whom the student for the first time feels that " I can add to knowledge , not just acquire it . " The appropriate target of a " crash program " may then be the colleges rather than the high schools . But here the rub seems to be that the big universities are buying up the scientific talent . Such research factories have famous graduate schools , and produce dozens of Nobel Prizes , but they have had a notoriously mediocre record of attracting undergraduates to scientific careers . If we are worried about turning out more scientists , perhaps we should all send a dollar to destitute little Reed College in Portland , Oregon , which has year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspaper editor in the country knows that you ca n't just ignore science in high school the way you ignore most other professional subjects , because " we must prepare the youth for tomorrow . " And so the practical question becomes whether we are preparing them by having them memorize the periodic table of elements , or whether there is a better way . Perhaps there is a clue in legal education . After all , some would argue that international law is potentially as useful as nuclear fission in resolving world crises . But there are no crash programs to provide high school law courses . Instead , there are courses in history and civics which relate law to the broader social and cultural pattern of life . Perhaps there should be comparable courses relating science and technology to the main stream of life . Of course such courses give the student little feeling for scientific research , but then neither does a " science " course in which students merely replicate old experiments and memorize old formulas . A high school student can not know what it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can know what it is to argue a legal brief . That may be very sad , but it is no excuse for wasting millions of hours and dollars teaching students high school science courses that will either be duplicated in college or forgotten . Invention in the West Four highly knowledgeable gentlemen came to New York last month at the invitation of the Committee on Economic Development to discuss whether the econo- ' my of the Western world is splitting apart . They were : Paul van Zeeland from Belgium , former prime minister , active in the European Economic Community estab ; lished by the six nations , Belgium , Holland , Luxem ; bourg , Germany , France and Italy ; Axel Iveroth , dent of the Federation of Swedish Industries ; Sir Oliver Franks , former British Ambassador to the US and now chairman of Lloyds Bank ; and Paul Hoffman , head of ECA at the inauguration of the Marshall Plan and now managing director of the UN Special Fund for Economic Development . With the economy of the European continent at sixes and sevens , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contribution to world trade development , the moment for their discussion before the CED 's Board of Trustees was well-chosen . A decade ago , when Sir Oliver Franks was first in Washington as British Ambassador , he made a speech before the same organization in which he differentiated British from continental European interests . His remarks were held at the time to be a defense of an arms-length attitude toward the European economy . Today , however , Sir Oliver points out that the economic revival of the European economies in the decade since the Marshall Plan makes both possible and desirable a contribution on the part of those economies to the development of less developed nations . The overriding economic requirement of the free industrialized nations , Franks emphasizes , is . to find a solution not to an internal " East-West " problem but to the problem of relationships between " industrial North of the globe to the developing South . " ( First to formulate this concept was Dr. Egbert de Vries at the 1958 meeting of the World Council of Churches in Denmark : " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parallel . Those north of this line have a per capita income 6o times that of those south of it . " ) Sir Oliver calls attention to the vicious circle in which most Southern countries are trapped : " Low living standards and free , broadly democratic societies can not produce sufficient saving for capital . This circle can be broken in one of two ways . It can be broken by tyranny , which by enforcing hardships on the people and holding down their standard of living , forces the savings for rapid development ; or it can be broken by capital from outside which gives a free society the chance both to develop and to remain free . " But a serious danger exists if the offer of capital from the outside by areas of the world eager to see the underdeveloped nations remain ftee takes place on a competitive basis . The increased entry of the newly-strong Western European economies into the foreign aid field should be accompanied , Sir Oliver urges , by a careful coordination of policies . As questions which must be settled jointly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much the industrialized North can channel into Southern development . z . What shares shall be taken by the various countries of the industrialized Atlantic world . 3 . What mechanism can be devised for working out both the formation of joint policy on these matters , and the assurance of continuity in the flow of assistance . For policy formation , Sir Oliver suggests the establishment of a new forum , comparable to the Organization for European Economic Cooperation , but comprising the countries of the Atlantic world . Such a forum would be a means both of achieving this primary end , and of putting in perspective the thorny questions related to economic exchange between the European Six , the Outer Seven , and the US and Canada . The relations of the Six and the Seven to each other and to the future creation of a large entity comprising both and the relation of the dollar countries with their opposite numbers across the Atlantic would in Franks ' view be greatly facilitated if considered in the broader perspective of common concerns for , and joint fulfillment of , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sir Oliver 's statement to the CED may prove to be rather like the speech of Dean Acheson before the Delta Council at Cleveland , Mississippi , in 1947 , which preceded by a few days the Marshall speech at Harvard that initiated the Marshall Plan . Undersecretary Dillon 's current trip to England and the Continent is providing opportunities to sell the US thesis that the Sevens must be coordinated with the Sixes to prevent the rise of new trade wars , and that the over-all organization to whose formation Franks referred as a future hope must be speeded . In Washington there is some slight evidence of disenchantment with the tied-loan policy . The present is thus one of those fairly rare moments when recognition of new facts gives opportunity for political invention . When invention occurs , events are lifted to a new level of possibility ; in its absence , further deterioration of the unity of the North Atlantic Community is surely inevitable . 