@@493837

THE TRUE BELIEVER , by Eric Hoffer ( Harper ; $2.50 ) . incorrect to say that he is entirely unmoved by the disorders he describes or by the wretches and the wretchedness that produce them : his mordant wit is proof of sympathy and he is an austerely moral man , impatient alike of weakness , wickedness and humbug . Yet as sympathy does not palliate his judgment , moral conviction does not harden it . His light is clear , not moist . His detachment , as he records remorselessly the abominations of mass movements , the poisoning of the organism of society by frustration , loneliness , hatred and fear , the convulsive consequences of large-scale delirium , reminds one of daVinci sketching the distended veins , the straining muscles and tendons in his mother 's arm as she lay dying . " If anything ail a man , " said Thoreau , " so that he does not perform his functions , if he have a pain in his bowels even . . he forthwith sets about reforming ? the world . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easily cured than bellyache ; it is of his kind that mass movements are made . Discontent and misery , says Hoffer , do not by themselves create a desire for change . The cake of custom is hard baked and not easily broken ; the social mass has its own ponderous inertia . Slaves could be driven to build the pyramids or the Appian Way , but the leader who would drive men to " transform the nation or the world " must contrive an instrument more ingenious than the whip . He must know how to " kindle and fan an extravagant hope " ; he must know the art of " religiofication , " " turning practical purposes into holy causes . " The mass must be made to feel omnipotent as well as defiant ; its faith must become like that of the men described in Genesis who set out to build " a city and a tower whose top may reach unto heaven " and who believed that " nothing will be restrained from them which they have imagined to do . " , Recruits are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the categories of potential converts . The " new " and the " non-creative " poor ; misfits ; adolescents ; " those in the grip of some vice or obsession " ; the impotent ( " in body or mind " ) ; the " inordinately selfish " ; the " bored " ; the " sinners " : from these classes come the hordes of true believers . ( Hoffer is a little old-fashioned in his descriptive titles , but this is deliberate ; he says , as one soon learns , precisely what he means . ) Their common trait is a sense of emptiness and frustration . " Give us this day our daily illusion " ( to paraphrase Stresemann ) is the cry of the embittered ripe for crusade . Without ties , with neither roots in the past nor a stake in the present , tormented by an unwanted , nagging self , they hunger for a cause that will give their lives meaning and direction , relieve them of the awful burden of individual responsibility , bind and submerge them in an exultant collective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not because it can satisfy the desire for self-advancement , but because it can satisfy the passion for self-renunciation . " Mass movements , we are reminded , are interchangeable . The transformation of social revolutionaries into militant nationalists , of Nazis into Communists , of Communists into Catholics , illustrates a simple principle of equivalence : all faiths are inspired by fear ; all zealots despise one another , yet are brothers . Fervorlust is like wanderlust ; the direction itself is unimportant ; what matters is to keep going . Communal compactness , a sense of belonging to any social group , even membership in a well-knit family : each of these is an island of social order impeding the tidal sweep of a mass movement . Hoffer points out that Christianity itself , when it was making its first proselytes , recognized dearly the impediment of the family : " For I am come to set a man at variance against his father , and the daughter against her mother , and the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law . And a man 's foes shall be they of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calls the " active phase " of mass movements . This phase is prepared by " accidents " and pioneered by intellectuals , " men of words . " When their work is done The best lack all conviction , while the worst Are full of passionate intensity . Surely some revelation is at hand , Surely the Second Coming is at hand . The active phase is ruled by a leader , best qualified if he is fanatic , a holy terror , of demonic self-confidence , with a " capacity for passionate hatred " and for " winning and holding " loyalty . When this dynamic period is ended , " practical men of action " take over . The spirit of frenzied eye-rolling is supplanted by the cold-blooded determination to perpetuate power , to establish order , to possess rather than renovate . It is time now to put out the bonfires into which the faithful have been throwing themselves as well as the furniture . The man of action , knowing that even the zeal born of hatred in time sates itself , sets up a more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finds the assertion that all men are cowards less debatable than that all men are fools , and , in the words of Sir John Maynard , " inclines to found the new order on the necks of the people rather than in their hearts . " How long the new dispensation can be maintained depends on the eclecticism , the skill and , most of all , on the ruthlessness of its masters . It is not fashionable to say so , and our huge expenditures on such ' enterprises as the Voice of America , in effect bidding the oppressed of the countries we dislike ( not the oppressed in all countries ) to kick their oppressors in the pants , are predicated on the opposite conviction ; yet the fact which history seems to confirm is that the mass of men flee freedom , not tyranny , that absolutism wanes with exhaustion , not dissension , that a leader is in greatest danger when he indulges in the weakness of reform . All mass movements in their active phase are bad . The rare leader ? a Lincoln @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with faith in humanity may " harness men 's hungers and fears to weld a following " that will sweep forward toward beneficent ends . But the mass of men , Hoffer believes , can not be stirred to fervor and united for action and self-sacrifice , whatever the object , without appeal to the basest instincts . The fuel of the movement is the traits every rational ethic condemns , every progressive society strives to eradicate : hatred , suspicion , vanity , cruelty , rootlessness , credulity . A mass movement depends on inculcating and cultivating in vast numbers of men the " proclivities and responses indigenous to the frustrated mind . " Therein lies its supreme evil . I remarked at the outset of this review that Hoffer 's theme is not original . It is true of course that he has been much influenced by the writings of Montaigne , Pascal , Machiavelli , de Tocqueville and Renan , among others ; Trotter and Freud must also have reinforced his views . The modern psychologists , however , are not mentioned , and one of the happiest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jargon of the mental sciences . It is exhilarating to come across a writer who can tell us vividly how nasty , brutish and pathetic we are without gilding our foibles by conferring medical status upon them . Hoffer , although indebted to other thinkers , is more than a synthesizer ? in itself not a paltry art . The books he has read have meant much to him ; their ideas have filtered slowly through his mind and have been enriched by his years of experience as a miner , migratory worker and longshoreman . ( He had no schooling , was practically blind up to the age of fifteen , " and when his eyesight came back , " was seized with an enormous hunger for the printed word . " ) His style is distinguished . Like de Tocqueville 's , it is dense with abstractions yet highly readable . He tends to be repetitious and his epigrams occasionally falter ; but he does not need to step back to make a point ? he simply makes it . Altogether , his presentation is coherent , unfaltering and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the narrowness of its beam . Its light illumines in brilliant detail a slender wedge of the scene , but the surrounding territory remains in darkness . Politics is an unending struggle between power and interests ; Hoffer writes of social movements , but there is a curiously static quality in his report . The mathematician can assign a curve to its family if only a tiny portion is visible , provided he recognizes the function which determines it . Hoffer describes a fragment of the curve of social change but we are left in ignorance as to the controlling function . Holding men unfit by appetite and desire to govern themselves , Hobbes thought any government better than none ; he argued that that " common power " was best which would " keep them all in awe . " At the opposite extreme of political philosophy , Locke contended that men were by nature virtuous social beings , and he deemed the " ultimate sovereignty of the governed " a sacred principle ; later thinkers , induding Freud , achieved a more realistic appraisal based on the conflict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mentions the existence of this conflict , either within the individual or expressed in the actions of social groups . Men , he seems to say , are ' mostly villains and have always been . No hope is proffered that they may improve ; little is said of the effect on human traits and behavior of social and economic circumstances . Hoffer has sympathy for men 's plight , but it is the sympathy of pity rather than understanding . The desire to belong is portrayed as weakness , with no attempt to explain it analytically ; the causes and development of frustration and self-hate are similarly passed over . Nor are we offered more than perfunctory conjectures as to the social conditions promoting the emergence of fanatical leaders . One can not help feeling there is hidden satisfaction in these pages over the works of the devil . There are , I conclude , too many monsters in Hoffer 's sinister comedy , creatures misshapen since birth , not deformed by circumstance . Nevertheless , The True Believer is an impressive contribution to political thought , a contribution of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ becoming a patriotic duty not to think ; not to be skeptical ; not to reflect on the issues dealt with in this book . The dangers of an arms race are great , yet they are insignificant compared with the dangers of converting the mass of a nation into true believers . " There is one thing in the world , " wrote William Kingdon Clifford , " more wicked than the desire to command , and that is the will to obey . " It is the special merit of Hoffer 's enlarging essay that it reminds us of this truth .                     