@@487634

THE A. F. of L.-C . I. 0 . merger was scheduled to take place at a moment of unique importance to American labor . The decade drawing to a close  --  the decade of the cold-war years  --  witnessed great changes in the relation of the labor movement to the society of which it is a part . This was the decade in which most Americans , including many labor leaders , lived in anxious anticipation of the " bust " which did not come . During the decade , American industry experienced a phenomenal increase both in capacity and actual production . The decade that began with the explosion of a bomb over Hiroshima ends with atomic energy producing electricity . Automation , urgent social reality today , was an unknown term in 1945 . Goals which seemed utopian a decade ago have been achieved , and are today accepted as ordinary . Henry ' Wallace 's talk of 60,000,000 jobs can no longer be dismissed as " globaloney . " In this extraordinary decade , the economy of the South has been transformed . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the labor movement were talking about integrated schools . The period , too , has witnessed the rise of a strong national civil-rights movement . Since 1945 revolution has swept China . India has achieved its independence . Africa now stirs to new currents of revolt . " A revolution of rising expectations " has engulfed the so-called underdeveloped areas . A U. N. has come into being in which colonial powers are hard-pressed to hold their own against a new anti-colonial bloc . Nearly ten years of cold war finds Europe , reconstructed , the Middle East struggling to enter the modern world , Israel in being , and the U. S. S. R. and U. S. A. engaged in a global competition in peaceful coexistence . But as the decade ends , the possibility of a third world war fought with nuclear weapons still casts a long shadow across the world . How has American labor fared during this decade ? Has it kept abreast of the major changes ? Numerically it has held its own ; but its achievements , to point up the fallacy in Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . During this decade the role of American labor in relation to government has been reversed . By the time of Roosevelt 's death , labor had come to rely heavily on government to safeguard its gains , run interference for its organizational drives , and ward off its enemies . The decade about to tend witnessed the adoption of the Taft-Hartley Act which ifnot the " slave-labor act " labor orators described , has successfully " contained " labor . The National Labor Relations Board , to which labor once turned for help , is now avoided as a dangerous hazard . " Right-to-work " laws , outlawing the closed shop , are to be found in Many states . Laws limiting labor 's political activities have appeared in such strong labor states as Wisconsin and Michigan . Ugly nativistic anti-labor movements have been spawned in a dozen states . In nearly every state legislature , as in Congress , labor has been on the defensive . At national level , social progress has been nearly at a standstill for ten years . As might be expected , the political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the death of Roosevelt ; it became precipitous with the advent of Eisenhower . The conclusion must be , therefore , that labor has not only failed to lead or even keep abreast of the vanguard ; it has , in a relative sense , lost ground in the last teri years organizationally and politically , if not economically . THE problem posed by labor 's relation to the Eisenhower Administration reflects , to a large degree , basic changes which have taken place in the industrial structure . Today the differences between medium-sized and " giant " business are so great that the giant corporations must be regarded as different structures not merely in degree but in kind . As Peter Shore pointed out recently in the New Statesman and Nation ( October 8 , 1955 ) , " these super companies are not simply a kind of magnified projection of smaller capitalist institutions , but a new form of capitalist organization . " Their ability to control prices and profits as well as the absence of risk , the separation of ownership from control , and their almost complete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apart . Corporations that began by manufacturing rubber today market many consumer items , such as synthetic yarns , textile products , plastics , and chemicals . The giant corporations have plants scattered across the country , often with different skills , occupations , work environments , and problems . " The management fraternity , " as Saul Barkin has pointed out ( " Labor and Nation , " 1953 ) " has grown large in the last fifteen years . " Management is today highly specialized in relation both to program and policy . But the American labor movement itself has not changed commensurably . To a large extent , the Mitiatine in collecting bargaining has passed from labor to management . It is also important to note that , as Mr. Barkin points out , " the full challenge of the new era is being thrown up at a time when other and opposing interests are in the political saddle . " Politically , American labor is backward even by comparison with its nearest neighbOrs . As labor delegates met in New York to end the nineteen-year-old split in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Provincial Federation of . Labor , meeting in Toronto , came within a single vote of endorsing the Canadian Commonwealth Federation . Delegates speaking in behalf of the resolution pointed out that as long as labor is politically inactive it would have " to plead for change . Those in Queen 's Park are not our friends . We want to go to the ' front door and not the back . , .. Year ' after year we pass resolutions that get nowhere . Meanwhile some say the C. C. F. has become a Fabian party . But why ? Because we have allowed it to fall into the hands of lawyers and teachers . . . . Right now the politicians in Queen 's Park are laughing at us . We will never get anywhere by begging . " It is not enough to say , in extenuation of American labor , that the general temper of the time has been adverse . Unfortunately labor has contributed to the socially-regressive atmosphere of the cold-war years . The " right to organize " does not stand by itself . Individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to assemble for political action , to petition for a redress of grievances , and to organize political parties . With notable and brilliant exceptions , American labor has not fought , these last ten years , for others ' liberties . All this is not to imply that American labor is im-potent or reactionary . Its strength is great but it is only a pittance of what it might be , and will be . We do not agree with those who insist on comparing American labor with , say , labor in Great Britain or France . The American labor movement has special characteristics and problems , as well as a special history and setting . American labor , we are told , is orientated toward middle-class status ; it is lacking in class consciousness . True perhaps . But the findings of the Wayne University George G. Kirstein , Publisher Carey McWilliams , Editor Victor II . Bernstein , Managing Editor J. Alvarez del Vayo , Foreign Editor Freda Kirchwey , Editorial Contributor Harold Clurman , Theater Robert Hatch , Films B H. Haggin , Music Caroline Whiting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Advertising Manager Martin Solow , Assistant to the Publisher Staff Contributors : W. Macmahon Ball , Carolus , Maxwell Geismar , Keith Hutchison , Harvey O'Connor , Andrew Roth , Howard K. Smith , Alexander Werth , H. H. Wilson . The Nation , Dec. 10 , 1955 , Volume 181 , No. 24 The Nation , published weekly by The Nation Company and copyright , 1955 , in the U S. A by The Nation Associates , Inc , 333 Sixth Avenue , New York 11 , N Y. Entered as second-class matter , Dec. 13 , 1879 at the Post Office of New York . N Y , under the act of March 3 , 1879 Reentered as second clase matter at the Post Office , Montgomery , Alabama . Printing Office , 1603 Reuben Street . study , " Labor in Detroit , " force one to note some qualifications . Labor , according to this study , is " overwhelmingly orientated toward the Democratic Party . " Even those workers who have moved into middle-class neighborhoods still voted Democratic in 1952 and 1954 , and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Not only do workers trust the voting recommendations of labor organizations much more than those of other groups , but they are correspondingly distrustful of recommendations made by business and the press . Stevenson captured 75 per cent of Detroit 's labor , vote in 1952 . The key labor issues of the recent past  --  the Square D strike in Detroit , Perfect Circle in Indiana , the strikes in the South  --  indicate that the militancy of labor is far from dead . What has happened in-the last ten or fifteen years is that management has taken the initiative in collective bargaining by simply recognizing , accepting , and increasingly relying upon unions . When labor is organizing , the initiative belongs to it ; when the drives to organize abate , management recaptures the initiative . Today industry is vitally dependent on labor ; it simply could not function , at its present efficiency , without unions . Therefore to regain the initiative labor must enlarge its social , economic , and political objectives . The advantage is still with - labor . The last session of Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the first farmer-labor coalition in years . Labor can , if it will , spearhead the fight for a civil-rights program . It can , if it will , transform American politics . On the local , state , and federal level , labor needs to win the support of farmers , self-employed business men and professional groups , , youth , the minorities , the rode-. pendents , and the eggheads . THIS SPECIAL issue was projected in consultation with a representative group of American labor spokes. men . These consultants urged us not to build the issue around such themes as the achievements of labor or the issues confronting labor . On the contrary , without exception , they urged us to take a critical look at American labor at this important moment in its history . Labor is not buttered up in the pages that follow . We have aimed at achieving . the maximum candor . To this end , we asked the contributors not to sign their articles . All of them are actively identified with the labor movement as editors , research and educational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both ' C. I. 0 . and A. F. of L. unions . We liked the idea of taking a candid look at American labor in part because it stands in need of self-appraisal and self-criticism which such an issue might stimulate . The Nation ' has earned the privilege , we feel , of viewing labor with friendly candor and objectivity . During 1955 The Nation has run nineteen articles devoted to strikes , attacks against labor , and similar concerns . The reporting covered every major strike of the year ; it dealt with textile workers , longehoremen , teamsters , apple pickers , hotel workers , . F , 27 NATKIN white-collar workers , electrical and auto workers , sugar-refinery workers , and employees in the entertainment industry . We take satisfaction in this record . Sharing as we do the misgivings of some of the contributors in this issue about the immediate future for labor , and recognizing - with them the problems implicit in the merger , we are nevertheless confident that the conventions of the last week represent a turning point in American labor , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Deal , phase in its history . 