@@476499

A COMMON Asiatic cliche , which one used to hear frequently in pre-Mao China , is that the American people are all right , but the American government is suspect . One still hears it fairly often in India , but since October 1951 , when U. S. Ambassador Bowles arrived in New Delhi , it has been said with somewhat less certainty . For long-jawed , gangling Chester Bowles , as much by his day-to-day actions as by his underlying policy , has been narrowing the distinction between official and unofficial America in Indian eyes , presenting the picture of a generous , impetuous , informal American as the official representative of his country , and creating a whole new atmosphere for Indian thinking about the United States . At the same time he has raised a whole new set of challenges for American foreign policy . The stories of his first days in India are well known by now ? the way he had to borrow striped pants and a cutaway from the Italian ambassador to present his credentials to President Rajendra Prasad ; the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his Embassy residence in his shirtsleeves , callers or no callers ; the evening he rode his wife home from a party on the handlebars of a bicycle ; and , above all , the way he enrolled his children in a Delhi public school instead of sending them to the hills to a British- or American-run mission school in the traditional manner of Western diplomats . He has yet to say " Your Highness " to an Indian Maharajah , but he has plodded on foot through the dust of Indian villages talk-ing to the people . When a Minister of the Government of India remonstrated with him because several American representatives had sat in their shirtsleeves and smoked through a meeting presided over by a Maharajah , Bowies is said to have replied , " Americans would take off their coats if they were hot and smoke if they wanted to in front of the President of the United States . What 's a Maharajah to an American anyhow ? " On Holi , an Indian festival when bright red and yellow powders and dyes are thrown at anyone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teen-age daughters and his eleven-year-old son into the market places , and came back with his clothes , face , and hair as stained as any urchin 's in town . Behind all this , it has become evident as his work has developed , is a definite philosophy , a definite purpose , and a definite plan . Bowles ' objective , in his own words , is to " sell democracy , " not his country right or wrong , and he has brought to bear on it all the selling skill he learned in his years as idea man and partner of the Benton and Bowles advertising agency . Perhaps his greatest gift is for dramatizing ideas . Either by natural instinct or by a highly artful technique or by a combination of the two which has become second nature to him , he has shown the Indian people in his own person one aspect of democracy in action , cutting alike through Delhi 's diplomatic and upper-class stuffiness . It was not President Truman who picked Bowles for India . It was Bowles who picked India . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State Department records as a " hardship post . " But when , after he was defeated for re-election as Governor of Connecticut , Truman offered him several other posts , he turned them all down and then said , " I would go to India . " He had a conviction about India . As he put it recently to a group of Delhi students , " The test of our times is whether or not democracy can harness the forces of the modern world to benefit the common man and at the same time preserve the freedom of the human individual . The proving ground is right here in India . " He was thinking along the same lines at least as far back as 1948 when he wrote an article for the New York Times Magazine which stressed the necessity for an American policy that would be " for as well as against . " " We must , " he wrote in that article . " take our stand unequivocally beside the hungry and oppressed people all over the world in their fight for increased economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might give to " help in raising the living standards of the people whom Gandhi and Nehru have wakened from their long slumber . " In 1951 Bowles felt there was still a chance , though a dwindling one , that American policy might become a positive factor in Asia ? through India , the largest and most influential of all the newly independent non-Communist Asian countries . Before his appointment an initial agreement had already been signed between the United States and India for technical aid . In this he saw an opportunity to put Point TV to a real test . And he came to India to " sell democracy " by practical demonstration ? by American technical skills , American dollars , and American idealism . II T HROUGH an Indian source twice re- moved , I have been told that Prime Minister Nehru did not at first accept Bowles and his plans with any great enthusiasm . He is reported to have listened to Bowles ' initial proposals skeptically , to have sensed hidden political " strings , " and even to have said , " No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your aid . " This reaction had been reflected throughout the country for some months . For morethan a year and a half I myself have been running into it , from the Malabar Coast in the south to the Himalayas in the north . And it comes just as often from serious-minded middle-of-the-road Indian professional people and government workers as from Cornmunists . " We want peace , " I am told again and again . " We must develop our country . You expect war and want us on your side . We do n't want to be on any side . We have just freed ourselves from Britain . Do you think we are going to tie ourselves now to either you or Russia ? We will be tied to no one , and your aid will not buy us . " Nevertheless by January 5 of this year , less than three months after Bowles arrived in India , the new Indo-American Technical Cooperation Agreement had been signed , and on February 18 Nehru assured a critical group of Indian newspapermen that there were no strings attached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committed India to was to promote international good will and world peace , and that the American aid would merely enable India to carry out her own Five Year Plan with more speed . This was a considerable achievement , and there are those who give Chester Bowles full credit for it . But there were contributing conditions . India 's Planning Commission , chaired by Nehru himself , had just completed its task of drawing up its first Five Year Plan and faced the obvious fact that foreign aid would be needed to carry it out with any rapidity . Also India 's first elections on the basis of adult franchise were held soon after Bowles came . They sharpened the feeling among government leaders that economic development had to be pushed ahead . Opposition parties were loudly critical of the government 's inaction and absorption in " paper planning , " and the emergence of the Communists as the leading opposition in the south underlined the growing dissatisfaction in certain areas of the country . And despite the signing of the aid agreement , there is much of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong and deeply imbedded part of the present-day Indian emotional structure . " Are we so depleted , " one member of the newly elected Indian Parliament asked recently , " that even in our village program , to which Gandhi gave so much of his life , we must depend upon the Americans ? " The Communists in Parliament are also becoming noisier about their opposition to American aid . Their main argument is the well-worn one of American Imperialism by way of the Almighty Dollar , but it still carries weight in non-Communist India . Indians have not forgotten that England 's two-hundred-year hold over them began innocently enough with some British traders who formed the East India Company . - EVERTHELESS , when all this has been taken into account , it must be ac- knowledged that a marked change in feeling did take place between Bowles ' arrival in October and the signing of the Indo-American Agreement , and Bowles himself did much to bring it about . Privately , publicly , and especially at press conferences , at which he is a master performer , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help India strengthen her own form of democracy . Once he was asked by a persistent Indian reporter if America 's real hope was n't to make India lean toward the Western democracies . " Sure , " replied Bowles . " At least we hope you wo n't lean the other way . " But how you lean is your own business . We want to see you strong enough and free and independent enough so that you can choose which way you want to lean . " He further showed his good faith by carefully studying India 's Five Year Plan and suggesting that substantial American aid , in funds and technicians , go into the field which India 's planners had marked for first priority ? increasing food production on the community level . At home this may sound like unadulterated altruism or , as some people have claimed , the old New Deal " give-away " technique which is destined to send more American taxpayers ' money down a new drain . But to Bowles India 's community development scheme was a dramatic , made-to-order way to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that democracy works for his benefit . And its major strength was that it was an Indian , not an American , plan . As the specific project agreements , based on the Indian Planning Commission 's own blueprints , were drawn up , Bowles saw to it that MAGAZINE the major part of this year 's **35;799;TOOLONG U. S. allocation for technical assistance to India was channeled into community development . As the plan now stands , fifty-five community projects of three hundred villages each , affecting some eleven million villagers , will be started this year . The hope is that these areas can be increased to five hundred in the five-year period and will in the end affect more than one hundred million peasants ? nearly a third of India 's population . India is aiming at a ten-million-ton increase in food production in five years , to make her self-sufficient in food , and to reduce the huge amounts of foreign exchange now absorbed in buying grain abroad so that India may use the funds for hydro-electric plants , irrigation darns , and industry . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dollars of U. S. aid for India in the next four years . III B OWLES ' policy in India is not confined to community development projects , however . By his own definition , American support , both moral and . financial , is justified in every field in which the Indian government is advancing , or hoping to advance , along democratic lines . These include a sound system of public education , healthy competitive free enterprise , and a well co-ordinated system of administrative machinery for the central government and the states . Bowles watches Indian problems in these fields as they arise , and if he sees a place where American experience ' can help , he is usually ready to offer it in specific terms . To do this effectively , Bowles has had to pick up an immense amount of background information on what India has already done and how her approach to similar problems differs from America 's . People who have worked for years on certain phases of Indian life observe enviously that he apparently gets this " by osmosis . " So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he ventured into new fields . He has n't yet made any suggestions which would bring about drastic changes . In the main his suggestions offer India a self-starter or booster . Education is one example . India 's educational system is something of a mid-Victorian ornament which India inherited from the British Raj . It turns out Indian clerks and white-collar workers who feel they can not demean themselves at any of the grimy tasks of life . This may have been all right in the days when what Britain needed was native clerks to help run a colonial government . But what independent India needs is people with the skills and leadership to build a nation . Indian educators have been searching for the best ways to make the needed change in Indian schools . Bowles proposed an exchange of top-level Indian and American educators , each to make a study of the other 's educational system , followed by round-table discussions . Indian educators are interested in the idea . So , now , is the Ford Foundation . Government administration is another field in which India is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arisen since independence . Bowles ' administrative experience , as OPA chief in Washington during the war and as Governor of Connecticut , has given him a fund of practical experience on which to draw when Indian government officials discuss these problems with him . They have evidently decided from this that it might be helpful for them to learn more of American methods , for the Indian government recently invited Dean Paul Appleby of the Maxwell School of Public Administration of Syracuse University , former Under Secretary of Agriculture , to advise them for a period of several months on how to train administrators for the new community developments . The Ford Foundation will pay . 0 NE of Bowles ' favorite subjects is free enterprise and expanding markets , and even here , despite India 's general economic bent toward socialism , he seems to have won a hearing , for he talks in terms of India 's own development , not of American business interests in India . Not long ago he had a chance to expound his theories in a specific instance . Under one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scheduled to be shipped to India , a small portion of which will be distributed below cost to Indian farmers . Some Indian industrialists see in this a threat to their own interests and an infringement on their markets . To Chester Bowles , who as an adver-. tising executive during the Depression talked Maxwell House Coffee and several other major firms in America into slashing their prices in half in order to reach the wider market of the lower-income consumer , the Indian industrialists ' practices and theories seem obsolete and stultifying to any real industrial growth . When the fertilizer question came up , he explained , with his customary conviction , that American fertilizer distributed below cost to Indian farmers , most of whom had never used chemical fertilizers before , would in the long run tremendously expand the market for Indian manufacturers . In this , as in all his diplomacy , Bowles injected his own strong sense of urgency . Talking to an American firm about a contract for building tubewells , he asked how soon they could get the job done . They estimated it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " said Bowles . " You 'll be digging them for the Communists . " He keeps setting deadlines . The end of the U. S. government 's fiscal year on June 30 gave him good reason to push through the project for American aid , and he met with his TCA staff constantly as the agreements were being drawn up . Further deadlines will be more difficult to meet . But Bowles considers that trying to hold the program to a schedule is one of the most valuable contributions American advisers can make . When people question the soundness of trying to speed up a program based on the slow-moving democratic processes in slow-moving India , Bowles grows impatient . " Lack of time is the greatest danger of all , " he says . And for this reason he is always completely candid about the mistakes America has made . " India can learn from our mistakes , " he explains . " India has n't time to make mistakes . " It is the same driving sense of urgency that took Bowles hack to the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makes him keep up a steady flow of letters home when he is here . The mail from the Ambassador 's office in New Delhi averages fifty pounds a week , much of it personal letters from the Ambassador to old associates in key jobs . He is determined to have America know more about India than where to find it on the map , and also to get the necessary home support for his program . Recent cuts in appropriations are going to slow it down , and he is convinced that there is n't time to go slow . IT is hard for anyone who is aware of the importance of Asia to America and of the problems involved to find much fault with what Bowles says . But among some Americans in India who are most concerned and most familiar with Indian affairs , and among some Indian leaders basically sympathetic with Bowles ' theme , there is growing uneasiness about the ultimate effect his policy may have . There is first of all the danger that American aid in large quantities will kill India 's own initiative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tried to recognize this threat in the terms of the aid agreement . India has accepted the financial responsibility for providing all the rupees to put American dollars to work and taken the administrative responsibility . America gives only advice and such materials as fertilizers , tubewells , and iron and steel for farm instruments . But still the danger remains . Another source of uneasiness , among both Americans and Indians , is- whether Bowles ' policy is really strengthening Indian democracy or merely a particular regime . Bowles talks of the democracy India already has , but there are those who seriously question whether it can actually be called a democracy yet . Under Nehru 's leadership its direction is unquestionably in the constitutional and democratic pattern , and the Congress party has within the past few months been voted back into power for another five years by a general constitutional election . But America must be aware of the peril , especially in the light of her other Asiatic experiences , of bolstering a regime beyond the time when it has any democratic meaning to its people ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in India . But the most serious question raised about Bowles ' policy and methods is whether in the end they may not do exactly what lie says they must not do ? impose upon India some American procedures and patterns which will neither take root nor have any appreciable effect on the Indian villager 's life , and whichmay serve to revive Indo-American antagonisms . The uneasiness on this score comes from two sources : the great gulf between American and Indian ways of life and Bowles ' own personality . One Indian described Bowles as " dangerously engaging , " and by both nature and experience he is far more of a promoter than a student . This has given some people the feeling that his understanding of India is necessarily superficial . If it is , he has so far shown an uncanny instinct for sensing India 's moods and needs . But his critics fear that his instinct will one day play him false . To avoid serious blunders in carrying out as comprehensive a policy as his , they argue , would demand a genius . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious students of India who sincerely regard him as a genius . He has , they claim , an amazing ability to assimilate information , to absorb critical comments on his program and work them into his own thinking , and to single out experts , both Indian and foreign , and pump them dry . Others have had the opposite experience with him and found him disinclined to listen , even after he had asked for advice or an opinion . And they naturally are suspicious of his ability to find out what India really is or may become . T HE trouble is that Chester Bowles re- flects a fault inherent in the American genius for salesmanship ? the apparent necessity for presenting one 's product , be it a breakfast food or an idea , in unrelieved blacks and whites . Bowles presents to the public the picture of what India can do with American aid in the next five years in dazzling whites ? she can be self-sufficient in food , she can reach one-third of her remote , thirteenth-century peasantry with a higher standard of living @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modernize and expand her industries . What will happen if she does n't receive sufficient outside help to do these things comes out in equally strong blacks ( although he presents these in Washington rather than New Delhi ) ? she will " go China 's way " and Asia will be " lost . " It is not likely that India will move quite as fast as this with American help , or quite as slowly without . She is both moving and groping , and she will undoubtedly continue to do so whether or not Americans advise her . Bowles knows this and in private he admits it . But his enthusiasm for his program is so unbounded that whether or not he will recognize some of the obstacles to it in sufficient detail to deal with them is still a vital and unanswered question . Will he , for example , be able to restrain his own and the American sense of urgency if he finds it is not fully shared by India ? Or will he revive the Indian fear that this is , after all , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Time is different in India and America . In the United States it is a matter of second hands and revolutions of wheels and exact timetables . In India it extends back to one 's great-great-grandfather and forward to one 's great-great-grandson , and . is divided by monsoon rains once or twice a year . And time is only one difference between the two cultures . An Indian village is very different from an American small town . It has not yet fully emerged from feudalism , and its landlord-peasant relationships are as obscure to the twentieth-century foreigner as a modern painter 's abstractions would have been to Queen Victoria . Its caste and familywithin-caste relationships are as little understood by the outsider as the structure of matter is by a three-year-old . If American methods were directly applied to , let us say , the organizing of a village night school , they might carelessly ignore some deeply rooted custom and make a night school in that village impossible for years to come . Indians , as well as Americans , have their own way of doing things , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ environment . T HE difference between any American 's experience of life and any Indian 's is so great that for many Americans India is the most difficult country in the world in which to work . It has unpredictable frustrations , unintelligible customs and beliefs which the American is likely to ridicule in order to keep himself sane , and devastatingly discouraging psychological and emotional barriers . It takes a staunch American to withstand all this and to adjust himself to it . If he keeps on being homesick for the corner drugstore and the kitchen icebox , he is apt to turn into a pukka sahib and a minor dictator . Even if he does n't , his wife may . Bowles is inclined to minimize these difficulties and to feel that any good , sound , democratically reared American should be able to make the adjustment as well as he and his family have . Rut as the number of American experts sent out to advise increases , so does the danger that their behavior and methods will backfire and become offensive to Indians . It is inevitable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a fair proportion will be neither saints nor scholars . They are already arriving in Delhi , complete with sturdy-looking wives and rowdy children dressed in blue jeans and Hawaiian beach shirts . Their first innocent questions about where is Madras and what is a Rajpremukh arc startling , to say the least . Their opposite numbers in the Indian government may not know as much about how to grow corn , but they are likely to know far more about geography and literature . The challenging question is whether or not these Americans , even guided by Bowles , can sort out those things in their American thinking which are essential to India 's democracy and continue to respect and leave unmolested the Indian methods and manners which may seem very different and even disgusting to them but which are still by no means undemocratic . A flush toilet does n't make a mart into a democratic human being , nor the chewing of betel nut create a feudalistic one . Giving aid without dominating , gently pushing without shoving , praising without patronizing , are acts that call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Americans are not ? at least as yet ? famous . Yet they are essential in carrying out the bold new policy that Bowles has introduced in India . And they are the final test of the Point IV program wherever it is applied . Bowles has made India judge America a little less harshly and suspiciously than she did , has made the United States sound to some Indians once more like the traditional champion of freedom , a nation that genuinely believes in peace and the independence of peoples from foreign domination . But it has yet to be proved that Bowles truly represents American policy . And this can be proved only in the implementation of his program in India and in the reaction to that program at home . Bowles has launched something bigger than Bowles . 