@@487639

Dear Sirs : The Suez crisis has produced many political casualties , but none more distressing than the pathetic breakdown of liberal thought concerning it . The ' Nation and The New Statesman and Nation , both liberal journals , shortsightedly view the Egyptian-Israeli situation as merely a tug of war between two equally competing nationalisms , with the right casually tossed to one or the other as events dictate . But a liberal point of view would present a far different picture , one whose dominating theme is the war , in all but name , between the United States and the USSR over control of the oil resources of the Middle East . To speak of the Arab world is to gloss over the essential questions of the Middle East : 1 ) Do Nasser and his imitators represent the genuine aspirations of the peoples of the Middle East ? 2 ) If they do , are these aspirations which liberals can approve ? 3 ) If they do not , whom should liberals support ? For it is now altogether beyond doubt that Nasser and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to go forward to democracy , but to prop up feudal dictatorships . To accept uncritically the present demands of the colonial nationalisms of the Middle East is as naive historically as it is morally blind . The question which we have to face now is not which of these nations should be guaranteed its geographical integrity , since none of them , including Israel , is anything more than the creation of political expediency ; but rather , which of them has used its sovereignty to build the road to democracy ? In terms of this question Israel alone deserves liberal support as the only nation in the Middle East which has consistently and courageously pursued a democratic line . For is it Egypt or Israel which made the land available to its people ? Is it Egypt or Israel which has imaginatively tackled the water problem ? Is it Egypt or Israel which prohibits the movement of UNESCO personnel because of their religion ? Is it Egypt or Israel which retains the barbarous custom of taking hostages ? Is it Egypt or Israel which mercilessly exploits its workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the USSR will penetrate into the Middle East ? Is it Egypt or Israel which has sold out the West ? But even the rights and wrongs of a few nations are insignificant before the rights and wrongs of people everywhere . For what has the oil war given us ? To the Israelis , the threat of extinction ; to the Arab peoples , betrayal and continuing grinding poverty ; to the peoples of the West and East alike , a finger 's breadth from the trigger on the hydrogen bomb . Instead of fulminating against the Israelis and buttering up the Arab leaders , and instead of advising the English people to knuckle down to the United States in return for a few drops of oil , the liberal journals should be relentlessly exposing the politics of the oil war . HERBERT WEISINGER East Lansing , Michigan ' ? " French Hollywood " ? Dear Sirs : I like Kenneth Rexroth 's pieces as a rule , but there is no justice in his review December 8 issue of Cocteau 's position as an artist . Any artist has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cocteau has given us four or five films which are a permanent contribution to the treasury of art , Describing them as " French Hollywood " is just the sort of pseudo-sophistication that Rexroth condemns elsewhere in his essay . In the bleak forties , it was perhaps Cocteau more than anyone else who , through his films , kept alive the spirit of the avant-garde . In these films he managed to transcend the conventional limits of the avant-garde and work a metamorphosis upon popular images and legends . If the work and even the idea of the avant-garde has become boring to so many people , it is just because of the lazy contentment within its ghetto . Cocteau has shown us one way ( of course , it is not the only way ) of breaking out . And it was no dilettante or poseur who overcame the " technical poverty " of the French film industry to do it . JACK JONES New York City , The " Yea " and the " Nay , ' Dear Sirs : In his article , Branding the Eggheads , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while referring to Time 's list of intellectuals , includes the name of Paul Tillich as one of the " yea-sayers . " This is an injustice to Tillich that can only stem from an inadequate understanding of him ; a reading of his brief book , The Courage To Be , uncovers thinking which is diametrically opposite . The core of his reasoning is his thesis on the anxiety of meaninglessness . In essence he is saying that only by asserting the self does one have meaning . Those who have the courage to stand by the values beyond the ephemeral ones may give up temporary comforts  --  a few give up their lives  --  but theirs is the guerdon that their lives have meaning . They have the courage to be . All this is Tillich , and the logic of it is to live the very contrary of your " yea-sayer . " One further comment . some " nay-sayers " leave the impression that their " nays " are opposition for the satisfaction of opposing . In another context , Howard Mumford Jones on page 463 of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point when he says of God-kin that his " ' independence ' was often mere ' oppositeness , 2 " To Mr. Wakefield , on his acid attack on intellectual uniforms , one can only wish a hearty Aleck ' Auf . But to say " nay " for the sake of the " nay " is only to put on another uniform . And a uniform is a uniform is a uniform .                     