@@476317

THE time is at hand for the electronic management not only of industrial production but of business and governmental communication , of financial movement , and of commercial distribution . This development can , if we chose to direct it so , eliminate the letters , memoranda , and other paper methods of communication ? all filing cases , file clerks , libraries , and other equipment for the storage of information , and all the hordes of little clerks who scratch marks on paper to communicate with each other and with the outside world . And , if we so decide , it may carry off the sweepers and oilers , the diggers , the wipers , and all of the dogged human components of our present social machine . Needless to say , this is not yet power " in being , " but with the installation of some of the devices already manufactured and tested for operation ? such as the Navy 's " Project Typhoon " ( built by RCA engineers ) and Remington Rand 's UNIVAC ? we shall find ourselves well along @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and those which will follow them and improve upon them are to robotize or humanize mankind is already an urgent question and one which the scientists who make them are not equipped to solve . What is this principle of automatism which , is rapidly becoming the basic factor in the organization and operation of our society ? Most of us have to fall back upon the mechanical monster of science-ficdon as a substitute for a real understandingof this phenomenon . But let us take instead a fairly familiar concept : the automatic screw machine which mass-produces goods without human intervention . The activity of this machine exemplifies one principle of autorn atism . When the human element is removed entirely , and replaced by electronic machines that control and collate , then we have the essential device around which the new social organization will be built . Certain types of machines such as pliers , plows , hammers , and so on , can be prevalent in a society without any hint of automatism The consequences of automatism begin to be felt only when machines appear that . lend themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , such simple machines were not intended to be automata but merely ancillaries to men . Only when the idea of self-propulsion came in did the idea of automatism come to the fore . Many of our present machines are characterized by a degree of automatism which , if carried to its proper conclusion , can free men forever from boring and disagreeable tasks , But men have not yet learned how to use machines properly in an organization of machines and men . AUTOMATISM in society takes two forms . In primitive society . and in slave states , the automatic machines which produce continuously and have no individual control . over their actions are men . But automatism in any - society tends continuously to - increase , ' because men are inventive and can not keep themselves from improving on machinery and methods of organization . Today the pressure making for a continuous - increase in the amount of automatism is greater than ever because we feel it is intimately tied up with our military security and our high standard of living . At the other extreme from the primitive slave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ automatism is entirely that of machines . In this state , which is at present only theoretical , the functions of mass production , communication , transport , finance , and distribution would be carried out entirely by automatic machines . In this type of organization men would remain entirely outside the sphere of the machine , and would perform only the creative and the higher managerial tasks . These are the polar alternatives . Our present society operates partly by the automatism of men and partly by the automatism of machines . The proportion of these two elements is constantly tending to change , first because science is continually pushing the automatism of machines to new heights : and second because political and social pressures of-various kinds are constantly tending to increase the automatism of men . The - problem today is to make a choice among three possibilities . Either ( 1 ) we increase the proportion of machine automatism by making machines more automatic ; or ( 2 ) we increase the proportion of human automatism by making men more automatic ; or ( 3 ) we permit both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . From the point of view of the individual , only the first process can have desirable consequences . It happens that now , for the first time , we are in a position to increase the automatism of machines and decrease that of men , because recent developments in electronics have given us the required technology . But to begin with , we have to reorient our thinking about the nature of the machine-man complex . This will lead to business and social systems that are efficient because they employ both men and machines at the jobs for which they are best suited . Let us not fancy that American " know-how " will be able to accomplish this reorientation by due . . prOcess of industrial development , There is , to he sure ; an American " know-how , " whiCh consists Of a knowledge of how to mass-produce certain - tangible goods in the old-fashioned way . But there are new ways of mass-producing goods , using electronic as opposed to mechanical methods , that are far ahead of anything used in America today . The best example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which turns out sets at the rate of three a minute , untouched by human hands . This is an exclusively English development . Moreover , even the Sargrove machine is traditional in the sense that it is tied to its product . It can make only radios , and when the need for its product disappears the machine is obsolete . In an article in Fortune ( November 1946 ) , we said that what is required is a new way of looking at the question of machine design . Instead of designing a machine tool in terms of its product , we should turn the concept upside down , and let . the nature of the machine determine the configurations of the product . Machine tools then would be made up of units designed to do somethingcut , hold , move , and so on . The end result of this group of motions would be a product , but as soon as enough products of this kind had been made the units would be reassembled to make something else . This type of mass production is fundamentally different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pretty much confined to the mass production of goods . In this country inventors have made relatively few attempts to bring automatism into such fields as the production and stor- crhandling e of information , or the handlin of btisi-ness finance ; on the whole Americans are wedded to the old idea of intricate mechanical ( as opposed to electronic ) machines that can turn out only one product . THE need for regimentation in society is acute , but regimentation has the dis- advantage that it destroys men . Regi-mentation means to reduce to strict order and uniformity for purposes of control . In the modern world it looks as if regimentation in some form or other is inevitable . This is partly because we are in the position of having to compete with dictatorship for our place in the world . In our society there are only two types of unit available for control ? machines and men . When you have a regimentation and unitization of men , you have a dictatorship . But there seems to be no word for the type of society that appears when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organizing machines rather than men seems to be new , and may provide us with an answer to some of the dilemmas facing us at the mid-point of the twentieth century . Social organizations are merely special types of machines that use men as their elements . In the past the only productive units that were available for regimentation were men . With more efficient organization comes inevitably specialization of function . But the consequence of specialization of function is repetitive work ? " routine . " The man who makes shoes but grows no wheat must somehow have access to wheat and other necessities of life . This means that some regularity and continuity of functioning must be imposed on the society from outside . Those individuals who have learned how to do one thing well and have learned how to fit themselves into a routine succeed and survive . The new concept of machines can change this ? can produce regimentation without destroying that individuality of men which is the ? foundation stone of the democratic system . Up to very recent times mankind had to choose between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ halting operation but high survival value of the looser system . Using men as the units to be organized into a society , it appeared that efficiency of operation and stability were mutually exclusive . But now , for the first time , we have a new unit , the electronic machine , which is capable of functioning in highly organized and tightly integrated societies without ill effects . Individual machine units have been known for centuries , but it is only recently , with the development of electronics , that machines have been provided with control and communication devices that enable them to work together like bees . In the machine man has created a device that lends itself to regimentation and , in fact , works best when it is a unit in a highly organized machine system . The degree of deleted material Gradually , and all unknowingly , they are becoming increasingly integrated into a colossus that is part machine and part man . The machine-man unit gives the illusion of progress and security , by providing a relatively high standard of Jiving for a relatively short @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living ca n't last is that when men are mixed up in the machinery instead of standing outside it , they lose their crucial ability to control . A piston rod , moving up and down hundreds of times a minute inside the engine , obviously ca n't be the driver of the car . Because men are part of the machine , they are not in a position to have any real control over it . This is not thought serious when all is going well , but when the machine-man complex gets into difficulties , as it does periodically in a depression , the men caught in it are surprised and pained . The complete entity appears to be subject to periodic convulsions that men are powerless to stop . Such phenomena as want in the midst of plenty , digging up gold in one part of the world in order to bury it in another , are symptomatic of elements functioning without controls . With the passage of time both elements , machines and men , although evolving in details , seem to become increasingly set in fundamentals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Burke considered a sentence of death on any society . The present machine-man complex has equally dangerous effects on individuals . Peoples ' troubles , if we can judge from the self-help books published , are of two general kinds , material and spiritual . . Problems of material security will be solved by the new system , because once the appalling waste of our present system is controlled , the present trickle of cheap goods and services will increase to a flood . Two simple examples will make this clear . The 0 . A. Smith Corporation , when it put into operation in the nineteen-twenties what we consider an extremely'primitive automatic system for making automobile frames , was able to decrease its working force by 95 per cent . This saving of nearly $4 million a year in payrolls meant that automobiles were cheaper and thus available to a larger segment of the population . For the past few years Western Union Telegraph has been busy with the installation of automatic equipment that embodies one or two of our concepts in embryonic form . Even at this elementary level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and in the past four years , the staff has decreased from 66,000 to 43,000 , while handling a larger volume of work . But so long as we have the mixed system , unemployment is the concomitant of this kind of ' increasing machine automatism . C ONSIDER , on the other hand , a society in which transportation facilities worked automatically , communications were automatic , food was produced automatically , power was produced automatically , garbage was disposed of automatically , machines were repaired automatically , and new machines manufactured themselves automatically . Men would enjoy all these facilities and would themselves serve only to improve , change , and extend the empire of automatism . In the resulting leisure and freedom from repetitive work , the individual could blossom to the fullest extent . We feel that the most far-reaching effect of the introduction of a proper regimentation of machines will be the amelioration of national and individual neuroses . The hidden and overt conflicts of modern society are producing neurotics at an all-time record rate . These conflicts are inherent in our present business and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made some fundamental changes in our way of looking at organizations of this kind . We have developed an impressive apparatus of employee relations , personnel testing and training , medical services , public relations , profit sharing , and so on in an attempt to whittle away at some of the maladjustments engendered by the business enterprise , but at best these are merely palliatives . What we need , and need at once , is a re-examination of the function and purpose of the large organization . Then it will be amply evident that man 's place is outside such a system , not within it . Man is by nature an individualist and a free agent . Therefore , any machine such as a society or business that has human beings as its elements is bound to be very inefficient . To take an example from the worldof commore automatic in their action . They spend their working lives without the exercise of their intelligence , and this automatism spills over into other areas of their lives . Such men in time become incapable either of running a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 5 ) The four principles above lead to a fifth principle which , in a sense , includes them all . This is that men must be ancillary to the machines . A series arrangement of men and machines is characteristic of our present organization , and is the root of many of its most serious disabilities . The fundamental nature of man is so different from the fundamental nature of the machine that the two can not be put together into an organization without sacrificing either the efficiency of the machine or the adaptability and creativity of the men . The next three principles have to do with the nature of the machines required to perform under this system of regimentation . The principles are these : functionality , unitization , and universality . ( 6 ) Machines must be designed in terms of their function ( what they do ) , not in terms of their final product . This applies particularly to machines for the mass production of goods , but it is also an important principle ( although less obvious ) in the design of machines for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 7 ) Machines must be unitized in terms of the common denominator of electronics . Electronic units lend themselves to automatic systems because of their speed of operation and the standardization of electronic components . The individual machine units should be single-function units ? such things as turners , graspers , see-ers , feelers , comparators , collators , memory units , and so on , which are designed to perform one specific and limited function . ( 8 ) The units must be adaptable to each other so that they can be plugged into each other to make various different combinations . This is important because machine tools are expensive . It is unlikely that machines made with electronic units will beless expensive or less complicated than the machines in use today , but they will be more economical in performing varied operations . B Y THE use of these principles , worked out , of course , in a much more rigorous manner than they are here , an entirely new and different machine-man organization can be evolved . The system we have today is characterized by complexity and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in our society is influenced by the actions of every other element , but the elements are not subject to a common central control . The new regimentation of machines will be equally complex , and completely integrated , but , being a well-organized machine , it will be characterized by rational functioning . Modern industrial society presents many difficulties to those in power . In the past , both the left and right wings in politics have recognized the fact that the quantity of automatism in any society must continue to increase , and both have come to the same answer , namely , that it is the men who are to be robotized and organized in order to increase the amount of automatism available . This is the primrose path that leads by easy stages to the world of Orwell 's " 1984 . " We in America have pinned our faith on the second alternative , the mixed system under which both men and machines increase together in automaticity . This view is equally mistaken because this road also leads inevitably to the same end . The power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goals we have outlined ? gradually but surely is making robots out of men . In the process , the United States will , in its own way , develop into a totalitarian state . Yet a different outcome of the technological revolution is within our power . We have seen many examples of beneficial mechanization . Nations have fought each other over access to the natural rubber plantations of the Far East , but with the development of buna-type synthetics , this particular source of conflict has vanished . It is not unreasonable to suppose that the widespread use of automata ( machines , not men ) may bring an era of peace and creative human development .                     