@@477229

A Pulitzer prize-winning Washington correspondent reports on a changing man ? and on the reasons why he may prove stronger and more decisive than Ike . . a tougher boss of his party ... and on some issues an ally of the liberal Democrats . T IS now clear that Richard M. Nixon who perhaps is both the best known and the least known Vice President in our history ? has a better chance than anyone else to reach the White House , in 1960 or earlier . At this writing , shortly after President Eisenhower 's stroke , it is impossible to ignore the possibility that Mr. Nixon may be called upon to take over some measure of executive responsibility before the next election . Even if that does not happen , he is likely to receive his party 's Presidential nomination ; for he is the heir presumptive of Eisenhower Republicanism . He is , moreover , perfectly capable on his record ? the record of a hard , acute , operationally brilliant politician ? of benefiting from the advantages of his present position , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ positionbefore the next convention . ( The 1960 election is , of course , a different ? and at this date , a much more speculative ? question . ) It thus becomes of some importance to attempt to determine what kind of President Richard Nixon might make ? not so much what kind of human being he is or was or might become as what kind of Chicf Executive he might reasonably be expected to be on the basis of such objective data as are at hand . To say that both a great deal and very little are known of Richard Nixon is to state the situation as it is generally seen in Washington . The massive hostility toward him among the liberals ? a vast proportion of Democratic liberals and a good-sized proportion of Republican liberals ? is an old , if not altogether clear , story now , Not so well known is the not inconsiderable , later hostility of many **28;1213;TOOLONG , again in both parties . Nothing approaching a conclusive analysis of these circumstances is any part of this correspondent 's present brief . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , fitful , and possibly suggestive light upon a phenomenon ; Here is a Vice President who has been in more and higher headlines , gone more places , had more part ( presumably ) in making high policy and more success ( presumably ) in influencing more people than any other occupant of that office . But here is also a man " understood " only by people who really know nothing about him , that is , the general public ; a man who is an almost total enigma to most of the fellow professionals who have been in contact with him since his public life began with his dispatch to the House of Representatives from California in the celebrated " beefsteak elections " of 1946 . As a Washington reporter , I myself have " known " Mr. Nixon since he arrived in town . But I do not , in fact , know him in anything like the way I know fifty other Congressmen and Senators . It would not be an absurdly risky speculation to suggest that the same could be said to a great extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Knowland . The betting is at least even that Senator Knowland does not know Vice President Nixon in any sense of real acquaintanceship , in spite of the chill intimacy of a kind that their great rivalry has perforce brought about . This is not to say that the unexplored nature of Mr. Nixon as a private man would necessarily be any disqualification to his serving as President , but it does indicate the special difficulties of trying to find any kind of certainty . THE BOSS 'S DEPUTY T HERE is , fortunately , a less critical short- age of guides as to what kind of politician , in the visible and obvious definition , he has been , is , and might be . His record in the House , though brief and obscure except for his connection with the Alger Hiss affair , would put him down as a routine orthodox-to-right-wing Republican , sufficiently unsoft upon most welfare and allied legislation as to suit the most management-minded Republicans of California or any other state . ( Parenthetically , Nixon 's activities in the Hiss investigation seemed to me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for excesses in these matters to be quite proper and within the rules of the game . ) His record in the Senate was even more lacking in distinction ? it could hardly have been otherwise , considering the short space of time he spent as a member upon a floor over which he now sits as presiding officer , for the most part with the rather tight-lipped , over-tense , and slightly perspiring manner of a desperately earnest man determined to make no slightest mistake , but not quite at home and not likely to be . It is mainly , then , to his record as Vice President that one must turn . And the mere fact that he has got a Vice Presidential record ofany consequence is a tribute both to his own energetic exertions and to the extraordinarily fortunate political climate in which he has moved . In one very important matter ? the care and discipline of the Republican party ? he has to a considerable extent taken upon himself the traditional functions of day-to-day leadership that have in the past been attached to the Presidency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mere details , however vital , of running his party has been so persistent and so obvious as to give Nixon an almost clear field in speaking as what might be called acting co-leader of the Republican party . And here , as practically everywhere else , Nixon has been lucky almost beyond belief : he has been able to give party directions , on many occasions at least , with substantially the motive power they would have had if they had come direct from the White House . At the same time he has not been required to take ultimate responsibility for the outcome . He has done all this , by the way , with great skill and tact . Publicly and privately he has left the impression of an eager and loyal Eisenhower subordinate , speaking humbly for the Boss , or , as the Modern Republicans would undoubtedly put it , the Captain of the Team . Generally it has been in this role , as a rather casualty appointed Eisenhower deputy-for-partyaffairs , that Nixon has wholly reversed his earlier reputation as an orthodox Republican . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " Modern " Republicans ? a leader ready to warn and cajole the right-wingers against isolationism , for example , and to put in timely admonitions for such projects as foreign aid . There is no clear public record to show on what specific issues he has acted as deputy leader of the party or in just what way he has acted ? how spiritedly , effectively , and under what personal intellectual convictions . But perhaps a single example of his performance ? in a unique Republican party crisis ? will throw some light . In the sticky , embarrassing matter of the late Senator Joseph McCarthy , Nixon 's friends and associates have long presented him . as a powerful , if sub-surface , agent who attempted to liquidate the problem for Republicans generally . What Nixon actually did about is is , like a good many other things in his career , difficult to ascertain exactly . His curiously sheltered position ? deeply in the Administration but not necessarily or always of it , and not directly accountable either to it or for its decisions ? has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a leaked or ex-parte basis . One heard that he had often " talked to Joe " ; that he had spoken firm words to the unregenerate McCarthyites like Senator William E. Jenner of Indiana who stayed with McCarthy up to and through what was , in soberest truth , the bitter end . My own information is that Nixon did assist in the destruction of McCarthy 's power , but that at no time did he risk any final or open rupture with the McCarthyites , and that his assistance was of incomparably less value than the work of those who actually brought . McCarthy down ? primarily the conservative Senate Southerners under the spur of the liberals . Nixon 's view of McCarthy revealed the oddly glacial detachment that is , in practical political terms , unquestionably toward the top of his list of assets . There was never anything to suggest that he felt any horror over what McCarthyism embodied in its historical implications ? that is , a long and violent assault upon the heart of politics as practiced by the English-speaking peoples : the principle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to suggest that in due course ? or at long last ? Nixon brought a cool surgeon 's knife into a clinic of worried Republicans , who had become gravely concerned over the threshings about of an enfevered and dangerous patient now about to infect and destroy their own people . On the evidence of this episode , what would Nixon do in a Nixon Administration if another McCarthy should arise ? The probabilities are that he would ( a ) not allow such a rise , within his own party at least ; or ( b ) if he could not prevent its arising , simply move in , take over , and reshape the underlying issue so that it might serve first himself and then his party . Unchecked McCarthyism would be highly unlikely to exist in a Nixon Administration , if only because it is essentially anarchic . Nixon , make no mistake , is a contained , long-headed man , who would take great care to see that his Administration and his party were operated without emotionalism . Certainly he is capable of emotionalism on the highest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeal to the country , with the assistance of his little dog Checkers , when suddenly revealed financial contributions to his career seemed about to cut off that career in mid-flight . But he is not the sort of a man who would make emotionalism a consecutive instrument of public policy ; he willuse it , but then he will abandon it . The essential weakness in the McCarthy melodrama was that it was poorly plotted ; you can not forever sustain any unrelieved emotion , not even fear . RACK AND FORTH ON CIVIL RIGHTS T AKING McCarthyism as an example of one aspect of an unending contest , what could be said of a President Nixon 's probable cast of mind and mode of action in civil liberties in general ? One might hazard with some conviction that his position would not be a bad one , measured by results . Yet once again , the why of his probable liberal stance ? whether the underlying reason would be instinctive sympathy for civil liberties or simply a practical means to a practical political end ? is open to doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last summer answered some surface questions , but left other , deeper ones - unresolved . He took up early , and abandoned late and only by necessity , a position for a " hotel " Civil Rights bill ? a bill that on the plain facts of the existing situation certainly could not have been passed and , quite possibly , could never have been enforced short of a national convulsion that few rational men would wish to see . The Vice President was more than a little vulnerable to the accusation that he wanted an issue more than a bill . When , for example , the Senate wrote in the right of jury trial in federal criminal contempt actions , he coolly asserted that this was nothing less than " a vote against the right to vote . " This tersely , enormously incorrect statement of the position was vintage Nixon ; the act of a man coldly impatient with the President 's refusal to defend his proposal by such extremism . It was precisely the sort of thing that Nixon had done in 1954 in his stonily bitter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Nevertheless , the charge that Nixon really wanted no Civil Rights bill at all in 1957 , in the hope that the failure of a Democratic Congress in that regard would mean a Republican Congress in 1958 , is not fully supportable ? no stronger verdict than the Scottish " not proved " can lie here . One or two talks I had with him fairly well convinced me that he was maintaining a surpassingly " tough " position for legitimate bargaining purposes , and that it was less subtle Republicans , particularly in the House , who misread the signals and carried intransigence too far . At all events he was ready to fight for a " strong " Civil Rights bill , though any such enactment would lose him the support of the South certainly and to a lesser but important sense of many of the older and orthodox Republicans . He thus became the full inheritor of an already foreshadowed legacy ? the immensely important gratitude of vast blocs of Negro voters . In the process the Republican leader who did far more to bring off something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far less credit for his pains . Rut all during this time a suspicion about Nixon that had been vaguely held before grew stronger and stronger : that on civil liberties , as perhaps on other matters , he was on the " right " side for inadequate reasons ; that he did not qualify among that group of politicians , Republicans , Democrats , whatnot , whose inherited memories and simple instincts require them to respect the deep convictions , and even the deep prejudices , of any large minority , and who are unwilling to press upon such a minority any law or policy that would be truly intolerable , and not merely repugnant , to them . This sensitive , automatic understanding of what simply is n't done in government ? is n't done no matter if one clearly has the votes to do it ? is the one subtle distinguishing quality that most of all sets off British and American public men from all others . If this quality is in fact absent in Nixon , it would lie at the root of every prediction that could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make , on any issue whatever , with the possible exception of foreign policy . Foreign policy , to be sure , can by its nature be planned and carried out within a country otherwise deeply divided and lacking that consensus of public support of or toleration for its leaders that alone can provide an effective civility in the conduct of its domestic affairs . ( Harry S. Truman and Dean Acheson ran a powerful , imaginative , and even audacious foreign policy without important positive checks from Congress in the very months and years when a mere Truman endorsement of a domestic program was enough to give it the kiss of death . ) And it is in foreign affairs that the available evidence suggests that Nixon , in the common phrase , " has grown . " His many trips abroad seem to have been unquestionably useful to this country ? mainly because they have been useful to Richard M. Nixon . MAGAZINE He has cast aside ? effectively and whatever his motive for doing so ? certain of the oversimplified catch-phrases with which he used to be associated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " He is represented as believing ? and , more importantly , he acts as though he believed ? that it is not enough simply to make certain that nobody else could possibly be seen to hate Communists more . Such of his attitudes and activities on foreign policy within the National Security Council as are known ? assuming that they have been accurately represented in the journalism-by-leak with which he is surrounded ? suggest an adult , if not necessarily responsible , approach . The quotient of responsibility can not he accurately assayed because the Vice President ? again there is that persistent theme of amazing good fortune ? can , of course , be boldly decisive verbally in the NSC and still not he held blameworthy if a course he proposes turns out badly . All in all , though , what evidence can be gathered suggests that a Nixon Presidency would be a " stronger , " more decisive one on foreign policy than Eisenhower 's ? though " stronger " does not necessarily equate with " better . " A Nixon Administration would not only find the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world would he in no doubt of who was running Lite show . It is extremely unlikely that matters in any critical area of the world would be allowed to drift as the Eisenhower Administration allowed them to in the Middle East . The public might not like the action it got ; but it would get action . THE BALANCE SHEET C OULD Nixon manage to accommodate socialand sectional animosities as well as , say , Eisenhower has done ? By no means . His techniques of campaigning show he is at his most effective where a certain , though by no means total , divisiveness is the result , if not actually the aim . One can picture a Nixon binding up the wounds of a majority of a nation , but not the whole of a nation . Could Nixon operate in a bipartisan way in certain areas of policy ? foreign affairs mainly ? as Eisenhower has done and as even Truman did to a considerable degree , until at last the bitterness of Korea overcame all ? The answer is a qualified no , necessarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question is merely whether Nixon could marshal enough hipartisan support for his foreign policies , the reply is that he probably could , for he would never offer a major turn in policy , first , without knowing that the great bulk of the Republicans were bound reliably in line , and , second , without putting into that policy a content that would require ? as distinguished from solicit ? adequate Democratic support . Outside of foreign affairs , he could certainly be expected to stress the partisan . One can not readily think of any other candidate who would come to office with so little intrinsic good will from the other party . All the same , in the intractable reality of politics it is the feared President , far more than the liked President , who at length forces the greater backing from among his opposition ; and Nixon could not be accounted ineffectual on this score . Odd as it sounds , a President Nixon would probably evoke more practical support from advanced Democratic liberals than from the conservative Democrats , because the liberal Congressional Republicans would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disposed toward him than the orthodox Republicans , and because the conservative Democrats are men who do not forget and are as a class less bound to consistent , impersonal action on issues than are their liberal colleagues . What the conservative and moderate Democrats do not forget is not really what Nixon has said in the past about their party , but what he did on Civil Rights . Could Nixon operate the Republican party as a partisan instrument more effectively than has President Eisenhower ? Certainly more tidily and efficiently . Probably more effectively , with one qualification : His Civil Rights position undoubtedly would , with him as the nominee , at least momentarily arrest the two-party movement in the South . It might in the long run forward that movement , however , if and as Negro voting in the South greatly rises in volume . While the Vice President has never to my knowledge even privately criticized Eisenhower as a party leader , he is a member of a fundamentally different breed from that of his present chief ? and lie can make this plain without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would know who was its master , by bland but unmistakably firm techniques . There would be a great deal less talk about the Team and a great deal more about the Captain . Nixon would welcome no infra-party fight . He would offer no major " Administration " bill without knowing its content down to the last distilled comma , without knowing that no significant number of Republicans would or could deHounds Across the Sea M E M B E R S of the Holderness Hunt tonight recovered two foxhounds which went down a drain at Catfoss aerodrome in the East Riding on Tuesday . They also found the fox , but it got away . The hounds disappeared during a cubbing meet , and it was not until late tonight that a policeman 's dog located them in the drain , half a mile from where they were last seen . After they had been run to earth the rescuers battered a hole through a runway , and found hounds and fox standing in four inches of water in the narrow drain . The hounds were wedged and could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , had turned round and stood at a safe distance from them . ? London Times , September 27 , 1957. feet , and without an implacable intention to put it through unaltered . If he did get into an intra-party fight , he would be a tough man indeed . Nixon , in common with many of the younger Republicans , is soft in speech ( except of course against Democrats ) but hard in action . The Old Guard Republicans , who do not as a class care very much for him , will find that in Nixon they have in their time much the sort of antagonist that the Taft Republicans of the past had in Dewey of New York ? a powerful , single-minded antagonist who hits to hurt , plays to win , and , in crisis , believes that nice guys finish last . Nixon has far greater skill in day-to-day political operating than Eisenhower ? and indeed than Truman , who was in fact an incomparably better President than politician , all the contrary folklore notwithstanding . Certain things would be very different in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went before . Troublesome " cronies " would not bother him long , as they did the far more kindly and perhaps overloyal Truman . Department heads would not twice be at cross purposes in public , as on occasion they have been ? and without known rebuke ? under the somewhat amiably withdrawn President Eisenhower . But the essential philosophy of a Nixon Administration would be as difficult to find and fix , in any permanent frame of reference , as the essential philosophy of Politician Nixon so far . To deduce from this that he is not " a man of principle " would be both too harsh and too simple . One of the Vice President 's closest associates once told me that his whole success lay in two things ? sensing " the " issue of the hour and exploiting it by " perfect timing . " Rephrased , this means that Nixon draws his notions , his policies , and even his philosophy from " the people " ? or what he considers to be the operative majority of them at a given time . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the political leader who finds both inspiration and ultimate mandate from the public . This is no more and no Less than the logically inevitable requirement of a current ? and possibly dominant ? view that the proper functioning of a democracy requires little more than a count of noses to determine what should be done . THE NEW BREED U T in another way , Nixon is the quintes- sence of the modern spirit of revolt from the aristocratic principle of the leader . In this sense he differs sharply from Franklin Roosevelt. ? Roosevelt served the common man ? by boldly directing that man 's affairs and , not to put too fine a point upon it , by telling him what to think . Nixon appeals to the common man ? by asking him what he thinks or , at most , by suggesting to him that perhaps he thinks so and so . Harry Truman , archetype of small d democrat though he is , was , oddly enough , full of the aristocratic principle . In every moment of ultimate truth or ultimate peril , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And , to tell the truth , when the issue was big enough and critical enough , he did n't much give a damn , as they say in Missouri , whether they liked it or not . He would save them , whether or not they wanted to be saved ; but he never applied to them for his instructions . Perhaps it is this quality of oneness with what ordinary people are thinking or are about to think that has made Nixon one of the most spectacularly reliable private oracles in the business of predicting political results . To my wellremembered knowledge , he got , as a then young Congressman out doing minor chores for the Republican Congressional Campaign Committee , more than an intimation of the oncoming unseen Republican debacle of 1948 as early as September of that year . There is a bleak realism about what he tells fellow Republicans in private on any existing situation involving public opin-MAGAZINE ion or public taste . His antennae are remarkably acute ? matchlessly acute among the national politicians known to this correspondent . How he might handle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy to the proper place for the Pentagon in the scheme of things ? would almost certainly be strongly colored by this foreknowledge . This not only makes it bootless to speculate whether he would he " liberal " or " conservative " ; it puts it out of the question to attempt to appraise what he would be like as an administrative man . For top administration necessarily implies a fairly free and relaxed association with colleagues , a capacity wisely to delegate and sharply to supervise without appearing to do so . Nixon 's essentially intuitive approach would seem difficult to transfer or to delegate ; and not enough is known of his associations by choice ? as distinguished from routine necessity ? to give any very reliable guide as to his private taste in men . His various Capitol offices operate , upon casual observation , with what is at least outwardly a brisk efficiency not quite typical of those precincts . But Nixon himself is a man who , in the true sense , is often by himself apart . Talking to him , one has the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His mind examines statements , hypotheses , implications , with a chill , uninvolved clarity of purpose and functioning . His sense of perception is sharp and quick ; what feeling may lie within him is unguessable . It is a close question whether he would rather be liked by people in the mass or approved by people in the mass . In my opinion he would much rather be approved . There have been several changes in him since he first came to Washington ? nearly all , on the discernible evidence , to the good . He is now mature ; there is a certain tough resignation in him . Good President or had President as he might be , he would hardly be a weak one , and it is not easy to imagine him being an indecisive one . Never an outgoing personality , he has become even more withdrawn . His sense of humor is thin and a bit brittle , with a quiet but distinct touch of mordant . He is immensely controlled , and there is a suggestion that this control involves sustained effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him ; and it is impossible to down the impression that he rarely has a relaxed moment . He is poised , able , seemingly confident , compact and well buttoned up in dress and address , habitually earnest , and very remote . Most of all , perhaps , he is mindful of the phrase : He travels fastest who travels alone                     