@@476556

ONE day a few months ago , a mathematician on the staff of International Business Machines was called in by a firm for which IBM had just installed one of its standard automatic calculators , a kind of machine often referred to as a " junior electronic brain . " The firm wanted help in putting a particular problem to the machine . The IBM man began by asking the largest number likely to turn up in working out the problem . One of the firm 's engineers hazarded a guess . The man from IBM then asked about the smallest . " Good Lord , " the engineer exploded , are we supposed to solve the problem ? I thought we got the machine for that . " The story , which is not apocryphal , illustrates how widespread is the curious notion that automatic calculating machines , one of the latest and most spectacular products of modern technology , transcend the nature of machines and are a species of brain , capable of " thinking " their way through problems without human assistance . Even technical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we shall see , the new robot calculators are remarkable and portentous devices . Relatively simple ones can figure up weekly wage rates , cost-of-living bonuses , and tax and other deductions for a factory with six thousand employees in an hour ; the most capacious can whip through mathematical problems involving tens of millions of distinct computations in a day or two . Automatic computers arealready having a profound effect in many sectors of science and technology . Ultimately , they may shake modern society to its foundations ; for , with suitable auxiliary devices , computers can be made to perform all sorts of intricate tasks , from running factories to relieving insurance companies and similar institutions of vast burdens of routine paperwork . For all that , automatic calculating machines are no more " brains " than a drop-forge is a fist . The simplest-minded human being and many animals can , within the limits of their respective mentalities , figure out how to deal with unforeseen situations . " Electronic brains " can not ; they are merely machines and they do only what they are told @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be unambiguously specified in advance and every eventuality must be anticipated and provided for by their human masters . Moreover , except for a few small experimental machines that manipulate the symbols of the logical shorthand called symbolic logic , automatic computers do nothing but count . The other kinds of intellectual activity ordinarily subsumed under the term " thinking " ? perception of subtle relationships , formulation of abstract conceptions , imagination ( including the type of imagination necessary for conceiving , among other things , automatic calculating machines ) ? are entirely beyond them . Indeed , not the least remarkable aspect of the automatic computer is the ingenuity of its masters , who solve abstruse problems far in the reaches of higher mathematics with a machine that merely counts . THE usual procedure in writing about robot calculators is to take the reader on a visit to one of the centers where they may be seen at work ? the Army Proving Ground at Aberdeen , the Dal-Ogren ( Virginia ) Proving Ground of the Navy , Harvard , the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , the Bureau of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around the country . We will look in on the newest and most talented super-calculator , the IBM 701 , recently completed at the IBM plant in Poughkeepsie , New York , and the first of 17 such robot super-calculators to he built by IBM . But the visit will be more interesting and rewarding if we first make a brief , nontechnical side tour of some aspects of the history of mathematics . The preliminary excursion will suggest why automatic computers are so suddenly prominent and why they are wanted badly enough to justify their huge cost ? half a million dollars or more for each of the sizable ones . Nearly three centuries ago , Sir Isaac Newton formulated a set of equations relating the movements and mutual gravitational pulls of the sun , moon , and earth . The three-body equations , as they are known , and other mathematical expressions of the same kind , give the positions of the planets ? a matter of importance to navigators as well as astronomers . The three-body equations are simple ; each contains only a few terms . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them has ever been . found , i.e. , no mathematician has been able to put them into a suitable form for inserting one set of numbers ( the positions of the sun , moon , and earth at a given instant and their masses and velocities ) and getting out another set of numbers ( the positions of sun , moon , and earth at another time ) . The tables used by navigators and astronomers are actually computed by a variety of mathematical artifices . There is no objection in mathematics to artifice as such . Thus , there is an arithmetical method of obtaining planetary positions from the Newtonian equations with any degree ofaccuracy desired ; such methods exist for any equation whatever . But the method is extremely tedious ; many hundreds of computations with numbers carried to a dozen or more places are necessary to obtain a single position for a single planet . Less arduous , if less accurate , expedients had to be employed ; many planetary tables still in use contain fairly large errors as a result . Similarly balky mathematical expressions and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and engineering . Until recently , most attempts to improve matters followed the line of inventing new mathematical tricks that might yield more precise answers with less paperwork . But in 1879 , Lord Kelvin , the British physicist , suggested a wheel-and-disc arrangement that provided a mechanical analogy of integration , the balkiest mathematical operation in solving many of these equations : if the wheel were allowed to represent the term to he integrated , the turns of the disc would give the answer sought ( the integral ) . Lord Kelvin 's ingenious idea involved a sticky mechanical feature . but was finally made to work about two decades ago by Vannevar Bush of M.I.T. Around it , Dr. Bush built his famous " differential analyzer , " a , machine which solved automatically an important class of equations ( ordinary differential equations ) . The Bush machine was the forerunner of the class of machines known as analog computers . The latter are widely used in aircraft and other engineering plants ; they solve the same kind of problems as the Bush machine and work in much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or all of the Bush machine 's wheels , discs , and gears . IN THE meantime , a development was taking place in business offices that was to lead to the super-calculator and to a real solution of science and technology 's mathematical dilemma . This was the introduction of the adding machine and the adding machine 's more sophisticated cousin , the desk calculator , which multiplies and divides as well as adds and subtracts . The desk calculator , which came in after World War I , proved very handy in carrying out sequences of arithmetical operations of the sort encountered in even quite elementary engineering and technical work ; to multiply two numbers , for instance , all you have to do is punch out the numbers on the keyboard , then press the multiply key . Desk calculators accordingly soon found their way into laboratories where a good deal of routine calculation had to be done . They were not there long before inventive minds saw that a punched tape ( like the old player-piano roll ) or some similar device could take the place of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the machine to carry out automatically sequences of computations too long to be done with a manually-operated calculator . An eccentric English genius named Charles Babbage , best known during his lifetime as an unremitting foe of street organ-grinders , had actually had very much the same idea more than a century before . So had others later in the nineteenth century . But nineteenth-century technology was n't up to designing and building the many different mechanical elements entering into a practical automatic calculator ; the ordinary adding machine , invented by Blaise Pascal in 1642 , was still a curiosity in 1865 . By the late nineteen-thirties , however , an automatic machine for solving complex mathematical problems by arithmetical methods was feasible . The first large-scale automatic calculator , the IBM Automatic Sequence-Controlled Calculator , went to work in the Harvard University computing laboratory in April 1944 . III T HERE is , of course , much more to building an automatic digital computer ( as machines that count are termed to distinguish them from the lesser machines employing one or another form of Lord Kelvin 's integrating principle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though this is the central idea . What works in an oxcart wo n't do , in the same form at any rate , for an automobile ; every kind of machine has its own imperatives . A decade of intensive development work , in fact , has made the automatic computer 's desk-calculator ancestry seem pretty remote . The 1953 robots have " memory " devices , hardly envisioned ten years ago , for storing instructions , partial results , and other data ; they perform the basic arithmetical operations in a different way from that used by the desk calculator and at MAGAZINE vastly greater speeds ; they even employ a special two-digit number system in place of the decimal digits of everyday arithmetic . With its half million parts , the automatic digital calculator is something to make the engineer as well as the man in the street blink ; no more complicated a machine has ever been built by man . Let 's take a look at the newest , the IBM 701 . The first automatic calculators required a room the size of a small auditorium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 701 will fit in a large office . The 701 is housed in eleven smart , crackle-finish , gray metal cabinets arranged in a horseshoe ? " memory " units on the left , " arithmetic organ " and control panel in the center , " input " and results-printer on the right , and transformers and other power-supply gear in the rear . The cabinets conceal . 4,000 vacuum tubes , 12,000 germanium diodes ( tiny contrivances something like the crystal in the old earphone radio ) , and several hundred thousand pieces of wiring and other parts ; there are five miles of wire in the conduits between the units alone . We will do better , though , to pass over the statistics and the geography of the cabinets , and get down to how the machine goes to work . The 701 gets problems , instructions , and any other data needed for solution of the problem at hand ( such as sines of angles that may come up ) in the form of a stack of punched cards . The cards are " read " in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the holes in the cards . Because other arrangements would introduce complications , everything put into the machine is immediately committed to " memory . " Information that will be used only infrequently or not for a while goes into four tape recorders ( which record magnetically pulses of current representing data , in somewhat the same way that an ordinary tape recorder records music ) ; data needed sooner or more often goes onto two magnetic recording drums ; key instructions and data for the start of the problem go into the " electrostatic storage " unit ? a device which " remembers " by means of impulses stored in the screens of seventy-two much-modified TV picture tubes and which has a remarkable property : any piece of information stored in it can be singled out the instant it is needed , without the necessity of scanning through the other data in storage . Now the machine is ready to compute ; it has a problem and instructions for solving it . Suppose the first step ( several million such steps may be required altogether ) is the multiplication of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4 . The 2 and 3 are " read out " of electrostatic storage and into the arithmetic unit ; here the multiplication is carried out . In accordance with the next instruction , 4 is now read out , of storage and into the arithmetic organ , and the division performed . The machine then goes on to the next instruction , and so on , until all operations called for are finished . Results are neatly printed on a roll of paper by an accounting machine printer . T IRE all other automatic computers , the 701 must be told exactly how to proceed I every step of the way ; its instructions must cover not only what is to be done at each step , but just where in storage needed data are located , and where to find the next instruction . If a separate order had to be prepared by the machine 's operating crew for each such instruction , automatic computers would not be built ; preparing the millions of orders needed would be at least as tedious as solving the problem by hand . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every step of every problem . A large proportion of the problems arising in physics , chemistry , and engineering involve a great deal of repetition : a certain procedure will be applied , perhaps tens of thousands of times , to a varying quantity . In such cases , orders for the procedure need be spelled out only once ; a command to repeat will keep the machine repeating the procedure until , say , the varying quantity reaches 100 or 1,000 or some other limit indicated by the problem . In addition , many procedures , such as taking square roots , come up in problem after problem . Detailed instructions for them can he kept in a " library of subroutines , " for use whenever needed . In the 701 , which has a more capacious memory than any other computer to date , the library of subroutines is stored right in the machine itself , in the tape and drum memory units , and a single command suffices to call up any subroutine wanted . The machine has been put through test problems with as few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the telling than the doing , for , above all , the 701 is fast . Desk calculators compute by counting teeth on gears ; to multiply 2 by 3 , the desk calculator turns a gear three times through two teeth . The 701 also does arithmetic by counting , but it counts by means of vacuum-tube relays ( devices for turning a current on or off ) . Now a vacuum-tube relay is an awkward device for counting decimal numbers : it can not be given ten different settings ( corresponding to the ten teeth on desk calculator gears ) , it has only two settings , current-flowing and no-currentflowing . But there is no reason for the machine to stick to decimal numbers . The 701 accordingly translates the decimal numbers given it ( and automatically retranslates results ) into a number system suited to vacuum-tube relays . The system has only two digits , 0 and 1 , which may be represented by relay-on ( 1 ) and relay-off ( 0 ) . Although it takes a lot of binary digits to express large decimal numbers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faster than a gear can be turned . Thus , the 701 adds two thirty-five-place binary numbers ( equivalent to ten-place decimals ) in one seventeen-thousandth of a second , or multiples them in one two-thousandth . The time is exactly 12:01 P.m. , a technician pushes the start button . Silently , inconspicuously ( there are no flashing lights and the only sounds are the occasional clack of the printer and the hum of the air-conditioning machinery that keeps the robot 's innards cool ) , the 701 will have raced through nearly a million elementary arithmetical operations ? additions , subtractions , multiplications , divisions ? by the time the clock 's hands stand at 12:02 . Iv B ETWEEN 1944 and 1948 , no less than a dozen large-scale automatic digital computers were completed and placed in operation in American laboratories and engineering centers . While useful ( most are still at work ) , these early machines were relatively slow or mechanically troublesome , and sometimes both . There were two principal difficulties . The fastest ones ? those built around vacuum tubes ? suffered from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the original all-electronic computer , tube burnouts have been a nightmare . ENIAC has over 18,000 vacuum tubes , and though the best tubes obtainable are used , there must be close to 200 tube failures a month . Second , the early automatic calculators had little internal storage for information . As a result , they had to operate directly from punched cards or tape or by means of hand-set switches ? all relatively slow procedures . Punched cards , for example , can be " read " at a rate of only a few hundred cards a minute . Magnetic tapes and other improved means of storing information were available ( and would be used as supplementary memory devices ) . But what was really wanted was a kind of electronic bulletin board for instantaneous posting of data and for picking out a particular instruction or number without reeling through yards of tape . This was the key to high-speed operation . The vacuum-tube problem was solved by substituting germanium diodes ( a product of wartime radar research ) for many of the tubes , and by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The electronic bulletin board was provided by the electrostatic storage tube , the ingenious modification of the cathode-ray tube that stores electrical impulses in its face , an invention due chiefly to J. R. Williams of the University of Manchester , England . Thanks to these developments , the 701 and other new machines are both reliable and fast . Automatic computers , however , are still machines and not " brains , " and function like machines . This is nowhere better brought out than in Claude E. Shannon 's project , a few years back , for building an automatic computer that would play chess . The machine was never built ; the closest existing approach to it is a machine recently constructed in England for solving the mate-in-two-moves problems beloved of chess addicts . But Shannon 's machine would have been the first of many attempted chess-playing robots actually to play chess . It would have been able to do this , not through its reasoning powers ? it would n't have had any ? but through Dr. Shannon 's cleverness in devising a technique for playing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shannon , who is an engineer at the Bell Telephone Laboratories , proposed essentially to assign numerical values to the various pieces and to certain plays , with additional factors thrown in for mobility ( number of MAGAZINE major pieces , such as rooks , free to move ) . These values would be used by the machine , when it was its turn to move , to evaluate its own and its opponent 's positions as a result of every legal move open to the robot , possible countermoves of the robot 's foe , possible replies to the countermoves , and ? finally ? the opponent 's replies to its replies ; the machine would choose the move calculated to leave it with the greatest net score in the end . In short , the robot would treat chess as a game of arithmetic . T HE robot 's game would probably be poor at first . Blunders would be inevit- able , since chess is not a simple exercise in arithmetic . But instructions to avoid specific disastrous moves could be put into its memory units . Instructions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plays could also be stored in the machine . , In time , the robot could be made to play a good enough game to defeat 90 per cent of chess players 90 per cent of the time . It could not plot long-range moves because it would be able to figure only two moves ahead . But it would never repeat a mistake it had been instructed against , it would n't be flustered by bad breaks , and it would n't be distracted by the radio next door ; at each move , it would plow methodically through all legal possibilities and , within the limits of the reliability of the machine , unerringly pick out the move that would leave it in the strongest position . The Shannon machine , on the other hand , would not beat a master . Chess masters make few careless mistakes ; when appropriate , they figure half a dozen or even fifteen or twenty moves ahead ; they have an enormous knowledge of stock situations and maneuvers . The robot , to be sure , might be designed to calculate farther @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combinations ; other refinements could be provided as well . But even if we were to do the impossible and build these properties into a machine with as many computing and memory elements as there are neurons in the human brain ( about ten billion ) , the robot would still fall short of the human chess master in performance . For all its electronic speed , the robot would require years to check its dictionary of combinations ( if the dictionary were extensive enough to be useful ) ; years would also be needed to determine some moves not covered by the dictionary . The human master , of course , needs only a few minutes either to recall or to calculate an appropriate move . But he is endowed with a.power beyond the machine , called recognition . He sees at a glance that the position on the board before him is somewhat like a situation he encountered ? . and dealt with thus ? some time before ; machines can detect such similarities only if all possible variations are spelled out in advance , and then they must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human master also has the faculty of logical analysis . He sees instantly that only a few possible lines of action are worth calculating out , and that all others can be ignored ; the robot might also be made to drop unprofitable possibilities from consideration , but only to the extent that the rejection process itself could be reduced to an arithmetical procedure . In any event , a very able human chess player would have to prepare the robot 's original program of instructions and procedures if the machine were to play even a mediocre game of chess . V T HE fact that automatic computers do not think has important practical consequences . One is that a great branch of mathematics , algebra , is closed to them . In algebra , letter symbols may be used in place of arithmetical numbers , a trick that results in great savings of mathematical labor in many problems . But algebra demands ability to think in abstract terms and to recognize frequently obscure similarities . So the great machines can be made to do only a few trivial algebra problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high-speed arithmetic machines is that , the bigger and faster they are , the bigger and better the crew needed to keep them busy . It will take about twenty mathematicians , including several with master 's and doctor 's degrees , for example , to keep the 701 supplied with problems in the form the machine must have them . They are nevertheless extraordinary machines , bound to affect deeply society as a whole , as well as most branches of science and technology . Most of those built to date have been used chiefly for experimentalstudies looking to improvement of the machines themselves or for problems of a generally familiar kind : astronomical tables , flight paths and characteristics ( whether for shells , planes , guided missiles , or rockets ) , analysis of aircraft and other structures , nuclear engineering , analysis of economic and census data . As time goes on , however , the machines will work farther and farther out on the frontiers of science , gathering , through their facility at computation , information we know how to get but can not possibly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor involved in getting it . An interesing example is a project at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton , New Jersey . Meteorologists have long believed that twenty-four-hour weather forecasts could be made nearly 100 per cent accurate if the scores of thousands of observations received by the Weather Bureau each day could all be taken into account in making forecasts ? an impossibility for men working with slide rules and desk calculators , but not much of a chore for a high-speed automatic machine . The weathermen 's idea is receiving a trial on " Johnniac , " the Institute 's computer . Johnniac 's designer , John von Neumann , greatest of living mathematicians and a world leader in computer theory , may turn out to be the fellow who really did something about the weather . More startling is the prospect of automatic factories . A good many manufacturing plants , particufarly oil refineries and other high-volume chemical plants , are now semi-automatic in operation . Batteries of complex instruments record events inside chambers , vats , and fractionating towers , and automatically adjust the interaction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the desired market products . The men in the control room take over only in emergencies , or in shutting down or starting up , or to change the market products in accordance with instructions from the sales department . Such plants are obviously ready for completely automatic operation . All that has been wanting is a mechanism capable of computing control-instrument settings for changing products and so on from a master set of instructions . Precisely such a machine is the automatic digital computer , and it is nearly trouble-free enough for this sort of job . In fact , the next step in computer design ( already taken in small experimental machines ) , the elimination of most of the computer 's remaining vacuum tubes in favor of a recently-developed device , the transistor , should do the trick . Computer enthusiasts eventually see automatization , with the aid of digital computers , of all kinds of factories . Some will certainly come to pass : automatic machines could be designed to take over all handling of materials and to exercise full control in any mass-production process . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon , and may never , appear because of what it would cost . I N ANY case , the robot calculator will make itself felt soonest and most profoundly in the place where modern computing machinery was born ? the business office . If a visitor from Mars were to drop in on any of many thousands of American business or government offices , he could easily conclude that the business of the company or bureau , whatever it really might be , was the manufacture of pieces of paper . To give but two examples , large life-insurance companies have to handle scores of millions of transactions a year , and the telephone company , hundreds of millions ? hundreds of billions if you consider that some sort of record must be made each time . anyone makes a call . Now most of the operations involved in the mountains of paperwork ? computing charges , checking and crediting payments , and the like ? are purely mechanical , though often described as requiring " thinking . " As such , they are ideally suited to automatization ; indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business-office operations have long been carried out with mechanical aids like punched-card machines . In addition , in more than a thousand offices throughout the country , small-scale automatic computers are performing , by themselves , all the operations involved in preparing payrolls and in similar tasks . With appropriate accessory machines , large-scale automatic computers not very different from those in existence today could handle the bulk of routine transactions . They could ? entirely automatically ? prepare the bills , check the payments , and credit the receipts to the right accounts , or , if any one of a number of specified things was wrong , start an electric typewriter pounding out the proper form letter . Human intervention would be necessary only for maintenance and repair , the communication of new instructions to the machine in accordance with changes in company policy , or for handling really exceptional cases . In one section of suburban Philadelphia , telephone subscribers have been receiving , for more than a year , bills in whose preparation no human clerk had any part . Everything , from noting who talked to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the envelope , is done by the machines of an experimental " automatic message accounting center . " Within a few years , there will be automatic message accounting centers in other telephone offices , and comparable automatic accounting systems , based on the automatic computer , in other large business offices . Automatic computing machines presage not only varied new developments in science , but a business-office revolution that may cut quite as deep as the nineteenth century 's revolution in the factory .                     