@@476410

THERE is in the Soviet Union one field where statistics abound and figures are almost too plentiful . Here , the usual veil of military secrecy has been deliberately cast aside by the regime . This is the field of the state publishing activities , of the printing of books . Here are some figures , which speak for themselves : Total number of books brought out in the USSR from 1918 to 1949 : 13,000,000,000 copies . Books printed in the USSR in the single year 1949 : 683,000,000 copies . " Classics of Marxism " ( Marx , Engels , Lenin , Stalin ) printed between 1918 and 1949 : 802,000,000 copies ( works of Lenin : 190,600,000 ; works of Stalin : 540,000,000 ) . Children 's books printed between 1945 and 1949 : 200,000,000 copies . If one takes into account the fact that in 1918 more than half the adult population of the Soviet Union could nut read or write , and that in 1950 the proportion of illiterates was less than 10 per cent , the scope and result of this effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a total population that in the past thirty-two years has fluctuated between 150,000.000 and 200,000,000 , might well set any publishing expert in the Western countries to dreaming . When one considers that a printing of a hundredthousand copies , even in countries like France , England , and the United States , constitutes an exceptional success , one may realize the prodigious labor accomplished by Soviet kultura . What does kultura mean ? Strictly translated , it means " culture , " but in actual fact its connotation is immeasurably more comprehensive and complex . Is a salesman polite to his customers ? He is showing kultura . Has the central Post Office in Moscow installed leather chairs for the use of citizens who want to sit down to write ? That is a triumph of kultura . Is a woman ticket-taker churlish with the passengers ? " Comrade , you are lack-in kultura ! " Arc the washrooms in some restaurant or theater particularly badly kept ? A hand has scribbled on the walls : " Comrade manager , a little more kultura , please ! " Intangible and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all modernization of human living and human relations . Under this head the politeness of the citizens , the installation of gas in Moscow , a leather armchair , or the mass production of baby carriages rests on kultura just as does the latest discovery of a great scientist , or an edition of several hundred thousand copies of the complete works of Chekhov . But in the field of publishing , as opposed to that of manufacturing trains or tractors , the Soviet statistics do not spring from propaganda and have not been subject to any clever manipulation . The attentive observer can not doubt their truth . Some of my own experiences make it possible for me to illustrate the dry language of figures in living terms . When I took the subway or the trolley-bus in MoscoW in the spring of 1950 , I used to be struck , from the first , by the large number of passengers reading books . I found it particularly noteworthy that these people , who seemed lost in their reading to the point of forgetting the people around them , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole intellectuals . They were , for the most part , laborers , peasants , ordinary people in general , plainly and cheaply dressed . It likewise impressed me that they were usually reading bulky volumes and not little booklets or easily digestible stories . When I scrutinized the titles of these books , I found a striking proportion of classic authors , both Russian and foreign . How many times , riding around Moscow , have I not noted that the old woman in a woolen scarf , or the young man with hands blackened by tail , sitting beside me , was reading Tolstoi , Pushkin , Gogol , Chekhov , Gorky , or Balzar , Shakespeare , Dickens , Victor Hugo ! Innumerable others were bent over textbooks of high-school or college level , books on science or technological manuals . To a Western point of view , nearly all these books seemed out of keeping with their obviously " lower-class " readers . I noticed the same thing in other cities , as well as in the waiting rooms of railroad stations and airports , in trains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I went through by chance . I was , in fact , rather surprised by the small number of people reading newspapers or illustrated weeklies . To fill the long hours of waiting or of the leisure forced upon them by daily journeys , the Russian crowd very clearly preferred big books to the publications of the Soviet press . When I spoke with workmen or small employees 1 was able to verify that these people read a great deal . I often checked up on their knowledge of books that I had read myself . In schools and workers ' clubs I found libraries of from twenty to forty thousand volumes . The directors , far from being proud of these libraries , considered them comparatively meager . A large factory in Stalingrad , for instance , which must employ from ten to fifteenthousand workers ( the actual figure was , of course , kept secret ) , had in its House of Culture fifty thousand volumes at the free disposal of its personnel . Library stocks were augmented by three to five thousand volumes a year . The workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet literature , but also a very fine collection of foreign classics in translation . These were greatly in demand ( I consulted , just to be sure , the slips that registered the French classics borrowed to take home ) . By spending hours at a time in bookshops I was able to form an idea of the extent to which the Soviet population is hungry for books . I did this in Moscow , Leningrad , Stalingrad , Rostov , and Tiflis . Everywhere the salesmen were besieged . People of all ages and conditions were demanding works in all categories . The demand was so great that new shipments of books were exhausted in a few hours . One morning , in a large bookshop in Leningrad , I myself saw a case containing three hundred copies of a new novel ; in the afternoon there was not a single copy left . There are second-hand bookshops , run by the state ( like all retail commerce ) , in the USSR ; and here again I constantly found throngs of customers who were asking for books published @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unobtainable in the store 's for new books . Yet Soviet books are brought out in large printings : several hundred thousand copies for contemporary novels , from fifty to a hundred thousand for a single edition of a classic author , more than a hundred thousand for certain scientific works or manuals in current use . Even collections of poetry sometimes have printings of fifty thousand copies ; and those of the most popular poets , like Konstantin Simonov , run to two and three hundred thousand ! As for Stalin 's works , some of them have gone beyond 18,000,000 copies in the Russian language . Furthermore , books are published in the USSR in 119 different languages . In 1946 the total printing of books in Russian amounted to 364,000,000 , but that of works brought out in the country 's other languages numbered 100,000,000 copies . When one compares the 1913 printings-80,200,000 in the Russian language and 6,500,000 in the others ? one can measure numerically the progress achieved by sovietskaya kultura . THESE statistics and personal authentications would excite unreserved admira-tion if there were not , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this reverse side that makes the evaluation of the term kultura so delicate and controversial for the Western mind . It is the Soviet state that publishes all hooks . It is therefore the Bolshevist ? party and the Soviet recrime that decide what is and what is not to be published . The government has decreed constant reprintings since 1945 of Stalin 's book On the Patriotic War , to the number of more than 18,000,000 copies . The government has also , for fifteen years , failed to bring out any new editions of the works of Dostoevsky . Finally , it is again the " ideological administration " of the party that explicitly prescribes what the contemporary Soviet authors must and must not write . Thus the intellectual elements of this vast country find themselves subject to a rigid censorship , at once positive and negative . These directives , which anticipate , down to the least detail , all that is to be published and also all that is not , govern literature , science , art , and the most innocent books for children . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to be administered to the Soviet public . The control of written thought is thus total and unlimited . In its quantitative aspect the production of state publications is incontestably admirable . The fact that about eighty books per capita have been printed in the USSR since 1918 requires no comment . But the qualitative aspect ? that is , the nature of the books that have been published and also of those that have been forbidden ( before or after publication ) ? poses problems that are infinitely grave . The theories of Leninism-Stalinism officially assert the necessity for ideological control in order to consolidate proletarian dictatorship . But one must closely consider the present and future result of this directing of collective thought . It has cut a rude chasm , which grows deeper each year , between the Soviet Union and the rest of the world . Seen from this angle , a certain proportion of the 683,000,000 books printed in the USSR in 1949 may present a danger , if not to the peace of the world , at any rate to the full development of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in many places , one must ask oneself if the Soviet rulers are not really committing a crime in distrusting their people , in doubting their intellectual maturity , in treating tens of millions of intelligent , responsible human beings like children whose least thought must be at the same time controlled and shielded from " pernicious influences . " Consider , first , the negative aspect of this ideological censorship . Let us take an example . Dostoevsky is regarded by the Soviet regime as a pernicious writer , dangerous for youth , reactionary in his political thought , " useless " in his philosophical thought . In this specific case , however , censorship does not go so far as to ban openly the works of an author whose reputation in Russia is , after all , too well established . During the past fifteen or twenty years , nevertheless , Dostoevsky 's novels have not been reprinted . Even more , his books evidently figure on the black list of the second-hand bookshops . It is thus impossible today to get any work whatever by Dostoevsky in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain public libraries , which usually possess a single copy of them , there is not one book by this ill-esteemed writer in the school libraries or libraries for workers that I visited myself . Now , to my great surprise , on several occasions I saw torn , dog-cared copies of Dostoevsky 's novels in the hands of my neighbors in the theaters , restaurants , or busses . These readers ? most of them young ? had had to go to great pains to procure these rare books . Of course , in spite of ideological directives , Dostoevsky did not disappear overnight from the shelves of private libraries . But the practical difficulty of finding his books , and the fact that he is no longer mentioned in the literature courses in the secondary schools , give ground for predicting his gradual and inevitable disappearance from the intellectual field of vision of future Soviet generations . LET us go further and consider books strictly prohibited in the USSR . To justify these prohibitions , the champions of the Soviet regime often assert that they apply to works that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in general , " devoid of all literary value . " These partisans then lash out at the Western countries , which , in the name of liberty , would demoralize or stultify their populations by a flood of hooks that are trash . It is true that such books do not appear in the USSR . It is true that they are published in the West . For us they are the inevitable cost of freedom . But the Soviet hook prohibitions are infinitely more serious . They are not inspired by moral considerations alone ? far from it . On this black list appear not only most of the contemporary works produced in the non-Communist world but a part of the literary , scientific , and political output of the Soviet peoples themselves . Total suppression , which the regime has not dared to invoke against Dostoevsky , is actively enforced against thousands of other books , especially works of the past fifty years . The black list varies from month to month , constantly adjusted to the latest orders of the ideological administration . What is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applied , as we have seen , in second-hand bookstores . Also , the condemned works find no more mention in the different grades of public education ( secondary schools , universities , scientific institutes , and so on ) . Finally , they are withdrawn from public use in the libraries , large and small , which serve the mass of the population . It is for this reason that the Lenin Library in Moscow , which is proud to be counted among the five richest libraries in the world , sometimes prints on its catalogue cards : " This work can not be consulted . " * These prohibitions do not apply solely to the books of the great heretics of the regime , such as Trotsky or Bukharin . They even cover particular editions of the works of Lenin . They extend to the work of all those authors ( novelists , scholars , historians ) who were purged before the war during the trials of " right and left deviationists . " Hence not one of the novels of Babel or Pilnyak , two of the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time available in the USSR . Yet Babel 's Red Cavalry and Pilnyak 's The Volga Flows to the Caspian Sea were considered for years ? up to around 1935 ? as * These prohibitions apply to the mass of ordinary mortals . People who have a special and officially approved reason for consulting the forbidden books may he allowed to do so , by exceptional privilege , in a special little room in the public library.classics of the Civil War period . Then Babel and Pilnyak were accused of Trotskyite sympathies and disappeared without leaving any trace . Their books soon followed them into oblivion . In the same way , once Lysenko 's theories had been officially ratified by Stalin , the biologists who opposed them suffered more than rebuke or demotion . All their works were automatically placed on the black list . Nowadays there is no trace of their writings in Moscow 's bookstores and libraries . THE range and ramifications of this censorship can hardly be appreciated . Yes-senin was in 1940 still considered one of the greatest poets of the Revolution and a loyal Bolshevist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decrees , the works of this poet ( who killed himself in 1927 ) disappeared instantly from all the stores . A small collection of Yessenin 's verse has recently been printed ; it contains insignificant and frankly bad poems that have been deemed " publishable " by the ideological authorities . The rest are doomed to complete oblivion , once the last copies owned by private individuals have fallen into bits . The successive changes in official party doctrine concerning history have given rise to personal tragedies : eminent historians have been first deported to Siberia , then recalled to activity , then dismissed anew and consigned to disgrace . The learned works published by these victims met with a fate exactly identical with that of their authors . They vanished ; then they reappeared on the counters of shops and in the public libraries . These alternations were very rapid : / heard of one case in which a book made its reappearance in the shops before its author could complete the train ride from Siberia to Moscow . One of my Western friends who had lived for several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made a tour of second-hand bookshops . He hunted for months for a certain historical work without finding it . When he questioned the salesmen , they were evasive . Plainly this book was on the black list ? a matter kept strictly secret . One day when my friend was browsing in a second-hand shop , a man came in and offered to sell a book to the clerk . It was the elusive history my friend had hunted in vain . After a brief trip to the back room of the shop , the clerk bought the book for twenty rubles . My friend asked for it at once . " Very well , " said the salesman . " It will cost twenty-two rubles ; our legal commission is 10 per cent . " My friend was reaching into his packet when the salesman said , with a smile : " Just a minute . We have to perform an operation . " With a pair of scissors he cut out the first twenty pages , depriving the book of its preface . This excision was clearly compulsory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he scraped from the cover the name of the author of the censored preface ( he had been a victim of the 1936 purge of historians ) . My friend received his mutilated book in silence . The episode may , and should , shock a Western mind . I do not know whether any Soviet citizens could be revolted by it , but certainly none can be surprised . Constant revisions of the ideological line , with their instantaneous repercussions on the sale or suppression of books in the USSR , sometimes produce grotesque results . These official interventions are publicly admitted . While I was in Moscow , several large papers reported ( Pravda May 14 , 1950 ) that a historian of Soviet Azerbaijan , G. Guseinov , whose book published in 1949 had won the supreme recognition of a Stalin Prize , had given evidence of " mistaken political and theoretical attitudes " in discussing certain movements of national liberation in the Caucasus in the nineteenth century . He had praised an insurrection that , according to Marx and Engels , had really been backed by Turkey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the scholar " must be energetically condemned , " said Pravda . The Stalin Prize was consequently withdrawn , a few days later , from Comrade Professor Guseinov . About this time Pravda published an article vigorously criticizing a volume of the Great Soviet Encyclopedia , which is checked by personages as important as Voroshilov and Vishinsky . Nevertheless , its volume on the United States ( published in 1945 ) sinned through excess of sympathy for the principal enemy of the USSR . The official organ of the Russian Communist party therefore condemned it in a long article . On the succeeding days I tried to get the two incriminated works , searching for them in the largest bookshops and second-hand stores in Moscow . Already , they had vanished from the showcases and display counters , never to reappear ? unless there should be a sudden shift in the party 's policy . III B u-r the ideological administration does not confine itself to laying an interdict upon authors or published works of undesirable tendencies . A still more important function of this supercensorship consists in dictating the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enlarge on this subject ; examples are too numerous in all fields of publishing . In the years immediately following the end of the war , all books of fiction and history were devoted to descriptions of the Soviet feats of arms in the struggle against Hitler 's Germany . There was not a single novel and very few pieces of historical work that in 1945-47 dealt with other subjects . Then came the peacetime directive : all new novels were consecrated henceforth to the description of " the new Soviet man in the struggle for the reconstruction of the socialist fatherland . " This directive was still in force in 1950 . In this year and through 1949 the novels that received official rewards , and had the advantage of heavy initial promotion ( through the dithyrambic praises of all the newspapers and the figures of their exceptionally large first printings ) , were almost all based on the same theme : the veteran 's return to his peacetime place of work ; the ensuing psychological and political conflicts ; the advances achieved in all branches of industry and agriculture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I asked some Soviet intellectuals , who were entirely devoted to the regime , to suggest the best novels that had appeared in the USSR in 1949 and 1950 . Their replies were almost and I bought the three books unanimous , recommended : The Knight of most highly Star , by Semyon Babayevsky , the Golden Stalin Prize ; Far from Moscow , by the young author Ajaev , Stalin Prize ; and The Luminous Shore , by Vera Panova , Stalin Prize . All three had subjects strictly in conformity with the general line mentioned above . The writers handled these subjects with indisputable talent , and there was no doubt of the literary value of their works . But I can not believe that the three authors by themselves would have selected almost identical themes . And if this phenomenon appears altogether normal to Soviet readers , I can not , for my part , help seeing in it the proof of what I call the positive function of the Soviet censorship , which dictates when it does not ban . Similarly , at intervals of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of American life and civilization made their appearance in the Soviet bookshops . One collection , Here Is America , contained extracts from books put out by twentieth-century Russian writers , Soviet and pre-Soviet , beginning with Maxim Gorky . This anthology drew a terrifying picture of American existence . Its jacket showed a policeman , with the face of a brute , brandishing a blackjack ; the content was like the cover . Another book , Reports on America , was a different sort of anthology : here the editor had collected texts from American authors , describing the horrors of unemployment , the poverty , the exploitation of the workers , and the merciless brutality of American capitalists . The cover depicted an angry crowd of laborers dashing forward , flags in their hands ? doubtless to show that the American working class would end , one day , by revolting . What is significant here is not so much the content of the books as their simultaneous publication , and the chorus of applause in the Soviet press which greeted the appearance of these anti-American works . Here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line , the size of the printings , and the widespread distribution of this literature . Nothing is left to chance in Soviet publishing . Everything follows a plan strictly laid down in advance . I OBSERVED , nevertheless , that readers did not always happily accept the decrees of the supreme ideological authority . In visiting bookshops , I often witnessed the intense interest in contemporary foreign authors that is felt by the Soviet public . Often I heard people of all ages and conditions ask the salesmen : " Have n't you something new in the way of foreign translations ? " And when the salesmen would suggest a book likethe anti-American anthology , or a novel by Theodore Drciscr or Louis Aragon or some German Communist writer , I would hear a dissatisfied voice say : " Oh no , not that . Have n't you Roger Martin du Gard or Hemingway ? Or Priestley ? " The reply was , of course , always in the negative . But I was surprised to discover that in spite of all barriers the Soviet public still knew outstanding names @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day to discover that a pale young man sitting beside me in a bus was reading Marcel Proust 's Remembrance of Things Past , in an old edition , as torn and dog-eared as the copies of Dostoevsky that I mentioned . In the field of contemporary foreign literature there has been a progressive and now almost complete contraction in the last five or ten years . Before the war , authors like Hemingway , Richard Wright , Andre Malraux , J. B. Priestley , Upton Sinclair , Thomas Mann , Sinclair Lewis , were very popular . At the present time most of these men 's books have disappeared from the display counters and have joined the ranks of the black list . The only foreign authors now living who may still be published in the Soviet Union are writers faithful to the Stalinist doctrine , such as Aragon , Howard Fast , or Anderson Nexh . The censorship that has fallen upon others is explained either by the political evolution of these authors ( Wright , Hemingway , and Malraux have in one way or another made plain their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as " the fight against cosmopolitanism . " The famous conference-decrees of Andrei Zhdanov , in 1946 and 1947 , inaugurated a merciless war against " the dangerous influences of Western bourgeois culture " and also against what is called , in a phrase constantly recurring in postwar intellectual discussions , " subservience to the West . " An entire volume would not be large enough to reproduce the texts hurled against the eagerness of certain Soviet intellectuals to " westernize " Soviet culture . This campaign gave rise to successive purges in the domains of literature , painting , music , history , pure and applied science , literary and art criticism . The campaign against the West was part of that wave of nationalism which broke over the various branches of Soviet life after the war . The disappearance of non-Communist foreign authors from the bookshops and libraries was one more manifestation of it . As I have just said , it does not seem to . me that Soviet readers have accepted these new rigors of censorship with alacrity ; but what can they do against the decisions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Union ? SOME very popular Soviet authors , outstandingly gifted , were hard hit by this campaign . The poets Pasternak and Anna Akhmatova and the humorist Mikhail Zochtchenko were its first victims . They were accused , respectively , of " Western formalism " and of " the petit-bourgeois spirit of disparagement . " Their works were placed on the black list , and the Soviet literary world waited patiently for the three culprits to make their apology . But only one of them officially repented : Anna Akhmatova , a sensitive lyric poet ( condemned specifically for her bourgeois sentimentality , which brought nothing constructive to the forward march of socialisni ) . It took this old and ailing poet three years , after the promulgation of the Zfidanov decrees , to do it . Rumor had it that she was driven to desperation by extreme poverty , as her royalties were no longer paid her ( an inexorable result of the black list ) . She then published , in the illustrated review Ogonyok , in April 1950 , five poems : on Stalin , on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and so on . These poems were execrable and had no relation to Akhmatova 's lifelong style . But the old woman was thus assured of avoiding starvation , and no one in Moscow blamed her for capitulating . The other two great culprits have not , up to the present , made known their contrition . It must not be imagined that their life or their personal liberty has been threatened , as was rumored in anti-Soviet reviews . The reality is more subtle . The period of firing squads for unruly intellectuals seems to have served its turn in the USSR . The present penalty is not imprisonment nr exile any longer , unless it is a matter of clearly defined political offense . These two recalcitrants offer interesting examples . Zochtchenko has reportedly retired to a little farm in the vicinity of Leningrad which belongs to him . He occupies himself with ? raising chickens . From time to time he evenpublishes an inoffensive little story in some minor paper or magazine . His books have disappeared from the shop counters , and he no longer receives the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that lashed ( no doubt too rudely ) the Soviet bureaucracy . But he has enough of his savings left to end his days in peace . The case of Boris Pasternak is more interesting . This man is probably at the present time the greatest living Russian poet and one of the greatest in the world . He was denounced and covered with abuse by Zhdanov and the party 's official critics because of his abstruse style , which was called " formalist " and " incomprehensible to the people . " In spite of his " formalism " ( or perhaps because of it ) , Pasternak had enjoyed an extraordinary popularity among Soviet intellectual youth . I was told that in 1947 , just before the Zhdanov decrees , at a poetry reading in one of the large Moscow auditoriums , Pasternak received a long ovation . When he began to recite his poems , he several times paused for a few seconds to search his memory for the next line ; each time the entire hail chanted in chorus the words momentarily forgotten by this poet " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pasternak 's condemnation was the disappearance of all his books from the bookshops and public libraries . They became unobtainable . My own requests for them came up against the icy or dismayed air of the salesmen confronted by such lack of tact . But Pasternak has not suffered any financial privation from having been put on the index . Well before 1947 he had undertaken the poetic translation of the complete works of Shakespeare and of Goethe 's Faust . He is continuing this work and receives a considerable monthly stipend from the government publishing office . I am informed that Pasternak at the present time makes about ten thousand rubles a month and thus remains in the privileged category of great Soviet intellectuals . He has a beautiful apartment in the Writers ' House , and a villa outside Moscow . He even has an automobile at his disposal . In short , he lives in great material comfort . Does he continue to write his " formalist and abstruse " poems ? That seems highly probable . What also seems certain is that his poetic works will remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admirers will never be able to buy them in the bookshops , either during his lifetime or later ( Pasternak is in his sixties ) . Evidently the truth about kultura is not so simple as is claimed , alike by the advocates and the adversaries of the USSR . THERE are , indeed , so many complexities and contradictions in the Soviet literary domain that a simple judgment of ideological administration is impossible . I have already pointed out the popularity and large printings of Russian and foreign classics in the USSR . Some of these authors ? and especially Pushkin , Gogol , and SaltykovShchedrin ? devoted a mass of their writing to the struggle against tyranny , against the tsarist bureaucracy of the nineteenth century , against the police system of the old days . Their works ought to embarrass the present regime , which shares the faults denounced ? and with what talent ? ? by the great Russian writers of the nineteenth century . Nothing impedes today 's Soviet reader from making , in his own mind , the transition from the abuses of the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this type are wholly exempt from " ideological " cutting . Indeed , works suppressed in former days by the tsarist censorship because of their attacks on authority have been published for the first time under die Stalin regime . Stalin proclaims in his writings and his speeches his profound respect for the great nineteenth-century writers who fought for liberty and democracy . This stand taken by Stalin is enough in itself to assure Soviet readers thatthe rigors of the black list are in no danger of depriving them of certain somewhat daring passages in the works of these classical authors . If a contemporary author had ventured to put into his writing one one-hundredth of the virulence to be found in certain chapters or poems of Pushkin and Saltykov , the censorship would have clamped down mercilessly upon him . But , as one sees , here again kultura is not simple or easy to grasp . A still more substantial contradiction exists between the campaign against " Western cosmopolitanism " and the publication and distribution of great foreign classics in the USSR . From 1918 to 1947 the printings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , - 000 ; Heine , 1,100,000 ; Balzac , 2,000,000 ; Dickens , 2,200,000 ; Victor Hugo , 4,100,000 ; Guy de Maupassant , almost 4,000,000 : Shakespeare , 1,600,000 ; Zola , 2,500,000 . Postwar editions of all these authors ( and of Voltaire , Diderot , and Mark Twain ) have augmented these figures . It is not an empty formula when the Soviet ideological administration proclaims the respect of kultura for the intellectual heritage of all peoples . These huge editions of foreign classics are exercising their influence on Soviet youth , as I discovered in conversation with young intellectuals . There remains such a contradiction between the encouragement lavished by the regime upon this spread of Western influence in its forms of greatest genius , and the harrier raised against the same influence in the contemporary world , that one can find in it no logic whatsoever . We come always to the same conclusion : simplified judgments of sovietskaya kultura are impossible .                     