@@476398

THE fundamental blunder underlying our China policy ? a blunder made by Republicans and Democrats alike ? was our assumption that land policy was the key to China 's problem . Undoubtedly , the Chinese crisis was caused by the disintegration ? amounting to collapse ? of an agrarian society and economy . But even the most enlightened land policies would hardly have touched the disease : they would , at best , have doctored minor surface symptoms , and even that for a very short while only . The only remedy for China is industrialization ? rapid industrialization . It was precisely because the Communists understood this that they succeeded in. gaining effective control of the entire country . What is true of China is true of practically the entire agrarian world today , a world which stretches from the heart of Europe clear across to the Indian Ocean and the China Sea . Every single agrarian society within this tremendous area is bankrupt , economically as well as culturally . In every one , agrarian solutions are impossible ? to the point where it makes almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every one , rapid industrialization is the only way out . Even in Latin America , where there is still some scope for effective agrarian policies ( there is , for instance , still a good deal of land available for settlement in Brazil ) , industrialization is the primary need . In this truly global crisis there is nothing more dangerous than the illusions that underlay our policy toward China ? and that underlie , unfortunately , our entire approach to the problem of the agrarian world . These illusions ? part ignorance , part misreading of our own history , part pure sentimentalism ? explain in large part why we are losing strength every day in the agrarian world ; and our loss is Russia 's gain . The most persistent of these illusions is the belief in the effectiveness of " land reform . " This assumes first that there is large-scale estate farming in the agrarian world . But estate fanning is almost unknown in most agrarian countries . It was never dominant except in European countries ? Southern Italy , Spain , Russia , Hungary , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Germany . Even in these countries , by the way , redistribution of land did not affect the peasant problem materially ; there were simply too many peasants to give everyone even a submarginal plot . In the rest of the agrarian world there are few large estates ? there are small holdings to begin with . For estate farming presupposes a higher degree of farm technology than most countries possess . In fact , estate farming flourishes today , except on Russian collectives , mainly in Great Britain and in some parts of the United States , which conspicuously have no " peasant " problem . There are " landlords , " of course , though they are by no means the universal phenomenon we imagine them to be . But the typical " landlord " of the peasant countries is not the owner of an estate or a plantation , employing hired labor for extensive agriculture . He is a creditor ; under one title or another ( tax , tribute , interest on loans , or rent ) he receives a share of the peasant 's crop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's lot ? at least for a time . But it would not increase the supply of land available to the peasant population . For " landlordism " is not the cause of the peasants ' land-hunger ; it is the inevitable consequence . The truth is that , instead of holdings being too large , holdings are everywhere far too small . Effective land reform in almost any peasant country means making.holdings larger and fewer , not splitting up ( non-existent ) large estates . The real need , to be brutally frank , is not to get rid of the " landlord , " but to get rid of the submarginal peasant ? to get him off the land . Above all , making holdings larger is the only way to increase the food supply in most of these countries . The much-advertised " overpopulation problem " is largely a problem of so many people living on the land that they can not farm it efficiently . It is no exaggeration to say that food production in practically all of them would double if the number of people on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only answer . This should he self-evident to any Westerner . Not only would every Western country , including the United States , be unbearably overcrowded were 90 per cent of the population to live by farming ; we would also all starve . O UR failure to recognize the primary importance of industrialization is partly the result of that curious misreading of our own history of which Walter Prescott Webb 's recent Harper 's article ( " Ended : Four Hundred Year Boom " ) was such a noble example : the frontier theory of modern history with its disregard of the role industrialization has played in our expansion ? including the expansion of the frontier of agrarian settlement itself . But pure sentimentalism has also played a part ; we have a lingering nostalgia for the Jeffersonian view of the farmer as the embodiment of all virtues and nobility , and of citydwellers as a depraved and hardly human rabTHIS his . The history of this country during the past hundred years is the story of a largely successful attempt to dispel the Jeffersonian illusion by building a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far as this country is concerned , the illusion persists only as a literary nostalgia . But we seem to cling to it all the more tenaciously in our approach to the agrarian countries . A more grotesque misreading of the actual conditions of the agrarian world could hardly be imagined . For the dominant fact ? a fact more important than population figures and food supply ? is that agrarian society and culture have disintegrated and have lost all faculty of regeneration from within . The-real and absolute obstacles to reform are neither economic nor political but are embedded in the very tradition and culture of peasant society . For a century now there has been one reform movement after another in the agrarian countries ? led often by great and good men who fired the imaginations of the peasants as well as of the educated classes . They often rose to power ; they made revolutions , they changed laws of land tenure and indebtedness ; they left behind a great literature , beautiful folk songs , and stirring legends of saintliness , courage , and dedication . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? they could not break the " cake of custom " of the peasantry itself . The discrepancy between Gandhi 's political success and his utter social failure is only the latest example . Today agrarian society is in complete collapse everywhere . The last twenty years have given it the coup de grace . The peasants have sunk into a paralysis of despair in which they are capable only of the venomous hatred which exploded so tragically in the religious riots of India , and which is being played on so skillfully by the Chinese Communists . We are wont to speak of a " Crisis of the West . " But the " Crisis of the East " is infinitely greater ; for the agrarian societies have lost hope in themselves . And only industrialization can restore this hope . IN THIS industrial world revolution which is the central event of the twentieth century , the United States would appear to be the natural leader We certainly are to most of the world the very symbol of industrial society . Furthermore , the most elementary self-interest of this country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the values , beliefs , and methods of a free society rather than on the Soviet model and under Soviet auspices . Indeed , leadership in the industrial world revolution must be the fixed star of American foreign policy . By it alone we can hope to navigate in these cataclysmic times . What does this mean concretely ? Does it mean pumping huge sums of capital into the " underdeveloped areas " ? Capital investment has been in the foreground of almost all the discussion so far . Yet it may not belong in the picture at all . In the first place , large-scale capital investments are not acceptable either to us or to the agrarian countries . Americans are naturally reluctant to invest in enterprises which may be nationalized , and whose profits may not be convertible into dollars . More important : massive capital investments by the West are considered " imperialism . " That may be totally irrational , hut to the Turk , the Indian , the Argentinian , even the Australian , it is a dogma which no rational argument can shake . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital might be used , not for industrialization , but to prop up the tottering agrarian society . That is what American loans to peasant Europe or to South America were mostly used for during the twenties . Nothing could harm us more than such a misuse of American capital ; for it would seem to the peoples of the agrarian world to confirm what Moscow 's propaganda says about us . And it would be quite impossible for the United States  - -  to- rolice the-use . of - American capital lent to or invested in a foreign country . That mitch at least our experience in China proves conclusively . But above all , - capital is not themain need for industrialization . The preoccupation with it ignores the evidence : Developments in Japan . Russia , Turkey , Brazil , Argentina , and Australia during this century have differed from one another in every respect except one : industrialization in all of these countries has been accomplished rapidly without using foreign capital to any significant extent . Today , the Soviet Union is pushing large-scale MAGAZINE industrialization in its peasant satellites , Hungary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe that the Communists pour Russian capital into these countries ? On the contrary , all the capital is raised locally ; and what is more , everything these new industries produce ? plus a goodly part of the production of the old industries ? is confiscated by Russia for exclusively Russian use . Yet it is not shortage of capital that hampers the Hungarian or the Polish Five-Year Plan . Massive investments of American capital in the industrialization of the agrarian world are not possible , not desirable , and not necessary . There are exceptions to this rule : the investment in raw materials intended mainly for American use ? ore , petroleum , timber , etc. ? should properly come from this country , though it would be the better part of wisdom to bring native capital into partnership as far and as fast as possible . The same applies to assembly plants . But the bulk of capital needs will be for such things as manufacturing plants , power stations , railroads , and highways , and for a distributive system ? mass distribution being as important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ projects of this kind some initial " working capital " from abroad may be required to buy machine tools , for instance , or other producer goods which the agrarian countries can not for the present make themselves . But these sums should be fairly small ? millions rather than billions . The real capital investments must be raised from native sources . In short , we must help the agrarian countries to learn how to do the job of industrial-ization themselves . This means that we must : ( 1 ) help develop native managers , executives technicians , and skilled workers as fast as possible ; ? ( 2 ) help establish sound principles for the relationship between business and society in an industrial economy and lead in developing concrete policies , practices , and methods embodying these principles ; and ( 3 ) help channel the native capital into industrial investment , and especially , help develop the habit of investing savings in industry and business ? in a rational and businesslike fashion rather than on a get-richquick and gravy-skimming basis . What does each of these mean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ single issue in the industrialization of the agrarian countries revolves around the lack of trained and educated industrial manpower ? skilled workers , technologists , and executives ? a native middle class . If that lack can be overcome , every other obstacle can be surmounted . It was a bad enough political blunder for the British to assert , after fifty years of operations , that the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company employed no natives capable of running even technical Functions . But that this assertion was true ? as it undoubtedly was ? was infinitely worse . In the eyes of everybody in the agrarian countries it certainly would seem to justify the expropriation and expulsion of the British . Inevitably they must compare this result of industrialization by the West with Russia 's achievement of producing , practically out of nothing , an entirely new industrial population in fewer than twenty years . In fact , Iran ? whatever the final outcome of the dispute ? was as great a victory for Soviet Russia as the conquest of China . In the West , the rise of the urban middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it was the existence of these classes , rather than the agricultural frontier of settlement . that made the industrial revolution possible . For a long time ? until , say , about I900 ? industry did not require large numbers of trained technicians ; the traditional skills of the craftsman could be easily adapted to industrial work . It is no accident that the systematic education of engineers and chemists for industry did not even start until a hundred years after the industrial revolution . Earlier , there had only been " mechanics ' institutes " ; Britain , the mother country of industrialization , still has little more than that . And the systematic education of business managers made its appearance only in the present century . The agrarian countries , however , have no middle class . At the same time , they have no choice but to industrialize according to the ways of the twentieth century ; they can not go back and rediscover Watt 's steam engine . This means that the craftsman of a rural society can no longer simply move his skill into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skills . It means , above all , that both in numbers.and in knowledge and education , the demands for technically trained and educated people is a thousandfold greater than any the West had to satisfy in the earlier stages of its own industrialization . For it is of the very essence of modern technology that it requires an incredibly large ? and steadily increasing ? supply of very highly trained and educated people : design engineers and chemists , process and product engineers , production men , foremen , toolmakers and repairmen , bookkeepers , personnel men , cost accountants and time-study men ? let alone people capable of managing a business . The belief , popular particularly among the intellectuals , that modern technology consists in the replacing of skilled by unskilled labor , is nonsense . What it really is is the replacement of manual labor ? both skilled and unskilled ? by technical and intellectual knowledge . This explains why , contrary to Marx 's prediction , modern industrialization does not proletarianize a country but converts it increasingly into a middle-class society . But it also explains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the people are still peasants , the creation of an industrial middle class is not only the most important , but also the most difficult task . Even in this country , the demands of modern industry for educated and trained people are so hard to fill that every large company has had to devise a systematic program of finding , training , and developing skilled workers , technicians , and executives . And yet shortages of technical personnel ? for instance , engineers ? are so great as to threaten our defense production . W E MUST also help to put the future industrial system of the agrarian countries on a firm basis of principles and policies right from the start . American technical " know-how " will he useful , but American business policies , American concepts of the function and organization of business , American business morality have an even greater contribution to make . Basically , this means that we have to convert the agrarian countries to our belief that it is not enough for business and industry to contribute to the economic strength of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cohesion as well , if only for the good of the business . To American business men this has become almost axiomatic in the past fifty and especially in the past twenty years . Anywhere else , however , this is revolutionary doctrine , as ECA 's experience in Europe has proved . In the agrarian countries in particular , business and industry are generally considered , both by those in business and by those outside , as ways to get rich at the expense of the community . Here are a few of the things that American business leadership must bring to the agrarian countries : Our concept of increasing productivity as a means toward more goods , higher wages , or lower prices , rather than as just a means to inflate monopoly profits . In an industrial society business , in its own interest , can not aim to make the rich richer ; it must make the poor richer . Our belief in a mixed economy of large and small businesses working together in the partnership between large manufacturer and independent supplier , between large manufacturer and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Our concept of competition , but also , and just as important , the habit of co-operation for greater productivity and stiffer competition . For our constant and highly organized interchange of experience , of technical information , of problems and of the way to solve them is as radically at variance with the traditional secretiveness of business and industry in the rest of the world as our emphasis on competition . Our belief that mass distribution is as important as mass production ? and especially our belief that it is up to business to create the market for its goods , rather than be content with a high profit in existing luxury markets . Above all , the things we ourselves have learned the hard way about human beings , how and why they work , and what the relationship between them and the business enterprise should be . This includes not only the traditional American belief that it is the duty of the business enterprise to give the maximum of opportunities to the men in its employ , regardless of birth or caste . It includes all our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good many of our personnel techniques , and even a few of our personnel gadgets . In this country not one of these principles is considered incompatible with profitable business . On the contrary , they are today regarded by most of our industrial and business leaders as indispensable to successful ? that is , profitable ? business operations . Yet they arc anything but traditional " capitalism , " and particularly " capitalism " as understood or practiced in semi-colonial areas . Without them , however , a sound and durable industrial system can not be built ; at least we in this country do not believe so . V v ' NALLY , we must help agrarian countries to channel the community 's savings into business and industry . Otherwise , these countries will inevitably resort to compulsory government monopoly of savings and investment ; and that must mean collectivism . The rate of capital formation in some of these countries is , of course , very low . But it is not the scarcity of capital that is the problem . It is the common attitude toward investment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ savings ; if there is any investment in business at all , it is in speculation . In tiny Lebanon , for instance , international gold speculation has become the major business investment . This has made Beirut an international gold-trading center , to be sure . But a less productive way to use the very scarce liquid capital of a small peasant country could hardly be imagined . There are two ways to attack this problem . One is to build up organs of financial circulation that will collect the capital of the country and pump it into industry and business : credit co-operatives ; a banking system , and , above all , insurance companies . In this , neither America nor any other foreign country can give more than technical advice . But the second way is up to business , and especially FRONTIER FOR to foreign business operating in the country : to build up the small , local business ? the fabricator , the supplier , the distributor ? to make business attractive to local talent as a career , and to local capital as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they have far too many as a rule . But they lack a local business class through which the savings of the local community can be channeled into productive investment . Some of the sorely-needed basic industries ? power plants , steel mills , truck and tractor plants , chemical plants , and the like ? will require so much capital that probably the government of the country will have to provide it . But only for the time being . A great many of us have swallowed one of the most absurd of the Marxist doctrines : the assertion that " socialism , " that is , state ownership , always follows private capitalism . But the truth is that historically it has as often preceded it . On the continent of Europe , for instance , the state-owned enterprises of mercantilist governments paved the way for the development of private enterprise . Even more important , in Japan , Turkey , and Puerto Rico , all countries with a record of fairly rapid industrialization , state ownership has been used deliberately and successfully to bring industries to the point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So we need not shy away from government ownership in the early years . We may well regard it in many industries as a transitory stage on the way to private ownership . Underlying all three of these objectives is an even more important one : to capture the imagination of the peoples of the agrarian countries , and especially of their young people . They all know that they have to industrialize to survive . But they rightly demand more than an easing of unbearable economic misery . They want and need a goal , something to be proud of , something to believe in , something , in short , to dedicate themselves to . It is here , above all , that Russia exerts its greatest appeal . We need not ? indeed , we must not ? try to compete with communism 's false rhetoric of " production battles " and " industrial shock battalions . " But we must not only demand of the agrarian countries that they themselves make great exertions and set high goals ; we must , above all , base our leadership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lead to genuine independence and to a stronger and healthier society . ONE thing definitely follows from this analysis ; only private American business can do the job . The U. S. government has a big part to play . It must start the program . it must act as liaison with the agrarian countries , as adviser , as co-ordinator , as a supplier of technical experts to survey and to plan . It may even have to insure loans to agrarian countries against currency and war risks . Indeed , we need a special government agency of Cabinet rank , and a man of Paul Hoffman 's stature and energy to get the program going . But the job itself , if it is to be done by the United States at all , will have to be done by private industry . But the major contribution American business has to make is not capital but management . It is the thing we lead in ? and the thing the agrarian countries lack the most and need the most . This does not mean that the new enterprises in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contrary , they will have to run on high profit margins , because the risks are very high . But it does mean , in essence , that American business will have to work on the basis of a management contract and on a fee-basis , whether a straight fee , a fixed amount contingent upon profits , or a share in the profits . For a management contract is the only instrument that clearly expresses that it is the intention ? and the duty ? of Americans to work themselves out of the job as fast as possible or , in other words , to teach the agrarian countries to do the job and to develop the people who can do it . Specifically , such a contract should be for a limited period of time ? fifteen to twenty years or so . It should spell out that the American company is ( a ) to develop as rapidly as possible native people for all skilled , technical , and management positions ; ( h ) to strive to provide " more and better products for more people " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the philosophy of mass production and mass distribution ; and ( c ) to develop native small businesses as suppliers , distributors , and fabricators . This may sound a radical departure from tradition . But the only thing really new is the legal form . A few American companies actually operate on a basis that is not too dissimilar . Some of the oil companies in the Caribbean , for instance , openly stress the development of native technicians and managers as one of their major goals . For its Latin American stores , Sears Roebuck has had to develop , almost overnight , native manufacturing businesses for a multitude of products ? businesses able not only to turn out large quantities of quality goods at a low price , but able and willing to adopt American methods of management and American principles in the handling of their employees . And the extremely successful and mutually profitable relationship between General Motors and its Australian licensees for automobiles , trucks , and diesel locomotives is almost identical with the " management contract " sketched out here . One result , incidentally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most efficient automobile industry to be found anywhere . Nor is the concept so very alien to our own practice at home . The managements of our very large decentralized companies ? General Electric , the Bell Telephone Company , Standard Oil of New Jersey , and General Motors ? really operate on the basis of such a " management contract . " Of course , they own their subsidiaries or divisions . But this means only that they keep their " management fee " absurdly low and can rely for their major compensation on profits . The function which central management in these companies performs , however , is exactly the one that American business will have to perform in the agrarian countries . But even if the concept were novel to the point of being radical , it would still he the only basis on which America can assume leadership in the industrialization of the agrarian world . And it should be extremely profitable and attractive business , especially for the larger American companies . For there is nothing that ensures constant and expanding demand for the services of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to " work himself out of a job . " Where today the Western business man is regarded with deep suspicion , even by the most genuine antiCommunists in the agiarian countries , he almost certainly will find himself pursued with new business offers once he establishes clearly that his main aim is to make himself dispensable . And the more the position of American business in these newly industrialized countries depends on its function as management rather than on its legal power of ownership , the greater will be the demands for American goods and equipment . In fact , the management function in the industrialization of the agrarian countries offers an almost limitless new frontier to the American economy : in jobs here and abroad , in orders for American manufacturers , and in direct income . Above all , however , it is in the discharge of this management function that we can best show to ourselves and to the world what " free enterprise " really means and what a free industrial society really is . R ussiAN propaganda and policy in the agrarian world are based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring about the industrialization of an agrarian society . There can be no doubt : Stalinism offers a ruthlessly practical program for the job . That it is not the only possible one , experiences in many parts of the world have proven during the last fifty years ? in Japan , Australia , Argentina , Mexico , Brazil , Turkey , and Puerto Rico . But even if there were no such experiences , this country could not let the Stalinist assertion go unchallenged . To do so would mean that the best we could hope for are enough Titoist deviations and fights within world communism to allow us ? and maybe a few other relics of the " old regime " in Western Europe ? to survive in constant tension and frightened isolation . For not even open force could prevent any longer the industrialization of the agrarian countries . The only question is under whose leadership it will occur . The rapid development of a program that will give to America the decisive role in this great industrial revolution now sweeping the world is thus not just a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to American business . It is not just a way to live up to the responsibility our power and progress have thrust upon us . It is , above all , the way , the only way , to take the offensive in the great conflict between freedom and tyranny today ; the only way , short of total war , to break the stalemate and to win real peace .                     