@@491764

Many people of good will , depressed by the tensions of current world history , have fervently wished that the two-faced genie of the atomic nucleus could be pushed back into the unknown , corked up and forgotten , like a bottle of had medicine . Unfortunately , you ca n't bottle up knowledge , no matter how unpleasant and distasteful . And whether or not the world 's statesmen find a way to suspend atomic-weapons testing , the world 's scientists and engineers arc busy finding more and more peacetime jobs for the atom to perform . In spite of its lethal potentialities , atomic energy has become , for small nations and large , the new symbol of the more abundant life , the radioactive key to industrial inde pendence . It has been seized upon as the all-purpose tool , suited to any task  --  from moving mountains to curing cancer . It can power factories , light homes , drive ships , find leaks in pipelines and trace underground water courses . It can improve the manufacture of steel , paper , plastics and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farm crops , and can tag and eradicate insect pests . The list is endless . In fact , Dr. Willard F. Libby , the imaginative scientist member of the United States Atomic Energy Commission , has remarked that anyone familiar with the subject " ran think up at least one new use every live minutes . " One may ask , then , can the atom 's remarkable talent for ( Continued on Page MO ( Continued from Page 29 ) good deeds be expected to ease the and economic tensions that now keep us on the edge of atomic war ? Will the genie 's smiling face eventually banish fear of its dark , destructive other self ? Only time  --  and probably a very long time  --  can bring the final answers . But the sheer magnitude and variety of atomic research and planning now going forward around the world , as I saw it in visits to installations in many parts of the United States and England and during my attendance at the Second United Nations International Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy in Geneva @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the wake of the Geneva meeting have come other encouraging developments , including the signing in November of the United States co-operation agreement with EURATOM , the European Atomic Energy Community  --  France , West Germany , Belgium , the Netherlands , Luxembourg and Italy . This calls for us to lend them S135,000,000 to build five to seven nuclear power plants with a total capacity of 1,000,000 kilowatts of electricity . Congress approved the agreement in principle last summer and must now approve its details and appropriate the funds , vihich include a 550,000,000 researchand-dsvelopment allocation , to be matched by the EURATOM countries , and a 590,000,000 guarantee for the fissionable fuel . In this end a succeeding article I shall try to convey the scope of these nuclear activities end shell discuss some of the problems that must be solved , at both national and international levels , as the world marches into the atomic age . The atoms-for-peace gathering in Geneva , sandwiched between conferences there to discuss control of weapons testing , was the largest and most truly international science meeting ever convened , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those nations had plans to put the atom to work  --  sooner or later . There was and still is much interest in the atomic timetable . Britain , France , the United States and Russia already have plants in operation and others under construction . The EURATOM reactors to be built with United States loans are to be finished by the end of 1963 . EURATOM 's over-all target is 15,000,000 kilowatts of capacity by 1967 . Certain other proposals , however , will have to be cut and trimmed to fit the slower technological pace of underdeveloped countries . Indeed , the aspirations of the less advanced nations  --  about which we shall have more to say later in this article  --  were a major point of discussion at Geneva . And they will continue to demand attention in the years ahead . For these nations embrace 75 per cent of the population of the globe  --  now estimated at a total of 2,800,000,000 . If the raising of living standards is to be an atomic goal , as it should be , the challenge here is tremendous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spheres of influence , atomic assistance to these counsies will be a strong ploy . he conservatism displayed in apprais : ? the atomic capabilities of the underequipped nations was part of a theme of realism that distinguished the recent Geneva meeting from the more expansive atmosphere of the first atoms-for-peace conference , held in the same city in 1955 . It is guiding much of the present thinking and planning , in both the United States and Europe . Even against this realistic background , however , the general outlook sketched by the Geneva discussions was encouraging . In spite of the architectural awkwardness of the huge , sprawling Palais des Nations , with its blind corridors and closet-size elevators , the participants did manage to mingle . And in the two crowded weeks of formal meetings , press conferences  --  with 500 correspondents  --  and more intimate blackboard sessions in the exhibit booths , they showed a heartening willingness to exchange information and to help one another along with their tasks . The thawing of scientific secrecy , begun in 1955 , proceeded rapidly at the 1958 gathering . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States and British delegations  --  Adm . Lewis L. Strauss and Sir John Cockcroft  --  announced the declassification of all their nonmilitary work on controlled fusion . Russia , on her part , presented to the conference four volumes of reports on her own atomic research , including more than 100 papers on fusion . However , when asked by reporters if this meant that all Russian fusion research was being declassified , Prof. V. S. Emelyanov , stubby , blond chief of he Soviet atomic-energy board , would one , ' reply : " These books , include work Cone in 1958 . That ought to satisfy you . " Public interest in the conference outran all forecasts . Residents of Geneva and thousands from other countries thronged through the big , temporary wooden exhibition hall on the sloping lawn of the Palais , overlooking Lake Geneva . Even with the Swiss National Circus competing for their attention in a downtown park during the full two weeks , the atomic exhibits  --  including the commercial one near the circus  --  drew a total attendance of 150,000 . Men and women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or carriages ogled the glittering display of atomic hardware . Among scientists as well as laymen , the American exhibit was by all odds the hit of the show . At times several hundred lined up outside the gate , waiting to be admitted in small groups to avoid clogging up the traffic . The exhibits were rather technical for many of the visitors , who could only push buttons , look amazed or bewildered and have their radioactivity measured  --  along with their weight  --  in special counting booths . But many really got something out of it all  --  and others made a serious effort to , In one of the groups moving through the United States section was a Swiss woman in a pink-flowered dress , holding a child by each hand . The group paused before a model of an atomic power reactor while the girl interpreter , one of a team of bright young things in gray-blue uniforms and yellow berets , explained all about fuel cores , control rods , steam cycles , and so forth . After a few minutes of patient listening , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ February 7 , 1959 07 4 of about twelve , started to edge away toward another exhibit , with flashier tights and louder bangs . But their mother pulled them firmly back . " You pay attention to what nntilemoiselh. is saying . " she ? admonished them , in a loud whisper . " Alter all , this is what you children are ? going to be living with . This is your age  --  the atomic age . " Although her erudite patter went over the moppets ' heads , the girl interpreter and her tilts-odd teammates helped make the United States exhibits a notable achievement in international communication , The girls , most of them from the University of Geneva 's School of Interpreters , had been given it quickie course in atomic physics and chemistry . They were then able to conduct lay groups through the displays of isotopes , reactors ? and fusion fireworks and describe then ' knowingly in any one of six or more languages . Visitors were usually assigned to groups according to language spoken . The attractive guides also served as linguistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientists of different countries . Here another diplomatic stroke was scored by the United States exhibit managers  --  Dr. Clyde Cowan , professor of physics at the Catholic University of America : Col. John H. Rust , of the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology ; and Dr. Lloyd J. Roth , professor of pharmacology at the University of Chicago . " We felt the exhibits should consist not only of things but of people . " Doctor Cowan explained . " So we rounded up about two hundred of the leading scientists from fields we were planning to have exhibits on . We could n't just stand them on the floor with dead exhibits around them , so we brought pieces of their own . laboratories to Geneva ( or installed working duplicates ) . As a consequence , when a foreign delegate called at an exhibit it was like visiting the American scientist in his own laboratory  --  and watching him work . A number of our people actually continued research projects here which they had begun back in the States . " To assemble the displays cost the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ borrowed laboratory apparatus . In terms of international understanding and good will , it was well worth the investment . Although the American scientific exhibits were the most elaborate , nineteen other nations , including Russia , put their atomic accomplishments on display . In the commercial exhibits in downtown ' Geneva the most impressive showing was made by Great Britain . All of these demonstrations , as well as the papers presented in the sessions , gave clear evidence that atomic activity is progressing at a rapid rate in the technically advanced countries , with lively competition among the three major atomic powers  --  the United States , Britain and Soviet Russia  --  for leadership . It is a race with mixed goals . For the United States and Russia , each well supplied with coal for many years , the principal peacetime aim is international prestige , proof of technological supremacy . England has that in mind too . But she has in addition an urgent need for a new power source . Her coal deposits are running out and becoming more and more expensive to work . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Of all the countries , therefore , England is most immediately concerned with atomic power . A brief run-down on the race to date , and on the power prospects of the future , was given at Geneva by Sir John Cockcroft , director of the British Atomic En ergy Research Establishment at Harwell . Sir John and Dr. E. T. S. Walton , of Dublin , were the first to split the atom by artificial means , in 1932 , and for this feat they were awarded the Nobel prize in physics . " There is general agreement , " said Sir John , " that by 1975 most new power stations will be nuclear . " A tally by nations indicated that by 1970 nuclear power stations will be turning out at least 15,000.000 kilowatts of electrical capacity , about fifty times as much as they are now producing . ( This figure would be too conservative if EURATOM 's own goal of 15,000,000 kilowatts by 1967 is achieved ; obviously there is not full agreement among forecasters . ) The prediction is firmer when narrowed down In England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the northern county of C'innberland , are now putting electricity into the national grid , and a fourth , at Chapel Cross , in Scotland , went critical in November . Contracts have also been placed for four more large power stations . As to the economics of atomic power , Doctor Cockcroft believes the balance in Britain will soon tilt in the atom 's favor . He sees a continued reduction in capital costs during the next decade and predicts that by 1962 nuclear power will be as cheap as electricity from coal-fired stations located at some distance from coal fields . By the late 1960 's the cost of atomic electricity will be well below that from conventional plants . It is estimated that atomic plants in England and Scotland will be generating power at the rate of 6,000,000 kilowatts by 1966 , or a quarter of their total . Sometime before ( Continued on Page /09 ) ( Continued from Page 107 this date , I was told , all the electricity used at night in England . when the load is lowest , would come from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power-plant operation , by the way , and Britain and France are now working out a co-operative plan to reduce this fluctuation in their existing conventional plants . They will swap excess capacity via a power cable across the English Channel . It seems the people of the two countries keep different hours . The French get up and go to work earlier in the morning and create a peak demand during off-peak hours in England . At the other end of the day , and in spite of Paris ' reputation for night life . most Frenchmen turn the lights off earlier in the evening than the British , which would permit their spare current to flow to England . Britain also plans eventually to balance uneven demand by using its atomic reactors , during off-peak periods , to pump water to elevated reservoirs . Then at the peak-demand period the water would turn hydraulic generators to augment the atomic output . The other great European power , Russia , sprang a surprise at Geneva . She was thought to have only one modest-size atomic plant in operation , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the meeting . But in the middle of the conference she presented a movie of a 100,000-kilowatt reactor , and announced it was only the first unit of a 600,000-kilowatt station . This initial unit would be the largest reactor now operating anywhere in the world , although the Shippingport , Pennsylvania , plant is expected to attain this capacity when its second core is installed in a year or two . The Russian film , in color and with classical background music , showed a well-planned industrial city , with handsome apartment buildings , women wheeling baby carriages along the sidewalk and the usual statue of Lenin . But when Doctor Emelyanov was asked where this atomic city was located , he gave a characteristically evasive answer . " It is in a geographically undefined area , " he said . He finally admitted the town was in Siberia , but said it had not yet been given a name . " If we wanted to write a letter to someone living there , " a reporter asked him , " how would we address it ? " Emelyanov @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and l 'll see that it is delivered . " Soviet reticence about the location of this plant probably indicates its military importance . Dr. Walter H. Zinn , president of General Nuclear Engineering Corporation , at Dunedin , Florida , former director of the AEC 's Argonne Laboratory and one of the world 's foremost reactor experts , believes that the Siberian reactor 's primary purpose is to produce plutonium for bombs , and not electricity . In a statement prepared for the Congressional Joint Committee on Atomic Energy , Doctor Zinn said the Russians ' reports at Geneva showed they are making rapid progress in atomic power , are working on as many reactor types as we are and in some developments have ventured further than we have . Another Russian atomic boast is her icebreaker Lenin , powered by three pressurized water reactors similar to those on our submarine Nautilus . The Lenin was launched in 1957 , is to be commissioned early this year and will begin breaking paths through the Arctic ice in the spring . France , making a late start in the atomic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is rap idly catching up . Although her energy needs are not so urgent as England 's , she must 111140 per cent of them by imports , including Middle East oil . Uneasy in her dependence upon this vulnerable supply line , she has been surveying many alternative sources , with first reliance upon the atom . Reactors of various types and sizes are under construction or in the planning stages in nearly all the other countries of Europe . Most of them will generate electricity , but Sweden and Switzerland are also building reactors for direct heating of homes . Sweden 's atomic central-heating plant , named ADAM , will pipe hot water to Vasteras , a city of 70,000 located sixty miles west of Stockholm . The reactor will be buried in solid rock , a safe distance from the houses , and the rock chamber will be made radiation-tight by injecting concrete into the cracks and by lining it with concrete and heavy steel plate . Probably no power station in Europe has received such close and careful international scrutiny as the 150,000-kilowatt atomic plant to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between Rome and Naples . It is to be owned and operated by the Societa flettranucleare Nazi  --  note  --  SENN  --  composed of several Italian power companies . The project was launched by the Italian Government and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development  --  known as the World Bank  --  and because it is to serve as an economic yardstick for other large European nuclear plants , it was subjected to a year-long study . Bidding was international in scope , with four British companies , four United States firms and one from France submitting bids . The winning bidder , announced shortly after conclusion of the atoms-for-peace conference . is the International General Electric Company . The SENN decision represents a triumph for the boiling-water type of reactor , to which General Electric has devoted its main atomic effort for several years . In this design the heat of fission in the reactor core causes the circulating water to boil and turn to steam , and this steam flows directly to the turbines to generate electricity . The United States ' own atomic-power program , now entering its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reactors . In the latter type the water in the fuel core is kept under pressure so that it can get hot without boiling . The heat is then transferred to a secondary loop of pipe , where steam is formed and conveyed to the turbogenerators . Westinghouse has been the chief protagonist of the pressurized-water reactor , and among its best-known examples arc the submarine Nautilus and the Shippingport plant of the Duquesne Light Company , near Pittsburgh . From the standpoint of atomic economics it has been unfortunate that Shippingport , America 's first large civilian plant , was built on such expensive lines . Constructed to answer technical questions rather than to turn out cheap power , it was overdesigned and heavily instrumented . And the current it has been producing since December , 1957 , has been correspondingly high-priced , about fifty mills per kilowatt-hour . The five large reactors now under construction in the United States , however , should bring atomic power much closer to the cost of electricity from conventional stations . Four of them are to go on the line in 1960 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shippingport ? $45 , - 000,000 compared with 5110,000,000 ? and will have three times thc capacity-180,000 kilowatts compared with 60,000 . This is the Dresden station being built by General Electric for the Commonwealth Edison Company and other utilities near Joliet , Illinois . A boiling-water reactor housed in a spectacular Pa , - foot- diameter steel sphere , it is expected to product current at a cost , excluding the 515,000,000 item for research and development , of seven and one half mills per kilowatt-hour , or about the same us power from Commonwealth Edison 's newest coal-fired power plant . Three other plants to be completed in 1960 are : the 163,000-kilowatt pressurized-water reactor being built by Babcock and Wilcox at Indian Point , twenty-four miles north of New York City on the Hudson , for the Consolidated Edison Company ; a 134,000-kilowatt pressurized-water reactor being constructed by Westinghouse for the Yankee Atomic Electric Company at Rowe , Massachusetts ; and the Detroit Edison 's 100,000-kilowatt fast breeder  --  producing new fissionable fuel as it generates power  --  going up at Lagoona Beach , southwest of Detroit on Lake Erie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reactor which Atomics International is building for the AEC at Hallem , Nebraska , to be operated by the Consumers Public Power District . Other reactor types will appear on the American power horizon , including one using a waxy organic liquid as a moderator and heat exchanger , and a helium-cooled reactor with graphite , encased fuel elements . A plant of the latter design , to be built in southeastern Pennsylvania , with Atomic Energy Commission support , has been proposed by the Philadelphia Electric Company and High Temperature Reactor Development Associates , Inc. , a group of fifty-three other utility companies from all parts of the United States . One of the most aggressive commercial efforts to speed America toward nuclear power is that of the General Electric Company , which has decided to put most of its atomic eggs in boiling water . Impressed by its twelve years of experience with boiling-water reactors and pleased with the interest shown in them at Geneva , G.E . has launched an all-out sales campaign aimed at " achieving nuclear power in the the shortest possible time and at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president of the company and general manager of its Atomic Products Division , in San Jose , California , announced that the campaign would be in two parts . One , Operation Sunrise , calls for a three-step expansion of boiling-water-reactor construction , with a goal of **35;1716;TOOLONG power in seven years , and sixand-one-half-mill power by 1970 . The latter figure , said Mr. McCune , would be competitive with 25 per cent of the conventional plants then being installed . Second part of the program , Operation Know-How , would be the mass production of twenty-five to fifty small reactors , patterned upon the 5000-kilowatt Vallecitos boiling-water plant now being operated by G.E . and the Pacific Gas and Electric Company near Pleasanton , California . These would be offered at $4,000 , - 000 to 54,500,000 for the purpose of giving utility companies operating experience before they invest in larger plants . The General Electric Company also suggests that the plants be placed within easy driving distance of cities and be kept open to visitors so that any notion of " mystery " may be dispelled and public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ project being upset by break-throughs in controlled fusion , the effort to harness the H-bomb principle for power production . " Fusion is still only a long-range hope , " the company statement observed . This agrees with the view widely expressed at Geneva . For in spite of the impressive advances seen at the exhibits there , no one could say he had yet achieved a self-sustaining reaction in the laboratory . And forecasts of the date this will be accomplished ranged from ten to fifty years . Not only are many American firms engaged in building our own atomic future ; they also are much involved in Europe 's . But the European business will not be so large , nor last so long , as many had assumed . This , at least , is the opinion of the more realistic observers . Europe has a lot of engineering skill , they point out , and will eventually become self-sufficient in the atomic field . Alfred Iddles , chairman of Babcock and Wilcox and past president of the Atomic Industrial Forum , talking with me at Geneva about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thing people from these countries always ask us is how much of this they can make themselves . Actually , at least 45 per cent of the material can be produced in Europe . And after ten years or so we will have very little business here , because the Europeans , with lower labor costs , can make these things more cheaply than we can . " Much more important to us than the commercial gain is the strengthening of European defense that will come about through her atomic expansion . Robert Schaetzel , in charge of the State Department 's program for peaceful uses of atomic energy , told an Industrial Atomic Forum conference recently that the EURATOM program would be " a big step toward a United Europe , a policy we have supported for ten years . Atomic power , " he said , " will reduce dependence on Middle East oil and to that degree eliminate what is now a vulnerable factor in European defense . " At the same meeting , Gerd Brand , director of the foreign-affairs division of EURATOM , welcomed United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ want a United Europe , " he asserted , " but not without the closest ties with the United States . " And what about those nations which are less advanced , technologically and industrially , than Europe ? How much help should we offer them in this field ? How much atomic energy are they prepared to use ? The issue was brought pointedly to the attention of the Geneva delegates last September in the opening address of the conference president , gray-bearded Dr. Francis Perrin , distinguished head of the French atomic-energy commission and son of the late Jean Perrin , Nobel-prize winner in atomic physics . " It will be easily understood , " said Doctor Perrin , " that the appearance of a fresh source of power which seems to be unconnected with any accident of geography ( uranium is now known to be much more generously scattered around the earth than was previously thought ) should have raised great hopes in all those countries which are inadequately supplied with traditional sources of energy , and that atomic energy should have appeared to many underequipped countries as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sober fact , Doctor Perrin continued , is that " in the near future atomic I 10 Ttiit s AT tilt DAY E.VENINr ; I. ( ) T energy can play an important part only in a fairly restricted range of countries , which does not include those . which have the greatest need lu raise their living standards . " Before thew nations can profit from the M. i energy source , Doe ? for Perrin asserted . they must first go through " a preliminary stage of industrialization in the old sway " ? that is , using coal , oil or Lilting water as their power source . It is not simply a matter of ordering a reactor , giving it the old Aladdin rub , mumbling " E - Inv " and sitting hack to wait for the genie to do the work . Both capital and scientific training , it was gently pointed out , arc prime requisites . Moreoser , atomic power comes cheapest in large packages , as Doctor Libby emphasized at the conference ; and many countries that had hoped to acquire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for electricity to justify the investment . Offering an atomic plant to such countries , as a West Coast engineer privately commented , " would be as silly as offering a radar navigation aid to an Indian in a canoe . " Not all of the underdeveloped countries were willing , hones er , to accept a delayed timetable . Several are large enough and sufficiently urbanized to use fairly big blocks of power , and they indicated at Geneva that they were eager to get aboard the atomic train as soon as possible . There was also a feeling that the highly publicized advantages of atomic energy may give a stronger push toward industrialization than anything in the past . Assistance to the countries less advanced in atomic knowledge has a high priority in the programs of the International Atomic Energy Agency , with headquarters in Vienna . This is an autonomous body organized by the United Nations in response to President Eisenhower 's historic atoms-for-peace address in December , 1953 , although it was almost blocked by an isolationist group in Congress and did not actually come into being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OVER ATOMS-FOR-PEACE , by Demaree Bess , The Saturday Evening Post , November 16 , 1957 . ) Its director is former New York Congressman W. Sterling Cole . The agency is set up to act as a clearing house for supplying nuclear fuel and to see that that fuel does not find its way into military channels . The first application for assistance in obtaining fuel has come from Japan , which wants three tons of natural uranium . The agency has also just completed a valuable manual of practices for safe handling of radioisotopes . In the field of training , it is supporting twenty-five fellowships on its own budget and is administering about 175 fellowships placed at its disposal by thirteen of its sixty-nine member countries . Most eloquent spokesman for the underdeveloped nations at Geneva was Dr. Homi Jehangir Bhabha , urbane , Cambridge-educated chairman of India 's atomic-energy commission . He was president of the first atoms-for-peace conference in 1955 and gained world-wide attention at that time by predicting that controlled fusion would be achieved in twenty years . He had less to say on fusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ detailed analysis of the energy needs of the underdeveloped regions . China , Africa and the Middle East , Doctor Bhabha observed , have enough conventional sources of energy to raise them to a fairly high level of development before they have to call upon the atom . Other areas are less fortunate . " The underdeveloped region most poorly endowed in per-capita energy resources , and where atomic energy may be expected tofind the earliest application , " said Doctor lihabha , " is South Asia and the Far East , a vast ewer stretching from Afghanistan through India and Burma to Malaya , the Philippines and Japan , but excluding China . A total of 775,000,000 people live here ( as of the 1955 count I. 382,000,000 of them in India alone . " Reducing the power picture to individual terms , Doctor Bhabha finds the " maximum readily extractable energy " from conventional sources in this region is only 2.3 megawatts per capita per year . This is only one sixtieth of the energy available to the people of North America . But more important , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's present rate of consumption . Since world energy demands on the whole have been increasing 100 per cent every ten years , the 50-per-cent margin wo n't be enough for Asia if she is to catch up with the parade . Doctor Bhabha. therefore , concludes that " any substantial rise in living standards in Asia and the Far East will require a vast import of fuel or a very considerable use of atomic energy . " He himself favors the atomic route for many of these countries , and he suggests that some of those not equipped to build their own reactors might purchase them abroad . One of the strongest arguments for atomic plants rests on their fuel , which is required in such small amounts that it can be imported much more easily than coal or oil . A few tons of refined uranium will do the work of hundreds of thousands of tons of coal , and if enriched with Uranium-235 , the weight advantage is even greater . Hence a nation far from coal fields or oil wells would have no trouble bringing in enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lines were not available , the hauling could he done by truck or cargo plane . Those naGems with their own deposits of reactor fuel would be even more fortunately situated , India herself , with several large industrial centers clamoring for more power , is already launched on a fa i rly sizable atomic program . Her goal is 1,000,000 kilowatts of installed nuclear power by 1966 , 140 , - 000,000 by the end of the century . She has 700 scientists and engineers in her research center at Trombay , near Bombay , and expects to put into operation in 1959 a substantial research reactor built under a joint agreement with Canada . Exploitable uranium deposits have been found in northern India , and a plant is being built in Behar to process 1000 tons of ore a day . India is also extracting uranium and thorium from the black monazite sands of the Kerala coast , in the south . They contain 10 per cent thorium  --  which can be converted in a reactor into nuclear fuel  --  and .3 per cent uranium , a higher content @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operations are of special interest from the standpoint of radiation exposure . For the workers who shovel the sand into baskets and carry it on their heads to a narrow-gauge railway have lived on this radioactively " hot " beach all their lives , So have their ancestors . for generations back . The radiation here is ten to thirty times the background elsewhere and is as high as the maximum permissible limit for atomic workers in the United States . Indian scientists are therefore studying this community of approximately 100,000 to sec whether genetic effects are apparent . Typical of the smaller underdeveloped nations seeking their place in the atomic procession is Burma , with a population of 19,000,000 , largely agricultural and still wrestling with the problems that came with independence . Immediatelyafter the 1955 atoms-for-peace conference , Burma organized an atomic-energy center at Kanbe , Rangoon , named as its director an enthusiastic but level-headed young physics teacher , Dr. 1-11a Nyunt , and sent him to the United States to study for a year at the International School of Nuclear Science and Engineering , at the AEC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feels that Burma 's present underdeveloped slate exists because we missed the first Industrial Revolution , " Doctor Nyunt told the 1958 conference , " and now that we are independent we can by no means afford to miss this present atomic revolution . " Burma realizes that her needs for atomic power are not immediate . She is still , for the most part , a wood-burning nation ; 80 per cent of the fuel consumed , said Doctor Nyunt , is wood or charcoal , most of it for cooking , some for transportation and industries . What electricity is produced is generated by diesel or other forms of internal-combustion engines , or by steam . And to meet an anticipated 30-per-cent-per-year increase in power demand she has begun to develop large water-power resources . However , her industries are clustered in the Rangoon area , approximately 250 miles from the coal mines and the best hydraulic sites . This means expensive high-voltage trans -- mission lines , which in the present disturbed state of affairs are vulnerable to sabotage . Therefore , Burma is looking to atomic power as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Burma and the other underdeveloped nations are far in the future or on this year 's calendar , help from the technologically advanced countries will play a large part . And not all of the atomic leaders are as pessimistic about the timetable as Doctor Perrin was at Geneva . William E. Knox , president of the Westinghouse Electric International Company , recently told the National Foreign Trade Council , at its annual convention , that small nuclear-power units promise a rapid fulfillment of the energy needs of the underdeveloped areas . Nor does he believe these nations will have to pass through a slow industrial apprenticeship . " 1 am convinced that nuclear power is destined to become the safest and cheapest power in most parts of the world , " Mr. Knox declared . " And I personally consider that the nations with scientists , physicists , engineers , industry , manufacturing know-how and money have an obligation to all mankind to produce nuclear-power plants which will produce electricity cheaper than by any other means . " Discussing the underdeveloped countries . he said : " It is in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ energy will , I hope , play its most important economic and social role . In these areas of our shrinking world , demands will not wait for gradual evolutionary developments . We must help them leapfrog many stages of progress and endeavor to telescope into the next twenty to thirty years much of what it has taken a century or more to realize in the United States or Europe . " And regardless of their timetables , all nations can help themselves by using those atomic tools which are less expensive than power plants and easier to handle  --  namely , the small radiation sources , such as cobalt " bombs , " and the wide assortment of isotopes now being produced by the reactors . In the second article of this series we shall look at some of the curious yet practical jobs these radioactive tools are performing . Mose Nole  --  Mf , Spencar , concluding affiClc off the peaceful use ol the atom will appear eels week                     