@@476296

GENERAL MACARTI IUR 'S place in history , " President Truman told the country and the world when he an-nounced the recall of the General from his several commands in the Far East , " is fully es-tablished . " No less controversial statement has been made in the course of the MacArthur controversy . And if what the President said ( or had said in his behalf , for he slept soundly in Blair House while the tremendous news was being given out ) was true beyond dis-pute at one o'clock in the morning of April eleventh , its truth has been heightened and broadened in all its meanings in the weeks that have . since elapsed . Before his recall , MacArthur was a great personality , a great general , a great orator and writer , and the first American proconsul . He was an Ameri-can prophet honored at home largely because of the lavish ways in which he was honored ? and in some quarters despised ? abroad . But when he flew inward from the perimeter of American power , he made a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be going too far to say that he as an individual precipitated the conflict over national policy that now rages , for the conflict preceded his return , preceded the Korean campaign , preceded even the last great war , and would no doubt exist even if he did not ; but it is perfectly clear that he and his extraordinary personality have brought matters to a head and have now become enormous factors in what someone has called the Greater Debate . It is conceivable that in the resolution of the argument they will be the decisive factors . In short , Douglas MacArthur is now a force , almost a principle , in American politics . How far he wants to go and how far he is capable of going are matters on which no one seems able to speak with much authority . We have his word for it that he does not seek the Presidency , but we can assume that he would not be too bitter if the office , or the nomination for it , were thrust upon him . In any event , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for he is in politics and in very deeply . His concern is with domestic as well as with foreign affairs . In the excitement surrounding his speech to Congress on April 19 , it passed almost without comment that , later that afternoon , he made a brief patriotic address to the convention of the Daughters of the American Revolution . " The complexities and confusion , " he said , " resulting largely from internal subversion and corruption and detailed regimentation over our daily lives now threaten the country no less than it was threatened in Washington 's day . Under these harmful influences , we have drifted far away and to a dangerous degree from the simple but immutable pattern etched by our forefathers . " It is possible , of course , that MacArthur has now reached or passed the zenith of his power . There are certain indications that this may be true . One is that MacArthur is talking a great deal now , arid we know from experience that very often when MacArthur talks he cuts the ground from beneath his own feet . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what we have seen is nothing compared to what we arc going to see . On the whole , it is well to be on guard against writing down MacArthur . The man has a remarkable capacity for capping one triumph with another ; he has an even more remarkable capacity for moving from the trough of a wave to its crest , for coming up from catastrophe and near-catastrophe to victory . One thinks of the brilliant Inchon landings last autumn , in what seemed certain to be the darkest days of the Korean fighting , and one thinks , too , of the way he has lived down the tragic retreat of his attenuated forces on the Yalu River front last December . In the frenzy of April and May of 1951 , it was not easy to recall the mood of December 1950 , but the fact is that there were many Americans then ? among them , unquestionably , some participants in the later orgy ? who felt that he should be recalled for what almost everyone looked upon as inexcusable mismanagement and miscalculation . " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tribune , a Republican newspaper , observed in a December editorial , " to put confidence in the military capacity of a headquarters which has so gravely compounded blunder by confusion . " General MacArthur , it concluded , " can no longerbe accepted as the final authority on military actualities . " The Administration came within an ace of superseding him then , but for reasons of its own failed to do so , and four and a half months later MacArthur , recalled for usurping the diplomatic function rather than for failing to fulfill the military one , came home not in a cart but as a conquering hero , causing strong men to weep at the very sight of him and women to strew his path with flowers . City after city outdid itself in welcoming him : New York put on the biggest , most bedazzling show in its frenetic history . Everywhere he moved in a hysteria of mass approval : he was the man alone who could save America . The President who dared dismiss him was buried under an avalanche of abusive letters and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , MacArthur impressed some Americans as a figure of supernatural proportions . " We heard God speak here today , " Representative Dewey Short , a Missourian who ordinarily carries the indigenous skepticism to extremes , cried , " God in the flesh , the voice of God . " Americans are not commonly given to deifying or even canonizing their heroes , but no less an American than ex-President Herbert Hoover spoke solemnly of MacArthur as " a reincarnation of St. Paul . " Few people , if any , complained of sacrilege when MacArthur 's aide , a Major General on active duty , compared MacArthur with Christ by comparing his critics with Doubting Thomas . W HEN men are spoken of in these terms , we can be sure that the sources of their power lie somewhere deep within them . It is perfectly true that the point of view which MacArthur now symbolizes has always had millions of adherents in this country . But to millions more Mac-Arthur 's personality far overshadows the policy . No other analysis of his power really explains it , for one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many policies . To the Daughters of the American Revolution , he symbolized " the simple but immutable pattern etched by our forefathers . " To many who have observed his proconsulship in Japan , he symbolizes a kind of welding together of the best qualities of Alexander of Macedon and of the late Harry Hopkins . He numbers among his warmest admirers Colonel Robert R. McCormick , publisher of the Chicago Tribune , and Roger Baldwin , long the guiding spirit of the American Civil Liberties Union . " I can testify , " Baldwin said , after meeting the General and finding him , as so many others have , an irresistible conversationalist , " that in all matters involving democratic principles and methods , I found not a single point of disagreement , and a surprisingly profound conviction ? for a military man ? of the loftiest values of civilization . " Baldwin was not explicit about the , loftiest values , but it is not likely that he had in mind the things MacArthur had in mind when he congratulated Colonel McCormick 's cousin , the late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Daily News , for " invincibly standing ... for those higher ethics designed to ensure propagation of the truth . " MacArthur 's power is largely independent of doctrine . Today he is an unflagging enemy of appeasement , a fierce champion of resistance , but he has not always been seen in that light . Those who are transported by his description of the shortsightedness of the Administration 's postwar policy in the Far East seem neither to know nor to care that he was the author of the paragraph in the Japanese constitution which has been described as " a self-denying ordinance of perpetual self-disarmament " ? an ordinance now to be violated with just about everyone 's approval . In February 1942 , when the country was in the midst of its first great spasm of MacArthur idolatry , the General concurred in a proposal made by President Manuel Quezon that the Philippines be neutralized , American troops permanently evacuated , and the Philippine armies , so largely MacArthur 's personal creation , disbanded . President Quezon thought that a deal could be worked out whereby , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japanese would leave the islands alone . It was a proposal strikingly similar to some of the fainthearted suggestions for ending the Korean war that have been advanced in the United Nations and in certain capitals of Europe and Asia . MacArthur , who now insists that Formosa is indispensable to American security , said that we would " lose no military advantage " if we were party to such an arrangement and begged Franklin Roosevelt and Henry Stimson to consider " whether the plan of President Quezon might offer the best possible solution of what is about to be a disastrous debacle . " They did consider it , and they decided , in the words of Roosevelt 's reply , that " As the most powerful member of this coalition of free nations we can not display weakness in fact or in spirit anywhere . It is mandatory that there be established once and for all in the minds of all people complete evidence that the American determination and will to win carries on down to the last unit . " It has been suggested that Mac-Arthur 's defiance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last reverberation of Roosevelt 's 1947 lecture on appeasement . I T is interesting and perhaps instructive to observe that the personality which , sur- mounting all its own contradictions , has so overpowering an appeal to millions of Americans is not cast in any of the typical American molds . It is not just that MacArthur is somewhat larger than life ? so were the Roosevelts and Wilson , Bryan and the elder LaFollette . It is not just that he is a remarkable general ? so is Omar Bradley ; or a fine military governor ? so was Lucius Clay ; or a compelling orator ? so was Franklin Roosevelt . It is that his tremendous personality somehow orders these by no means un-American traits into a strange new constellation . He is larger than life in ways that seem foreign to the American tradition and that set a new style in American personality . All combined , the austere and formal bearing ; the commanding manner , at once imperious and imperial ; the dramatic flamboyance of pose ; the stern remoteness from telephones and newspapers and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and apparently welcome adoration of his entourage ; the resonant cadences of his rhetoric , which is half genuine eloquence in an old military tradition , half hucksterism in a new one ; the humorlessness ; the self-regard , lofty and impersonal as Fujiyama ; above all , the overriding sense of mission and destiny ? these things , in their totality , give us a kind of leader we have not known before in this country . They give us a new creation ? glittering and resplendent , disinterested and wise , the embodiment of vivid certitude in a time of confusion and anguish . If they relate to any American tradition at all , it is to that of the nineteenth-century utopians and religious fanatics . But theirs was not a central tradition . If we must relate MacArthur to anything , it had best be to the Central European military tradition and to the Bismarckian tradition in statesmanship . In them we find established the punctilio that sets him apart from generals like Omar Bradley , who up to now have had great appeal to a people used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retaining ancestral memories of the days when the militia elected its officers ; and we find , as well , that innate knowledge of " the trade of being a king " which has served him so well in Japan . II T rAtE affords a valuable perspective for getting at the root of some of Mac- Arthur 's traits . He sprang from an intense and dedicated military tradition . The life of his father encompassed the life of the American Army from Fort Sumter almost to the first world war . Arthur MacArthur enlisted in the Union Army at the age of sixteen ; stayed in the Army through its decline in the dreary seventies and eighties , serving for nearly twenty years on the Western frontier ; and rose again with the Army and became a national hero as the pacifier of the Philippines . He died at sixty-seven while addressing a regimental reunion . He was a man of energy and ability and of a colorful , vehement personality ; old General Enoch Crowder once said that " Arthur MacArthur was the most flamboyantly egotistic man I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Like his son , Arthur MacArthur had a way of going off the reservation . Once he issued a public statement questioning the patriotism of German-Americans . The first Roosevelt , who did n't like generals meddling in politics , cracked down on him without mercy . An officer who could make such a statement , he said , " is unfit to hold a commission in the National Guard . " MacArthur inherited from his father not only his storminess and his sense of drama but his sense of the Far Fast as the strategic center of American security ; it was probably from his father , too , and from his Manila childhood , that he got his deep emotional attachment to the Philippines . It seems likely that , at the same time , Arthur MacArthur 's Philippine experience may have given his son a deep dislike of civilian authority . In 1900 , when the elder MacArthur was fighting Aguinaldo and his guerrillas , William Howard Taft arrived in Manila , overflowing with benevolent determination to win over " the little brown brothers " with kindness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a brother of William Howard Taft , but he ai n't no brother of mine , " the popular song went . ) Taft 's policy aroused Arthur MacArthur 's sharp opposition . An ugly dispute followed , and when , a year later , Taft was made Governor General , MacArthur was relieved of his command . When Taft became President , he conspicuously passed over MacArthur in selecting his Chief of Staff . Today the son of William Howard Taft seems bent on doing his best to make it up to the son of Arthur MacArthur . D OUGLAS MACARTHUR was never less than promising . He led his class at West Point , making , it is said , the highest scholastic record anyone has ever made there ; served as a military aide to Theodore Roosevelt ; helped seize Vera Cruz in 1914 ; and served with great distinction and heroism in the first world war . A major , he advocated over the head of his superior officers the project of a Rainbow Division ? made up of National Guard units from many states ? and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinguished himself not only by his tactical competence but even more by his cool bravery under fire . On his return from Germany , where he served briefly with the occupation forces , he became superintendent of the Academy at West Point . In the twenties , MacArthur , like Winston Churchill , Charles de Gaulle , and other figures of a heroic cast , was miserably out of place . It was a tough decade for professional soldiers in general ; for a soldier of Mac-Arthur 's stripe , it was almost impossible . He could not fly the ocean like Lindbergh , or explore the poles like Byrd ; he would not turn to business like his friend Hugh Johnson , or to politics like Leonard Wood . The Army , in which he rose with astonishing speed , becoming a brigadier general at forty and a major general at forty-five , was his dedication ; he could conceive no ? alternative . Nevertheless , the United States was a wasteland , from which , luckily , he managed to escape when General Pershing ordered him to the Philippines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bright and giddy divorcee who provided MacArthur 's one fleeting contact with the jazz age . Mrs. Brooks , who later divorced MacArthur and married the actor Lionel Atwill , had been General Pershing 's official hostess , and it was thought by some that the assignment was an exile . Exile or not , it was a happy return to the family fief . He was in Manila from 1922 to 1925 and in 1928 and 1929 . The intervening years were notable chiefly for his service on the court-martial of Brigadier General Billy Mitchell and for his chairmanship of the American Committee for the Olympic Games . The Mitchell affair was one from which MacArthur has not yet quite extricated himself . He and Billy Mitchell had known each other as boys in Milwaukee . His role in Mitchell 's trial , however , is still entirely enigmatic . MacArthur 's supporters today claim that he voted against Mitchell 's conviction . The Luce publications assert this as a fact , and a fact it may be , but MacArthur himself , perhaps respecting the sanctity of court-martial proceedings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one legend , a janitor , sweeping up the office after the vote , found in a wastebasket a mutilated slip of paper marked , " Not guilty , Douglas MacArthur . " Once , in a letter to Senator Wiley of Wisconsin , MacArthur said that his part in the trial was " fully known " to Mitchell , who , MacArthur went on , " never ceased to express his gratitude for my attitude . " But Mitchell 's recollection of the trial ten years later expressed not gratitude but an incredulity that his old friend could have had a hand in the unpleasantness ; still , " there he was , " Mitchell wrote , " his features as cold as carved stone . " I T WOULD be possible to construct a tenable theory of MacArthur 's present character by beginning with the observation that its most salient and extravagant elements are the product of a kind of delayed rebellion against the twenties and some parts of the thirties . They were frustrating , imprisoning years . His most important activities ? the Mitchell affair , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were unworthy of him ; they offered no real scope to his genius and his imagination . The best he could do was to charge those activities with the heroic emotions he must have felt stirring within him . It was sometimes more than the activities could bear . The Mitchell trial was certainly no occasion for wearing " features as cold as carved stone . " The campaign on Anacostia Flats was no occasion for wearing burnished boots and a full complement of decorations . Yet he had to make the most of intractable materials . He had to invent new values . As head of the Olympic committee , he had to construct a bright fantasy in which his role was that of a savior delivering the American people from grossness and degeneracy through athletics . In a communiqu ? to President Coolidge , we get some insight into the process by which his rhetoric became the inflated thing it is today . In undertaking this difficult task he wrote I recall a passage in Plutarch wherein Themistocles , being asked whether he would rather be Achilles or Homer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a conqueror in the Olympic Games or the crier who proclaims who are conquerors ? " And indeed to portray adequately the vividness and brilliance of that great spectacle would be worthy of the pen of Homer himself . No words of mine can adequately portray such great moments as the resistless onrush of that matchless California eight as it swirled and crashed down the placid water of the Sloten ; that indomitable will for victory which marked the deathless rush of Barbuti ; that sparkling combination of speed and grace by Elizabeth Robinson which might have rivaled even Artemis herself on the heights of Olympus . . . . I can but record the bare blunt facts , trusting that imagination will supply the magic touch to that which can never be forgotten by those who were actually present . And we come upon the same thing again in 1933 , in the on-the-spot communiqu ? he issued from Anacostia after the repulse of the Bonus Army : Had the President not acted today , had he permitted this thing to go on for twenty-four hours more , he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ caused a real battle . Had he let it go another week , I believe that the institutions of our government would have been severely threatened . MacArthur became Chief of Staff in 1930 . By all accounts , he did an admirable job . It satisfied Herbert Hoover , and it impressed Franklin Roosevelt sufficiently to lead him to reappoint MacArthur and keep him on duty in Washington until . 1935 . In those years , he fought a noble thankless battle against the prevalent pacifism . Though he said some things about the functions of the horse and the limitations of tanks and aircraft that sound rather foolish today , the consensus of qualified opinion is that he saw the future of warfare more clearly than most of his contemporaries . In the end , though , he was lucky , with the aid of Roosevelt , to save the Army from the destruction threatened by the preoccupied and neutralist Congress . In 1935 , fifty-five years old , his tour of duty as Chief of Staff over , the American string apparently played out , MacArthur returned to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Philippine Army , he threw himself into preparations for the defense of the islands against invasion . His estimate of Philippine security was optimistic . Successful landing operations against Luzon , he thought , would require enemy forces of an inconceivable size . " In all history , " he wrote , " there is no example of this kind of attack being attempted on a comparable scale . " Corregidor , he said , was " the strongest single fortified point in the world . " The years of peace had apparently bred in him an extraordinary sanguinity about the prospects of war . In 1939 , he was convinced not only that Japan could not successfully attack the Philippines but that it had no intention of trying . " It has been assumed , in my opinion erroneously , " he wrote , " that Japan covets these islands . Just why has never been satisfactorily explained . " Drawing upon that knowledge of and experience with the Oriental mind which constitutes today , in the view of his supporters , one of our great national resources , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fully to credit the logic of the Japanese mind . " Oddly enough , not even Pearl Harbor shook his confidence in his intuitions about Japanese objectives in the Philippines . Or at least that is the most chari-MAGAZINE table explanation of the fact that he took no adequate measures , even after Pearl Harbor , to prepare for Japanese air attack . Nine hours after the shooting began in Hawaii , American bombers were still wing-to-wing at Clark Field near Manila , just so many targets for the Japanese bombers . In a single blow , the enemy was able virtually to wipe out the American capacity to retaliate on Japanese bases on Formosa . This unpreparedness ? which was far less excusable than that for which Kimmel and Short were pilloried across the country ? sealed the fate of the Islands . III I N LARGE measure , the influence MacArthur wields today is based on his way with words . If it should now prove that his view of the Far Eastern crisis has more support in the country than that of President Truman and General Marshall , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colorless and frequently opaque , are such meager things alongside his . But it is notable , too , that nearly all MacArthur 's misfortunes have also been associated with words . His pen and tongue are forever getting him into trouble . His record would look much finer than it does if he had spoken less often . Picturesque but frequently ill-chosen words serve to conceal the magnificence of his acts ; where his acts have fallen short of magnificence , there is almost always evidence that the man has been betrayed by his own resplendent rhetoric . He appears to have talked himself out of preparing in time for the Japanese attack on the bastion he was raising in the Philippines . His record in the weeks that followed the attack would have seemed much better if he had said much less ; if , for example , his statements and communiques had not held out so many false hopes , so many unfulfilled and unfulfillable promises of deliverance . The communiques described exploits that never took place , small victories that in fact were rather large defeats . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poets . As a result of his poetic visions , the morale of his troops sagged badly ; and the men locked in combat on Bataan spoke mockingly and derisively of " Dugout Doug " writing communiques on Corregidor . In 1942 , the bravura language , though damaging in its effect on his troops , had a bracing effect on the home front . The country desperately needed a hero then . MacArthur , as the only American general in active field command , would have been an inevitable candidate under any circumstances . But there is no doubt that his communiqu ? s ? bold , inspiring , and very casual with the facts ? helped give the country the sort of symbol it wanted and needed . And the performance itself was really superb . In a succession of campaigns , imaginatively conceived , executed with skill and daring , he swept back from Australia to the Philippines and eventually to Japan . Though it is assuredly true that the war in the Pacific was one in which the Navy must get a larger share of the credit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fact remains that , in his own theater , he deserves some share of the Navy 's share . He seems to have argued for long leaps forward and urged the by-passing of centers of resistance like Rabaul , which would otherwise have been costly to reduce . In the New Guinea campaign , which lasted roughly a year , he advanced eighteen hundred miles to the west and seven hundred miles north , using this strategy . He got out of his generals ? Eichelberger , Buckner , Krueger ? their best professional efforts , and although the Pacific war was not a coalition war to the extent that the European war was , there was no equivalent in MacArthur 's theater to the open feud between Montgomery and Bradley in Europe . He may , as has been charged , have tended to demean his subordinate commanders in order to increase his own prestige , but even if coolly they served him well , and there is no record of the kind of sewing-circle atmosphere that grew up in Europe , with arguments still going on as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ content , like Eisenhower and Bradley , to let his vic- tories speak for themselves . He gave them voice ; he kept getting into word trouble ; the words fashioned a legend ; the legend overshadowed reality , and in the long run swallowed it up . Part of the legend hinged on MacArthur himself . " I will return , " he said when he left the Philippines . The Office of War Information wanted to change the message to " We shall return " before dropping it on enemy-held territory ; MacArthur sent back an absolute refusal . The haroosh went on for months , MacArthur eventually winning out . His stubbornness was not petty vanity ; his egotism includes vanity but rises far above it . For him , " I " meant the entire Allied forces , even though he must have known that many of his men resisted this amiable identification . MacArthur 's past , re-examined , resounds with many faithful echoes of the present . In the early forties , he not only identified himself with his theater but his theater with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of achieving victory in Europe first . Washington 's every application of that strategy was taken as a vindictive personal thrust at MacArthur . " There are unmistakable evidences of an acute persecution complex at work , " Robert E. Sherwood reported after a visit at MacArthur 's headquarters . " To hear some of the staff officers talk , one would think that the War Department , the State Department , the Joint Chiefs of Staff ? and possibly even the White House itself ? are under the domination of ' Communists and British Imperialists . ' " According to Arthur Bliss Lane , MacArthur even resisted British participation in the Pacific war . His own world excluded all others for him , and he was at its center . The tangible impress of this world Were the MacArthur communiqu ? s , which continued to be a problem all by themselves in the Pacific . Their lush and elaborate narrations , in devoted but vulgarized mimicry of the General 's own style , gave them a special air of South Sea fantasy . Toward the end of the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : For two long years , since blood and tears have been so very rife , Confusion in our war news burdens more a soldier 's life . But from this chaos , daily , like a hospice on the way , Like a shining light to guide us , rises Doug 's communiqu ? . His area is quite cosmic and capricious as a breeze , Ninety times as big as Texas , bigger than Los Angeles . It springs from lost Atlantis up to where the angels play , And no sparrow falls unheeded ? it 's in Doug 's communiqu ? . In today 's perspective , the distressing thing about MacArthur 's wartime communiqu ? s is not their literary debauchery , not even their fast and loose way with hard facts ; the distressing thing is that the man from whose headquarters they came ? and the papers invariably ran the dateline " MacArthur 's Headquarters " ? refused to correct them even when the truth came out . Thus , Communiqu ? No. 3 reported the sinking of a 29,000-ton battleship by an Air Force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pilot as Captain Colin P. Kelly , Jr. , and gave a graphic account of the sinking of the Haruna . Captain Kelly and his crew were genuine heroes , but subsequent investigation showed not only that they never sank the Haruna but that the Japanese used no battleships at all in the Luzon landings . The Haruna at the time was on the other side of the South China Sea , and despite subsequent claims of its destruction , it was still afloat when MacArthur accepted the Japanese surrender aboard the Missouri . There was an even more striking instance when , after the Battle of Bismarck Sea in early 1943 , the MacArthur communiqu ? claimed the destruction of twenty-two ships , fifty-five planes , and fifteen thousand men . Tall stories are common in the heat of battle , and no one should have been astonished when it was later determined beyond any legitimate doubt that the true figures were twelve ships , twenty to thirty planes , and about three thousand men . When the Air Forces Historical Section reported this to MacArthur later in the year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the officer who wrote the report . When , in September 1945 , a detailed intelligence report , which had made full use of Japanese materials , was submitted , MacArthur still refused to retreat an inch from the original communique . In a determined effort to extirpate the heresy , his headquarters , on November 19 , 1945 , actually ordered the report destroyed . To this day , official historians in Tokyo insist on the original story and still fail , challenged by other historians , to document their contentions. v OR all of that , victory was gained ; in good measure through MacArthur 's gen- eralship . Brilliant as his wartime role had been , it may , in the final weighing , be MAGAZINE judged as less brilliant than his role in the occupation of Japan . It will not be until the Japanese peace treaty has been in effect for some years that anyone will be able to pass balanced judgment . on his stewardship in Tokyo , but there are some things that can be said tentatively , and nearly all of them redound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and paradoxical elements in his personality , all the things that set him apart from the American military tradition , seemed to qualify him for his proconsulship . It is , indeed , doubtful if any other American could have managed the assignment at all . Unlike the merely brisk and efficient commanders of the Lucius Clay type , MacArthur felt that he was performing not one more Army assignment but an exalted historical mission . He communicated his sense of high historical significance to the Japanese , swept them up in the great drama and mystery of reconstruction , and gave them a feeling of spiritual purpose in a moment of unsurpassed national disaster . He invested his role , as the Washington Post has said , with a grandeur which his subjects , with their racial memories of the Shogunate , found easy to understand . He , too , must have been swept up in the drama and the mystery , for he revealed in Japan a deeply personal magnanimity and dignity that had not previously been notable in his makeup . The Pacific war had been fought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the victorious general would have been altogether understandable . Yet MacArthur , who could propose the court-martial of an officer who contradicted his communiques and who in 1933 stirred up an Army feud that is still going on by exiling George Catlett Marshall to Illinois as an instructor of National Guardsmen , shucked all his native vindictiveness when he steamed into Tokyo Bay and told the vanquished that the problem of making a decent peace was basically " theological and involves a spiritual recrudescence and improvement of human character . It must be of the spirit if we are to save the flesh . " It is more clearly certain that MacArthur was the right man for the occupation than that the policies with which he sought to bring about " spiritual recrudescence " were the right policies . His basic reform was a broad redistribution of land-holdings , and the common opinion of disinterested observers is that it may be his most enduring one . It has been observed that there is a kind of double irony in this : first , that large numbers of MacArthur 's admirers in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a mask of Communism ; and second , that the probable consequence of this radical dodge in Japan will be the organization of small landholders into a large conservative bloc . His reforms of industry were even further from the " simple but immutable patterns etched by our forefathers " than his land reforms , and in the judgment of the Washington Post , which has published some of the most succinct and penetrating analyses of the occupation , they are far less likely to endure . He encouraged labor unions the Post has said , giving a head to left-wingers and even Communists , though a recent crackdown has doubtless loosened their hold upon the workers . The management of industry got MacArthur 's attention along with the organization of labor . American liberals found a ready convert in General MacArthur in the campaign against the Zaibatsu ? trusts which , in alliance with the party chieftains , ran Japan in pre-military days . More time and trouble and reams of paper were spent on trust-busting than on any other reform . But fragmentation or atomization of industry was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; there was bound to be industrial reconcentration along the route of stock transactions . In any event , the banks are the source of industrial control in Japan , and they were hardly touched . Fortunately , perhaps , for the revival of Japan as an industrial and commercial power ! B EFORE 1945 , MacArthur had a large political following , but the following in no sense constituted a cult . The cult bad its origins in the Dai-Ichi Building , where the high priests conducted daily devotions and made converts of visitors . By 1950 , all the independent spirits on his staff had been screened out and only true believers remained . The message they passed along to visiting journalists was that MacArthur was the greatest man alive , the greatest man since Christ , the greatest general in world history , even the greatest man who ever lived . " He 's too enormous , " one officer told John Gunther , " too unpredictable . I do n't really understand him . No one could . " One of those who believed MacArthur to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the thinking of the group by describing Francisco Franco as the second greatest man . Another insight came from a naively direct remark by Philip LaFollette : " There was something about him that kept reminding me of characteristics of my father . " No doubt many men were reminded of many fathers . The protective adoration of the staff , combined with MacArthur 's sense of historic mission , made the Supreme Commander 's headquarters morbidly sensitive to any criticism of the occupation . MacArthur was in fairly continuous conflict with American newspapermen . He snubbed them , rebuked them , threw them out of the country , denied them accreditation , even complained to their publishers when they stubbornly refused to see things his way . In Tokyo there grew upon him the habit of addressing petulant letters and cables to newspapers and magazines and politicians ? the habit which was to develop almost into a mania after the outbreak of the Korean war . He was a penetrating but eccentric prophet in those years . Sometimes he showed a shrewd awareness of the Soviet threat . " For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he observed to Representative Judd in 1947 , " we have endangered the paramount interests of the United States by confusing them with an internal purification problem in China . " But he registered no protest against the withdrawal of American troops from Korea . He seems to have had no sense of the likelihood of military adventuring in the Far East ? with a complacency which resulted , according to some of his critics in the Pentagon , in a de , plorable slackening of troop training in Japan . " I do n't believe a shooting war is imminent , " he said in May 1950 . He continued to muse about Japan 's future as " the Switzerland of Asia . " This lack of prescience was shared , God knows , by many ' Others , and it would scarcely be of any account now if so many things in our present situation did not hinge on estimates of the probability of aggression . MacArthur 's record in making such estimates is uniformly bad : the invasion of South Korea startled him as much as the 1941 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to South Korea was made in Washington . MacArthur now says he was impressed with its soundness . Certainly he accepted it loyally ; and he proceeded to fight with his usual skill and audacity . From June to November of 1950 , MacArthur 's handling of his command silenced his military critics . His mission , calling for the piecemeal feeding-in of green and vastly outnumbered troops , was one of almost unprecedented difficulty . No one who watched it maintained that he could have done it any more skillfully than he did . He was the first commander to lead the unified services , and it is said that he was conspicuously successful in achieving and preserving interservice command . The Inchon landings , which the Joint Chiefs approved with fingers crossed and prayers on their lips , were a spectacular example of his strategic sense . Putting aside the ill-starred offensive of November 24 and his attempts to usurp political and diplomatic functions , there were only two charges that disinterested observers could make against MacArthur 's performance in Korea . One was that his exploits north of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he fought ; the other , a familiar complaint , was that any similarity between the facts as they existed in the real world and the facts reported in his communiques was entirely coincidental . There was justice in both complaints , but far , far less in the first than in the second . As for the communiques , they were all cast in the luscious style of the report on the 1928 Olympics ? the war in gorgeous Technicolor . They raised few false hopes , however , and provoked little bitterness . Recognized as a poet , he had acquired poetic license ; at the same time , he had lost readers . The New York Herald Tribune published its last communique from MacArthur 's headquarters on July 24 , 1950 . It made no explanation of its abandonment of the practice , but it was obvious that it was acting out of a conviction that the job of a newspaper is to disseminate news . In the end , only the New York Times , implacably committed to the total record , continued to givethe communiqu @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for paid advertising . Perhaps because his official dispatches were being so indifferently received , MacArthur turned with increasing frequency to other forms of communication . He released a bewildering barrage of interviews , cables , letters , messages ? it was , indeed , a poor editor who could not come up with an exclusive transpacific interview , a feeble organization which could not elicit a congratulatory message from Tokyo . Washington watched all this with growing uneasiness , killed one big statement on Formosa , and sent the General a succession of orders " to refrain from direct communication on military or foreign policy with newspapers , magazines , or other publicity media in the United States . " The question of the rights and wrongs of the Korean campaign north of the 38th parallel is a confused and thorny one . A number of persons who have attempted to straighten it out have either willfully misconstrued or faultily recalled the sequence of events . For example , even so eminent an authority as the British Foreign Minister , Herbert Morrison , had a hand in spreading the legend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The easily verifiable fact is that when MacArthur 's forces reached the line shortly after the Inchon landings , they stopped there for three or four days awaiting the outcome of deliberations at Lake Success . Only Republic of Korea troops were allowed to make cross-parallel sorties . Finally , MacArthur did receive authorization from Lake Success to unify Korea . Another persistent legend is that both Tokyo and Washington were warned that if the old boundary was crossed the Chinese Communists would enter the war . It is true that there was such a warning , but it did not come from a very persuasive authority . It came via Mr. Nehru in New Delhi , from S. K. M. Panikkar , the Indian ambassador in Peiping . Shortly before the UN authorized the crossing , the Indian delegation announced that it had received advices to the effect that Peiping would consider its national security endangered if Mac-Arthur 's advance was not halted at the border . Not only the American delegation but most others at Lake Success viewed this intelligence with neither fear nor dismay . For one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brothers had observed , seemed an aptly named diplomat , had a long record of crying wolf ; several months earlier he had warned of an imminent Communist assault on Formosa which never took place . For another , the Peiping government had already warned the United Nations command in far more comprehensive terms than those of the message relayed by Mr. Nehru . It had said , several weeks back , that " the Chinese would not sit idly by while their Korean brothers were being butchered . " No blame whatever attaches to MacArthur for his crossing of the parallel . In proceeding northward , he was carrying out orders , not violating them . ORTH of the parallel , a heavy mist set-tles over the whole dispute . There seems to be no question but that Mac-Arthur was well and authoritatively warned of ominous developments if he proceeded far beyond Pyongyang at the narrow and defen-sible waist of the peninsula . It happens , curiously , that most of those who warned him expressed more apprehension over the possi-bility of Russian intervention as the UN forces drew close @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they came within range of Mukden . As a matter of fact , MacArthur himself had shared these apprehensions to a degree at least . Shortly after the Inchon landings , it was explained in Tokyo that it was hoped at headquarters that the UN armies could drive straight across the peninsula before any North Koreans could escape to the north ; the reason given for the hope was not only that it would end the war sooner but that it would keep the Russians from nourishing their neurotic fears of en-circlement . But perhaps , in ignoring the warning , MacArthur himself had the Chinese more on his mind than the Russians . Sum-ming up his decades of experience in the Far East in the summer of 1950 , he had said that " it is the pattern of Oriental psychology to re-spect and follow aggressive , resolute , and dy-namic leadership and to quickly turn from leadership characterized by timidity and va-cillation . " Operating on this doctrine , he could reasonably have concluded that the dan-gers of war would not be reduced but in-creased if he hesitated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinese a ? gression ; but if he showed firmness and marched to the frontier , the Chinese threat would be faced down . Thus , he assured President Truman at Wake Island that the Chinese would not intervene , grandly offered to release a division for European service in 1951 , and held out to his men the hope of being home by Christmas 1950 . At all events , he pushed rapidly north of Pyongyang in the face of warnings that this might prove an exceedingly dangerous thing to do . Still , he was disregarding warnings and not , as so many people think , violating orders . The counsel he received was divided , to say the least . Dean Acheson and most members of the State Department ( George Kennan , not then on active service , being a notable exception ) were every bit as certain that the Chinese would not intervene as MacArthur was ? though it might be said , in their behalf , that they had acquired some of their certainty from MacArthur 's intelligence reports . In the fall of 1950 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deeply pained by many of MacArthur 's views , stood firmly behind the General in his operations in North Korea . It offered , as a political justification for the drive to the Yalu , the responsibility that the United Nations , and particularly the United States , would face when Korea had been unified . State Department people were then in the habit of pointing out that the reconstruction of Korea would be a hopeless task if Communists , North Korean or Chinese , remained in sole control of the dams and power stations along the Yalu . For those power stations provided electricity for Korean as well as for Manchurian industry . This gave us an additional reason for not bombing them , and explained , so the Department said , why it was necessary for MacArthur to conquer all Korea . If we had cut off a strip of Korea and given it to China , a solution widely recommended , the Communists could have turned out the lights all over Korea any time the fancy took them . Knowing Communists , the Department said that the fancy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in North Korea was not that he provoked aggression but that he failed to prepare for it . In his certainty that there would be no intervention , he neglected to make the necessary precautions against surprise attack . He was convinced in October that it would be physically impossible for more than fifty or sixty thousand Chinese to be conveyed across the Yalu . " Now that we have bases for our air force in Korea , " he told President Truman , according to the report of the girl behind the door of the conference room on Wake Island , " if the Chinese tried to get down to Pyongyang , there would be the greatest slaughter . " Indeed there would be ! He launched the great win-the-war offensive on November 24 and led the United Nations straight into the Chinese trap . Homer Bigart , one of the finest American war correspondents , wrote bitterly : " The harsh and unassailable fact of the Korean campaign is that a fine American Army , powerfully supported by the Air Force and Navy , was defeated by an enemy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and scarcely any armor or artillery .. . . MacArthur grossly miscalculated the intentions , strength , and capability of the forces against him . And no nation in the spot we are now in can string along with a leader whose ill-considered decision to launch the offensive on November 24 precipitated and magnified the swift disaster . " V BUT all that now is history . MacArthur will not return to the field . He is home and in politics ? very deeply in politics whether he wishes to be or not . He says emphatically that he does not wish to be in politics ; knowing the man , we can believe that and at the same time believe the clear evidence of our senses that he did not act in pure innocence and zeal when , in the months between January and April , he heaped one flagrant insubordination on another . He may have voted to acquit Billy Mitchell , but he knew , after all , what the verdict was . And he knew , as he said in his testimony , that " The authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete and absolute . He does not have to give any reasons therefor or anything else . That is inherent in our system . " Those who know him best in Washington are persuaded that recall was exactly what he wanted . As we now know , General Ridgway was in almost complete command in Korea for some time before MacArthur 's recall . MacArthur knew that before we did , and when he added to his knowledge of the temporary security of his men under Ridgway his deep conviction that we were pursuing a disastrous policy ? a policy that , in the long run , as he sees it , will result in a greater loss of life than the one he urges ? it was natural and to a degree honorable of him to create circumstances under which the President would be forced to relieve him of his commands . It might have been more honorable if he had resigned and come home to make the appropriate explanations , but he was engaged in a limited war with the Administration , and the course he chose dramatized the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordinarily shocked by insubordination , except where it borders on treason or is tantamount to dereliction of duty , and it can be said for MacArthur 's insubordination that it lifted him out of the class of generals who profess a contempt for the political ideas over which wars are often fought and express pride in their willingness to take up arms for any cause . MacArthur cares enough about ideas to debate them with great passion , to enter politics , reluctantly or not , in behalf of his principles . W HAT are his principles ? It is becoming apparent , - as the Greater Debate grinds on , that whether the Communist threat is to be countered principally in Europe or in Asia is rather less important than at first it seemed to be . It is true that MacArthur still takes the Asia side of the argument , still insists , as he did when he wrote Representative Martin , that " in Asia is where the Communist conspirators have elected to make their play for global conquest . . . ; that here we fight Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it with words ; that if we lose the war to Communism in Asia , the fall of Europe is inevitable . " He defended all these propositions in the Senate hearings . But the principal revelation of those hearings is that two other questions far transcend the Asia-Europe argument . One is whether in the world today , East or West , the United States needs allies ; the other is whether the nation is wise in its pursuit of a foreign policy which , though accepting war as more than a possibility and preparing for it , is nevertheless founded on the hope of an eventual settlement by means short of war . To the first of these two questions , MacArthur is addressing himself with a clarity that has been rare in the great flood of words he . has loosed since his return . " Alone if necessary , " has been a recurring motif in his speeches and his testimony . He concedes that allies can be useful on occasion ; he is willing to patronize the United Nations as a noble experiment ; he has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of other nations in Korea , as distinct from the nations themselves , have been useful to him . " The actual commands there , " as he put it , " have been splendid in every respect . " But fundamentally he thinks that winning and keeping allies is not worth the trouble . The question bores him ; he will discuss it only if pressed to . In his public addresses since his return , he has only once mentioned the organization which honored him by making him its first military commander , by giving him the first command of its kind in world history . Of course , regarding allies as a nuisance is one thing ; believing in the ability of the United States to go it alone is quite another . By some reasoning whose inner processes he has not chosen to explain , but which are not on that account necessarily unsound , he seems to have convinced himself that it would be not only possible but fairly simple , all things considered , for the United States acting on its own initiative and drawing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Communist threat he so clearly perceives . On the second great question ? whether there is any longer any sense in seeking to avoid war ? MacArthur takes the negative position , but he expresses himself somewhat less clearly than on other matters . Indeed , in his testimony as a whole , it takes a good deal of probing and fishing around before one can be certain one is representing MacArthur correctly . At one point , for instance , he said , " 1 believe the Soviet has so often repeated the incorrect statement that we are planning to attack him that he has finally begun to believe it himself . " Not five minutes later he said , " He the Soviet knows just as well as you and I know that we are not going to attack him . " But after one has done a decent amount of probing and fishing , one can scarcely avoid concluding that MacArthur is a firm advocate of a species of preventive war . True , he does not want to attack Russia ( which he regards as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peiping , East Berlin , Warsaw , Prague , or even , perhaps , Belgrade ) , but whether we attack Russia or not is far less important to him than the speedy abandonment of a policy which attempts too close a calculation of Russia 's probable moves . That is to him the inexcusable , almost treasonous heresy . The basic wisdom is " meeting force with maximum counterforce . " If counterforce brings Russia or anyone else into the war , so be it , and if the war then spreads to Europe or any other part of the world , again , so be it . Fate , not policy , determines such matters , and it is " appeasement , " he has said , " to think that when you use force , you can limit that force . " He considers us already at war with world Communism , and he thinks that " in war there is no substitute for victory . " To be sure , he sometimes seems to be advocating the limited-force heresy himself , as when he says that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to be denying his own doctrine of nosubstitute-for-victory , as when he says , " Our only objective is to force the Chinese to stop their attacks in Korea on our troops . " But the belief that it is folly and near-cowardice to continue working toward an eventual diplomatic settlement of the world 's conflicts is a bright thread running through everything he has said since his triumphal return . LONE-IF-NECESSARY , maximum - counterforce , and , rather faintly now , Asia-first : these are not only MacArthur 's themes but those of that mid-century isola-tionism with which MacArthur has made so firm and dramatic a political alliance . That alliance has many perplexing as well as many readily understandable elements . It would seem , offhand , as if it would accord better with MacArthur 's temperament , with his poetic vision and his sense of manifest per-sonal destiny , to take the largest possible view of events ? a global , even a cosmic , view . He is not , or has never seemed to be , a narrow nationalist ; he likes broad vistas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he did in his speech to Congress , with bold and sweeping historical concepts ; he prides himself on his understanding of aspirations different from our own ; he has spoken often of outlawing war . In view of all this , one would suppose that the command of a planetary army , making the first concerted effort in history to outlaw aggression , would have an immense appeal to him . It is hard , somehow , to reconcile the man who fondles fancy geopolitical words like " epicenter " and rolls phrases like " the chancelleries of the world " from his tongue at every opportunity with the man who can write a letter congratulating Representative Joseph Martin for " having lost none of your old-time punch . " Douglas MacArthur and Joe Martin , who is caparisoned in gems unseen if caparisoned at all , make as peculiar a team as Winston Churchill and Neville Chamberlain would have made ? or , in another realm , Thomas Stearns Eliot and Nick Kenny . In justice to the General and to the facts , he and Mt . Martin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ MacArthur said several things that not only reduced the number of points at issue but set his own views somewhat apart from those of Martin and the Senate isolationists . He agreed that our commitment to the defense of Europe served the national interest . He gave no sympathy to the recent , and partially effective , campaign to tie the government 's hands on the disposition of American troops ; he is opposed , he said , to " strait-jacket or academic formulas " developed by the legislative branch to restrict the executive conduct of foreign policy . To some extent , the recent controversy has been a dispute over the uses of air power , with the hot partisans of air power making common cause with the isolationists . MacArthur took a stand against the air-power extremists . He also refused to join the isolationist attacks on the Joint Chiefs of Staff , saying that he had " complete confidence " in the institution itself and in its present membership . He endorsed in principle the Point 4 program through which this country would undertake to share its technological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but dyspeptic groans from Representative Martin and Senator Wherry . Finally , he did say that " to consider the problems of one sector of the world oblivious to those of another is but to court disaster for the whole . " Yet the plainly discernible , indeed widely advertised , truth is that MacArthur is in alliance with the isolationist leaders , with Martin and Wherry and Robert A. Taft and Herbert Hoover and Colonel McCormick and William Randolph Hearst . He is their hero and sometime spokesman ; they are his political managers and press agents . In part , the alliance can be explained by past associations and affinities , in part by recent changes in the nature of American isolationism . The origins of the alliance are to be found in MacArthur 's Republicanism . His father was accounted a Republican general , and so , from the start , was he . He was Herbert Hoover 's Chief of Staff ; he stood by Hoover during the Bonus Army affair ; and Roosevelt , though he had retained MacArthur in office for two years , later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known as anything but a MacArthur man , the head of the Army . In the thirties , MacArthur 's vigorous martial rhetoric struck a responsive chord in the Hearst and McCormick press , which , despite or because of their isolationism , had always railed against pacifism and demanded military preparedness . For his part , MacArthur welcomed their support and shared at least some of their ideals . Colonel McCormick is the happy owner of a MacArthur portrait inscribed " with the admiration and deep regard of his old comrade-in-arms , " and William Randolph Hearst , on his eighty-seventh birthday last year , received a prepaid wire saying , " As you round out another year in the dedication of your firm voice , indomitable will , and great moral courage to the building of an invincible America . I send my warm admiration and my gratitude . " AM ONG oceans , the Pacific has always been the favorite of American isolationists ; this is true partly for the simple reason that the Pacific is not the Atlantic . We are a people made up of several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ account , as well as for certain economic and geographical reasons , it is Europe 's conflicts that have always attracted our interest and stimulated our sympathies . If one wishes to have nothing to do with Europe and the Atlantic , to avert one 's gaze and look the other way , one necessarily looks toward the Pacific . Not only is the Pacific across the continent from the Atlantic , but the political issues there are simpler and of less consequence in our domestic life . Isolationism is opposed to the introduction of " European ideas " in American politics ; it has never had to oppose the introduction of " Asiatic ideas " because scarcely anyone has ever tried to introduce them . Thus , if the isolationists have to fight anywhere , they will prefer , as they did a decade ago , a war in the Pacific to an Atlantic war . They enjoyed supporting MacArthur from 1941 to 1945 because the grand strategy of the global war , in which priority was given to the European theater , placed MacArthur in constant opposition to Roosevelt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ First war par excellence . MacArthur 's policy today , though unquestionably not in his view an isolationist policy , has many conveniences for the isolationist mind . Isolationists know that isolation is no longer possible . We are in the world to stay . But MacArthur has pointed out a way in which we can be in the world yet not completely of it It is necessary to intervene in foreign affairs , according to this reasoning , but it is best to do it alone , unilaterally , without allies making trouble for us and involving us in their inter-allied squabbles . It is necessary to counter the Soviet threat with some kind of foreign policy , but it is desirable to do it quickly and on our own , not to get tangled up in messy networks of alliances , pacts , and world organizations . Unilateralism , to coin one more gobbledygook term , is the new isolationism . This unilateralism is not the only cement in the alliance . Though MacArthur gives voice to some wildly New Dealish ideas about the Orient and has borrowed heavily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he has always been a steadfast conservative in domestic affairs . He was quite at home with the DAR matrons . When , in 1943 , a Nebraska Congressman , a certain Dr. A. L. Miller , gave MacArthur a briefing on developments on the mainland , explaining that " unless this New Deal can be stopped this time our American way of life is forever doomed , " MacArthur promptly replied , " I do unreservedly agree with the complete wisdom and statesmanship of your comments , " adding dark allusions to " the sinister drama of our present chaos and confusion . " In response to another such report from Dr. Miller , MacArthur thanked the doctor for his " scholarly " correspondence and reaffirmed his sympathy . " Like Abraham Lincoln , " MacArthur said , " 1 am a firm believer in the people . " IT WOULD be hard even to guess what is to become of the new alliance . There has been a good deal of talk , since April , of MacArthur as a Republican candidate for President in 1952 . There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than he did in 1944 or 1948 . Of course , many of the people now allied with MacArthur have other ideas about what next year 's Republican convention should do . Senator Taft , for example , favors nominating Senator Taft . It can be taken pretty well for granted that the party workhorses would not enjoy nominating MacArthur any more than they enjoyed nominating Wendell Willkie in 1940 . Mac-Arthur 's age ? he was seventy-one on January 26 ? is a fact to which the Republicans would have to give serious consideration . President-to-be or not , he is a large factor in American politics right now . It is conceivable that , because of bad luck or bad management , he will not continue for very long to be as imposing a force as he now appears to be ; but it is even more conceivable that he is just now coining into his own in American life and that he will , in his remaining years , be , if not a man on horseback , an elder statesman of puissant influence . To say the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our politics . It was MacArthur himself , according to Major General Whitney , who suggested the Doubting Thomas analogy for his critics . When asked for an on-the-spot interpretation , General Whitney said , " I ca n't recall much . . . . I 'm not going to interpret . All I can do is follow the statement of the General . " Doubting Thomas was the apostle who would not believe in the Resurrection " except that I shall see in his hands the print of the nails , and thrust my hand into his side . " Jesus appeared , and Thomas reached forth his hand , and he was convinced . Jesus said , " Thomas , because thou hast seen me , thou bast believed : blessed are they that have not seen , and yet have believed . " Thus spake General MacArthur ? to certain unbelievers ? about General MacArthur .                     