@@488271

THIS is the season for the melancholy biennial check THIS seniority records in Congress to discover which Republicans would take over the important committees if their party should win a majority in House and Senate . The prospect is not exactly pleasing . In the Senate the majority floor leader would once again be Nebraska 's merry mortician , Senatory Wherry . The chairman of the tax-writing Finance Committee would be Senator Millikin of Colorado , if he wins reelection ; if he-loses , as seems distinctly possible , the tax chief probably , would be Wherry 's Nebraska colleague , Senator Butler . In the event that Senator Vanden-berg 's health does not improve , Senator Wiley of Wisconsin , asuming he is reelected , would probably be chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee . Taft , if reelected , can be expected to continue as chairman of -- the Labor and Public Welfare Committee , from which , with pushes from sundry business lobbyists , the Taft-Hartley act emerged in 1947 . Senator Cain of Washington would head the Public Works Committee . Senator McCarthy of Wisconsin would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ license to " investigate " every executive agency . In the House , Joe Martin of Massachusetts would naturally again be Speaker , and Representative Allen of Illinois , his loyal servant , would become chairman of the powerful Rules Committee . " Meat-Ax " John Taber of New York would resume control of Appropriations , and Representative Reed of New York would head the tax-originating Ways and Means Committee . Dewey Short , the Oxford-eduCated and somewhdt ' bizarre character from Missouri 's Ozarks , would take over Armed Services . Representative McConnell of Pennsylvania , wrong on the whole Taft-Hartley act , would run the Education and Labor Committee . Representative Rees , who thinks the President 's loyalty program is not stringent enough , would be chairman of the Post Office and Civil Service Committee . Dondero of Michigan , first to invoke Congressional immunity and spread unfounded charges about the defendants in the Amerasia case ; would control Public Works . The results in a few key Senatorial contests may have a lot to do with future Republican use of the outcry about communism in the Administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Iowa and Wisconsin , if Senators Tydings and McMahon should be beaten in Maryland and Connecticut , and if Representative Nixon of the Un-American Activities Committee should defeat Helen Douglas in California , every Republican candidate would be sure that the royal road to victory lay in baiting the State Department . Tydings and McMahon , Democrats , signed the majority report calling McCarthy 's charges a " fraud " and a " hoax " ? which they were . Hickenlooper , a Republican , was McCarthy 's boy on the investigating committee . Wiley , after months of silence , has begun using McCarthy 's charges as campaign material in Wisconsin . TN AN office of the National Security Resources Board hangs a framed sketch of a horny reptile captioned : " Consider the turtle . He makes progress only when his neck is out . " This may reasonably be interpreted as the present motto of Chairman W. Stuart Symington , one of the few men in Washington who seem to think there is any hurry about organizing the country for a re-mobilization program that will cost fifty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ check the consequent inevitable inflation . Symingtort stuck his neck out by insisting that the Federal Reserve Board use its power to stiffen credit controls . Half the retailers in the country are complaining that they were not consulted and that the conThe NATION : trols are too stringent , and the Reserve Board promptly let the story leak out that it had acted " reluctantly . " Symington stuck out his neck when he forced limitations on housing loans , to which some veterans ' groups object , and again when he strenuously urged William H. Harrison , who is supposed to run the Defense Production Authority in the Commerce Department , to forbid the use of scarce building materials for bowling alleys , race tracks , and dance halls . He is pushing Harrison for decisions on how much still can be allotted to automobiles , , how much to tractors , how much to tanks and guns . He may have stuck his neck out farthest when he chose Alan Valentine , former president of the University of Rochester , as Economic Stabilization Administrator . President Truman and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ? take government jobs , but Dr. Valentine still seems a rather curious appointment . His record suggests a strong antipathy for the New Deal , and he was a director of the Freeport Sulphur Company when sulphur prices were boosted after the Korean war . Reliable sources declare that Dr. Valentine personally opposed the boost . Nevertheless , his general philosophy of government may make it hard for him to recommend the controls needed to prevent the value of money from evaporating . S OME weeks ago I wrote about the forthcoming report of Representative Buchanan 's special House Lobby Investigating Committee and its blunt conclusion . that business groups have the advantage in lobbying . Republican committee members , including Representatives Clarence Brown of Ohio and Charles Halleck of Indiana , tried to get the report suppressed until " sometime in December , " but it probably will be published  --  unsigned by the G. 0 . P. members  --  before this issue of The Nation reaches readers . In the meantime Buchanan is also releasing a special report revealing how business groups are now lobbying in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and how much money they spend that way that is never reported under the Lobby Registration Act of 1946 . Questionnaires sent by Buchanan to 182 of the country 's biggest corporations show that 152 of them spent more ? than $32,000,000 in the past three and one-half years for advertisements dealing with public issues , distribution of books and pamphlets , and contributions to trade associations and propaganda outfits . Direct lobbying expenses reported by the same group of corporations totaled only $776,000 . Not all the $32,000,000 was necessarily spent for lobbying ; trade associations perform many services other than influencing legislators . But the report makes it clear that smart officials have discovered that publication of anti-public-power advertisements in a Congressman 's home district may be more effective than buttonholing October 28 , 1950 the Congressman in Washington . Some blue-ribbon companies , according to the report , freely spend their stockholders ' money to finance , either through gifts or the purchase of " educational " literature , such hate-the-Administration outfits as the Committee'for Constitutional Government , the National Economic Council , and the Foundation for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " literature " is purchased by General Motors , Armco Steel , 379 Chrysler , Gulf Oil , and a remarkable set of public utilities . It may be distributed to management officials , to " supervisory " employees , and even sometimes to the workers themselves . This is a legitimate political activity , designed to affect legislation by one-sided discussion of public issues . But the people may also legitimately demand full disclosure of who spent how much , and in what ways , to make them think as business firms would like them to think .                     