@@494547

TWELVE YEARS after the Russian armies first estab- lished Soviet rule over Eastern Europe , the empire founded by Stalin has been shaken by a revolutionary earthquake of altogether unimagined force and scope . The tragic outcome of the Hungarian revolution must not blind us to the fact that both in Hungary and . Poland , essentially revolutionary movements have for the first time not only broken the surface of totalitarian uniformity , but have in their different ways achieved an unprecedented measure of success : moreover , they have done so entirely on the basis of the crises and contradictions which had developed within the Soviet orbit , without the aid of international conflict and indeed despite international diversions favorable to the Soviet rulers . Bloody RICHARD LOWENTHAL , whose visit to the US this month was cut short by the outbreaks in Eastern Europe and the Middle East , is an editorial writer for the London Observer . Parts of this article are based on an article that appears in the . November-December issue of the bi-monthly USIA publication , Problems of Communism . suppression of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but the Soviet East European empire will never be the same again . What was new in the October revolutions of 1956 was not that the national and social grievances of two enslaved peoples ftised in a powerful outburst of mass revolt ; that had happened before , in the whole of Eastern Germany in June , 1953 , and in Poznan in June , 1956 . What was new and was , indeed , as unexpected as it was unprecedented was that the popular movement for freedom managed to impose a new leadership , committed to national independence and thoroughgoing changes in internal and economic policy of the Communist Party of Poland and through it on the Polish administration and army ; and that it succeeded in virtually taking over the army of Communist Hungary , and with its help overthrowing the Communist Party dictatorship ? splitting the hitherto ruling party and creating a Democratic national government committed to internal freedom and international neutrality . The major common factor in the background of both the Polish and Hungarian events was clearly the weakening of Soviet authority both within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in particular . That weakening , which has proceeded slowly and gradually ever since the death of Stalin and the loosening of detailed economic and police controls- , in the satellites , was greatly accelerated by two major events : the . Belgrade declaration of 1955 by which the Soviet rulers recognized Yugoslavia 's right to her " own road to Socialism , " and the " secret " Khrushchev speech last February about the crimes Of Stalin : I T HAD , of course , not been intended by the Soviet leaders that the national independence which they recognized as inevitable for the regimes of Mao Tse-tung and Tito should apply to the satellite states on which " socialism " had been imposed by Russian bayonets ; all they meant to grant to these countries was a replacement of detailed control ? through mixed companies , Soviet secret police agents , and " advisers " on all levels ? by a less irksome and less costly , but by no means less efficient control through party , military and economic ties at the top . As for Khrushchev 's speech @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was clearly made for strictly domestic reasons and in the hope of confining its international repercussions to a minimum . Yet the rehabilitation of Tito , and consequently of the victims of the purges of " Titoists " in the satellites , could not fail to discredit the most loyal exponents of Soyiet supremacy in these countries , at the very time when many direct Soviet agents were withdrawn ; and the tendency to extend their discredit to that of their Russian masters was of necessity powerfully strengthened by Khrushchev 's disclosure and condemnation of Stalin 's methods of rule . The view that the Soviet system , having produced clear symptoms of degeneration , could no longer be regarded as sole model for Communists everywhere , formulated most boldly by Togliatti , must have gained large numbers of adherents among Communists in the satellite states , and must have furnished arguments to far larger numbers of non-Communists in their hitherto silent opposition to both Soviet rule and Soviet-type dictatorship . During the spring of 1956 , this weakening of Soviet authority found visible expression in the astonishing outburst of free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the openly critical discussions conducted before ever larger audiences of writers , students and young officers in the " Petoefi circle " in Budapest , and on a smaller scale in critical statements by writers and student groups in other satellite states . When this wave of criticism reached its culmination in the Poznan riots of June 28 , the Soviet Communist leaders , alarmed by this development and in part alerted by the more " Orthodox " Communist leaders abroad , tried to reassert their claim to worldwide leadership and to warn against thespread of " nationalist deviations " in the name of " proletarian internationalism " ; the declaration of June 30 , issued in the name of the Soviet Communist Central Committee , several articles in Pravda and Premier Bulganin 's Warsaw speech during the following month were all part of this effort to stem the tide . So was the decision , imposed on the Hungarian Communists by Mr. Mikoyan , that though Rakosi had to be sacrificed as First Secretary of the Hungarian Communist Party because of his leading role in the fight against Tito , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be replaced by the equally unconditional supporter of Moscow 's authority , Gero , while the leader of the " national-minded " . Communists , Imre Nagy , should be kept out . In the circumstances , however , this effort at tightening the reins was subject to a threefold limitation . In the first place , authority once shaken , can not be restored at will , and the attempt is liable to meet resistance unless backed by overwhelming force . In the second place , the use or open threat of force was not possible without endangering Russia 's wooing of the " uncommitted nations " and certainly her dearly bought understanding with Tito , if not the over-all strategy of " peaceful coexistence . " Finally , even a non-violent attempt to reassert Soviet supremacy over the satellites was bound to cause renewed friction with the Yugoslays ; up to his Moscow visit , Tito had carefully refrained from encouraging " Titoist " currents in the neighboring states and insisted on working through the Soviet Government , but during the visit he had made it clear that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control as part of his price for the closer party relations they wanted him to resume ? i.e. , for his return into the " socialist camp . " D URING August and September all these limitations of the attempt to return to a semi-Stalinist attitude in relation to the satellites became visible . The Polish Communist Central Committee , caught after the Poznan riots between its desire to regain the confidence of the people and the Soviet demand for drastic action against the " imperialist agents " who had caused the trouble , preferred by a majority to yield to popular pressure and defy Soviet advice . At the same time , the Yugoslav press resumed open criticism of the insufficient de-Stalinization in Hungary , Bulgaria and Albania , while a Yugoslav court sentenced a former " Cominformist " returned from exile as a traitor . When the Soviet Communist Party warned the satellite parties by circular that the YugOslays , though generally progressive and friendly were no true Marxist-Leninists but tainted by Social-Democratic confusion and thus not to be taken as a model , the Yugo-slays promptly learned of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ By the end of September , this friction resulted in Mr. Khrushchev 's surprise visit to Yugoslavia , followed by Tito 's visit to Yalta . Once again , the basic issues still dividing the Soviet and Yugoslav Communists remained unresolved , but Tito agreed to speed up the resumption of contacts with other Communist parties , including the Hungarian Party , in return for a more outspoken condemnation of the latter 's past and the rehabilitation of Imre Nagy . Early in October ? on the eve of the departure for Belgrade of a Huniarian party delegation headed by Gero ? Rajk and the other Hungarian " martyrs " of the Titoist purge were solemnly reburied , the arrest of former Defense Minister Farkas for his role in the frame-up was announced , the fact that Rakosi had not resigned for health reasons in July but had been deposed for his " violations of legality " was publidy admitted , and Nagy was re-admitted to the party on the understanding that he would keep discipline but would be entitled to a re-examination of the political charges which had led to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority of the Soviet leaders and of Gero took yet another knock in Hungary . Totalitarian regimes can stand up to the most bitter discontent of the masses for a long time ; but once authority gets weakened or divided at the top , long-standing grievances suddenly become motors of action . It is at the moment of loosening , of " liberalization , " that the masses start moving and refuse to tolerate the old oppressive gesture which now no longer appears to be part of an unalterable order of things . The struggle within the Polish Communist leadership had quickly become a competition for mass influence of an almost " democratic " character . As the " liberalizers " stood for freedom of expression and economic reform , as well as for national independence in internal affairs , the " national " faction , headed by General Witaszewski , Marshal Rokossovsky 's chief political commissar , offered anti-Semitism as a substitute for nationalism and wage increases as a substitute for greater freedom and economic reform . It was this competition for mass influence which finally made " Wieslaw " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even after his release from prison had still been politically condemned for his views by the whole party leadership late as last April , the arbiter of the struggle , simply because by his resistance to forced collectivization and to Soviet control he had become the , one Communist leader whose patriotism was trusted by the non-Communist masses . Here is the vital difference between Gomulka 's victory , and " Titoism " ; Tito defied the Russians in control of a party and state machine created ' by himself ? Gomulka was enabled by a popular movement to dictate his terms to a party whose machine had been packed by his enemies for many years , and that in defiance of the occupying power ! The terms he laid down before agreeing to resume leadership of the party which had expelled and imprisoned him ranged him squarely with the " liberalizers " ; no economic or anti-Semitic demagogy , complete frankness about the economic plight of the country , a sharp turn away from collectivization and , preparation even for ending forced agricultural deliveries , dissolution of the machine tractor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experiments in " workers ' control , " new relations with Russia on a basis of political and economic equality , and removal of Russia 's stooges from the party leadership . It was this last point ? to wit , the intended exclusion of Marshal Rokossovsky from the Politburo ? which led to the decisive showdown with the Soviet leaders on October 8 . HEN Messrs . Khrushchev , Mikoyan , Molotov and W Kaganovitch descended on Warsaw , to the accom- paniment of troop movements at the moment of the decisive meeting of the Polish Central Committee , they were convinced that a show of determination and strength would be sufficient to restore the subordination ? of at least a majority of the Polish Politburo . Instead , they were faced with a majority of men determined to risk the wrath of Russia rather than that of the Polish people , and hence with the choice between using force or admitting Poland 's internal independence . After a few days hesitations , the Soviet leaders decided to refrain from using force and to accept the accomplished fact . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second revolution , " although in fact there had been no shift yet in the control of the decisive levers of power . But the weekend of October 20-21 , when Gomulka resumed the party leadership and removed the Soviet stooges from it , following up within a few days , by corresponding changes in the Army , was a revolution . The weakening of Soviet authorities and the restraints imposed by " competitive co-existence " on the use of force had caused the Soviet leaders to accept , for the first time in their history , the peaceful ovJrthrow of a satellite regime . The logic of political competition for the uncommitted countries was beginning , to prove itself as a powerful solvent of empires ? and not only for the West . The news of the Polish events hit a Hungary already in ferment . When Gero returned to Hungary from ' Yugoslavia on October 23 , he was greeted by the news of a students ' demonstration originally arranged without permission of any party organs and banned , and later " legalized " by the leaders of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reform , the demonstration , under Hungarian and Polish national flags , quickly assumed both an unprecedented scale and a marked anti-Soviet note , and by the evening Gero broadcast a warning against " counter-revolutionary nationalism . " At that , the demonstrators got embittered , and the secret police lost their nerve and started to fire at them . By nightfall , groups of students and workers had started to fight back ? with weapons received from Hungarian Army soldiers and officers who had joined them . Overnight , the pro-Soviet party leaders realized that a serious rising had started , that the Army was unwilling td fight the people , and the secret police unable to cope with it . By the morning of the 24th , they had called on the Soviet Army for help and at the same time announced the appointment of . Imre Nagy as Prime Minister in an effort to calm the population . In fact , the intervention of Soviet troops ' provoked widespread and desperate resistance , and neither the appeals of Nagy nor the announcement on the following day that Gero @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Janos Kadara former participant in the Rakosi regime but later its victim ? made any impact . Army units , and officers seem to have joined the insurgents in increasing numbers during the following days , while the government , isolated by the Budapest uprising , lost control of large parts of the country ; revolutionary workers and " student councils " were set up in several regions , everywhere putting the withdrawal of Soviet troops at the head of their . demands . B Y Sunday , October 28 , the revolution had won . The Nagy government , now no longer a fa ? ade for the pro-Soviet group among the party leaders , proclaimed a ' cease-fire and called for a withdrawal of Soviet forces from its battered capital . Negotiations for broadening the government by non-Communist elements started in earnest . The Soviet command actually started to extricate its troops from Budapest , and the government promised both to dissolve the secret police and replace it by a newly recruited popular police force and to negotiate with Russia about a general withdrawal of Soviet forces from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders were now faced with the question whether to accept this second revolutionary fait accompli , achieved this time in open conflict with their occupation forces and in circumstances far more damaging to their prestige even than the Polish events . For two more clays they seem to have hesitated : reports about the machinations of " counter-revolutionaries " ? in Hungary ceased , and some publicity was given to Nagy 's new version that the victorious popular movement was a natural reaction to the mistakes and crimes of the former Hungarian Communist leadership . This policy , motivated apparently by a willingness to cut Soviet losses in order to save what could be saved ? i.e. , the principle of the Communist regime and Hungary 's membership in the Warsaw Pact ? found its most far-reaching expression in the Soviet Government declaration broadcast from Moscow on October 30 , which generally proclaimed the need for greater independence and equality for the member states of the " Socialist camp , " and specifically expressed readiness to discuss the need for further stationing of Soviet forces in Poland , Hungary and Rumania @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time that declaration was broadcast , the real Soviet policy for Hungary had already turned . For by October 30 , the pre-1947 democratic parties of the workers and peasants had already been reconstituted in Hungary , and Nagy had announced the abandonment of the one-party regime , the transformation of his government into a genuine coalition , and his pledge to hold a free election . He had also spoken of Hungary 's desire to leave the Warsaw Pact , to become neutral under international guarantee ( on the Austrian model ) , while the command of the Hungarian Army and Air Force had been taken over by " revolutionary council , " one of whom threatened the Soviet forces with bombardment in case of refusal to withdraw . By October 30 at the latest , it was thus clear to the Soviet leaders that nothing whatever would remain of their Hungarian position if they gave in , that the local alternatives were brute force or total defeat . The Hungarian revolution , led not by " **29;1642;TOOLONG but by workers , students reared under the Communist regime and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evolved from a program of " Titoist " independence and reform to one of full democracy combined with both works councils and trade union freedom , of an end to both collectivization and forced deliveries in agriculture , of a clean breakaway from the Soviet bloc . If Russia gave in , Hungary would become not a new Poland or a new Yugoslavia , but a new Austria or at best a new Finland . To tolerate such a development would have started a chain reaction throughout the satellite empire . It would also have inflicted a fatal blow on Communist confidence in the irreversible character of all their conquests , allegedly guaranteed by , the laws of history . All considerations of local strategy as well as of ideology thus favored the decision to crush the Hungarian revolution in blood . The only factors that could have prevented such a decision were wider international considerations of overwhelming strength . It was the task of Western policy in this unique revolutionary crisis to bring these wider international considerations to bear on the decision of the Soviet leaders ? a task in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failed during the East German crisis of June , 1953 . What could these considerations have been ? If we exclude , as we must , the threat of world war , which no Western power will use for offensive purposes , there remain two . The first and most obvious was the effect on the uncommitted countries of Asia . That consideration , implicit in the whole strategy of competitive coexistence , had clearly exercised a restraining effect up to that moment . But as clearly , that effect was bound to reach its limits at some point ? once the threat of the loss of the Soviet empire loomed larger than the threat of the loss of sympathies in Asia . The Soviet leaders would rather temporarily accept , a setback in the competition for uncommitted countries than put up with the total loss of their own possessions in half a continent . Moreover , the West was at the critical moment prevented from exploiting that restraining factor to the maximum owing to the Anglo-French action against Egypt which made it easy for non-committed Asian opinion to balance Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other consideration which the West could have brought into play ; it could have offered to make the loss of the satellite empire strategically tolerable for Russia by matching a Soviet withdrawal from Eastern Europe with an American withdrawal from Western Europe . The old Soviet proposal for a simultaneous dissolution of the Warsaw and Atlantic Pacts has never been acceptable to the West , basically because the Soviet control of Eastern Europe does not depend on the Warsaw Pact , but on the Communist regimes , and because while Eastern Europe remains under Soviet control , Western Europe can not defend itself by its Own strength . But in a situation where Soviet Communist control of Eastern Europe was actually crumbling , the offer of an American withdrawal on condition of full freedom for Eastern Europe would have transformed the situation ; not only would it have given immense encouragement to the freedom movements throughout the satellite states , but it would have added to the calculations of the Soviet leaders the one consideration which might have induced them to give in . There can , of course , be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decisive difference to the Soviet leaders ' choice . What seems clear is that it was the only chance of influencing that choice . During the most profound crisis experienced by the Soviet satellite empire , this chance was missed ? just as it was missed in 1953 . Now as then , the Western powers faced the Soviet crisis without a prepared policy , even though they had long proclaimed the eventual liberation of the enslaved peoples as one of their long-term objectives . In the hour of need , they had nothing to offer to these peoples but propaganda and charity . As it was , the Soviet leaders decided to save their empire for the time being by the wholesale butchery of the Hungarian people , even at the price of alienating neutral opinion and endangering the international detente . What are the likely consequences of that decision ? I Nthe first place , the dilemma of the policy of " relaxa-tion " in satellite Europe has not been solved . The puppet government of Hungary under Mr. Kadar which the Soviets are now trying to install has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and seems at the time of writing to have no army , no civil service and no following . It is trying to promise the Hungarian people that most of the gains of their revolution will be respected , and that even the Soviet forces will withdraw " after the restoration of order . " However untrustworthy these promises may be , they testify to the unwillingness of the Soviets to cancel their whole coexistence policy officially and resume a kind of direct rule . Yet such is the united and desperate resistance of the people of Hungary that the Russians may be compelled to do just that , even reverting to the Stalinist method of mass deportation . What part of recent reforms would then survive anywhere in Eastern Europe ? Secondly , the very need to use brutal force in Hungary represents a massive failure for some of the policies initiated by Mr. Khrushchev . The cost of reconciliation with Tito and of de-Stalinization at home has proved far higher than he calculated ; the gain , even in the case of Tito , has proved extremely limited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " by means of flexibility has failed , and Khrushchev as its main exponent must be weakened to that extent ; by contrast the traditional advocates of a reliance on great Russian might , and particularly the political exponents of Army influence , must be correspondingly strengthened . Finally , what in the circumstances , is to be the future of " competitive co-existence " ? Its inherent logic has tended to a loosening of power blocs on both sides ; but at the critical moment , both sides have preferred to consolidate their own sphere of influence and to forget aboutthe effect on " third markets . " Moreover , while to the non-Communist world the Hungarian and Egyptian crises have appeared in some way to be balancing phenomena ? with Russia on one side , Britain and France on the other using force to preserve a traditional " sphere " ? to the Russian leaders the Hungarian rising and the Anglo-French intervention against Egypt probably appear as two parallel challenges to Soviet military power and prestige , requiring the demonstrative reassertion of both . Together , they may set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and uncompromising hostility to the West that Russia has yet experienced since the death of Stalin . But it is hard to imagine how that pressure could be successful without a major shift of power within the Russian leadership ? a shift which would run contrary to the profound tendency towards relaxation resulting from the internal development of Soviet society .                     