@@477006

country by storm . Maybe Barzun is right , but his idea needs snore investigation and analysis . Or maybe people just like music . B U T H because of the inherent interest of the subject and because of the admirable treatment he has given it , Dwight Macdonald 's The Ford Foundation : The Men and the Millions ? An Unauthorized Biog. raphv ( Reynal , $3.50 ) should be one of the most popular books of the 511111mer . Except for some repetition and looseness of organization ( result of the fact that most of the material was written for periodical publication ) , the book is a model of exposition : lucid , witty , well-informed , and intelligently critical . Among other things Macdonald 's discussion is a kind of running debate between two views of what the foundation 's proper business is . On the one hand there is the idea that foundations ought to provide " venture capital " ? i.e. , they should not put money into the continuing and established activities of society , however worthy or hard up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is roughly the view that roughly prevailed at the Ford Foundation when Hoffman and Hutchins were ( some say ) roughly running it . On the other hand there is the view that Macdonald thinks prevails under the present management : better be safe than sorry . This view he finds typical in the recent enormous gift to colleges , hospitals , and medical schools : an irreproachable but unimaginative transfer of funds to reputable institutions on a perfectly mathematical basis . No one could say of Macdonald that he is unaware of the complications in this debate , but perhaps he thinks the point at issue is a little more real that ' it is . The Ford Foundation has too much money to tie itself to a program of " venture capital " ; probably American intellectual life does not at the moment provide enough legitimate Ventures to absorb that much capital , and it will do nobody any good to breed a race of pseudo-innovators just to keep the foundations milked . At the same time the foundation has too much responsibility to society to choose the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the antithesis between innovation and inoffensiveness is false . Some projects are both , some neither , and which they are has nothing to do with whether they should receive support . But Macdonald knows more about the foundations than I do , and says what he knows better . Read him . T H E quotations in my review of C. Wright Mills ' The Power Elite ( April Hon-per 's ) came from proofs and could not be verified against the final text . Professor Mills has courteously called my attention to the fact that the sentence I offered as an example of his style at its most unsuave has been divided by a semicolon in the printed version . Rarely has a semicolon been more sorely needed , anti I am happy to record that this one arrived in time . BOOKS in brief KATHERINE GAUSS JACKSON FICTION The Fall of a Sparrow , by Nigel Balchin . Before sentencing a young man of thirty-three for a series of thefts from people who loved and trusted him , the English judge said : " You were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given a first class education . You served your country gallantly during the war and had the honor to hold His Majesty 's Commission . " Mr. Balchin has taken each phrase as the title of a section of his hook and added one more : " Good Friends Who Have Helped You . " Under these heads he shows how the boy , corning front a completely unloving home , had gone on from problem to problem only learning at each step to cover up more completely what he really felt . It is a heartbreaking story but it is told brilliantly and with such intensity that one goes every step of the way with the narrator ( who is the only one who has known the man Jason since childhood ) and feels with him alternately compassion and underBOOKS IN BRIEF standing , and fury and disgust , at each progressive failure . An absorbing novel of suspense reflecting important overtones for our psychosis-ridden era . Rinehart , $3.75 The Soldier Room , by Anne Chamberlain . The room lined with shelves and shelves of toy soldiers was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and fear , was ever happy . More and more he retreated to it , and greater and greater was the burden of terror and confusion he imposed on the young wife he had brought to his Ohio home to share his loneliness . It would be unfair to reveal what it was that broke into the cold , dark house to bring this mad situation to a climax . It is a wonderfully exciting and real story , as one would expect from the author of The Tall Dark Man . And although what she is dealing with is so obviously madness that one ca n't help resenting that there is no indication that anyone ? the author or even the doctors among the characters ? ever recognizes it as psychosis , the reader also accepts it , as she intended , as a symbol , a symbol of any great difficulty which life and love have to meet and acknowledge before becoming mature and wise . Bohhs-Merrill , S3 NON-FICTION John D. Rockefeller , Jr. : A Portrait , by Raymond B. Fosdick . This is an overwhelming book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It can be read as the story of a man dedicated by early training and the circumstances of his life , to duty . It can be read as the history of an American institution ? the Rockefeller wealth ? which comprises the histories of an astonishing number of other American institutions . Young JDR Jr . went into his father 's office in 1897 , so that in the story of his life one learns of the start of the Rockefeller Institute , the Genes-al Education Board , the Rockefeller Foundation , the Laura Spelman Rockefeller Memorial ( the elder Mr. Rockefeller 's contributions to these foundations was 5446,719,371.22 . Then came the Bureau of BOOKS IN BRIEF Social Hygiene , the Industrial Research Council , JDR Jr . ' s fight for religious unity , his long efforts to bring Prohibition into being and his courageous reversal of opinion and stand for Repeal in a letter to Nicholas Murray Butler in the political campaign of 1932 . There was Rockefeller Center and his support of the young Museum of Modern Art ; Williamsburg : the Cloisters of the Metropolitan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fontainebleau . So much , in brief , for the projects to which he dedicated not only his wealth but virtually his entire attention . The book can be read , too , for stories of courageous personalities , and pictures of ways of life that are gone forever . There was his strict Baptist boyhood in Cleveland and New York , and the influence of his amazing mother and father . In an essay of the early 1880s JDR Jr . writes of Christmas : By six o'clock on Christmas morning I was dressing and soon went down stairs to see my presents . I found several books , letter paper , sealing wax , purse , and a beautiful large picture of a little . boy with golden hair . After breakfast I went sleigh riding with my sister , in a cutter drawn by my pony , Fleet Fnnt We had a very nice ride , as the sleighing was good , and the weather delightful . In the evening our cousins came to take dinner with us ; after which we had a delightful entertainment with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great cities of Europe . Then familiar faces were thrown upon the canvas , to the great surprise of most of the company , many of whom recognized their own faces . His life as a student at Brown is a lively account of college at the turn of the century ( Mr. Rockefeller hemmed his own dish towels ) . On his twenty-first birthday Mr. Rockefeller Sr. sent him a check for $21 , every penny of which , like all money he ever had , was strictly accounted for . In his junior year , largely because of his meeting with Abby Aldrich , the future Mrs. Rockefeller , he learned to love to dance ( and when he was over sixty dance instructors still came to the house in West 54th Street ) . In his father 's office after college his passion for detail and for building really began to of a wife 's infidelity BOOKS IN BRIEF be exercised . ( He always carries a slide rule in his pocket . ) He lost over a million dollars in his first ventures in the stock market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; his mother persuaded him to propose to the girl he loved ; his family and his causes took over his life . ? . This is a remarkable story of a remarkable man . If it is largely uncritical either of him or of his father ( though the issues in the Colorado Fuel and Oil strike and the Standard Oil-Teapot Dome troubles are frankly stated ) the author persuades the reader too . And the responsibilities of wealth seem anything but enviable . In spite of a shy , kindly personality , perception , understanding of people and situations , and warm affections , especially toward his family , here is a roan whom Eliot of Harvard once described as " always anxious and troubled . " And it is a refreshingly awelome experience to read as monumental a story of the last eighty years as this one in which there is no hint that either author or subject had ever heard the names of Freud or Marx . Harper , 56.50 Two posthumous books by well-known writers , about Queen Elizabeth II and H.R.H. , the Duke of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other . H.R.H. , The Story of Philip , Duke of Edinburgh , by James Hilton . When one reads the early history of this handsome young man one wonders that he grew up sane and healthy at all . Exiled with his parents , Prince Andrew and Princess Alice of Greece , and his sisters , at the age of one year , he spent his earliest childhood in an American school in France . Later , his parents separated , his sisters went to Germany , and he was sent to his uncle , Lord Louis Mountbatten , and finished his education in England and Germany , principally under the tutelage of an extraordinary nsan named Kurt Hahn . His sisters all married Germans who fought against England in the war . Philip had all the disadvantages of a broken home , of being a prince , first in a school among untitled boys , and then in the Navy , " which does not take to One of the great actresses of this century . Sixteen pages of photographs of Miss Adams both on and off the stage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a brave man or woman to forecast best-sellerdom for a first novel , but it takes no oracle to predict what will happen to certain of the summer and fall titles now on their way to publication . Take , for instance , The Mind Goes Forth . ( subtitle : The Drama of Understanding One Another ) by Harry and Ronaro Overstreet which Norton will publish in July . Does anyone remember what happened to their The Mature Mind ? Or , for a change of pace , consider the new book by Francoise Sagan , A Certain Smile , which Dutton is launching on August 20 , In Paris the first edition of 120,000 copies sold out in two weeks while here in America Miss Sagan 's first novel , Bon jour Tristesse , recently put out by Dell in paper covers , has already been distributed to the tune of 1,500,000 copies . William Sloane Associates have on their fall list The Tribe That Lost Its Head by Nicholas Monsarrat , which has not only the sale of his previous novel , The Cruel Sea , to boost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that its subject and treatment arc said to be not unlike Robert Ruark 's Something of Value . Later in the fall , and back in the inspirational field , Prentice-Hall will publish a new book by Norman Vincent Peale , the first new one since ( guess ) The Power of Positive Thinking . I positively think it will he a best seller . And early in 1957 Walter Lord 's next book , on Pearl Harbor , comes from Henry Holt . It will he based on firsthand accounts by survivors of that fateful morning , in the fashion of his currently best-selling A Night to Remember . Literary Guild Novels Charmed Circle , the new novel by Susan Ertz ( Harper ) has been chosen by the Literary Guild as its July choice . The Guild also announces that Speak to the Winds by Ruth Moore ( author of Spoonhandle , Candlemas Bay ) has been set aside as a fall selection . From Morrow .                     