@@494524

by HELEN HILL MILLER eeHE FUNCTION of an American party is to be all things to all states . " This comment , by a British journalist long resident in Washington , was true at the time it was made , only a few'years ago . But much of the evidence brought out at this year 's post-election postmortems points in another direction . Pressures are building up toward parties that would make a coast-tocoast national appeal , with much less state-by-state modulation of policy than in the past , and with correspondingly decreased dependence on the state parties as intermediaries . Particularly in the Democratic Party , whose search for a basis of success . at the Presidential level has behind it the incentive of recent failure , much thought , and some institutional developments , can be expected before 1960 . Change is both necessary and possible because the old basis of Democratic power is gone . The old city machines are n't what they used to be : from Jersey City to Memphis many have been completely liquidated , and in places like Boston , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those parts of their followings that have not slipped away altogether . And the South , if as yet not quite liquid , is at least no longer solid . Democrats do n't live where they used to 20 and 30 years ago . People do n't vote Democratic for the reasons that moved them to do so over the past few decades . And the next man to be elected President of the United States will take office in the year that marks the turn of a century since the War Between the States . This last fact is perhaps the most important single influence toward the formation of a national party to replace what has been an interstate compact renewable every four years . Until now , the national convention of the Democratic Party has been a conference attended by duly accredited representatives of sovereign states grouped in regional alliances , representatives who might , or might not , find a basis of common action . According to the political , theory prevailing below the Mason-Dixon line , the national party has been a grouping to which the Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determined their relation every four years . The decision to adhere , or.not to adhere , to the national party for the next ensuing general election has in no way affected the nature and standing of the party in the state . Because of its regional one-party separateness through HELEN HILL MILLER , for many years Washington correspondent for the London Economist , is the author of numerous books and articles on American politics . the 80 years since it regained control of its political affairs , and especially after adoption of poll-tax laws at the beginning of the present century , the South has enjoyed two major political assets . During negotiations at compact-making time , it has been able to bargain with a solid block of electoral votes amounting to about half of the total needed to win . And during the four years between compacts , when the party record was being made in Congress , the relatively higher seniority of Representatives and Senators from one-party states has given it control of a large proportion of the chairmanships of the key committees without whose co-operation no President can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that these are wasting assets . The evidence is three:fold . Twice within the past decade , a States ' Rights Party has been organized to show that the South had a real choice at compact-making time , that it could take the Democratic Party or leave it . The first such effort , in 1948 , yielded satisfaction to 1.1 ? million Southern voters , and produced a total of 39 electoral votes . The second effort , made this year at the first opportunity after the Federal Supreme Court 's anti-segregation decision , yielded satisfaction to 290,000 Southern voters , and no electoral votes at all . Voters seem to have judged this type of protest futile . A second piece of evidence of waning Southern power lies in the statistics of migration in the United States . Each year one American in 33 moves to a different state from the one in which he lived last year In this process of shifting around , more people are moving out , of the South than are moving into it Many of the quarter-million new residents who arrived in California @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are many newly-arrived Southerners in the industrial centers bordering the Great Lakes , and in the vast contiguous metropolitan area that stretches from Baltimore to Boston . Present estimates indicate that when redistricting takes place after the 1960 census , the South will have nine fewer Congressmen in the Federal House of Representatives than it does today . And other parts of the country will have nine more . Most important of all , the accumulation of seniority will not be as automatic as in the past in the seats the South retains . As the South comes out of agriculture and into an urban world of production and distribution , its young people are looking increasingly to an industrial future rather than to a past that is gone with the wind . The income-bearing parts of the burgeoning postwar Southern economy are largely offshoots of companies with head offices in New York , Detroit , Chicago . The managerial - groups at the tops of the ladders on which energetic young Southerners ' feet are newly set are more than likely to be Republican ; their juniors take a corporation 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the personality cult which hypnotized all kinds of normally Democratic Southerners into voting for Eisenhower in 1952 and 1956 has provided admirable cover for the migration of tens of thousands of their younger relatives to the . Republican Party as a permanent affiliation . The very seniority which in Congress has ' made one-party Democracy a Southern asset serves to cut off local contact by its leaders with the rising generation . The young are only mildly interested in old men and are definitely eager not to be odd-balls among their business associates . In going Republican , they are beginning to contest state offices , and so to bring two-party organization ' down from the top of the ticket to the state , and eventually to the county courthouse level . From Virginia to Texas , two-party assumptions are present in current political speculation : while the procedure for filling the upcoming vacancy in the Senate from Texas was being worked out , the possibility was canvassed that Governor Shivers , if given an opportunity to make a. recess appointment in the place of Senator ( now Governor-elect ) Price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estimates of the pulling power of Republican leader Ted Dalton in next year 's gubernatorial race take account of his obtaining more than 45 percent of the vote last time , and of the still more recent fact that the margin by which Eisenhower carried the state in ' 56 exceeded the total vote cast for the successful Democratic candidate in all but the last two gubernatorial primaries . F OR many of the younger Democratic men elected , in hot contests in states where the two-party system is of long standing , Southern leadership in the national Congress holds very visible dangers . Those among them who have been elected to the House and Senate face the specific difficulty of explaining to their constituents why , with the legislature in their party 's control , legislation to which they have announced the party committed is either not forthcoming at all , or forthcoming only in watered-down form . Those who have been elected to governorships in hotly-contested states , many of them men who are vigorous candidates for national office over the coming years , have the more general problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national level works easily in harmonious co-operation with a Republican administration . In the campaign just concluded , the key issue between these two main bodies of Democrats , between the Congressional top leadership on the one side , and the Governors , Senators and Representatives of states with hot two-party contests on the other , concerns the desirability of " moderation . " In the eyes of the Southern leadership , Adlai Stevenson 's failure was due in great part to his departure , during the latter phases of the campaign , from the " moderation " of his earlier-stated intentions . In the eyes of the Governors of hotly-contested two-party areas , Stevenson 's accommodations to the South proved , as one observer commented , that " a campaign based on moderation can carry only the most immoderate states . " The partisan party members lack a focal point of national visibility comparable to that which is available to the Southerners in Congress . Yet if they are to seek national office successfully in 1960 or thereafter , they can not afford to be represented before the country by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a structure that will express their attitude . A PARTY out of power in the executive branch has available one other rather rudimentary countrywide structure : the National Committee . The National Committee , historically , has been rather like a June moth : quadrennially , it has emerged from its cocoon with a colorful stretching of damp new wings , flapped for an interval around the spotlights of the convention floor , and then disappeared , leaving dormant descendants to repeat the cycle . Except at convention time , most of the members of the National Committee have had only a perfunctory ceremonial value , forming a Noah 's ark-like procession of two representatives , male and female , from each state . During the National Committee 's cocoon phase , the chairman has normally been an amiable gentleman who made either no enemies or enemies the group who put him there regarded as the right ones , and who gathered together a campaign " kitty . " Traditionally , he has been displaced , as soon as a Presidential candidate was nominated , by a man of the candidate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ensuing campaign . The result of this change of horses just before entering the stream of campaigning has been quadrennially costly . Very few men in the country have first-hand knowledge of the , politics of many areas . The experience which he accumulates the hard way as manager of one of the candidates during pre-convention primaries and negotiations is acquired between telephone calls , staff meetings , and airplane schedules ; it 's spot news , with little continuity or background . At the end of the campaign , if his candidate loses , he 's on his way out ; if his candidate wins , he 's likely to move on to a Cabinet position . At that point the . National Committee starts all over again with a new man behind the chairman 's desk . Perhaps the most complete recent illustration of the inefficiency of this process is the career as N.rional Committee Chairman of Steve Mitchell of Chicago . Put in by Adlai Stevenson after the 1952 convention draft , he had no previous experience outside Illinois . When he started , in full stress of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of position of the leaders in many states , were unknown to him . Four years later , Mitchell had been everywhere , heard all about all the scores , made his own assessments . Then , on the ground that a new campaign required a National Committee chairman unidentified with a particular candidate , he resigned . So such continuity as the national party structure has had has been given to it by the salaried staff , a number of whom have long and accurate memories . But those with continuing tenure are few since the staff has been regularly decimated by financial vicissitude . Such a structure served well enough during the 20 years when a Democratic President ran the party from the White House , and when , at the local level , Democratic strength was compounded of votes from areas without other alternatives and regular deliveries by big city machines . National visibility was assured , and the local elements necessary for victory were always available . Today , the Democrats have been thrown out of , the White House , and the size of the recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In such circumstances , what kind of a party structure is needed to mobilize full strength for a Presidential contest ? HE question is made all the more pertinent by the appearance , in recent years , of a vote which self-con- sciously styles itself " independent . " Twice now , both parties have recognized it in campaign-year organization . separate from their regular structure . The " volunteers " and " citizens " who have no intention of assuming the duties and functions of party members , who drop their ballots into the box without ever having been near a party headquarters or a precinct captain , are now sufficiently numerous to determine a Presidential election . But in off-years , the process of attracting these independents goes by default ; the Democratic Party has no nationally accepted leader to encourage them to " lean Democratic , " and President Eisenhower 's disposition to emphasize his role as head of state , almost an independent himself , goes far to fill their political requirements . Where there are party machines of long standing , the existence of independents causes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ located on the same piece of geography : the constituency which over the years has come to await political directives from the leaders of the dominant faction ; and the constituency which recognizes no inner sanctum , works hard from conviction , does nothing unless convinced . How can these two constituencies be related to , the national party in the mobilization of full Democratic strength ? In state after state , during the 1956 campaign , available Democratic resources were only partly used . At the national campaign headquarters level , accreditation of the established party mechanism in the state was rigorously observed . From there on out , the degree of activity in the state depended on the degree of enthusiasm for the ticket which the dominant faction felt . It not only controlled what was done under its own auspices , but exercised an effective veto of what might have been doncunder other auspices with enthusiasm greater than its own ? New York , - Virginia and Texas are random examples of how the process worked . It is true that the Eisenhower personality exercised a magnetism that removed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ autumn . But that is not the whole story . In some of the big cities of the north-east-central area , local satraps cared relatively little about the success of the national ticket so long as their satrapies remained more or less comfortably under control . And in various states with important Congressional chairmanships , Democratic control of Congress with a Republican President in the White House was considered more comfortable than a complete party victory . But the existence of unused party resources in some areas ? resources sufficiently large to change the outcome if used ? will increasingly be the source of justified bitterness in the party . State leaders who have ambitions for spots on future national tickets realize ' that unless the Congressional majorities of 1954 and 1956 can be converted into votes for the top of the ticket in 1960 and thereafter , they themselves will never be more than candidates of the minority party . . ity , party continuity and direct contact with the independent and the unused party vote ? The strength and origin of the forces which got two new pieces of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Washington on November 26-28 are worth noting as evidence of the ' pressures toward a national party . Mr. Paul Butler , who was eclipsed but not replaced ' last autumn by Mr. James Finnegan , is being retained as chairman of the National Committee ; a new man is not to take over now . The younger leaders , who want a stronger National Committee but yet are wary of any move which might give an inside track to a rival , can take reassurance from a known quantity ; on his record , Mr , Butler is unlikely to be king-maker . The impetus to keep Mr. Butler and to set up new machinery under his chairmanship came from the Far West , and it is by no means a matter of chance that this is so . In this year 's campaign , the difference between the states to the west of the Mississippi and the states in the older settled regions was marked . Most of the Western states have suffered much less than those of the East from arteriosclerotic political structure ; the extent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half-hearted efforts elsewhere . The first piece of machinery set up at the Party Executive session , the provision for a meeting of Governos , Representatives and Senators from the Western states , continued recent campaign momentum ; and while putting emphasis on furthering . Western interests in power , water , conservation and so on , the forthcoming get-together is unlikely to ignore wider matters . Wider matters will be the sole business of the second piece of new machinery approved by the Executive Committee ? an advisory board on legislative proposals to embody the party 's " progressive , forward-looking platTHE NEW REPUBLIC form . " The group will be composed of the 14 members of the National Committee 's executive , plus 20 others : five members of the House of Representatives , five Senators , four Governors , one mayor and five members " at large , " including Adlai Stevenson , Estes Kefauver , Mrs. Roosevelt , Mr. Truman and former Gov . John Battle . This committee is expected to hold a session prior to the opening of Congress : at this session a legislative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lyndon Johnson 's previously stated opposition to formulation of a Democratic legislative program prior to receipt on Capitol Hill of President Eisenhower 's State of the Union message and its accompanying bills is unlikely to be dissipated by this move on the part of the Executive Committee . Other Southern disapproval will be ? and is being ? voiced in two forms . It will be said that the new machinery specifically usurps the function of the majority leadership who are entirely capable of handling the party 's legislative business . In a larger context , it will be said that this move , by a strengthening of the National Committee , is a move to nationalize the party . Before assuming too readily that the new machinery will be effective , the Democratic leaders who want a focus for party visibility more inclusive than that of the Southern chairmen should recall the history of a parallel effort made at a similar time , after the 1952 defeat . Then ( as now ) a staggering financial deficit loomed over the party . In a desire to be indusive in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaned toward the Democrats but away from the local machines , NatiOnal Committee headquarters proposed the setting up of state financial advisory committees . As originally conceived , these would have provided direct access between the National Committee and citizens . who might not necessarily be active in the party 's structure in the state . Local resistance to such an extension of the party 's constituency from national headquarters was adroit and successful in a number of states , including Texas . In spite of broad public concern about the high cost of campaigning , and a willingness ? attested nationally by public opinion polls and locally by campaign collections ? on the part of hundreds of thousands of voters to become dues-paying Democrats contributing nominal sums year-in year-out , no national party financial structure directly related to local givers exists today . If the advisory committee on policy which has been named is to . have more than ephemeral impact , it will almost certainly have to have at least a minimum executive staff of its own , to keep close to legislative strategy on Capitol Hill , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they endorse have a genuine chance of current enactment , and to help those of the group 's members who are not in Congress to time their statements for maximum pertinence . The men behind the move for this new piece of national machinery are doodling with electoral , statistics on a 1960 calendar . They look toward winning the White House by a uniform , positive , coast-to-coast , liberal appeal , offering a sharp alternative to a Republican Party which will no longer be headed by a non-partisan President , letting the South come in as it will . In this committee they see a possible vehicle through which to make visible to the country a cross-section of party personalities and a series of party objectives strong enough , organized enough , and appealing enough to summon a majority for Presidential victory .                     