@@487535

Bao Dai , and Marshal Pibul of Siam . By doing so . we lose our moral credit and , in effect , abdicaie to the Com  --  munists . The only way to avoid doing this is to make our actions conform to our long-range objectives , assuming that these will serve huinan welfare in Asia as elsewh  --  re . The immediate present , however ,  - -  is completely- over- ' shadowed by the imminent threat of an extended war . If that threat materializes , we shall have our choice of disasters , not of policies that can help lead us toward a more fruitful peace . It is because they see this so dearly that at least some officials in . Washington have been exerting every effort to avert this outcome . At present it is impossible to know whether General MacArthur 's ill-conceived and ill-timed " victory " offensive has ten  --  dered all their efforts fruitless . The Chinese Communist aggression in Korea may have been designed to secure more limited objectives , but the Moscow-Peking axis is just as subject as we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In effect , their Move will have forced , the bigger conflict upon us . If , however , this crisis too can be surmounted and we can advance into anotherperiod of uneasy but precious The NATION time , we can still try to find the way to begin building the basis of a more fruitful partnership between ourselves and the peoples of Asia . This would mean pursuing a policy toward China that is hard-headed but founded upon a determination to avoid the embroilment that only Russia can ardently desire . It means giving Russian-Chinese relations a chance to nourish all the contradictions and conflicts in  --  herent in them . It means seeking an exit from the trap we are in in Indo-China by finding the means of getting the French out and the U. N. in to give that country a freer chance to determine its own fate . It means in the rest of non-Communist Asia faunching a large-scale program of economic aid through the U. N. on the basis of specific and drastic internal reforms . These are the visible openings leading to the road @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Instead of allowing the Russian-American conflict to fix the terms of our relations with Asia , we should begin to see to it that our relationship with Asia would fix the terms of that conflict . The openings are there , fitfully seen now . By the time this article appears , they may'no longer be visible . We Need Asia ! BY OIZ4N LATTIMORE HISTORY will record , I believe , that two events of the past few months marked the beginning of a new age . The first was the action of the United Nations in organizing , under the prompt . f and courageous leadership of President Truman , the inter  --  national use of armed force to stop aggression . The sec  --  ond was the revelation in Korea that Asians could fight a form of modern warfare that strained the resources of the greatest power the - world has ever seen  --  the United States . The character of war in Asia has been revolutionized . ' " Colonial " wars are no longer - wars in - which a small Western elite can operate at will among masses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century ago some 50,000 or 60,000 British troops could put down the Indian Mutiny . Half a century ago , in the Boxer rising , 20,000 men cut their way from the sea to Peking and relieved the besieged Western legations . But now the North Koreans have shown that in a few short years Asians can be taught to handle tanks and artillery with formidable skill . The United States had to mobilize against them forces comparable to those ' used in North Africa against crack German troops . Resort to war in Asia now requires as serious a decision as resort to war in Europe . Thus we are faced with a dangerous dilemma . Until we have increased our reserves , we shall not be able safely to divert large forces to other fields of action in Asia . Meanwhile in Europeas well as in Asia , Russia can use the technique of getting us into wars with its satel  --  lites , while its own forces are held uncommitted . We and our allies are not prepared to fight a two-front war . With one threat after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have infected our political life . Both the conduct of foreign policy by the government and ' discussion of foreign policy by the public have been made difficult and hazardous . The State Department and the intelligence services of this country are staffed with men whom years of training have qualified to under  --  stand the languages , ' politics , and social and economic problems of Asia , but none of these men are able to function normally today . Instead , a weird crew of ex-isolationists , ex-Communists , pro-Nazi propagandists , December 16 , 1950 fanatics and cranks , working inside and outside Con ? . gress and resorting to methods intended to intimidate both government personnel and private citizens , have laid paralyzing hands on the control of foreign policy , especially our Asian policy . A great part of the blame for this falls squarely on the Administration . By failing to enlist the free countries of the world as convinced and enthusiastic allies , it has permitted a vacuum to form  --  a vacuum of ideas and high policy . Hate-dominated , un  --  informed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relations as stupid as the Soviet devil-theory of American imperialism . The Administration has been resolute in insisting upon dollars and guns ' but timid and inept in formulat  --  ing policy . It has adopted mighty programs for destroy  --  ing the enemy of freedom , but made only feeble at  --  tempts to inspire and fortify the friends of freedom . It has given the peoples of the world little indication that it is ready to work with them in designing a world of freedom and security . Instead , it has allowed them to feel that they are being offered a Pax Americana , dominated by an American economic and social system . Such an offer is , of course , devastating to the morale of free peoples or peoples struggling to become free . They want America 's help and friendship , not its patronage . It is a potential source of disaster that the Administration has either failed to realize this point or has failed to proclaim and act upon it . American policy , as presented to the world , is based too exclusively on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  version is enough to cement a democratic alliance . The world can not be handled today as Europe was handled at the Congress of Vienna . We can not get to  --  gether with a few- cronies and divide among ourselves the raw materials and trade of Asia and Africa . Above all , we-must cease to regard the people of Asia as second-class citizens of the world . Up to-now we have had a weak and negative policy on the great isshes of libera  --  tion and equality . Unwilling to treat the Asian coun  --  tries as equals in a three-way association of Europe , America , and Asia , we have betrayed a lack of faith in one own professed principles of liberty and democracy . As a consequence our relations with Asia have been poisoned by the suspicion that we trust the remnants of European colonial rule more than we do the new national regimes . A further consequence is that nationalist leaders in Asia are afraid to appear to get along with us too cordially lest they be suspected of selling out to us . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they can escape Western control by playing Russia off against us. - ? Europe 's doubt and Asia 's disbelief are reflected back Into America , where the knowledge that we have un  --  easy allies increases our own feeling of insecurity . The most terrible result has been a despairing suspicion that557 our democratic friends in other countries are unre  --  liable and a frantic attempt to make reliable friends out of the most anti-democratic Germans and Japanese . TE MUST work out a policy that befits a democratic , self- ? especting nation with immense world respon  --  sibilities . Some of the realities that face us are somber ones , such as the fact that our power alone is not great enough to control Asia . This reality was recognized by Great Britain when it negotiated the emancipation of an India and a Pakistan that could no longer be ruled by British decree . It was faced by General Marshall , who saw that the Kuomintang and the personal rule of Chiang Kai-shek were past salvation , and that all one could hope for was to save a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but it was not our fault . The partial salvage recommended by General Marshall was well within the reach of realistic statesmanship and di  --  plomacy . It was frustrated by the stubbornness of Chiang Kai-shek and the , - incompetence and corruption of the Kuomintang . It is humiliating to think that the Admin  --  istration allowed the cancerous lie to be spread around that General Marshall was somehow bamboozled . In fact we could no more have dictated the form of government of China by picking a " strong man " and giving him arms than Britain could have dictated the form of gov  --  ernment of India and Pakistan by similar action . The war itself , not the negotiations of diplomats dur  --  ing and after the war , created an entirely new relation  --  ship among Asia , Europe , and America . Up to the war Europe and Japan ruled most of Asia and dominated the rest of it . Japan is now impotent , and Europe no longer dominates any territory in Asia important enough to provide a base for power politics . Up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bases , military man-power , and economic revenue . Since the war Japan has been living on American subsidies , and Europe has vainly exported to Asia its own military man-power . How can we resume the moral leadership of a free world that we have so nearly forfeited ? I ' believe that three steps are necessary . ( 1 ) We must review our present policies , which are mainly defensive , and see how-they can be stepped up to provide a dynamic world leadership . ( 2 ) We must enlist other countries as allies in a common cause . ( 3 ) We must coordinate our policies with those of our allies . The trouble up to now has been that we have not combined our economic and strategic policies in a way to fire the imagination of people in this country or in other countries . There is no reason for defeatism . We have the beginnings of a common cause with Asia . We can expand It into a great alliance if we are willing to recognize Asia 's right to the leadership of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asia was shocked by the aggression that crossed an internationally recognized boundary line in Korea . Every non-Communist nation was frightened by this open attempt to subvert by force a government that had been elected under United Nations auspices . In. our search for a common cause , therefore , Korea is one point in our favor ; but we have two points against us ? our policies in For  --  mosa and Indo-China , for which we do ' not have general United Nations support . We can improve this posi  --  tion only if we ' are willing to take part in a wide pooling ! and adjustment of policies . In such a procesg we could get most of what we want , but other nations would also have to get some of what they want . And any general adjustment must avoid , for all the nations concerned , the appearance of appeasement or loss of face . It must therefore make use of the channels provided within the United Nations and so strengthen its moral authority and prac  --  tical efficiency . A stronger United Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to big-power deals , but the nations of Asia are justifiably afraid of them . Asians are convinced that only within the United Nations can the collective strength of the lesser powers be effectively organized . It is very probable that a negotiated settleinent stabilizing relations between the United States and iRus  --  sia will be achieved , if it can be achieved at all , only as part of a world settlement within the United Nations and not as a direct " deal " between the two giant powers . So great would be the difficulties in the way of such a settlement , even within the United Nations , that it could almost certainly be reached only through several suc  --  cessive steps , and not in one jump ; and because " iolari  --  zation " is less complete in Asia than in Europe , it is likely that the first steps could be taken most successfully in Asia . The countries of Asia also approve of the funda  --  mental principle that the United Nations is not a club or alliance of similar countries but a structure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To Asian nationalists independence means not only the right to have a sovereign government but the right to be a different kind of country with its own kind of government . Unless we respect these Asian interests and Asian ways of looking at world problems at least as The NATION much as the Russians do , we shall lose out to the Rus  --  sians in our diplomatic dealings with the various coun  --  tries of Asia . T HE problem of recognizing and seating the Peking regime in the United Nations should be considered in relation to long-term developments ratherthan decided in haste in the course of tactical skirmishes with the Rus  --  sians . A few months ago the new government of China could have been brought into the United Nations as part of a program agreed upon by the United States , Britain , and India , while- Russia was boycotting the United Nations . The emphasis would then have been upon a united front and a joint policy among the major democratic nations . Once the Russians had returned to Lake Success , they made it their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Asia to the China issue . The United States was right in resisting this policy , in refus  --  ing to allow the question of Chinese representation to take precedence over other issues . The situation- , how  --  ever , is fluid . If the present crisis is safely passed , it might be desirable to let the China question come to a vote . We have already agreed that admission to the United - Nations should be by majority vote and that the veto should not be used . In any case , the long  --  term advantage should not be lost from view just be  --  cause the controversy involves impassioned partisan  --  ship . The main fact is that when China fell under Commu  --  nist rule , we were confronted with a situation that could not be solved by-any temporary , cold-war formula . The real question is whether the continuing problems arising out of the existence of a Communist-controlled China can best be dealt with inside or outside the United Nations : . Within and outside that body our policy will for years have to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being upset by Russian expansion and Communist techniques of subversion . But we have never frankly faced the fact that very few peoples are enthusiastic about fighting for purely American ideals . This is particularly true of the Asian peoples . If we are to win the cooperation of these peoples we must make it dear that we are not , like the Russians , trying to force all nations into a uniform mold . We must assure them that faith in a few fundamental values is enough to establish unity between themselves and us . These values are self-determination , representative gov- ernment , freedom and security for the individual , and respect for the self-determination and representative government of others . On the basis of these simple concepts , honestly adhered to , we can find allies . For on this basis the non-Communist countries of Asia , as well as our nearer allies in Europe , can with confi  --  dence cooperate in the work of rehabilitation and de December 16 , 1950 velopment carried on or planned under E. R. P. , Point Four , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in building a successful policy  --  coordination of our policies with those of the countries - whose strong support we need . The two key ' countries for this purpose are India and Britain , both of which have ideas that differ from ours on important points  --  for instance , support of Chiang Kai-shek in Formosa , and the seating of the Peking gov  --  ernment in the U. N. On these questions they are backed by the most important non-Communist countries in Asia ? Pakistan , Indonesia , Afghanistan , and Burma . India and Britain and the countries that back them have governments to whom it means a great deal to be able to face their peoples in dignity and independence ; they can not safely admit that they are unable to stand up for their own points of view when negotiating with America . The fact that governments - of this kind now exist in Asia as well as in Europe is one of the great changes since World War II , a change affecting not only the balance of power but the nature of world politics . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allies , they must be made to feel that they have a part in draw  --  ing the blueprints for the future of a free Asia . HOW are we to make the bid for support and unity that ought to be made ; and how can the offer be put in a way that will capture the imagination of our own people and of all free peoples ? To answer that question I am going to make a specific suggestion . It may sound dramatic , even sensational , but the dangers that surround us are appalling . If we are to overcome them , a great share of the responsibility must be assumed by the countries of Asia . And if we ask Asia to take a leading role , the appeal must be convincingly presented as a turning-point in our own policy . I believe , - therefore , that President Truman ought to propose going to New Delhi to confer with Prime Minister Nehru . Representatives of other countries of Asia and of Europe could also be brought into the con  --  ference , but the first approach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a conference with Nehru in India 's capital . I believe that President Truman should go to that conference by way of the Atlantic , not the Pacific . To go across the Pacific would emphasize the separation be  --  tween Asia and Europe . To go across the Atlantic would emphasize the point that the common problems of Asia and Europe must be solved in common council . The voyage to India of an - American President , for the first time in history , would strikingly symbolize America 's repudiation Of the old tradition of Western empire over Asia . It would deflate the Russian propaganda that America is trying to impose its policy on Asia . With such a conference as a beginning , we should be able to disentangle ourselves from our defensive policy of supporting the status quo even against the claims of in  --  dependence . We should identify ourselves with the Asia that is already free and has a stake in Its own freedom  --  with- India , Pakistan , Afghanistan , Indonesia , Burma , Thailand , the Philippines . Working from this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have com  --  munication and a common cause not only among gov  --  ernments but on many planes : business men with busi  --  nesS men , educators with educators , agricultural experts with agricultural experts , the industrial leaders of Asia with the " know-how " men of American industry In common council we could solve the problems that face us in Asia much better than we could solve them alone  --  the great questions of Korean unity , the future of Japan , the stabilization of the turbulent Philippines , the status of Formosa , the termination of the French colonial empire in Indo-China , the relationship be  --  tween the non-Communist countries of Asia and Com  --  munist China . These are questions that vitally concern the United States as o. world power , but they are ques  --  tions that are located in Asia . If we succeed in solving them , we shall no longer need to think in terms of rear  --  guard actions and defensive positions on peninsulas and islands . These positions can be converted into advance posts of a free , democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a spreading freedom . It is high time we did so . But we can succeed only by taking part  --  not by trying to take over . For the future of Asia , in its main outlines , lies in Asian hands . Copyright of Nation is the property of Nation Company , L. P. and its content may not be copied or emailed to multiple sites or posted to a listsery without the copyright holder 's express written permission . However , users may print , download , or email articles for individual use .                     