@@196073

Cairo was crawling with provocative rumors inspired by a bastard alliance of Communists and the rich men of the discredited Wafd party . The twelve-man Revolutionary Council was falling apart , whispered the rumormongers ; its leaders were quarreling , its officers were selling out to the British . The brush-fire spread of the talk worried the men who 14 months ago wrested Egypt from the fat hands of King Farouk , for ruling Egypt is like riding a bicycle : keep rolling or you fall off . One night last week , the twelve officers went together to Cairo 's jam-packed Liberation Square , climbed a white balcony bathed in spotlights and , before 100,000 Egyptians , clasped hands and held them high to show the nation that they were still standing together . <P> " After this day , the revolution will take firm and severe action against anyone standing in its way , " cried Deputy Premier Gamal Abdel Nasser , the regime 's strong man . " No traitor will be able to raise his head . " The gentle revolution , which in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come to an end . The regime set up a special three-officer revolutionary tribunal , made it supreme over all other courts , empowered it to hand down death sentences on traitors , rounded up scores of suspects and began trying them this week . Among the arrested : two ex-Premiers of the Farouk era , including the discredited Wafdist chief , Mustafa Nahas . <P> The Naguib government was not only out to face down its opponents , but also to prepare Egypt for a new agreement with the British over the future of the Suez Canal zone . Propaganda Chief Salah Salem told the crowd that the old Wafdist regime had been making ready to concede much more to Britain than the present government ; this was a clear indication that the Revolutionary Council was about ready to come to terms on a good , sound Suez deal . Grimacing from behind his dark glasses , Salem mimicked old Mustafa Nahas , and the crowd , in stitches , shouted the Arabic equivalent of " Give ' em hell , Salem ! " At his elbow sat Premier Mohammed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last week in the lap of Winston Churchill 's cabinet ; all but one of the major issues were settled . The main terms for ending the 75-year-old dispute : 1 ) Britain will evacuate the canal zone but leave behind 4,000 technicians to train Egyptian replacements ; 2 ) the base will be commanded by an Egyptian , with a Briton as chief of staff ; 3 ) Britain will be allowed to return to the base in event of an attack on any Arab nation ( not including Turkey ) . The single remaining point of argument : Should the British technicians stay on for seven years ( as the British want ) or work for five ( the Egyptians ' maximum ) ?                     