@@491436

He Found Out Why the Comets Blew Up By ARTHUR GORDON - MNE night in blacked-out Britain , early in World War II , a lanky young Cambridge graduate made a name for himself , of sorts . Being a proper " boffin " ? RAF slang for big-brained civilian scientist  --  Arnold Hall took off cheerily from an airfield near Carlisle to test some flares that he and other boffins had designed . The test was a huge success : the flares lit up the countryside for miles around . Whereupon an astonished and gratified Nazi night raider , who happened to be nearby , laid a stick of bombs right across the airfield our hero had just quitted . Fort unately no one was hurt , but from the depths of a slit trench one wrathful voice summed up the feelings of the ground personnel . " That ruddy boffin ! " cried the voice . " If we do n't get rid of him , the Germans will win the war ! " The German Air Force is no longer around , but the ruddy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ house south of London , climbs into a seventeen-year-old car , and drives to an airfield at nearby Farnborough . To the casual observer he looks like any tweed-clad , pipe-smoking Briton on his way to work . Actually , if you tried to follow him to his place of business , you would be halted abruptly at the gate . For the experimental airfield at Farnborough is the closely guarded nerve center of the Royal Aircraft Establishment . And Arnold Hall is the director of the R.A.E . What goes on at Farnborough is , almost literally , nobody 's business . Inside the fourteen-mile perimeter , an army of scientists and technicians ? " several thousand " is the official tight-lipped designs . tion ? work day and night in a maze of laboratories , wind tunnels and hangars protected by armed guards and specially trained police dogs . Their job : to maintain the superiority in aerial weapons that enabled the ItAF to save the nation in the Battle of Britain . The director 's job : to make sure that assignment is carried out , Farnborough has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its director a sort of superhoffin , to say the least . It was , therefore , a sensational appointment back in 1951 when a thirtysix-year-old scientist with little or no administrative experience was called from a quiet professorship of aeronautics to take over . How well Hall handled the assignment was best indicated by a letter that arrived at his house early one morning in the spring of 1953 . Actually , he was still asleep when the letter came . His wife opened it , read halfway through the majestic language of the strangely archaic message , and rushed upstairs . " Arnold ! " she cried , shaking her husband . " Wake up ! It 's a letter from the Prime Minister ! Something about a knighthood ! " Hall opened one sleepy eye . " Wrong address ! " he said with finality , and pulled the covers back over his head . A Top Commander in the Wizard War B it was not the wrong address , and shortly V thereafter Arnold Hall , eldest son of a Liverpool furniture dealer , became Sir @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ list of honors . Although he has no military rank , Hall is nonetheless a top commander in what Winston Churchill once called the wizard war , " the secret war whose battles are won or lost unknown to the public and only with difficulty comprehended by those outside the small high scientific circles concerned . " Ordinarily these laboratory warriors prefer to remain anonymous ; they know that publicity and security do n't mLx . But early last year a strange set of circumstances pushed Hall and his colleagues abruptly into the limelight . For a short space of time the secrecy shrouding Farnborough 's activities was partially lifted , and the public got a fascinating glimpse of Britain 's best scientific brains at work . Early in April an urgent directive from Winston Churchill 's cabinet to the Minister of Supply descended on Hall 's desk : " Find the cause of the Comet disasters . Find it quickly . Take whatever measures may be necessary . " The reference was to two Mediterranean air tragedies  --  one in January , the other in April ? that had shocked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world . Two crack British airliners , taking off from the Rome airport , had radioed that they were climbing through good weather to normal cruising altitude . Moments later , without the slightest warning , they had come to utter destruction . Both were Comets : four-engined jet airliners built by Britain 's famed De Havilland Company for British Overseas Airways . Both were " young " aircraft  --  in service less than three years . Magnificently powered , skillfully piloted , carefully designed , they were the fastest , highest-flying commercial airplanes in existence . But , inexplicably , they failed . Fragments of one crashed , blazing , into the sea near Elba . Wreckage of the other fell , beyond all hope of salvage , into deep water west of Naples . In neither case was any distress signal heard . ' There were no survivors . The Elba crash happened on the morning of January 10 , 1954 . The pilot took off at 9:21 after a routine stop for refueling . His flight plan called for a climb to 36,500 feet ? nearly seven miles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , be was exchanging weather information with the pilot of a BOAC Argonaut that was flying in the vicinity . According to that pilot 's later testimony , a message received from the Comet at 9:51 ended in midsentence : " Did you get my ? " Shortly afterward , horrified observers on Elba saw pieces of flaming wreckage plunge into the sea . There were thirty-five persons aboard . Sixteen badly battered bodies were recovered . All Comets were promptly grounded and subjected to rigorous inspection . Dozens of minor modifications were recommended and carried out . But the investigation was handicapped by a lack of wreckage to analyze . By mid-March the best salvage efforts of the Royal Navy had yielded only some 10 per cent of the airplane . Chances of getting more seemed dim : the depth of the water varied from : 300 to 600 feet . Consequently , late in March , Britain 's Air Registration Board gave permission for Comet service to he resumed . On April eighth , under exactly the same circumstances and only ninety flying hours after being grounded for an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their doom . This time the uproar was tremendous . People talked wildly of collisions with meteorites , of lel hal encounters with flying saucers , Inevitably , since both Comets had taken off from the same airport , there were ugly rumors of sabotage . Something had to he done , and done quickly . Until the mystery was solved , the fastest fleet of airliners in the world would lie chained to the ground . Unless it was solved , the damage to British aviation prestige might be permanent . Economically and psycholog ically , time was of the utmost importance . Every day , every hour counted . The directive from Churchill did not surprise Hall : he had let it he known , discreetly , that he would welcome it . One of Farnborough 's responsibilities was the analysis of wreckage from civil air crashes , and the Elba disaster was under consideration . But only a fraction of the Royal Aircraft Establishment 's skilled manpower and scientific facilities was being used . The order from the cabinet gave Hall the authority he wanted , authority to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ projects and concentrate Farnborough 's vast resources in a gigantic post-mortem on the fallen Comets . The first thing he did was call in fifteen of his technical-department heads . " We 'll start from scratch , " he told them . " We 'll believe nothing until we have proved it , scientifically and conclusively . We 'll take every conceivable cause of airplane failure and keep after it until we can honestly say it 's been eliminated . We may be lucky or we may not . But we 've got to try everything . " ( Cmutinue41 on Page 107 ) HE FOUND OUT WHY THE COMETS BLEW UP ( Coni jilt fnom raw . 24 ) ) Salvage of the Naples Comet was conceded to be impossible ; it lay in 3500 feet of water . But down in the murky depths of the Mediterranean the Royal Navy was still groping for the Elba wreckage . They were using trawlers , divers , sounding devices and underwater television , but it was a heartbreaking task . Time and again , storms swept moorings away . Underwater visibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to about ten feet . As one weary sailor put it , the job was like going out in a helicopter on a misty day and trying to locate a handful of peas that bad been scattered around a ten-acre field . But the navy kept trying . Meanwhile , in a green canvas hangar at Farnborough the wooden skeleton of a Comet was set up . An air ferry was established to bring wreckage back from Elba as fast as it was recovered . Each piece of twisted , slime-smeared metal was given microscopic examination , then was pinned in its proper place on the wooden frame . In the end , the hundreds of fragments recovered represented more than 70 per cent of the fallen Comet . While the wreckage experts moved doggedly from the green canvas hangar to their laboratories and hack again , Hall asked for and promptly got three sleek undamaged Comets . The cost , to a private buyer of airplanes , would have been four or five million dollars . Nobody , so far , has sent Farnborough a bill . Comet G-ALAV , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Victor ? became a flying guinea pig . Stripped down and loaded with more than 100 pieces of specialized equipment , it made dozens of strenuous test flights at altitudes up to 40,000 feet . Its volunteer crew of twenty boffins  --  one of them a woman  --  knew perfectly well that they were overstraining an airplane that in two instances had already proved a deathtrap . Hall knew it too . Trying to minimize risk , he refused to allow the cabin to he pressurized . The unhappy crew begged him for " just a couple of pounds " to ease their discomfort . He still refused . With instruments recording vibration characteristics and structural-stresses , Able Victor performed admirably . In the meantime Comet G-ALYS , known as Yoke Sugar , was being used for extensive refueling tests . Some of the scientists thought that the system of pressure refueling used by the Comets might have weakened a wing . But even with a wing tank deliberately broken , the strength of Yoke Sugar 's wing was found to be more than adequate . Flights were made with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he detected with Geiger counters . Behind Yoke Sugar always flew a Canberra bomber , its crew alert to report any fire or incipient disaster . But no disaster occurred . Like Able Victor , Yoke Sugar seemed to he an eminently sound aircraft . The third Comet , Yoke Uncle , received what was undoubtedly the strangest treatment ever accorded an airplane . From the start , Farnborough scientists were aware that the cause of both crashes might have been some form of metal fatigue , a phenomenon in which metal easily capable of withstanding a certain stress when new will finally fracture under repeated applica tions of the same stress . In the case of I he Comets , it was considered a most unlikely possibility ; their safe fatigue life had been conservatively estimated al , n minimum of 10,000 flying hours , and none of them had flown even 4000 . Nevertheless the decision was taken to test . Yoke Uncle for fatigue , and test it to the point of actual destruction . The inquiry could not wait for Yoke Uncle to Ily 1 ( 1,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time itself . After some hurried conferences , Hall gave his engineers just six weeks to design and build a steel box 112 feet long , 20 feet wide and 16 feet high . Into this box , its wings protruding forlornly through water-tight seals , went Yoke Uncle . There , submerged in 200,000 gallons of water , it made continuous ghostly nonstop " flights , " each one lasting five minutes and each one the equivalent , in terms of stress and strain , of a normal three-hour journey . During each five-minute flight , hydraulic jacks pushed the wings up and down , reproducing the loads normally experienced at take-off , climb , cruising at high altitude , and descent . By pumping about 100 extra gallons of water into the submerged cabin , the scientists built up the pressure to slightly over eight pounds per square inch , held it there for five minutes , then brought it down to zero again . This , too , was the stress equivalent of three hours ' actual flying . Yoke Uncle was now living at a fantastic rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been in continuous normal flight . No airplane could stand such treatment indefinitely . The scientists knew it would fail . The question was where , and when ' ? A pressure cabin exploding in air , they knew , would he blown to bits . But under water the explosion would be contained , the point of failure preserved for examination . They watched and waited . The water-tank test of Yoke Uncle began early in June . Meanwhile , wreckage analysis was yielding clues , some of them negative , but still highly significant . Experts on explosives found no trace whatever of time bombs or other forms of sabotage . Salvage of the engines indicated that the jet power plants bad not failed . Nor had fire been a primary factor . Proof of this lay in two pieces of material , salvaged separately , that came from the same part of the fuselage . They had been torn apart by some violent force . One was burned , the other was not . The indication clearly was that the disruption of the material took place before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on one of the ailerons that looked as if they had been made by pieces of the cabin being hurled violently outward . Microscopic traces of paint in the scratches matched paint from the Comet 's fuselage . Had the airplane simply fallen apart in mid-air , the terrific rush of the windetream would have carried any cabin fragments straight to the rear . If a piece of the cabin had scored the outer wing , it must have been blown straight out with appalling force . Other signs also pointed to a sudden and devastating explosion . All but five of the bodies recovered at Elba had suffered skull and other fractures while Still alive . Apparently they had been thrown violently out of their seats in an upward direction . The lungs of all the victims showed the effects of explosive decompression , as if they had been tired into a partial vacuum from a gigantic air gun . And there were other mute , vivid bits of explosion evidence . The imprint of a coin from some unfortunate lassenger'a pocket was clearly marked on one of the tail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was impacted on the metal . It survived several weeks ' immersion in salt water and faded only after the piece of wreckage reached Farnborough . With these clues to spur I hem on , 1-Intl and his men drove them-set vet ; io I he limit of human endurance . Eighty-hour weeks were commonplace . Seine of the scientists worked 100 or even 120 hours . Gradually , evidence mounted that the basic cause of the disaster had been pressure-cabin blowout .. Scientists well knew that . a rip in the cabin wall at high altitude could be fatal . With air pressure inside the cabin some eight pounds greater than the atmospheric pressure outside , stress concentrations at certain points , especially around the windows , might run as high as 35,000 or 40,000 pounds per square inch . If t he metal skin failed ? and it was only about one thirty-second of an inch thick  --  the resulting explosion would be the equivalent of detonating a 100-pound born b . But why should the cabin fail ? De Havilland had tested it repeatedly up to more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ designed to prevent overpressurization ; both were found intact . If the skin had split , where had it split , and why ? The answer did not come in one blinding ( lash , but in a series of closely related events . On June twenty-first the air ferry shuttling between Farnborough and Elba brought in a piece of wreckage that proved beyond doubt that a piece of the fuselage had struck the outer wing . The markings and the damage matched . Three days later , having " flown " the equivalent of some 9000 hours in its steel box , the pressure cabin on Yoke Uncle failed . The metal skin split open near an escape hatch . Only the watery embrace in which it was held prevented the cabin from blowing itself to hits . The fracture was immediately subjected to microscopic analysis . There was no doubt about it ; the cause was metal fatigue . This in itself did not prove that the other Comets had fallen victim to the some thing . Theoretically , they were much too young . But the one sure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foretell with certainty when it will strike , In Nevil Shute 's novel , No Highway , which became a popular movie starring Jimmy Stewart , the hero-scientist predicts that an airplane will fail because of fatigue , and , after intricate c.alculat ions , puts his bollinish finger on the exact . moment . According to Dr. Percy B. Walker , Farnborough 's fatigue expert , such prescience is impossible . No two aircraft , even sister aircraft like the Comets , are alike in I heir fatigue characteristics . An average fatigue life may be calculated . But a weak specimen of the metal may last only one third as long as the average , while a strong specimen may live three times as long . By now Hall and his colleagues felt that if only they could recover the actual segment of the cabin that had failed , their case would be complete . But where was it ? Where had it fallen ' ? In one of Farnborough 's lofty balloon hangars another set of experiments had been going on . A hundred wooden models of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a scale of thirty-two to one . These were fired by means of special cartridges from he roof of the hangar , caused to break up in mid-air , and photographed as they fell . Different types of crashes EVENING were thus simulated , with different sequences of break-up . It was found that when a model was exploded as if the pressure cabin had failed , the pieces fell in the canto pattern as the Elba wreckage . It was also found that if the roof of the cabin had failed first ? and all evidence indicated t hat it hart  --  then the critical piece of wreckage was not where the navy was looking for it . Consequently , on July sixth , the Admiralty was requested to reorient its search . Sure enough , on August twelfth 1 he giant grabs of the salvage vessels came up with the missing roof . Farnborough did not know , at first , that the vital clue they were seeking was in the twisted mass of metal . But it was : a rip in the metal skin close to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fracture was long and hard but by September suspicion had become a certainty . The Elba Comet had exploded because of metal fatigue . All indications were that the Naples Comet had met the same fate . How mercifully quick death had been was recorded by the cold , analytical eye of a high-speed movie camera . A one-tenth-scale plastic model of the pressure cabin was made containing similar scale models of the passengers . The pressure inside was raised to eight and a quarter pounds above the outside air pressure . Then the cabin was made to burst at the top . At .006 of a second the camera showed no appreciable change . At .03 of a second some of the chairs were being dragged forward by the enormous upward suction . At six tenths of a second , the cabin was in complete chaos , a dummy passenger hitting the roof violently , with chairs flying wildly about him . Other photographs showed one of the dummies hurtling through the hole in the bursting cabin . In the actual explosions over the Mediterranean , the passengers had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a second all were dead . In October the Farnborough findings were presented to a Royal Court of Inquiry . The post-mortem took the form of a report more than four inches thick , containing 280 illustrations and more than 120,000 words . With a candor as courageous as it was unprecedented , the highly technical documents pointed to two major conclusions . First , stress concentrations inside the Comet 's pressurized cabin might have reached some 45,000 pounds per square inch two or three times during a normal flight . This was about 70 per cent of the static strength of the metal , and too high for comfort . The second conclusion was that the fatigue life of the metal skin itself had proved shorter than anyone could have foreseen on the basis of knowledge existing before the Farnborough investigation . As one expert put it , " Aviation did n't let us down ; metallurgy did . " With the cause of the accidents known , the weakness can he eliminated , and no doubt the Comets will fly again  --  although whether or not under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't know all there is to know about high-level fatigue , " Hall said at the inquiry . " but we now know quite enough to make aviation safe . " A statement . of major importance to air travelers everywhere . During the inquiry , although he did his best to share the credit with his colleagues , Hall was constantly in the spotlight . Observers were impressed with his poise on the witness stand , his clarity of thought , his encyclopedic scientific knowledge . Clearly , from a national point of view , a superhoffin was a useful bird to have around . What , then , were the ingredients that went into the making of one " Arnold Alexander Hall was born in 1915 near Liverpool , of ordinary middle-class parentage . With his two younger brothers he passed a happily commonplace childhood , attending a Church of England elementary school until he was twelve , and showing at first no particular scholastic brilliance . His early ventures in science were not always outstanding successes . On one occasion he blew up the kitchen while trying to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he nearly destroyed his brothers and himself by neglecting to include a safety valve on a homemade steam engine . At Liverpool 's Alsop High School , a physics leacher named Woodlieadt he boys irreverently dubbed him " Timbernut " ? encouraged Hall in his enthusiasm for science and helped him win a scholarship to Clare College , Cambridge . There he planned to become an electrical engineer , but another influential teacher , Sir Melvill Jones , converted him to the newer and more challenging field of aeronautics . At Cambridge , Hall 's latent abilities shone brilliantly . During his final examinations he was stricken with a mysterious malady tentatively diagnosed as appendicitis . He collapsed at his desk and had to leave the examination hall for treatment . But he tottered back in time to achieve a solid find in mechanical sciences , incidentally winning three out of the four prizes offered by the university in that field . From Cambridge he went to work at Farnborough . There ho soon met Frank Whittle , the genius credited with the invention of the jet engine . The two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brains . " Those were the days , " says Hull almost wistfully , " when we considered six hundred miles per hour devilish fast ! " In 1939 the war  --  and the Luftwaffe  --  came to Britain . The life of a boffin in those days was no ivory-tower affair . Hall was at Tangmere base when the Stukas came over and plastered it . He hated being bombed , and admits it . In 1941 , when the RAF desperately needed better devices to intercept the German night bombers , Hall and other scientists flew endless hours crammed into cockpits full of experimental equipment . They finally produced a gyro gun sight that doubled the number of RAF kills . After the war , Hall got a job teaching aeronautics at the University of London , one of the youngest full professors in England . While there he found time occasionally to indulge his two bobbies , photography and sailing . While there , too , he met and married Dione Sykes , Bristol-born daughter of a clergyman . In 1951. at the age of thirty-six , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now live in a comfortable but unpretentious house with three small daughters , two cats and an aristocratic Corgi named Rennie . Hall drives himself to work every day in a 1938 sedan , arriving about nine o'clock . He maintains a man-killing work schedule until eight or nine at night . Then be comes home , says good night to the children if they 're still awake , and works some more . Someone once asked Lady Hall what her hushand did about meals . " I wish , " she said sadly , " that I knew . " Actually , Hall 's personal assistant , a calm-eyed ex-army officer with the soothing name of Butters , sees to it that his chief does n't die of starvation  --  or of unwarranted interruptions . Like many top executives . Hall has a passion for sudden conferences , calling them on the spur of the moment and expecting his harassed department heads to materialize within ten minutes , although some of them have to come from the other side of the busiest airfield in England . When they do arrive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instinct for putting his linger on the crucial point , brushing aside irrelevancies . His colleagues have long since ceased to be astounded at the flypaper memory that enables him to refer to the exact page and paragraph of a report that he scanned with apparent casualness days or weeks before . He has little patience with fuzzy-mindedness . " After all , " he likes to say with a faintly pained look , " one must use one 's intelligence , must n't one ? " His manner in dealing with his subordinates is usually mild , but he tolerates no inefficiency and detests pomposity of any sort . On one occasion a Colonel Blimpish individual assigned to Farnborough was told his duties briefly by the director . " But exactly what , sir , " he demanded , " is my principal mission ' ! " Hall gave him a long , cool stare . " To do the job well , I should think . " Sometimes he displays a dry sense of humor . Not long ago Farnborough was offered some Ground Control Approach equipment of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man 's GCA . ' There was some question as to whether it was worth accepting , so Butters presented the problem to his boss . " It 's really very simple , " Sir Arnold told him . " It 's a poor man 's GCA , you say ? Well , I 'm a poor man . Therefore I want it ! " While he may not actually be a poor man , Hall is not . likely to grow rich on his civil servant 's salnry of 1:3150 ? roughly 58801 ) a year ? with no perquisites whatever . He could easily double that sum by working for private in .. industry in Britain or quadruple it if he cared to come to the U.S.A. But money means little to him ; he actually took a salary cut when he left his university post to go to Farnborough . Hall once made an effort to describe his work in a couple of sentences . " Farnborough , " he said , " is like a huge bottle of fizzing mineral water whose bubbles are ideas . My @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and arrange to be incorporated in future plans . " It is a sobering thought that on those decisions may well depend not merely the fate of a handful of passengers in a high-altitude airplane but in the long run the destiny of a whole nation . As director of the Royal Aircraft Establishment , Hall controls not only the myriad activities of Farnborough but much of Britain 's guided-missile research as well . In the tense , uneasy world of the twentieth century , this thirty-nine-year-old scientist-ad ministrator occupies a key position . He ca n't afford to make mistakes . No one expects him to make any . THE END                     