@@494674

DECEMBER 1 , 1958 Leaders Who Follow The Voice of the Parrot , Not of a Pericles , Is Heard in the Land by LOUIS J. HALLE AS THE CEASE-FIRE in Amoy Harbor is turned on and off , as the noose into which we have put our head is alternately tightened and slackened by our Communist opponents , the time seems ripe to ask why a great nation gets itself into such positions at all . It may be well , for the moment , to turn our eyes from the bad results which our system has produced to the functioning of the system that has produced them . We have a leadership system of government as opposed to an authoritarian . In the conduct of our international relations the President is charged with the leadership , and this requires him to perform two main functions . The first is to make foreign policy ; the second , to gain the nation 's acceptance of it . Ideally , in performing the first the President would exclude all considerations of domestic politics , concentrating on the external @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national purpose in dealing with it . He would make the best policy he could and , having done so , he would use the arts of leadership to gain domestic acceptance for it . In practice , however , no President since Washington has been able to exclude domestic considerations altogether from the first function . The policy that the President makes must be one for which he feels able to gain acceptance , even though it is not the best he could make . To the extent that he has reason to doubt his powers of leadership , he is constrained to make a policy that is acceptable to begin with , even though it points to disaster . Of late years it has been apparent that the direction in LOUIS J. HALLE was a member of the State Department 's Policy Planning Staff until 1954 . He is presently visiting professor at the Institute of Higher International Studies at Geneva on leave of absence from his post as Research Professor at the University of Virginia . This article is based on a chapter from Dream and Reality : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harper and Brothers in the spring . which the President leads is not necessarily the direction that he conceives to be right . It is , rather , the direction in which domestic forces push him . When the pressure is to reduce the budget he leads the way in that direction , trimming down the military establishment . When the pressure is to strengthen the military establishment he turns . around and leads in the opposite direction , calling for a larger budget . His leadership has the same basis when he " unleashes " the Chinese Nationalists , increasing their freedom to involve us in war with the Chinese Communists . One is reminded of the leader of an insurrectionary movement during a storming of the barricades . " My people are going that way , " he said , " and since I am their leader I must follow . " All this , however , represents more than personal default . It represents a deterioration of the system in which our officials try to carry out their functions . It represents an evolution of the system that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There appears to be a natural tendency for democracies to evolve , like parabolic arcs , out of the irresponsible government of tyrants and back again into the irresponsible government of demagogues . The history of Athenian democracy is the classic example . Another is that of the Roman Republic between the destruction of Carthage and the establishment of the Principate . At first the people are inclined to delegate their political power to those who , because of their character and education , have won their confidence . They elect a Pericles or a Washington in the expectation that he will follow his personal judg ment , in which they have confided , rather than simply do their bidding . But as they gain self-confidence , as they are encouraged by the rivals for their favor , and as trust in the independent leaders is impaired , the theory of leadership changes . It may be that President Eisenhower was defining this change in his First Inaugural Address when he said that the American faith today " decrees that we , the people , elect leaders not to rule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is conceived to be that of harmonizing his followers , obtaining a consensus among them , and then giving it expression in action . It is not conceived to be that of seeing to it that the right consensus is reached . Under this theory the . real nature of the external challenges would have a secondary or even only a fortuitous role in the determination of foreign policy ? as finally happened in Athens . For the people , however intelligent and conscientious they may be individually , are not in a position to make such determination themselves except in the broadest and most general sense ? any more than they would be in a position to exercise judgment in the nation 's law-courts in place of the trained judges who now discharge that function . The external challenges exist beyond the national horizon , in remote and exotic environments . We more often see their effects , like the play of distant searchlights in the night-sky , than the challenges themselves . They involve technical and abstruse considerations ( just as cases in the courts often do ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secrecy or duplicity of other governments . The beams of light represent deliberate deceptions . Any professional adviser to the Secretary of State finds it impossible , with all his professional time devoted to the task , to keep himself adequately informed about any large portion of the external challenges ? even where the information is available . How , then , can doctors , shopkeepers , factory-workers , farmers or businessmen , with other uses for their time , keep themselves adequately informed ? It is not a question of resistance to knowledge but of the peculiar demands which such an undertaking makes , the intellectual training which it requires , and the maturity on which its success depends . W E have seen such an evolution of democracy not only in America but also in England , where foreign relations were excluded from parliamentary debate until after World War I. The oligarchical procedure of the American Founding Fathers persisted in the British conduct of foreign affairs long after it had given way in the other fields of government . The members of the Cabinet were like judges in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cases that came before them , answerable only in the long run . Since World War I , however , British governments , though still enjoying a large measure of freedom , have been increasingly gripped by the forces of an unsophisticated public opinion . They have had to labor with increasing difficulty , like men wading through glue . In France , for a generation past , it could almost be said that for long stretches of time foreign policy was no longer made at all . On one occasion after another , France has stood where she found herself , unable to move forward or back , able only to utter protests at the actions of others . For the moment , however , she appears to have acquired the kind of brilliant leader on which all democracies occasionally depend for their salvation , and hope is in the ascendant . When we feel oppressed by lack of leadership on the national scene our sound and natural impulse is to say : If only the President would go on the air and say this or that , explain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political leadership is exercised . The President of the United States can not gain the support of the American people or the peoples of the world merely by the decisions he makes with respect to the budget , the organization of the armed forces , or federal aid to education . By making these decisions badly he can lose their confidence , but to gain their confidence he must speak to them in words . He must use logic . Note , now , a paradox . Beginning with the period after Woodrow Wilson , the custom has developed of employ . ing special speech-writers to prepare or assist in the preparation of the speeches which our political leaders deliver . This has developed to the point where today it is generally accepted as a matter of ordinary procedure that the President 's speeches are written for him . With all the bureaucratic apparatus of speech-writers and public-relations experts which is now at the disposal of our Presidents and our Secretaries of State one might expect that this prime function of leadership would be better performed than ever before . Yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and statesmanlike utterance has come out of such a combination . One who has , on occasion , been intimately involved in the process of speech-writing for our governmental leaders ( and who has seen words of his composition cast in imperishable bronze over the name of a famous statesman ) may offer the observation that the fault is not primarily in the ability of the individuals who participate in it . Our Presidents and Secretaries , in recent times , have had speech-writers as good as money could hire or patriotic devotion could enlist , men with professional credentials that no Abraham Lincoln or Winston Churchill could match . Yet one can not say that the consequence has been a growth in the effective eloquence of leadership . This statement of the paradox suggests its explanation . The primary concern of leadership must be with what needs to be said to the people . As a matter of professional training , however , the primary concern of public-relations experts and copy-writers is with the audience . They are concerned , first of all , with what will be well received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is whatever corroborates the views that the audience already holds . If the President is to address a labor audience in Detroit on foreign policy they will not be primarily concerned with the foreign-policy subject , on which they are not experts . They will , rather , concentrate on having him avoid such maturity of expression as might make difficulties for those who have not had an education beyond high-school ; they will have him include statements designed to appeal to important minority groups among them ; and they will have him exclude anything that might be unpopular with such an audience , however much it might need to be said . In a sense , then , it is the audience that , by its leanings and limits , writes the speech . Here is an abnegation of leadership automatically produced . by the processes of bureaucracy . The leader , who is merely one piece in this game , does not lift the people up but is brought down , by his staff-writers , to their level . ( This is the same mistake that professional educa tors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an eight-year-old , and with equally undistinguished results . ) I CAN NOT say that if our political leaders should dismiss their speech-writing staffs and once more write their own speeches the results would necessarily be better . My occasional regret that some of our leaders have not written their own speeches is matched only by my regret that others have . Few have any literary and intellectual ability approaching that of an Abraham Lincoln , a Woodrow Wilson , or a Winston Churchill . The leader 's disability prompts him to resort to speech-writers . Without them he might do even worse . Here is a dilemma that arises , I think , out of the tendency for democracy in its evolution eventually to fall away from educated statesmanship . Pericles , who was schooled in philosophy and literature , had the gift of distinguished and persuasive expression , expression which tended to lift the audience up to his level . But Cleon the uneducated tanner who succeeded him , did not have it . The gift is a product of that intellectual culti ' : ation to which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understands what Clean meant when he told the Athenians that " ordinary men usually manage public affairs better than their more gifted fellows . " But the history of Athens itself suggests that , as the gifted men retire and the ordinary men step into their places , statesmanship gives way to demagogy and leadership degenerates into followership . I would not advocate that our leaders , however gifted , consult only themselves in preparing what they will say . But taking the lead in a work of collaboration is different from accepting the completed work which one 's staff sets before one . President Washington had the active collaboration of Alexander Hamilton in the preparation of his Farewell Address . But Hamilton was not a public-relations man or a professional copy-writer ; he was himself a bold political leader who happened to share the convictions of the President and was , like the President , intent on giving them an expression designed more to sway the people than to win their applause . If the Farewell Address is great it is because in its reserved and formal language it expresses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who has suffered a long and often poignant experience of public affairs . There is no hint in it of saying what the audience would be happy to hear . No one advances , as such , the theory that leadership in our democracy should passively accept popular opinion as it is , without questioning . But approaches to such a theory are advanced , ordinarily basing themselves on the doctrine of Congressional government : the doctrine that the executive branch is subordinate to the legislative branch , which must assume such leadership as is called for because it represents the electorate in detail , as the President does not . The most outspoken statement of the theory was made by Admiral Dewey in 1900 when he announced his candidacy for President . " Since studying the subject , " he said , " I am convinced that the office of the President is not such a very difficult one to fill , his duties being mainly to execute the laws of Congress . Should I be chosen for this exalted position , I would execute the laws of Congress as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ superiors . " The theory would also find a clear expression in many statements by President Eisenhower during his first term and in the period immediately preceding it . But the Congress can not lead for a number of reasons . For one , when responsibility for leadership is diffused among a membership of more than 500 it tends to be lost . For another , the Congress lacks adequate means of informing itself on the daily developments that call for action , and it lacks the bureaucratic means of giving effect to its decisions . The theory that we elect leaders merely to catalyze and represent the consensus on each issue implies that the leaders we elect should have common minds . They should be Cleans rather than Pericleses . But all such men can do is to be parrots , to say what everyone is saying ; and for this purpose their speeches are best written by professional experts in what the public thinks and says , what language it understands . But this leaves out of account the external situation , that world of reality outside our borders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its own accord , to our national purposes and objectives . Here the leadership , under the evolving theory of democracy , is beyond its competence . The most frequent argument for having a leader 's speeches written for him is that , under the pressures of our day , he does not have time to prepare them for himself . But this is too simple . What a man has time for is a matter of the priorities on his time . The man who says he can not write his own speech because of other demands on his time might have said that he could not meet the other demands because he had to write his speech . I think an examination of the record would show that in England , during the years of World War II , important state business was sometimes kept waiting for days while the Prime Minister devoted himself exclusively to the preparation of a speech . Among our own leaders the lack of the necessary priority for speech-writing may sometimes reflect the personal 12 reluctance of men who have no gift for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think , it , is a manifestation of something rooted in our culture . We Americans characteristically make an invidious distinction between words and deeds . We prefer to think of ourselves as men of action . Literary composition , together with the processes of thought which provide its substance , seems to us dilettantish or effete , like a preoccupation with court manners and diplomatic protocol . This Cleonesque attitude is an inheritance from our ancestors , who cleared the wilderness with axes and found scant use for words . It is inimical , however , to the practice of the highest type of political leadership , as distinct from the practice of demagogy , since such leadership depends primarily on the gift for original words and the intellectual discipline that it reflects . This is true , at least , in a democracy , where leadership is not to be divorced from the use of reason to persuade . The dearth of this gift or its depreciation has constituted a national weakness , especially since the end of World War II . It has sometimes prevented the national leadership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it necessary , in the national interest , to pursue ; and so the nation has tended to be paralyzed or to fall victim to demagogues who misrepresented the policy for their own ends . THE NEW REPUBLIC In a broad sense , what applies to the requirement of leadership in a democracy applies also to that of leadership of a bureaucracy , which may be only less difficult . The President and the Secretary of State , if they are sober and responsible , must consult and listen to the bureaucracy under them . But if they ask it to make their policy decisions for them , then , however intelligent its multitudinous officials , the decisions that emerge will represent only a consensus at the lowest level of understanding . In the organization of bureaucracy for routine and mechanical operations ? like delivering the mail or building an airbase ? special procedures designed by administrative experts are necessary to make it foolproof , for fools there will always be . The military services have their Standard Operating Procedures , which even those with the dullest wits can understand and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy and obtaining acceptance for it can not be conducted in this fashion . It can not be performed on the President 's behalf by bureaucratic teams using the standard procedures . At ' the level of the President 's office , everything still depends on a personal distinction for which there is no substitute . In its absence , however energetic , eager and well organized the bureaucracy may be , leadership becomes followership . When that happens democracy is imperiled. 