@@263886

Los Angeles televiewers this week got a closeup look at some extremely fancy shenanigans : they watched two collection-agency men in a fascinating demonstration of the techniques of repossessing an automobile . The two approached four locked cars , and using burglars ' tools and master keys , opened the doors . As the camera peered over their shoulders , they showed how to " hot wire " a car ( i.e. , bypass the ignition lock ) to start the engine . Then they demonstrated another favorite gadget of " repo " men : an equalizer tube for quick inflation of tires in case delinquent owners have deliberately flattened tires to ward off repossession . The collection agents , legally entitled to repossess cars parked in public areas , explained that they sometimes ply their trade even when a car is on private property . <P> This sharp look at a rugged profession was telecast over Los Angeles ' independent KTTV by an enterprising producer named Paul Coates . Last year Coates , a columnist for the Los Angeles Mirror , decided to create a hard-hitting television @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " a newspaperman can do on television . I had written some scripts for Dragnet . . . The greatest attraction there is stark reality in dialogue and faces . I wanted to do a show with real realism . As part of my job on the Mirror , I see the petty hoodlums , prostitutes , homosexuals , unwed mothers , people victimized by racket . Television had not explored this area , and I decided to do it . " <P> B-Girls . Coates , a 33-year-old New Yorker , lined up a cameraman and a producer-the Mirror 's former assistant news editor , Jim Peck . He called his show Confidential File and set out to find some offbeat stories . He did not have to search far . His first show exposed the B-girl ( barroom shill ) racket in Los Angeles . Since then Coates has run programs on a homosexual ( who freely showed his face on the program and was fired from his job the next day ) , shoplifters in action , a narcotics addict , a hypnotized woman , singing Brahms 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On one show we interviewed a pyromaniac . I asked him why he set fires . He said it gave him a good feeling and that he felt peaceful . He had once been a member of a volunteer Los Angeles Fire Department before getting into trouble , and he came to the show wearing a fireman 's cap . " Says Coates : " It 's amazing how people consent to appear on our show . I ca n't believe it 's anything but exhibitionism in most cases . We do n't pay them anything . If they 're broke and we feel 15 bucks will help them for a few days , we give them that . We salestalk them into coming on the show on the grounds that their appearance will help others . But if you ask me , I still think exhibitionism is at the root of it . "                     