@@493834

reportorial books and collections of short stories , with a combined sale of more than 30 million copies in this country . Except for Joseph Stalin , whose books are read for other reasons , he is the most widely distributed author of modern times . But he is n't much read by American critics . The effect of his enormous popular success has been to cheapen the price of his literary stock , which is now selling at what I should judge to be something less than its actual or book value . Caldwell , after all , has invented several characters and has set them talking in a new fashion . Some day the critics may rediscover his early stories , which are very good ones , as if they had set out , with a band of explorers to find the Grand Central Station . In. their wanderings they may even discover Margaret Mitchell , whose novel has what the new critics will be certain to call a mythopoeic value ? that is , if they ever penetrate the mists of its popularity to find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better luck abroad . It has been the subject of long critical discussions in France , Germany , Denmark , Japan and a dozen other countries , but it has never even been listed on the American exchange . Just what do I mean by the literary stock exchange if it is n't the same as the popular marketplace for books and yet can be equally mistaken about real values ? It might be defined as the process of bargaining among critics and would-be critics that determines the standing of prominent authors in any given month or year . There are bulls and bears in the market ; there are pools , tipsters , speculators , long-term investors and specialized traders ; there . are even planned campaigns in various literary stocks . Finally a balance is reached between short selling and buying for the rise , and that balance serves as a market quotation on the author 's work . The quotation does n't answer the question how many copies the author 's next book will sell , because the public does n't listen very attentively to critical . opinions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which authors will be discussed in the literary journals ? and in how much space ? which authors will be required or recommended reading in courses on modern literature , and which authors will be studied and imitated by the new generation of writers . Publishers look at the market quotations too . Sometimes when a manuscript is being considered for publication a senior editor will say , " We 're sure to lose money on it , " and a junior editor will answer , " Perhaps a little money , but we ought to regard it as a prestige item . " What the junior editor means is that the au , thor of the manuscript , although lacking yin sales appeal , has a high standing on the stock exchange . Sometimes ? by no means always ? today 's market quotations determine which authors will be best-sellers in five or ten years or even longer . T. S. Eliot had enjoyed a high critical reputation for thirty years and had won the Nobel Prize before one of his books ? The Cocktail Party ? appeared for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are looking for indications of an author 's permanent value , his standing on the stock exchange is no more to be trusted than are his sales reports . His quotations on the Big Board go up and down , sometimes in a most erratic fashion , and yet his works are no better or worse than they were on the day of publication . As one example take the recent flurry in Scott Fitzgerald . Ten years after his death there was a revival of interest in the 1920s and in Fitzgerald himself as the tragic hero of a period that was suddenly invested with romance . Two books about him became runaway best sellers , to the stupefaction of their authors . On the Big Board there was a new market for Fitzgerald stock . It attracted speculators , had a dizzy rise and by the late spring of 1951 it was being bought and sold at something that would appear to be more than its par value . But it does have a par value , even a high one ; that is one of the chief lessons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who rises above mediocrity and manages to speak for himself , instead of speaking as he likes to think that other people would like to think of him speaking -- every author , that is , who really exists for us ? has a value in himself that operates as a sort of norm . If his reputation rises above the norm ? that is , if his stock goes much above par on the literary exchange ? then it is certain to fall again . If its fall brings it much below par , it is almost certain to rise . There is even a law of compensation in these matters : the steeper the rise , the dizzier will be the fall . The longer and more completely an author is neglected , the greater his eventual fame is likely to be ? that is , if he belongs to the small band of genuine authors . For Herman Melville the period of complete neglect lasted sixty years . He was rediscovered in 1921 and since that year almost the whole critical profession has been making amends to his ghost . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Emerson ; even his feeblest works , like The Confidence Man , are set above their strongest ones and he is praised day after day as the greatest American author of all time . On the other hand , a few years of being ridiculously overvalued may plunge an author into a long period of neglect . Something like that happened to James Branch Cabell , largely as a result of the hullabaloo over Jurgen when the novel was first published in 1919 , then suppressed and finally reissued . Its reappearance was such a victory over the censors that many critics began talking about the author as if Shakespeare ? or Melville ? had appeared in Publishers ' Row . It was in 1921 that Vernon Louis Parrington wrote a long essay on " The Incomparable Mr. Cabell " and ended it by saying : Mr. Cabell is creating great literature . A self-reliant intellectual , rich in the spoils of all literatures , one of the great masters of English prose , the supreme comic spirit thus far granted us , he stands apart from the throng of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual and incomparable . Mr. Cabell still writes books , but scarcely anyone reads them and the author is n't praised or attacked ; he is hardly mentioned . Although he has suffered from changing fashions , I suspect that he has suffered more from his admirers . His real but rather slender talent could n't stand the strain of his being called a master of English prose and the supreme comic spirit thus far granted us . Instead of dealing it length with other reputations , I might write a sort of market letter , one that reported on the course of literary values during the first two weeks of November , 1951 . It would run something like this : " The market has been active this month , with many stocks selling off , but with the public coming in to buy selected fictions , some of which registered advances ranging from fractions to eight or ten points . " There was brisk trading in the Lost Generation group of novelists . Faulkner common showed mixed tendencies , on account of conflicting reports as to the value of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strength in the last hour of trading on Saturday and closed at 3093/8 , an advance of seven points since the first of the month . Fitzgerald was steadier at 22 points below the high that was reached in the runaway market last spring . Hemingway suffered a loss of 61/2 points , said to be the result of short selling , but showed strength at the close . With an extra dividend promised for next year , investors should take note of this standard issue , now thought to be undervalued . Thornton Wilder was low but firm and there were signs of quiet accumulation by insiders . Thomas Wolfe Industries continued a creeping recession . " Among issues that used to be market leaders back in Coolidge days , Willa Cather was in some demand and Edith Wharton moved up four points and a fraction . Buyers proved apathetic to Theodore Dreiser offerings . Sherwood Anderson has been inactive at a depressed level since what has become known as the Trilling Killing , when bears of the Lionel Trilling-Irving Howe syndicate made their famous raid against this formerly gilt-edged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a single trading session . " Prospects in the international field continued to be blurred , with the result that most buyers refrained from active participation . Rumors that the franc was about to be devalued led to a weakening of French equities , although Gide and Proust held firm . Sartre , a newcomer in the field , was flabby at the close and seems to be suffering from the effects of overproduction . Among Central European issues Kafka had a drop of 18 points for the period , when specialists tried to realize their paper profits . The ' public showed no interest in offerings by Kafka 's American subsidiaries . " Apparently the Conservative victory in the recent election had little effect on the price of ' British equities , except that Winston Churchill was up five points . Older firms such as the Joseph Conrad Navigation Company and . the Matthew Arnold Lecture Bureau continued to show strength . After a long period of inactivity Robert Louis Stevenson reappeared on the ticker and made fractional gains . Bernard Shaw , Inc. , reached a new high for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ founder of the company called attention to its essentially sound position . There was a flow of venture capital into some promising new equities , including Joyce Cary , Henry Green and Ivy Compton-Burnett . " Because of uncertainties about the immediate future , some investment trusts were transferring their funds into longterm , low-yield bonds of established market leaders . Shakespeare ( up two points ) , Sophocles and Dante all showed strength in active trading . Milton rose fractionally on reports that the powerful T. S. Eliot interests , which for years had taken a short position in this stock , had shifted to the other side of the market . Operations of the Great Book syndicate caused a fluttering demand for Plato and Aristotle . " Among the American classics Melville continued to be the most active and once again ended the period with a net gain , but for the first time there was indication ' of short selling . Market insiders were saying that the Melville backers had become overextended and that a reaction was certain to follow . Although there was little trading in Longfellow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was planning a sales campaign . Whittier was still snowbound . Henry James was down three points and a fraction after the recent flurry . Emerson was solid with not much activity ; we believe that the issue still offers a sterling opportunity to investors . " The new poetry remains obscure , with not much public participation . An underlying tendency in the fiction market is the continuing slow dedine of all novelists specializing in social protest and in optimistic pictures of the future . Symbolism is popular , nightmares are riding high and there is a brisk demand for original sin . " 