@@187982

( See Cover ) Appearing and disappearing with bewildering rapidity , the scenes that flashed across history 's screen in 1958 often had the disjointed quality of a surrealist movie . Some were dramatic portents of a world to come - missiles trailing a fiery glow as they took off for deep space , bearing with them a gadget that , when asked , sent back the recorded voice of the President of the U.S. , another that reported wondrously complicated readings on radiation far beyond the atmosphere . <P> Some reflected the temper of the times -a shock-haired Texan receiving a Broadway ticker-tape welcome for winning a piano competition in Moscow , a limber Australian methodically breaking records for the mile . Still other scenes were charmingly sentimental - the heir to an ancient throne promising himself in marriage to a commoner he first met on a tennis court , the new , young head of a populous religious sect resuming his daily classes at Harvard . <P> But as the show went on , great stretches of it proved to have a grim sameness . Time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mobs with hate in their eyes , or of steel-helmeted troops fanning out through a tense capital in the fateful hours before dawn . For 1958 was another year when men from Caracas to Khartoum lost patience with the established order , a year when nations abruptly smashed familiar institutions and sent their onetime idols off to political oblivion - or violent death . <P> Few established leaders or governments emerged from this year of shattered patterns with enhanced prestige . Nikita Khrushchev , 1957 's Man of the Year , had commanded the scientific resources to produce a Sputnik , but for all his promises and boasts , he could not solve or begin to solve his country 's continuing agricultural crisis . In Red China , faced with his own agricultural crisis , Mao Tsetung launched 1958 's most audacious political act , ordering his 650 million subjects into human anthills called " people 's communes . " But at year 's end he was compelled to retreat , not because of popular resentment ( which did not bother him ) , but because his scheme was not working @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a year of holding operations . The economy recovered its health ; the vexed question of racial integration lay unsolved beneath the surface , but did not erupt into violence . A nation 's youth went hula-hooping its uncomplicated way , and science , medicine and industry explored new breakthroughs . But the stones cast at Richard Nixon in Latin America and the Democratic sweep in the congressional elections made manifest a widespread discontent with U.S. policy , foreign and domestic . <P> To the credit of the Eisenhower Administration was the fact that by firmness at Quemoy and the prompt dispatch of marines and soldiers to Lebanon , it had prevented dramatic deterioration of the international position of the U.S. And it was a U.S. victory of sorts that Gamal Abdel Nasser , who began 1958 by triumphantly merging Egypt and Syria into the United Arab Republic , found himself at year 's end at last aware that his Communist ally was a concealed enemy .                     