@@476059

he would probably be in the awkward position of having to act as both his own prosecutor and defense . Since the present edition of the committee is , theoretically at least , not responsible for the acts of its predecessor in the 80th Congress , Condon might well find himself faced with the question : " Well , doctor , you asked for a hearing ; now what have you got to say for yourself ? " Thus it appears likely that the Condon Case will simply be dropped , at least as far as the principal protagonists are concerned . This will be a most regrettable denouement . There are larger issues involved in Dr. Condon 's personal ordeal which , as he himself has pointed out , can not be settled merely by forgetting that they were raised . Even if Dr. Condon 's reputation were the only thing at stake , it would be unfair for him to remain identified in the public mind as a man who was indicted but never brought to trial . The theory of quashed indictments , of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not be proved guilty . But it is debatable whether this noble concept of Anglo-Saxon jurisprudence has as great a following today as the precept that where there was so much smoke there must have been some fire . In justice to Dr. Condon , and to all fairminded men who have been forced to sit in judgment on him , the smoke-fire ratio in Mr. Thomas 's report should be established with as much precision as possible before that remarkable document is permanently consigned to a pigeonhole . Since no more appropriate forum has been made available , it will be at least some help to hold a hearing on the Condon case here in the pages of Harper 's . For the purposes of our hearing , the case for the prosecution is presented in italics . It consists almost exclusively of direct quotations and statements paraphrased for brevity out of Mr. Thomas 's original report , * but the possibility that the committee might *Technically , this document was a report to the full Un-American Activities Committee by its " Special Subcommittee on National Security . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and there is convincing evidence that the Condon report was his personal project . Other members of the subcommittee were Representatives John S. Wood , Democrat , of Georgia , and Richard B. Vail , Republican , of Illinois . have produced additional evidence on certain points , had it seen fit to follow up the report , will also be considered . The rebuttal which Dr. Condon and his supporters might have made at an actual hearing is presented in brackets at appropriate intervals . II T HE court will now come to order and receive the opening statement of the prosecution : " That the Soviet Union and her satellite nations have been desperately attempting to not only secure our complete atomic know-how , but also to weaken or destroy our hold of this important knowledge is plainly evident . . . . For over a year now , agents of the committee have been assigned to special investigations in this field , and while their investigation is not yet completed , the subcommittee feels that it should submit a preliminary report , particularly on one aspect of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediate attention . It has to do with Dr. Edward U. Condon , Director , of the National Bureau of Standards . From the evidence at hand , it appears that Dr. Condon is one of the weakest links in our atomic security . In substantiation of this statement , the subcommittee respectfully submits the following information . . . . " A Washington attorney , who would gladly have served as Condon 's defense counsel , observed recently that this paragraph is " probably the most remarkable indictment ever written . Read it rapidly and you get the distinct impression that Condon is being accused of giving away atomic secrets to the Russians . Analyze it carefully , however , and you find he has really not been accused of doing anything . True , the inference is that he is a cog in the Communist espionage machine . But the only thing he is actually charged with is ' appearing ' to be a weak link in atomic security , whatever that means . " Without benefit of legal training , Condon arrived at very much the same conclusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ How can a man answer a charge like that ? " he asked a reporter who telephoned him shortly after the report was made public . " If you say I 've got a wart on my nose , I can deny it . But if you just say I 'm one of the ugliest men in town , all I can do is argue that I 'm really quite pretty . " Regrettably , he insisted at the time on keeping his initial reaction " off the record . " What he said for publication was : " If it is true that I am one of the weakest links in atomic security , that is very gratifying . The country can feel absolutely safe , for I am completely reliable , loyal , conscientious , and devoted to the interests of my country , as my whole life and career clearly reveal . The prosecution agrees that Condon 's whole life and career should be examined . To this end it submits the following biographical sketch : " Condon was born at Alamogordo , New Mexico , on March @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he married Emilie Honzek , an American-born woman of Czechoslovakian descent . Dr. Condon is a graduate of the University of California , having received an A. B. degree from that institution in 1924 , and a Ph.D . in 1926 . During the years 1926 and 1927 , Condon studied at the Universities of Munich and Gottingen in Germany . In 1928 , Dr. Condon was a lecturer on physics at Columbia University in New York City . In 1929 , Condon was a professor of physics at Princeton University , and during the years 1930 to 1937 , he was associate director of the physics department at the institution . From September 1927 through November 4 , 1945 , Dr. Condon was employed by the Westinghouse Laboratories at Pittsburgh , Pa . While with the Westinghouse Laboratories where he was employed as director , Condon was a consultant on war research projects being performed at the radiation laboratories of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , Cambridge , Mass. , and the University of California , at Berkeley , California . Condon is principally regarded as a theoretical physicist which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spectroscopy , and the elastic properties of metals . " If this paragraph proves anything , it is that there are no modern Boswells ? or physics students ? on the staff of the Un-American Activities Committee . There are a number of inaccuracies , trifling in themselves , which reflect little credit on the investigative diligence of the committee , since the correct facts could have been ascertained by a routine check of any one of several standard biographical encyclopedias . For example : If the research expended gratuitously on Mrs. Condon 's genealogy had been devoted to the spelling of her maiden name , it would have been found to be Honzik . Condon was never professor of physics nor associate director of the physics department at Princeton , but an assistant and later an associate professor . He was a full professor of physics , at the age of twentyseven , at the University of Minnesota , a fact which is omitted . He was never " employed as director " of the Westinghouse Laboratories , but as associate director , and the laboratories happen to be in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city near Pittsburgh . But the real defense objection to this " biography " lies in what it does not say . Bear in mind that the whole point the prosecution is trying to make is that Condon should be blacklisted and barred from atomic energy research and other secret scientific work of the government . Therefore it is surely germane to know how much of this kind of work he has already done , and whether his contributions were valuable , or of so little importance that he would be no great loss if he were hounded into inactivity . Intentionally or not , the report seems to imply that he was no great shakes . His contributions to America 's scientific position are dismissed with the remarks that he was " a consultant on war research projects " and that he is " principally regarded as a theoretical physicist " ? the latter presumably being of less use than a " practical physicist " in the author 's eyes . The truth is that Dr. Condon is regarded by his fellow scientists , who are after all the only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world 's leading authorities on quantum mechanics , microwave electronics , and radioactivity . His pioneering research in these fields , beginning with his Ph.D . thesis and continuing throughout his years at Princeton and Westinghouse , laid important planks in the " theoretical " floor on which such grimly practical structures as radar and the atomic bomb were later built . Even if Dr. Condon had never done anything else , he would be assured of scientific immortality for his part in developing what is known as the barrier-leakage principle . This was the first satisfactory explanation THE ORDEAL of the process by which alpha-particles escape from the nucleus of a disintegrating atom . It is now known to scientists as the GurneyCondon-Gamow theory and ranks only a notch below Dr. Einstein 's E mc2 as a key to the Pandora 's box at the atom 's nucleus . The defense calls that eminent anti-Communist , Mr. Henry Luce , as a witness to Dr. Condon 's position in American science : A few years ago , Fortune magazine , discussing the paucity of fundamental research in this country , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of great basic discoveries can be counted on the fingers of the hands . There was Ben Franklin in electricity , Joseph Henry on electrical induction , Willard Gibbs in thermodynamics , Michelson-Morley for experiments on the speed of light , Millikan for the nature of the electron , Morgan for the gene theory of heredity , Anderson for the discovery of the positron , Davisson-Germer for wave properties of electrons , Condon for the theory of alpha-particle radioactivity , and Stanley for discovery of crystalline protein virus . " It would appear that , in some eyes at least , Dr. Condon is not readily expendable , even as a " theoretical physicist . " Dr. Condon 's activities during the war years , which the report condensed beyond recognition , are particularly pertinent to the case . One of the most reliable tests for red coloration is to examine what a person did , or did n't do , on behalf of national defense during the years of the Nazi-Soviet Pact . Communists and their sympathizers at that time , it will be recalled , universally took the line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aggression " and should be sabotaged as far as possible . In 1939 , when Molotov and Von Ribbentrop made their infamous deal and Nazi legions poured into Poland , Dr. Condon was happily engaged in the exploration of a problem which at that period might have seemed most impractical to the Un-American Activities Committee . With Westinghouse 's new Van de Graaf electrostatic generator , one of the few giant atom-smashers then in existence , he was studying the possibilities of uranium fission . Early in 1940 , President Roosevelt called on Dr. Vannevar Bush to mobilize American science , and Condon was immediately tapped as a consultant to Bush 's National Defense Research Committee . His first project was radar . He helped to organize the radiation laboratories at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where most of the basic development work on radar was done , and then returned to Westinghouse to set up new electronics divisions at the three big plants which produced a large part of the actual equipment . When the radar program was well under way , Condon worked for a while on rocket research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1941 to serve on a top-secret project originally known as the S-I committee . It was later re-named the Manhattan District . Condon was appointed associate director of the Los Alamos laboratory when it was set up in the spring of 1943 . But he remained there just long enough to turn out a little manual for the indoctrination of younger scientists . This unique volume , the first textbook on the design of atomic weapons , is affectionately known to its now famous students as the Los Alamos Primer . With this task done , Dr. Condon was ordered to the University of California at Berkeley , where he spent nearly two years on the drab but essential job of solving the intricate mathematical problems involved in the design of U-235 extraction equipment for the plant at Oak Ridge , Tennessee . He was driving through Wyoming , on his way back to East Pittsburgh , when the first bomb was tested a few miles from his birthplace . Condon was appointed Director of the National Bureau of Standards on November 5 , 1945 , on the recommendation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the most damning items of evidence against Condon . It is true that Mr. Wallace , then head of the Department of Commerce of which the Bureau is a part , submitted Con-don 's name to President Truman . It is also true that a departmental committee , charged with finding the best available man , submitted his name to Wallace . Condon had never met Wallace until he was offered the job . It is noteworthy that , when the recommendation was made , the conservative Kiplinger Agency interpreted it as a sign that Wallace was trying to woo big business . It told its subscribers that Condon is " primarily a business --  --  ? ? ? ? ? ? ? 1111191k man 's scientist ? the first director of the Bureau of Standards to be recruited from industry . " It is perhaps also worth mentioning that Condon was making $15,000 a year at Westinghouse , while the bureau directorship pays $10,000 . His motives must have been quite sinister ? or quite patriotic . " The Bureau of Standards is one of the most important national defense research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has become the target of espionage agents of numerous foreign powers . . . . " The associations of Dr. Condon and his wife have been cause for great concern to the agencies charged with the security of the United States . Dr. Condon , knowingly or unknowingly , entertained and associated with persons who are alleged Soviet espionage agents , and persons now reported to be under investigation by a Federal Grand Jury . " This , a Washington news commentator has pointed out , is like saying that Condon is alleged to have associated with a man who is alleged to beat his wife . Since the committee itself has demonstrated the possibility of bringing almost anyone into the category , " alleged Soviet espionage agent , " it is impossible for Condon to deny that he may have knowingly or unknowingly been in the company of such persons . The committee 's agents have gained access to a confidential FBI report which says in part : " The files of the FBI reflect that Dr. Edward U. Condon has been in contact as late as 1947 with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to have engaged in espionage activities with the Russians in Washington , D. C. , from 1941 to 1944 . " Others who gained access to the same confidential report discovered that it also said : " There is no evidence to show that contacts between this individual and Dr. Condon were related to this individual 's espionage activities . " According to Mr. Thomas , the latter sentence was " inadvertently " omitted from the subcommittee report . The identity of " this individual " has never been officially established . However , persons in a position to know say that the " self-confessed Soviet espionage agent " referred to was the celebrated Miss Elizabeth Bentley . One of those whom Miss Bentley later named in her public testimony before the committee as MAGAZINE the alleged head of a Soviet spy ring in Washington was Nathan Gregory Silvermaster . Condon had indeed " been in contact " with Silvermaster . While Silvermaster was an official of the War Assets Administration , he approached Condon , whom he had never met before , to ask technical advice from the Bureau @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Condon 's office several times thereafter in connection with this official business , and the two men met casually at one or two Washington social functions . This was the extent of their " contacts , " and it is a masterpiece of understatement to say that they were not " related to espionage activities . " The same FBI report states that Dr. and Mrs. Condon " associated with several individuals connected with the Polish Embassy in Washington . " Particular stress is laid upon his association with lgnace Zlotowski , former counselor of the Polish Embassy and Poland 's delegate to the United Nations Atomic Energy Commission . " Zlotowski is identified as a nuclear scientist who studied under Joliot Curie , known member of the Communist party . It is known that in February 1947 , Zlotowski purchased 270 books on atomic energy which had been published by the Department of Commerce . It is also known that Dr. and Mrs. Condon were in contact with several other persons closely associated with this alleged Soviet espionage agent . It is also reliably reported that in March 1947 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientific groups as a means of transmitting scientific material outside the United States . " Condon acknowledges that he " associated " with Dr. Zlotowski at several official functions and semi-official social occasions in Washington . Once Zlotowski was a dinner guest in Condon 's home , along with a member of Congress and a high Navy Department official . As director of a government agency which continually has official relations with other governments in connection with international standards of weight and measure , and other non-secret technical matters , Condon has also associated with accredited diplomatic representatives of Russia , Britain , Yugoslavia , Cuba , Czechoslovakia , Canada , Hungary , and Haiti , to mention only a few . While it is not directly charged , here or THE ORDEAL anywhere else in the prosecution 's case , that Dr. Condon gave away atomic secrets during his " associations " with Zlotowski et al. , that obviously is the intended implication . To answer these insinuations , once and for all , Condon has said publicly and is prepared to repeat under oath : " I have never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ energy or anything else , with any foreigner or with any other unauthorized person . " The only occasion on which I have ever been asked a question that should not be answered was in 1944 . A foreign visitor asked me point-blank if we were working on a uranium bomb . I told him I knew of no such project . " In the face of this blanket and unequivocal denial , surely the burden of proof lies on the prosecution to bring forward at least one iota of tangible evidence that Dr. Condon has breached security . It has not done so . " Your subcommittee , by a very diligent investigation , has determined that Dr. Condon has in the past five years been in personal contact and communication with a number of individuals who are American citizens but who are members of the Communist party . There is no evidence in our possession that Dr. Condon is a member of the Communist party , however . But as a member of the executive committee of the American-Soviet Science Society , which is affiliated with the National Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a subversive organization by Attorney General Clark , he has lent his name and influence to one of the principal Communist endeavors in the United Slates . " This paragraph , constructed to convey the impression that Condon is a Communist fellow-traveler , deserves a sentence-by-sentence answer . It would be impossible for anyone but a hermit to enter a flat denial of the first assertion . Without a very diligent investigation , it might also be said that Mr. Thomas , J. Edgar Hoover , and Judge Harold R. Medina have been in personal contact and communication with Communists in the past five years . As for the grudging admission in the second sentence ; there not only is no evidence that Condon is a Communist , there is abundant evidence that he is a militant believer in democratic government , human dignity , the Bill of Rights , and other precepts of the American way of life to which Communism is uncompromisingly hostile . Before dealing with the third , or punch-line sentence , it is necessary to correct a grammatical error which may or may not have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a subversive organization by Attorney General Clark as the construction of the sentence implies . It was the National Council that was so cited . The Society contends that it severed all connections with the Council when the latter organization succumbed to Communist domination . Clark 's lists usually included all offshoots and side-fronts of proscribed organizations , and his failure to list the Society seems to indicate that he did n't consider it a Council affiliate . The Rockefeller Foundation also appears not to regard the Society as a subversive " front . " Its Board of Trustees , including Mr. Winthrop Aldrich and Mr. John Foster Dulles , authorized a $25,000 grant to finance the work of the Society after it was attacked by Mr. Thomas . Condon joined the Society , along with some 400 other eminent American scientists , during the big-power honeymoon which prevailed all too briefly after VE-Day . The Society was formed for the vaguely highminded purpose of wooing Russia 's scientists into the family of nations . Its only specific project was the translation of Russian scientific papers into English for distribution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been available . The Army and Navy , which had the good sense to recognize this operation as a valuable if unintended adjunct to U. S. Intelligence , were quite sorry when the Society , a few months ago , gave up the ghost in the face of the bad publicity it received from Mr. Thomas and his associates . III T HE foregoing testimony covers the highlights of the original Thomas report . Would the prosecution have been able to present new and more damning evidence if an actual hearing had been held ? The committee has never been noted for suppressing information which tends to justify its activities . On that basis alone , there are grounds for a strong presumption that if any additional derogatory facts had come to hand , they would have been made public long ago . Fortunately , however , there are even more positive reasons for doubting that the prosecution 's case would have been strengthened by more intensive investigation . Early in July 1948 , the five members of the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission decided that the question of Condon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to any subordinate " loyalty board . " They took the unusual step of personally sitting in judgment on his case . The members of the commission were keenly aware that they were sticking their necks out by passing on Condon 's eligibility for secret atomic work at a time when the Un-American Activities Committee was still promising , almost daily , to back up its denunciation of him at a full public hearing . Therefore the commission took extraordinary pains to make sure that it knew all there was to know about Condon 's activities , to eliminate the possibility that the committee might later spring " surprise evidence " that would make the commission look foolish if not grossly incompetent . At the commission 's request , the FBI went over Condon 's past with a fine-tooth comb . Agents from coast to coast were assigned to what must have been one of the most painstaking and thorough investigations of one man ever conducted . FBI men interviewed more than 300 persons who had known or worked with Condon . The commission also obtained the files of Army Intelligence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Manhattan District , and of every other government agency which had ever had dealings with him , including the State and Commerce Departments . After studying this voluminous record , the commission announced , on July 15 , that it could find " no question whatever concerning Dr. Condon 's loyalty to the United States . " The alternative possibility , suggested by the Thomas report , that Condon is a muddleheaded parlor pink who might unintentionally give away atomic secrets during indiscreet conversations with subversive associates , was dealt with in a statement which other loyalty investigators might take as a model for balance and perspective : " In considering the record , " it said , " the commission has found that , in the opinion of some persons , Dr. Condon 's tact , judgment , and discretion appear to be subject to some degree of criticism . On the other hand , there are statements by persons who have been closely associated with Dr. Condon during his long work on classified information , which indicate proper care on his part in assuring that unauthorized persons should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contains unfavorable information of a relevant character concerning certain persons with whom Dr. Condon and Mrs. Condon have from time to time had contacts . The file also shows that Dr. Condon is a man of wide associations , and that his associates include many highly reputable members of the scientific community who have great confidence in him . " IV A moNG those who believe there was never any legitimate reason to question Dr. Condon 's loyalty , there has been much speculation about " the real motive " behind the attack on him . One theory , which has been advanced on the floor of the House by Representative Adolph Sabath , Democrat , of Illinois , and others , holds that the Un-American Activities Committee simply cooked up a " quick " sensation to grab headlines . The Condon report was issued , they note , just before the committee asked for ( and got ) a $200,000 appropriation to finance its investigations . Whatever merit this theory may have as a general comment on the committee 's operations , it fails to explain why Condon was chosen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that Thomas had previously attacked Condon , by innuendo , in two magazine articles . These were published in two national magazines in June 1947 , nearly a year before the committee allegedly felt the need for a burning issue to dramatize its bid for funds . Representative Chet Holifield , Democrat , of California , a member of the Joint Congressional Committee on Atomic Energy , has suggested another motive . In a House speech on March 9 , 1948 , he charged that the attack on Condon was in reality an oblique effort to " discredit civilian control of atomic energy . " THE ORDEAL Condon is rather intimately associated with the historic decision to remove atomic energy from army control after the war , and entrust its development to an all-civilian commission . In December 1945 , shortly after he became director of the National Bureau of Standards , Dr. Condon was appointed scientific adviser to the special Senate committee on atomic energy . For several months he patiently " lectured " to that unusually conscientious body of lawmakers , explaining in vivid and easily understood language @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is generally agreed among friends and foes alike that his advice did much to convince the committee of the need for the bold and sweeping law which it drafted . Representative Holifield argues that a certain " military clique " has never forgiven Condon for his part in taking atomic energy away from the Army , and that this unidentified clique worked through Thomas to even scores with Condon . T HERE is a certain amount of circumstantial evidence in support of Holifield 's thesis . Thomas has been close to Major General Leslie R. Groves , who ran the atomic program when it was under the Army , and Thomas bitterly opposed the bill turning the program over the civilian control . While this does not warrant any conclusion that Groves inspired the attack on Condon , there is no reason to suspect that the General was broken-hearted to find Condon on the griddle . He and Condon have been something less than bosom friends ever since they first met on the wartime atomic project , and on one occasion they had a rather serious clash . In May @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allies-at-war , the Soviet Embassy in Washington invited various American scientific societies to send delegates to the 220th anniversary celebration of the Russian Academy of Sciences . Condon was not invited by name . But he was chosen as a delegate by the American Institute of Physics , and also by the science committee of the National Council of American-Soviet Friendship . The State Department issued passports to Condon and the other delegates , who included Dr. Irving Langmuir , associate director of research for the General Electric Company , and many distinguished scientists . President Truman made available an army transport plane to fly the delegates to Teheran . Condon was in New York with the rest of the party , preparing to depart , when a second lieutenant from Army Intelligence arrived secretly at his room one night to tell him that General Groves had raised objections to his making the trip and that his passport was canceled . At the same time an effort was made to keep Langmuir at home , but he succeeded in convincing the Army that he knew so little about the atomic project @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British government , reportedly at Groves ' insistence , canceled the passports of eight nuclear physicists preparing to leave with the British delegation . When the British and American delegations reached Moscow , their Russian hosts could scarcely avoid noticing that every nuclear physicist who had been scheduled to come had dropped out at the last minute . Dr. Langmuir has since asserted that " this clumsy attempt to maintain secrecy resulted in giving the Russians the very information the Army wished to keep from them . Any sensible Russian scientist would have believed that we were developing an atomic bomb and were keeping it secret from the Russians . " Dr. Condon remarked recently that the fiasco attending his aborted trip to Moscow perfectly illustrates how a hysterical obsession with " atomic security " tends to defeat its own ends . In a somewhat different way , his later " ordeal by smear " demonstrates the same truth . Our only real security in a divided world is to keep our present lead in the development of nuclear force . And for such security one of our strongest links is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     