@@188572

Just before midnight , Soviet TV viewers sat up and paid rapt attention . On the screen flashed the first pictures men had ever seen of the moon 's hidden face . The Soviet 's Lunik III had performed just as Russian space scientists predicted , in a display of engineering virtuosity that was the greatest achievement yet in man 's exploration of space . <P> Next day the Russians released a picture of Lunik III and a fairly detailed explanation of how it took its epoch-making pictures . Lunik III , a notably sophisticated mechanism , proved to be a top-shaped 614-lb. object incrusted with antennas and solar cells , and packed with instruments . As Lunik passed 4,000 miles below the moon 's south side , the moon 's gravitation tugged at it , pulling it upward ( south to north ) and behind the moon . This was as planned , the Russians said , so that when Lunik III returned to earth it would come closest to the Northern Hemisphere , where radio stations on Soviet territory could communicate with it to best advantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Russians said , so that on the far side it would come close to a line drawn between the moon and the sun . As it approached the line , an electronic signal from the earth started its automatic machinery-and all sorts of things began to happen . Lunik was spinning ( for directional stability ) with one of its ends pointing roughly toward the sun ; the first thing the orienting mechanism did was to stop the spinning , probably by ejecting small spurts of gas through nozzles . Then optical viewing devices looking through ports in the sunward end told the mechanism to point that end directly at the sun . This oriented Lunik 's other end to point roughly toward the moon . Then the first optical device shut off , and a second device took over , centered Lunik 's axis exactly on the moon 's disk and kept it there . A cover opened , exposing the lenses of two cameras , one of them magnifying the moon 2 times as much as the other . <P> Automatic Developer . On signal from the earth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been carefully protected from the fogging effect of cosmic rays . Exposures were automatically varied from frame to frame to make sure of some negatives with good contrast . As soon as the film was shot , it passed into a developing and fixing device that was specially designed to function properly under conditions of weightlessness . After being dried , the film went into a case to wait for transmission to earth . Some of this operation was automatic , but marks on the moving film , the Russians said , caused radio signals to be sent to the earth and enabled Soviet scientists more than a quarter of a million miles away to control the picture-snapping and photo-finishing process on the far side of the moon .                     