@@431434

Education in the small-college field is steadily assuming a more practical aspect . Without losing their perspective , without sacrificing the ideals to which they are dedicated by tradition and choice , colleges and universities today offer a program geared to meet the complex demands of modern society . Recent curriculum developments reveal a deep sensitivity to the shifting emphases in contemporary American life . Colgate University ( Hamilton , N. Y. ) features a course known as The American Idea . Required of all seniors , it is the culmination of a program in General Education that takes nearly a third of a student 's time during his four years in college . The freshman studies natural science , public affairs , philosophy , and religion . The sophomore deals with problems in some foreign area . The junior investigates fields of English communication . The American Idea has proved to be a popular offering . Prior to taking the course , some of the students assumed it would be " just a propaganda course in Americanism . " However , the critical evaluation of ideologies and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Occidental College ( Los Angeles , Cal. ) now requires that all students take a two-year course in the History of Civilization . There is considerable emphasis on the study of the ? Constitution and contemporary American social problems . What makes this course outstanding is the fact that it is given cooperatively by sixteen faculty members . Each is a specialist in economics , art , music , political science , or some allied field . Throughout the country , small , independent colleges are meeting the challenge of our atomic age by providing exceptional facilities for training potential leaders in scientific research . Reed College ( Portland , Ore. ) serves as a training institution for one of four centers in the United States providing advanced work and research experience in radiobiology and radiochemistry . Established in 1948 , by the Division of Biology and Medicine of the Atomic Energy Commission , the Reed program offers basic training in nuclear science , including an undergraduate course in radiochemistry . Other participants in the Oregon center are the University of Oregon , University of Oregon Medical School , and Oregon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) reports that several undergraduate programs for scientific research have been made possible by recent financial grants . A fund established by W. C. Gans and E. W. Gans is available to upper-division students for study of the natural sciences . To further implement the grant , the Research Corporation of New York contributed materially to equipping small , individual laboratories . Another important Bethany research project , established by the Office of Naval Research , is concerned with developing a substitute for mica . Our - present supply of mica , which is used in all radio and radar construction , comes from India . As this source undoubtedly would be threatened in the event of war , Bethany 's program , open to upper-division chemistry and physics majors , is particularly significant . A broad approach to teaching the sciences is the basis of an interdepartmental major in Natural Resources and Conservation at Wellesley College ( Wellesley , Mass . ) . Designed to give students a knowledge of several sciences , with special emphasis on understanding the processes by which the world 's natural resources have been developed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , zoology , geography , economics , and political science . Through an integrating seminar , students learn the relation of each contributing science to the others . The course is designed to appeal especially to those who plan to teach science in secondary schools , but it also has considerable value as a basis for graduate study in the field of science . The development of programs in social sciences , with special attention to our national culture , and the invaluable offerings in the natural sciences indicate the alertness of small-college administrators in shaping the curriculum to meet the needs of the times as well as of the individual . Equally important are the attempts to make the curriculum meet the social demands of our times . Dean Louise Robinson Heath , of Keuka College ( Keuka Park , N. Y. ) , announces a recent innovation in their educational program : The Keuka Plan for Social Responsibility . Its aim is to prepare graduates for active participation " as responsible citizens of a dynamic world society . " The plan depends on the interaction of faculty and students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broad understanding of social and economic problems , a perception of moral and spiritual values , and a realization of the responsibilities of a world citizen . Hamline University ( St. Paul , Minn. ) , a liberal- arts college , recognizing the importance of the family as the fundamental institution of society , prepares its students for the responsibilities of a wholesome home life . Numerous courses in sociology , psychology , the arts , and religion are augmented by specific courses dealing objectively with the problems of marriage in modern society . Typical courses are : The Family , Social Factors in Marital Adjustment , and Developmental Child Psychology . In the field of home economics , there is further evidence of the trend toward more practical curriculum offerings . Dean Jameson M. Jones , of Centre College ( Danville , Ky. ) , reports that the home-economics program recently was revised to focus essentially on homemaking . The idea is to provide a basic curriculum calculated to help produce a homemaker rather than a technician . Into the general pattern will be woven courses in sociology and psychology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have adopted a similar approach to the subject . Southwestern-at-Memphis ( Memphis , Tenn. ) , a college widely known for its tutorial plan of individual instruction for qualified juniors and seniors , has a two-year requirement especially noteworthy in a world confused by moral and spiritual issues . Every student must complete a two-year Bible course . In his freshman year , he studies the Old and New Testaments . In his senior year , he is given an opportunity to consider the major problems of the spiritual life in the light of his four years at college . Emphasis is placed on the philosophical study of religion and ethics . Agnes Scott College ( Decatur , Ga. ) , a privately controlled liberal-arts school for women , is one of a group of institutions designated as the University Center in Georgia . Also included in this arrangement are Emory University , Georgia Institute of Technology , the University of Georgia at Athens , Columbia Theological Seminary , and the Atlanta Art Association . This co-operative program features exchange of instructors , reciprocity in library services , joint administration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students have available extensive resources beyond the limits of their campus . For example , junior and senior journalism majors may elect courses at Emory University to supplement their program . There have been similar developments in the field of music . Barat College of the Sacred Heart ( Lake Forest , Ill. ) , which has a fine music department and excellent physical facilities , has a co-operative plan with the Chicago Musical College , permitting a joint program of graduate work in the two schools . Each college offers a number of courses leading to the master 's degree in music ; the degree is conferred by Chicago Musical College . Last summer , two of the oldest and most distinguished institutions of higher learning in the South , the George Peabody College for Teachers ( Nashville , Tenn. ) and the University of the South ( Sewanee , Tenn. ) , combined their resources to cooperate in the Cumberland Forest Festival . Held on the 10,000-acre campus of Sewanee , in a beautiful natural setting , the eight-week program gave students an exceptional opportunity to participate in group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and violoncello . Under the direction of Dr. Roy Harris , widely hailed as one of America 's foremost composers , a staff of world-renowned artists participated , presenting a series of concerts to highlight the festival . A highly significant development in the co-operative approach is the growth of the co-ordinate-college idea . This unique educational plan involves the combination of two or more schools under joint leadership . By permitting the intimate facultystudent relationship , which is such an essential part of the small-college philosophy , and making available outstanding library resources and exceptional facilities for graduate study , the co-ordinate college offers features usually associated only with large universities . Pomona College ( Claremont , Cal. ) was the original institution in a group known as the Associated Colleges of Claremont . Pomona is coeducational and provides instruction on the undergraduate level . In 1925 , the Claremont Graduate School was organized . A third institution came into being two years later , when Scripps College , the women 's division of the Associated Colleges , was opened . Claremont Men 's College was founded in 1946 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public administration . In the East , Hobart College ( Geneva , N. Y. ) , an undergraduate institution for men , and its affiliate , William Smith College , the women 's division , typify the co-ordinate plan of education . The two schools are known as the Colleges of the Seneca , and offer  | the advantages of a small-college education with resources equivalent to those of a university . Another illustration of the trend toward more practical educational policies in the small college is the increasing emphasis on occupational goals . There has been considerable expansion in this direction through the medium of community workshops and special field . trips . Furman University ( Greenville , S. C. ) reports that the Art Department is holding local workshops to help promote a rural art program in the public schools of Greenville County . In the summer of 1949 , Furman and the Crippled Children Society jointly sponsored South Carolina 's first speech clinic . Because of its great success , it was repeated last summer . Augustana College ( Rock Island , Ill. ) conducts a community workshop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Children with speech problems receive individual instruction and participate in group handicraft activities . Three times a week , children with cerebral palsy receive instruction . Facilities are available for physiotherapy and occupational therapy. , The program continues to function during the summer months . Special help is given in lip reading , auditory training , and remedial reading . Students who complete certain speech courses at Augustana may become certified clinicians in the relatively new field of speech re-education . In the field of public health , Franklin College ( Franklin , Ind. ) conducts a workshop covering twenty counties in Indiana . Attendance is required of certain classes , and the program is open to the entire student body . The School of Physical Education at Russell Sage College ( Troy , N. Y. ) now offers a physical-therapy program in co-operation with the Albany Hospital . A four-year collegiate nursing course recently was instituted , also in co-operation with Albany Hospital . The College of the Pacific ( Stockton , Cal. ) reports that among a group of clinical service and training projects , an unusual program is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calls for extensive cooperation with the Stockton State Hospital , one of California 's mental institutions . Claremont Men 's College , which offers special training for careers in business and public administration , features an internship program as an integral part of the curriculum . In the Claremont plan , each student is expected to complete one summer 's work in government or business , in addition to his regular academic schedule . The college helps the student find suitable employment to meet this requirement . The purpose of the program is to give each student actual work experience . At the conclusion of the internship , each participant submits a complete report and analysis of his training . This is supplemented by a report from the employer . A n excellent opportunity in a specific vocational field is offered at the College of St. Catherine ( St. Paul , Minn. ) and at Our Lady of the Lake College ( San Antonio , Texas ) . Both institutions feature librarianship courses approved by the American Library Association . According to the latest figures compiled by this organization , more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ percent of that number are needed in school and public libraries . The salary standards adopted in 1948 by the American Library Association recommended a minimum of $2,800 a year for professional service . Chief librarians in large libraries may command from $6,000 to $10,000 a year . The possibilities of the profession are well worth investigation by young women undecided on their vocation . Other independent colleges with librarianship courses approved by the American Library Association include Marywood ( Scranton , Pa . ) , Simmons ( Boston , Mass . ) , Pratt Institute ( Brooklyn , N. Y. ) , and Rosary College ( River Forest , Ill . ) . Another field in which thousands of openings exist is teaching , particularly of elementary grades . According to a recent publication by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor entitled " Employment Outlook for Elementary and Secondary School Teachers , " new teachers qualified for regular elementary certificates numbered only about twenty-five thousand in 1949 . This figure was seventy-seven percent of the number that qualified in 1941 , when the need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , it is estimated that the supply will exceed the annual demand for the next few years by forty thousand . Openings exist in specialized areas such as guidance and audiovisual aids , but these positions usually are available only in urban communities . Literally hundreds of small , independent colleges offer a major in education . The College of the Pacific ( Stockton , Cal. ) reports that nearly half of the students currently enrolled are prospective teachers .  | Figures released in the official publication of the California State Department of Education , in April , 1949 , indicate that nearly two thirds of the teachers in California come from the independent , privately endowed institutions in the state . Encouraging signs are noted in the reports from colleges and universities throughout the country . Miss Marguerite Hillhouse , registrar of Mary Baldwin College ( Staunton , Va. ) , states that the greatest vocational interest of Mary Baldwin students at the present time lies in the teaching field . Thirty-eight percent of the class of 1949 are now active in the profession ; an equal proportion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practice teaching is at an all-time high . The foregoing facts are a significant commentary on what the small college is doing to help alleviate the alarming national shortage of teachers . James Millikin University ( Decatur , Ill. ) offers a strong major in industrial arts . The shops are well equipped with costly machinery , made possible by gifts of surplus from the government and by a large gift from an industrial firm . Heidelberg College ( Tiffin , Ohio ) , which recently celebrated its one-hundredth anniversary , has an effective plan to help its students find suitable teaching positions . Heidelberg 's Department of Education annually distributes an attractive booklet to superintendents and other public-school officials throughout the state . This publication gives the graduates ' names and qualifications , reproduces their pictures , and provides general information invaluable to prospective school employers . This type of effective service is by no means unusual . It serves as another example of the manner in which the small college carries out its policy of assisting the individual student from the earliest period of orientation to the time of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has prepared him . The subject of placement leads naturally to a feature of the small-college program that is the core of the entire system of contemporary higher education : individual counseling . The problems of personal adjustment , vocational preparation , and curriculum are interwoven so closely that it sometimes is difficult to determine where one begins and another ends . Individual counseling per se is as old as education itself , but only recently has it become a planned part of the college program . Two increasingly serious problems have emphasized the need for such guidance : personal adjustment of each student during his years at college and adequate training for a vocation . The typical counseling program in the small college consists of orientation and testing , features of the first-year period ; personal and academic counseling , a continuous process throughout the college course ; and vocational guidance , which begins when the student determines his aptitudes and interests in the light of his college experiences . Dean Ivy M. Hixson , of Salem College ( WinstonSalem , N. C. ) , explains the general counseling system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a co-ordinated effort of the faculty and administration to help understand the potentialities of the students and to assist them in reaching maximum personal effectiveness . The academic dean serves as general adviser . After students have selected a major field , faculty members assume the responsibility for small groups of advisees . Cumulative files are maintained for each student ; they are kept up to date by the faculty adviser . Orientation programs at the various colleges are designed to help the new student adjust quickly . Aims in orientation are identical , but there are variations in the approach . Washington and Lee University ( Lexington , Va. ) holds an annual , three-day freshman camp prior to the opening of the school session . At this time , new students become acquainted with classmates , leading upperclassmen , and members of the faculty . During the opening week of school , daily assemblies are held for members of the freshman class ; representatives of the faculty , the administration , and the student body discuss all phases of life at Washington and Lee . Outstanding members of upper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and advisers . Vocational counseling has led to a variety of practices , one of the most common of which is the Career Day or Career Week . Meredith College ( Raleigh , N. C. ) , which formerly had a Career Day , now has a Vocational Interest Week . At a general meeting of the entire student body , a visiting speaker gives an orientation talk to introduce the week of occupational study . The students then choose one vocational field each day for the remainder of the week . Faculty members ,  | aided by special speakers , discuss a number of occupational areas . Wheaton College ( Norton , Mass. ) held a vocational conference last March ; more than thirty consultants from business , industry , and the professions participated . Discussion groups were led by the specialists in various fields , the most popular of which were teaching , social service , and secretarial . Dr. Lillian Gilbreth , internationally known timeand-motion expert and consulting engi. neer , was the featured speaker at the conference . Attempts to focus the undergraduates ' attention on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Many colleges go further . Through the medium of off-campus work-study programs , they present reallife situations in which the student gains firsthand knowledge of the factors involved in making a living . Rockford College ( Rockford , Ill. ) began an experiment in the 1948-49 college ' year : Thirty students attended five work-study programs during the long recess period . The following year , the number of students was nearly doubled . The current program , with an even larger group , includes many interesting projects . Students majoring in economics and government visit Washington to observe our government in action . Science majors are given the opportunity to observe and study research methods at the Mayo Clinic , in Rochester , Minnesota . The United Nations Seminar affords the undergraduates a chance to study the role of the United States in the world today . In Chicago , a Community Center Workshop is held for those girls whose primary interests are in the fields of sociology and psychology . No matter how diversified the program , all such plans have their inception in the determination of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Only in this way can the individual student achieve the maximum results compatible with his interests and abilities . A COLLEGE , whether large or small , is only as strong as its faculty , as weak as its library , as enduring as the outcome of its educational plan when ' measured by the success of its graduates . Somewhere in the fine balance of these three factors is the definition of a good college . Faculty members are selected because they are good teachers . They must be more than that . It is essential that they contribute to the betterment of our civilization . Such a faculty is to be found , for example , at Trinity College ( Hartford , Conn. ) , proud possessor of a record of distinctive service for over a century and a quarter . Dr. G. Keith Funston , who went to Trinity to serve as its president after a brilliant career in business and government , heads a distinguished staff of seventy faculty members , two thirds of whom have a doctor 's degree . Included among them are Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Dr. T. Hume Bissonnette , noted for his discoveries of the effects of light  | on the breeding cycles of animals ; James A. Notopoulus , who put new life into the teaching of dead languages by adapting intensive techniques of wartime study to Latin and Greek ; and the Rev. Dr. Arthur Adams , noted genealogist , who started to teach at Trinity in 1906 and now serves as librarian of the magnificent 215,000-volume Trinity library , which will soon be merged with the 130,000-volume Watkinson Library of Reference in a new , million-dollar library building . The isolationism of the small college is vanishing . The faculty member is assuming a role of steadily increasing importance in our national life . Colleges are attempting in every way possible to encourage this situation . The College of Wooster ( Wooster , Ohio ) has a program of sabbatical leaves comparable with that of the large universities . Any professor wishing to engage in research or writing will , upon application , be granted a year 's leave of absence every fifth year , with full salary . Instructors interested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every eight years . Such opportunities for professional growth are certain to provide tangible results in morale as well as in the caliber of scholarship . IT IS the special claim of the small college that the intimate faculty-student relationship is a reality , not a mere ideal . The professor is a vibrant personality , not a remote educational overlord . Such a warmly human teacher is Professor William Haldeman , of Monmouth College ( Monmouth , Ill . ) . For the past forty-two years , he has been encouraging undergraduate chemistry students with his kindly guidance , patience , and humor . Haldeman 's influence has been inestimable , his leadership an inspiration that has reached beyond the Monmouth campus . In recognition of his record , the St. Louis section of the American Chemical Society recently awarded him the annual Midwest Gold Medal . This distinction , usually reserved for distinguished research , goes to Haldeman as a distinguished teacher and the helpful friend of hundreds of students who have learned from him much more than is contained in the chemistry textbooks . An interesting faculty arrangement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gettysburg ) , Dickinson ( Carlisle ) , and Franklin and Marshall ( Lancaster ) . The faculties have an annual dinner , at which an outstanding speaker discusses a topic of mutual interest . The three faculties are seated by department , and the cessation of the formal program is the signal for an informal talkfest , which continues into the small hours . These brief instances have been cited to illustrate the way small-college faculty members are assuming increasingly important roles beyond the confines of their immediate campuses . Without this faculty growth , and the consequent broadening of horizons , the most essential element in the entire college program is weakened . The library is often the architectural gem of the campus . Spacious reading rooms , student alcoves , facilities for special book collections , and other features characterize the well-equipped library of today . Williams College ( Williamstown , Mass. )  | ' has one of the finest small-college libraries in the country . Accumulating volumes for a century and a half has resulted in a basic collection of more than 200,000 . Their special collections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Elmo Roper Public Opinion Collection , and the Paul Whiteman Collection of original manuscript scores . early phonograph recordings , and complete orchestrations for radio and motion pictures . The library is the cultural cornerstone of the small-college structure . Its physical attractiveness and the nature of its collections are important . But the uses to which the books are put and the care with which they are selected are as vital to the strength of the institution as the quality of the faculty . THE ultimate criterion of the success of a college program is the record of its graduates in the field of advanced studies and in the broader areas of world citizenship . Hamilton College ( Clinton , N. Y. ) has made an amazing contribution in the achievements of its students in graduate schools . More than fifty percent of Hamilton men continue their professional training in various colleges and universities . Of the class of 1950 , twenty percent were admitted to graduate work in law and medicine . No finer testimony of the excellence of a collegiate program could be offered . A similar performance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . According to a recent study , fifty percent of the class of 1949 were engaged in graduate work . This survey is interesting in view of the fact that in the Steelman Report to the President some years ago , Kalamazoo ranked fourth in the nation in the production , per thousand students , of successful Ph.D . candidates in science . Closely linked with the subject of fundamental strength of an institution is the matter of student attrition . Numerous studies have been made on this subject . Recently , John Moore , registrar and associate dean of Swarthmore College ( Swarthmore , Pa. ) , made a detailed investigation of the five classes graduated just prior to the outbreak of World War II . He found that nearly seventy-five percent of all freshmen entering during that period completed their studies . This performance is a tribute to the admissions policy of the school , the soundness of its academic offerings , and the adequacy of its program of financial aid to deserving students . There are many intangible factors involved in the process of higher education . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a national leader . Another may graduate from the largest university in the country and be a failure . However , it is fairly safe to assume that if an institution has a competent faculty and adequate library resources , and if the total achievement of its graduates is of high caliber , it may be expected to produce well-informed citizens . There are scores of independent small colleges that meet these requirements . These institutions have survived wars . depressions , and other crises in the past . There is no reason to doubt their ability to survive the crises of the present .  |                     