@@494398

SINCE NOVEMBER 6 when Attorney General Herbert Brownell spoke in Chicago , a former President of the United States has been on trial . The charge , as Mr. Truman argued , was one of " knowingly betray ? ing the security of the United States . " The procedure , in its reliance on hidden documents , its incitement of the mob spirit , its elevation of police power resembles less an American courtroom than the spectacle of which the center is Mohammed Mossadegh . As always , in such trials , the nation that looks on is pulled apart . Those who condemn Mr. Brownell hold that he is playing cheap politics with a grave issue at a time of peril . Those who defend Mr. Brownell agree that his action was political . To them , that in itself con ? stitutes a defense . This amounts to arguing that in American politics no holds are barred . If this were true ? that in politics alone of the professions , we set no standards of good conduct ? it would be a harsh in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the claim would still be inadequate to rationalize the action taken by Mr. Brownell . There is no precedent in Amer ? ican history for his attack on the loyalty of a former Pres ? ident . The violence of his charge and the manner of its presentation make Mr. Brownell 's action less an expres ? sion of traditional politics than a declaration of political war . This , and not the quibble over dates and places , is the significance of the events that Mr. Brownell has set in motion , for it sets the spirit in which the party in power intends to govern and the temper it must maintain in the people if it is to continue in office . And yet the details of the revelations rather than the direction of the government now command the country 's attention . For this reason they must be closely reviewed and well remembered through all that is to come . Mr. Brownell is rounding up a posse of half the nation , and in any posse rumors become facts , suspicions become charges and charges mount and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trampled in a headlong rush . The truth is obscure and may never be found . But because it may grow more obscure and less important as tempers rise , it is useful now to turn ' behind the charges and countercharges to search , without rancor , for the truth . Without any doubt there was extensive Soviet espion ? age in America during and just after World War II . It was the method chosen by the Soviet Government for obtaining information , much of which was given offi ? cially to other wartime allies . Had the Soviet Govern ? ment chosen to join the combined administrative machin ? ery by which the allied war effort was managed , it would have participated in the decisions it learned of through espionage and shared the information on which those decisions were based . Instead , ridden with sus ? picion , and dreaming of world revolution , the Kremlin chose to fight its own separate war , keeping the allied governments at arm 's length , and using its agents to steal what might have been given . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allied government . As the facts are brought out , new groups and new ties will undoubtedly appear . The present charge concerns one circle known as the Silvermaster Group . This group was not representative of the New Deal or the Fair Deal . Its members were not advanced through the conscious sponsorship of non-Communist officials . They worked their way up through great in ? dividual ability and cunning collective effort . The Sen ? ate Committee on Internal Security reports soberly , and we think accurately , of the members : They used each other 's names for reference on ap ? plications for federal employment . They hired each NOVEMBER 30 , 1953 other . They promoted each other . They raised each other 's salaries . They transferred each other from bureau to bureau , from department to department , from Congressional committee to Congressional committee . They assigned each other to international missions . They vouched for each other 's loyalty and protected each other when exposure threatened . At the center of this group , according to the Senate Committee , was Harry Dexter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denied by White before his death but documented by handwritten memoranda , pre ? pared for transmission to Russia . When added to allthe other evidence , it seems to us to be convincing . Yet we must realize that it is convincing only in the light of seven years of the Cold War . In August , 1945 , when Miss Bentley informed the FBI that men long suspected of being Communists were in fact acting as Soviet agents , the FBI was slow to believe her story . It questioned her first on an essentially irrelevant issue . It showed deep concern only in November . It set out then to check her allegations . Miss Bentley recalls in her book the moment at which she could record : " By now I knew the FBI believed my story ! " The date was January 20 , 1946 . Rehearsing the story seven years later , with all the wisdom that hindsight provides , Attorney General Brownell states flatly that in January , 1946 , Harry White , like his associates , was known by those who promoted him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the heart of Brownell 's charge . Quite apart from its grave implications , does the statement itself , and above all the key word " known " bear examination ? How Dangerous Was Communism ? ? The first inkling gained by the federal government of what is called the " Silvermaster Group " was gained in August , 1945 , when Elizabeth Bentley , the courier of the group which formed in 1941 , told her story to the FBI . The names , cited by Miss Bentley , were famil ? iar to the FBI . It had infiltrated the Communist Party on the direction of President Roosevelt after 1939 . The Senate Subcommittee notes that four members of the group , Harry White , Harry Magdoff , Maurice Hal ? perin and Harold Glasser , were the subjects of deroga ? tory information received by the FBI in 1941 and 1942 . Miss Bentley further records in her book , Out of Bond ? age , that Harry White " had been tied up with the rev ? olutionary movement for many years . " Gregory Silver-master had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been " a very active member of the party . " Mary Price " was a Communist of many years standing . " Julius Joseph was " an open Communist " of - long standing . " George Silverman was " a Communist of long standing . " Ludwig Ullmann had been persuaded by the Silvermasters " to join a Communist Party unit in Washington . " Elizabeth Bentley herself joined the Communist Party in 1935 , was well known in party circles and for some weeks in 1941 was trailed by two FBI agents . Yet Mr. Hoover makes no claim that he was even aware of the group 's existence or activities before November , 1945 . Nor is that matter for criticism now . His understanding of Communism was gained over years . His views , like those of his superiors , were swiftly developing in the winter of 1945 . Today , withthe benefit of hindsight , Mr. Brownell charges blind ? ness . How far back is he prepared to look ? Did the FBI Submit " Proof " ? Mr. Brownell claims that the FBI @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ associates were So ? viet spies . The first report he cites is the top-secret letter sent by special messenger on November 8 , 1945 , from J. Edgar Hoover to President Truman 's Military Aide , General Harry Vaughan . This is the letter which Mr. Hoover characterizes simply as a - preliminary flash . " With a restraint now wholly lacking in Mr. Brownell , Hoover is careful in this " flash " to indicate how tentative is his information . He begins by stating that the FBI has gained recent informa ? tion not proving but " indicating " that " a number of persons employed by the government " have been turn ? ing over information for transmission to Soviet Russia . He states plainly : " It is impossible to determine exactly how many of these people had actual knowledge of the information they were transmitting . " He adds , " The Bureau 's information at this time indicates that the fol ? lowing persons were participants in this operation or were utilized by principals in this ring for the purpose of obtaining data in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ) The transcript as published in the New York Times further indicates that the name of one suspect , Victor Perlo , was even misspelled as " Perlow , " so great was Mr. Hoover 's anxiety to make his " preliminary " report known without loss of time . From this time in early November on , the FBI was engaged in following up every assertion and clue pre ? sented by Miss Bentley . Presumably it opened the mail , tapped the telephones and monitored the conferences of the suspects Miss Bentley named . Then after three months , Mr. Hoover was satisfied that Miss Bentley 's story was accurate . Noting that White was due for a new appointment , he sent a report on White to General Vaughan . NEW REPUBLIC the reliability FBI . Seven years later , Mr. Brownell cited excerpts from this secret report before a legislative committee and de ? clared that in fact they constituted evidence beyond doubt . Is this conclusion justified by the excerpts quoted indirectly by Brownell ? Most of the report as he para ? phrases it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since November are the detail of her story and the FBI evaluation that she is a reliable informant . Beyond Miss Bentley 's own story , the February 6 re ? port as Mr. Brownell interprets it , adds details gathered by the FBI . It notes that in the three months from No ? vember to February , White was associated with the people named by Miss Bentley ; that he was invited to the house of Alger Hiss ; that he was friendly with other suspects such as Frank Coe and Lee Pressman ; and that other suspects named by Miss Bentley had been pre ? viously accused of membership in the Communist Party . Seven years later , this would prove sufficient to fire White from government , if not to indict him for espion ? age . Was it sufficient at the time ? Here it must be noted that Brownell is less than honest . He offers as evidence the fact that White visited in New York a certain Doctor Abraham Wolfson , sus ? pected of being a Communist . He does not add what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact a dentist and that White may have gone to him to have his teeth fixed . He offers as further evidence the fact that White associated with Glasser and Mrs. Sonia Gold . He does not add , as the report presumably added , that this was hardly surprising since Glasser was in White 's own office , while Mrs. Gold was White 's personal secretary . But these are the least damaging questions that must be asked of Attorney General Brownell . Brownell told the Senate Committee , under oath , that the summary he gave of the February 6 report was an accurate summary . He claimed that no person with legal training " could reach a different result . " He stated that what he told the Senate were the " essential facts , " clearly implying that they were all the facts that could be disclosed without " jeopardizing confidential sources of information and techniques of intelligence oper ? ations . " Is this all the truth ? No citizen can answer that key question , which is one reason why Brownell 's action in releasing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yet the citizen is still free to surmise that it contained more " essential facts " than he chose to reveal . The FBI report of February 6 , in documenting the case against ? White , presumably dealt in detail with all available evidence concerning every suspect named as a member of the Silvermaster Group . Of these 10 sus ? pects , three worked in the Office of Strategic Services . A fourth , Abraham Silverman , was employed by the US Air Force then under the Army . A fifth member , Lud ? wig Ullmann , was a Major assigned to the Pentagon . A sixth member , Gregory Silvermaster , worked for the Board of Economic Warfare , under military direction . The heads of these Departments included Gen. Wil ? liam Donovan , now President Eisenhower 's chief repre ? sentative in Southeast Asia , and General Eisenhower . A further clue to the February report can be found in Mr. Truman 's speech . While the speech was made on the previous day , and did not anticipate Mr. Brownell 's supposed summary , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious accusations had been made against White but it pointed out that it would be practically impossible to prove those charges with the evidence then at hand . It may be further significant that Mr. Brownell did not state to whom , besides General Vaughan , the Feb ? ruary 6 report was sent . Given these inferences some pointed questions must be directed to Mr. Brownell concerning the February 6 report he summarized in sworn testimony . Did the report contain more " essential facts " that can be released without endangering security ? Were these facts withheld by Mr. Brownell because they involved leading Republicans or allies of the Eisen ? hower Administration ? Did the report state that the evidence presented could not be accepted as proof ? These are questions that no Senator on the Subcom ? mittee chose to direct to Mr. Brownell . Until he is called back and questioned further , an unjust burden will rest on Harry Truman , who doubtless has the report , who without doubt knows that its release in full would aid materially in his defense , and who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possesses the respect for the sanctity of FBI files that in Mr. Brownell is wholly lacking . There is a final question to be asked of Brownell concerning the secret report he saw fit to release in part as proof that the Truman Administration was " blind . " Did the FBI enter any reservations about the informa ? tion contained in the February 6 report ? Did it indicate whether or not this information could be taken as final and acted upon ? Or did it state in line with Mr. Hoover 's published letters that further investigation was proceeding which might produce some definite proof ? Brownell , we assume , will never volunteer answers to these questions . And any man who seeks to clear the good name of President Truman will find that no one can keep up with an Attorney General with the FBI files at his disposal ? if the Attorney General is able to release the excerpts that support his case , from the files that suit him , at the times of his choosing . Meanwhile no man of conscience can accept Brownell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the possible reservations he may have withheld , it was " known " to President Truman that Harry White was without question " a Soviet spy . " Brownell himself ex ? poses this fatal flaw in his brief when he attempts to bolster his argument by asserting that eight of the sus pects in the Silvermaster Group subsequently claimed their constitutional privilege in declining to answer questions that might incriminate them . Here Brownell is not only offering as evidence of Truman 's " blindness " in 1946 events that took place as late as 1952 . In this , Brownell , the nation 's chief legal officer , is further violating the well-established legal principle-that citation of the Fifth Amendment can not and must not be con ? strued as evidence of guilt . The temper and tension released by Mr. Brownell 's charges derive from his charge that Harry Dexter White " was known " by President Truman " to be a Communist spy " when he appointed him to the International Mone ? tary Fund . It has been demonstrated here that if Presi ? dent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his memorandum of December 6 before he sent White 's name to the Senate on January 23 , Brownell 's charge would still be overdrawn . And Mr. Truman states flatly that he did not see these documents . Mr. Brownell has expressed his amazement at this reply but submitted no further proof . Yet he , the nation 's chief legal officer , has failed to withdraw the gravest charge ever levelled at a President of the United States . Was There an Agreement ? On February 6 , 1946 , hours . after the Senate had con ? firmed White 's appointment , Mr. Truman learned of the charges against him from Secretary Byrnes . He sent ' for the report and read it at once . He then called Secretary of the Treasury Fred Vinson and instructed him to meet with Attorney General Tom Clark and Mr. Hoover and to bring back a recommendation . Mr. Hoover , in sworn testimony , has stated that both he and Mr. Clark at first expressed the view that it would be unwise to permit White to go to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place . I was told that the problem was what could be done to prevent White from taking the oath of office . Judge Vinson did not want Mr. White to serve as a United States delegate on the International Monetary Fund and in fact did not want him to continue as our Assistant Secretary of the Treasury . On the other hand , Judge Vinson stated that the President could be forced to sign the commission since the Senate had already confirmed White 's appointment . I advised judge Vinson and the Attorney General that the character of the evidence was such that it should not be publicly disclosed at that time . Judge Vinson and Mr. Clark , according to Mr. Hoover , decided to present three possible courses of action to the President . One , the President could dismiss White and make no statement . Two , the President could send for White and tell him he had changed his mind and that he desired White to resign and not serve . Three , the President could sign the commission , instruct the Attorney General to continue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Treas ? ury that he . . . should take steps to see that all persons selected for appointment to the International Mone ? tary Fund should not be appointed except with his approval . None of these courses , it is worth noting , could con ceivably sustain Mr. Brownell 's charge of near treason although these facts were certainly known to Mr. Brown ? ell when he spoke . Nor is it clear that the Administra ? tion did not take the course which Mr. Brownell himself would have followed at that time . Mr. Hoover does not state that one of these three courses was recommended by the group , although such a step would have been logical . His memorandum on the conference would no doubt enlighten the nation on this interesting point . It seems probable that Mr. Clark , acting for the Department of Justice , recommended the action which was accepted by the President , that Judge Vinson concurred , and that Mr. Hoover at least ac ? quiesced . But Judge Vinson is dead , Mr. Clark has so far chosen to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's office memoranda are not among the documents dis ? interred . Mr. Truman has accepted these handicaps . His speech contains this sober but revealing assertion : The conclusion was reached that the appointment should be allowed to take its normal course . The final responsibility for this decision of course was mine . Here the word " final " itself all-but makes clear that the President acted on the advice of those whose positive recommendations he had called for . Mr. Hoover declares : I did not enter into any agreement to shift White . . . At no time was the FBI a party to an agreement to promote . . Hairy Dexter White and at no time did the FBI give its approval to such an agreement . From these assertions banner headlines were drawn by newspapers as fair-minded as the Washington Post . The inference was obvious ? and unjustified . More conscien ? tious than the headline writers , Mr. Hoover was careful to add : Such an agreement on the part of the FBI would be inconceivable . In repeated arguments Mr. Hoover makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evaluation of the evidence on White but to the steadfast determination of the FBI not to make evaluations or to participate in decisions on matter of policy . ( Mr. Hoover 's first comment on White 's employment , presumably being an exception ) Was White promoted ? Mr. Brownell in his original and central charge de ? clared : Harry Dexter White was known to be a Communist spy by the very people who appointed him to the most secretive and important position he ever held in Gov ? ernment service . The word " known " has been shown to be false on two counts : the term " Communist spy " is a finding which a court of law alone can make . Does the remaining ref ? erence to " the most secretive and important position " bear examination ? From 1941 until 1946 , Harry White was a key man in an important department of the government . He had full access to Treasury files . In addition , in December 1941 he had been ordered by Secretary of the Treasury Henry Morgenthau to " assume @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has to deal having a bearing on foreign relations . " He was further ordered on February 25 , 1943 , to " take supervision over and assume full responsibility for Treasury 's participa ? tion in all economic and financial matters . . . in connec ? tion with the operations of the Army and Navy . . . in the foreign areas in which our armed forces are operating or are likely to operate . " Under this broad directive , White represented the Treasury on the Interdepart ? mental Lend Lease Committee , the Canadian American Joint Economic ' Committee , the Natural Resources Com ? mittee , the Committee on Post War Economic Problems , the National Munitions Control Board , the Board of Economic Warfare , the Executive Committee on Econo ? mic Foreign Policy , the Liberation Areas Committee , the Office of Strategic Services Advisory Committee and eight other important and sensitive agencies of govern ? ment . As Treasury Administrator , he travelled through the world and led United States delegations to important conferences . He drafted memoranda on matters from Germany to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist policy , ) were highly influential in determining the position of the United States . In contrast , in this new appointment to which Presi ? dent Truman assigned him , White was no more than one of 15 Executive Directors of a limited , non-sensitive international agency without access to secret files or power over high decisions taken by the US . Mr. Hoover re ? ported to General Vaughan the concern of an unnamed Canadian source that White might be made President of the Fund and in this position might " influence to a great degree deliberations on all international financial ar ? rangements . " This warning of Mr. Hoover 's was heeded . Time of April 1 , 1946 reports under the head Bad Start that at the Savannah Conference of the Fund the British did not like the way Fred Vinson side ? tracked Assistant Treasury Secretary Harry White , one of the foster fathers of Bretton Woods and top US expert . They got on well with him , thought he was the best man to head the fund . Clearly , Brownell 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sensitive and important job than the Assistant Secretaryship of the Treasury is wholly without foundation . Any reasonably informed reader of the press would have known this to be true . So presumably did the Attorney General when he made the assertion . He was questioned on this score in Senate testimony : SENATOR BUTLER : Mr. Attorney General , are you in a position to evaluate the relative sensitivity of the position of the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury and a director of the International Monetary Fund ? MR . BROWNELL : The salary of Assistant Secretary of the Treasury was ninety-six or ninety-eight hundred dollars . SENATOR BUTLER I am directing my question more to the question of sensitivity . MR . BROWNELL : The salary of the other was about $17,000 . Mr. Brownell added that the powers of a director of the Fund were substantial and that Russia would have been glad to know the information contained in a Director 's files . This , if not the gravest or most danger ? ous , is certainly the shabbiest of the positions taken by Mr. Brownell . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he chose to allow White 's appointment to stand because : The charges which had been made against Mr. White also involved many other persons . Hundreds of FBI agents were engaged in investigating the charges against all those who had been accused . It was of great importance to the nation that this investigation be continued in order to prove or disprove these charges and to determine if still other persons were implicated . Any unusual action with respect to Mr. White 's ap-:o:ntment might well have alerted all the persons NOVEMBER 3 , 1933 involved . . . and thus . . endangered the success of the investigation . This assertion , as far as it goes , is certainly true . The FBI continued its surveillance of all the suspects named by Miss Bentley throughout 1946 . Meanwhile Miss Bentley , at the insistence of the FBI , tried to work her way back into the group . Information was obtained in 1946 that convinced the FBI of the accuracy of Miss Bentley 's charges . But apparently little new evidence was gained . Early in 1947 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were brought before a Grand Jury called to consider indictment of the " Silver-master Group . " The Grand Jury heard the evidence for eighteen months , and decided that no case had been presented against any member of the group that called for court action . Its conclusion was based largely on the inadmissible nature of evidence gained by wire-tapping . But to assert that this alone frustrated action is to argue that the group carried on all its business over the tele ? phone . It is more probable that following Miss Bent ? ley 's detection , and at the first indication of surveillance , the group became dormant and committed few if any further acts of espionage . In place of his original charge Mr. Brownell , fully prepared and under oath , submits the second , equally serious , assertion that The records available to me fail to show that any ? thing was done which interfered with the continuing functioning of the espionage ring of which White was a part . Here even after the protests of the press and the partial repudiation by his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uncalled for exaggeration . He ignores altogether the matter of FBI surveillance and its subsequent deterrent effect . He speaks simply of three steps which he claims were not taken : to forewarn a wide group of officials and to circumscribe the status of the suspects ? steps which if taken would have de ? stroyed the purpose of surveillance for which the sus ? pects were kept on . The fact remains , to support Brownell 's case , that the suspects were continued for periods of twelve to eighteen months in important and sensitive jobs . Harold11 Glasser went to the Moscow meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers as an adviser to Secretary of State George Marshall . Nathan Silvermaster was promoted in March , 1946 , to become the Chief Economist of the War Assets Ad ? ministration 's Division of Economic and Monetary Re ? search . Irving Kaplan , William Ullman and Victor Perlo stayed on in the Treasury for as long as a year . Only one suspect , Frank Coe , was continued in em- employment beyond 1947 . He continued as Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Coe 's case , of course , was special . As secretary of the International Monetary Fund Coe was responsible not to the US Government but to the Fund 's Board of 16 Directors and through them its Board of 53 Gover ? nors . He was further subject to the Fund 's own security system . Only in 1953 was a loyalty Board in the US Civil Service Administration assigned to the review of Americans employed in international agencies . Mr. Hoover has stated that in espionage cases he re ? gards arrest and publicity as a " last resort . " Neither he nor Mr. Brownell have produced documents beyond Feb ? ruary , 1946 , to show that the FBI was alarmed by the continued employment of the suspects he had named . Yet it is true , as Brownell charges , that the men named , and no doubt others , were permitted to continue in government despite strong and developing evidence of disloyalty . And while Brownell chooses to ignore one reason for this action , it seems doubtful that it was the only reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sole reason for the continued employment of the men named was to trap them . But he cited no other reason in his No ? vember 17 speech . Here , Mr. Hoover 's testimony , the known facts , and what is generally remembered of the spirit and temper of 1946 , strongly suggest that there was more to the willingness to leave suspected men in government than the desire to trap them in continuing espionage . Ignoring , perhaps with reason , the matter of FBI surveillance , Mr. Brownell charges that in keeping on the suspected officials of the government , the Truman Administration was blind . Blindness is not yet an in ? dictable offense , but it is a grave charge when coupled with Communist espionage . We do not , we repeat , believe that the Administration refrained from firing the suspected officials in early 1946 solely in order to trap them . That was one reason . We suggest that there were these further reasons involved : First , the Truman Administration was an untried Ad ministration , preoccupied with immense policy decisions that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NEW REPUBLIC Truman took up its world-wide stand against Soviet expansion . Second , the United States was wholly unaccustomed to dealing with the problem of security . The problem of espionage , so familiar to Europe , was for us largely new . Third , the reluctance of the political officials of the Administration to precipitate a political scandal , and the further concern of diplomatic officials while critical ne ? gotiations were going on , led both groups to grasp at Mr. Hoover 's term , that publicity in an espionage case should be the " last resort . " Fourth , the men around Truman were reluctant to take the word of a confessed traitor against that of known and trusted civil servants . They shared the resistance that is deep in. every one of us to admitting that we have been tricked and fooled . Far more important , they had been taught to believe since childhood that a man was innocent until proven guilty in a court of law . THIS POINT at least is recognized by Mr. Brownell . He replies simply : " Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do n't have to wait until a man is convicted of treason before we can remove him from a position of trust and confidence . " It is true that government employment like all em ? employment is a privilege . But it is also true that being fired from government on grounds of treason amounts to punishment , and that punishment is illegal if it is not preceded by due process of law . Mr. Brownell makes a broad distinction between the way civil servants can be punished , by firings , and the way in which citizens must be treated in a court of law . This is sound administrative doctrine today ? is it really so praiseworthy ? The government is not a court . But Mr. Truman was a judge . He , and each man around him like every good American , was trained from the time he learned to read , in the meaning and supreme importance of due process . He did not have to apply the letter of due process in asking White to resign . Eight years later Mr. Brownell finds . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , without proof , and dismissed men accused of the gravest of charges by unknown in ? formants . Instead Mr. Truman moved slowly under the human restraints set by respect for due process . Partisans of Mr. Truman cite the climate of 1945 in defense of his caution in moving against subversion . Partisans of Mr. Brownell have their answer prepared . Rewriting history in the week after the event took place , Time declared : " Nobody would accuse Roosevelt or Truman of dis ? loyalty . What they were accused of was creating and maintaining a political climate in which treason flour ? ished . " That deserves study , and the study begins three pages further on in Time . where six men are identified as the " cast of characters " to substantiate its case . What led these six men to transfer their allegiance to Communism ? Was it the New Deal , or the Fair Deal ? The ages of the six men are listed by Time ; they are 48 , 49 , 54 , 45 , 46 , 41 , 47 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six are within 13 years of each other . All six grew up under Republican rule . They were infants when President Harding took office . The youngest was 21 , the oldest 34 , when the Republican era came to its end . The great formative experience that shaped the minds of these men was not the New Deal or the Fair Deal , but the misery of mass unemploy ? ment of the depression . It was the incapacity of the American Government , under a Republican President , that drove young men like these to the extreme of Com ? munism . It was the successful reform movement of Roosevelt and Truman that we can thank because the number is six ( or 60,000 ) and not six million today . Certainly the climate of 1946 was utterly different from the climate of 1952 . The basic difference was not a softness towards Communism but a totally dissimilar evaluation of the relative importance of security and civil liberty in the life of the United States . It was widely believed in 1946 that all Americans were equally and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of democracy . No leading member of the Roosevelt or Truman Administrations that we can recall knowingly employed a member of the Communist Party in a policy-making job . Nor was any government offi ? cial clear as to how to deprive an established civil serv ? ant , who proved to be a Communist , of his rights . Certainly there was a desire that overseas , and in the United Nations , Communists and non-Communists should work together . That view , so logical then , so barren now , was expressed week after week in the pages of this magazine . On February 4 , 1946 , we published an article by a non-Communist urging a " genuine coalition in China . " On February 11 , we were confronted by the fact that " in the selection of the Secretary-General , Russia 's can didate Trygve Lie was taken . " On March 4 we commented , quite wrongly , on the Canadian spy trial : " There is grave danger that by the immense inertia of fear and competitive rearmament peace will lose its hold upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scare in Canada . " No doubt we were wrong here ? and many Republi ? cans were right . Were they always right ? Were they right on the greatest of all decisions ? the decision to use America 's resources to halt the spreading hunger , disease and misery of the postwar world , from which Communist revolution was then preparing to emerge ? Were the great body of Republicans on Capitol Hill right , when they moved to delay and frustrate this pro ? gram on the grounds that it was a waste of dollars ? It is perfectly true that the efforts of liberals and many Democrats were turned against the hearings held the House Un-American Activities Committee . Ti reason was not supporting Communism but scorn of the manner in which it was investigated . Robert K. Carr , in his objective and exhaustive study of the Committee from 1945 to 1950 , notes that : As one rereads today the record of the hearings .. . it must be acknowledged that the Committee was shedding light upon the revolutionary aims of inter ? national Communism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that . . . Communism and democracy could live together peacefully . At the same time the Committee made this information available to the American people in such a disorderly and at times irresponsible way that the impact of its findings upon public opinion was much less strong than it might have been . Of course , there were Communists in America after the legacy of the depression . Certainly they were a threat in government at the end of the war . Tolerance then was not the sole province of the Democrats . It was one of the most respected leaders of the Republican Party , Under-Secretary of War Robert P. Patterson , who intervened to keep G. N. Silvermaster employed in a sensitive job on the Board of Economic Warfare after the Chief of Army Intelligence had submitted evidence of his Communist affiliations , and branded him disloyal . It was Wendell Willkie who in November , 1942 , and again on March 12 , 1943 , served without pay as counsel for the Communist Party leader William Schneiderman in his case heard before the Supreme Court . Acting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in persuading the majority of the US Supreme Court to rule for Schneiderman on the ground that there was no " clear unequivocal and convincing proof that the Communist Party as a whole was com ? mitted to the use of force or violence . That we should remember , and not without pride , was when Willkie was the titular head of the Republican Party . Who then will cast the first , stone ? Time magazine ? In rejecting the defense of the political climate of 1945 , Time records that " Political climate is man made . " It adds , " The moral confusion that marked the Roosevelt Administration made it possible for White and Company to attain great power . " But the editors of Time , before advancing further , should reread the biography of their alumnus and favorite author . Some of the most eloquent and deeply felt passages in Witness are those in which Whittaker Chambers describes his struggles against the moral confusion that reigned in the offices of Time magazine in precisely the years now under review . Men have known for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time to place another on trial . It was in a similar time of great change , when the ancient vir ? tues were being replaced by the raw violence that Cato the Elder was called before an inquisitorial committee ? in Rome . Cato was in his eighties ? at the end of a lifetime of distinguished service to the Empire . But the brash Senators who confronted him demanded an accounting of his early mistakes . " Gentlemen , " Cato replied , " it is not easy to render an accounting of one 's life to an age other than the age in which one has lived . " Mr. Brownell 's charges culminate in a single con ? clusion ? thanks to the Truman legacy of indifference to Communist espionage the nation stands in present danger ? a danger which compels the Eisenhower Ad ? ministration , in defense of the nation 's security , to en ? gage in further exposures and to press for new laws . This issue , which the Republican National Chairman states will dominate the elections of 1954 and 1956 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1947 by President Truman and resolved before Eisen ? hower moved into the White House . To offset this damaging fact Mr. Brownell points to the 1,456 government officials severed from the gov ? ernment since January , 1953 , on security grounds . Pressed by a Southern Senator he concedes that the 1,456 is made up of drunkards and perverts as well as suspected Communist sympathizers and in unknown proportions . A more relevant question is : on what evidence , and by what due process were these 1,456 punished . Within months of the time he learned of the charges on Harry White , President Truman sent out the direc ? tives that led to the prosecutions of Communist Party leaders and to creation of the federal loyalty program . One reason why many officials were reluctant to move against hidden Communists in government was their unwillingness to pry into the private lives and attitudes of 999 in every 1,000 non-Communist civil servants in order to uncover the attitudes of the remaining one . Their reluctance was overriden . In the years between 1947 and 1953 , 6,644,496 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Truman Administration and 25,748 on whom some derogatory information was turned up were subjected to full field investigations by the FBI . Loyalty Boards made up of more Republicans than Democrats took up the cases where something less than total innocence was indicated . Numberless thou ? sands of loyal civil servants were compelled at their own expense to clear themselves or suffer the consequences . Basic violations of American concepts were involved in this procedure . Men were , in effect , presumed to be guilty until they proved themselves innocent . They were not permitted to know the identity of their accusers , or even the nature of the accusations levelled against them . They were not tried by trained judges under 14 court procedures . They were confronted with no clear charges . If they were found guilty of the charges , they were punished . Yet , unlike drivers arrested of drunken driving , they had no ready means of appeal to a court . This is the system condemned by Brownell for its inadequacies ; its abuses are more to the point . Under the Eisenhower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lowered , the charges made more vague ; the abuses multiplied . Not without reason did the White House reporters , in response to Mr. Eisen ? hower 's query , inform the President that the label of McCarthyism hangs on his Administration if not on him . As the contagion of suspicion spreads teachers , enter ? tainers , employees of state and local government , all citizens are brought under the sway of arbitrary power . Now Mr. Brownell in one stroke has done more to weaken the democratic safeguards than was accom ? plished in all the years in which this nation was engaged in turning back the domestic Communist threat . Ex ? plaining that he could not make public the full FBI report of February 6 " without jeopardizing confidential sources of information and techniques of operation , " Mr. Brownell saw fit to release his chosen excerpts . In immediate contradiction of his own actions Mr. Brownell added : " We will never impair the work of the FBI by making public FBI reports . " This state ? ment alone is deadly in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the private lives and views of hundreds of thousands and perhaps millions of Amer ? ican citizens . These individuals are not limited to public servants . The dossiers are not limited to crimes that have been committed . They contain every significant allegation received by the FI31 , as Mr. Hoover has warned , however incorrect and malicious it may be . To argue then , as Mr. Brownell does , that these files can not be released because the release would impair the sources and techniques of the FBI is tantamount to say ? ing " I will never deliberately run over a child with my car because I might dent a fender . " The precedent is established and accepted with extra ? ordinary equanimity by the nation 's press . From now on , until Brownell 's action is repudiated , the citizens without number who are the subject of FBI dossiers , if they oppose the party in power , do so in the knowledge that the Attorney General of the United States may see fit to excerpt any charge from any file at any time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tion of a contrary nature . The Attorney General may , if he chooses , accuse any man of a crime , substantiating his charge from such paragraphs of a secret document as it pleases him to present to the press . Mr. Hoover has fought hard to prevent this abuse , even to the point of considering his resignation when Judge Reeves ordered the FBI files cited in the Coplon case to be shown or the case dismissed . Now even Mr. Hoover , while he rejects the responsibility for evaluating his findings , is party to the publication of a secret report NEW REPUBLIC Department of Justice in which charges are presented together with the statement that in the view of the FBI the information is reliable . Once the hole in this dyke is opened it must grow as the information pours out . For six years the Executive and Congress have been locked in a bitter struggle con ? cerning the sanctity of the FBI files . Always until now the government has held the line . Now , two days after the testimony of Mr. Hoover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has released " a summary of the loyalty files " of a former Treasury employee . The Staff Director , Robert Morris , states , " We had access to certain loyalty files . " These are precedents that for the sake of American liberty can not be allowed to stand . " Fruit of the Poisonous Tree " The gravity of his actions is not lost on Mr. Brownell . He declares in justification of his revelations that they are directed to new legislation ? legislation to legalize evidence gained by wire-tapping and to circumvent the protection that the Fifth Amendment to our Constitution provides to witnesses who are reluctant to testify . Wire-tapping first became an issue in America when Mayor John Purroy Mitchell tapped the telephone of a Catholic priest for evidence in 1916 . Within two years Congress banned the practice ? but it soon crept back . In 1934 , Congress set out once more to outlaw wire ? tapping by Section 605 of the Federal Communications Commission Act . Wire-tapping still continued , but its use in courtrooms was- banned by the Supreme Court . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was " fruit of the poisonous tree . " In wartime the ban on wire-tapping was lifted by President Roosevelt . In cases of suspected espionage , sabotage , kidnapping and extortion it was not restored . So evidence was gained by the Department of Justice ; it could not be used in court . Disturbed by this duality , witnesses before Congress including the American Civil Liberties Union and Amer ? icans for Democratic Action have proposed that wire ? tapping be legalized for espionage and sabotage , with the safeguard that authority to tap wires must be obtained from the courts . These safeguards follow the practice in states including New York where wire-tapping is legal under similar conditions . The New York State Bar Association concluded in a recent study that since wire ? tapping was legalized , " the right to be secure against unreasonable interceptions conferred by the New York Constitution and statutes is a hollow right in the present status of the law . " When Mr. Brownell 's bill was introduced in Con ? gress it was pleaded by Deputy Attorney General Wil ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? straining power to the courts . He opposed any definition of the crimes that wire-tapping was to be used to combat : It may turn out when you go to trial that it wo n't be for espionage . . . it will be . . . for-arson or inciting to riot . It will be clear that it involves the national security or defense , but it may be in case of legal technicalities your proof does n't measure up to that . . . I hate to limit it to any particular crimes . The second stated objective of Mr. Brownell 's cam ? paign is to secure legislation that circumvents the Fifth Amendment to our Constitution . That was presented to Congress in 1953 by Sen. Pat McCarran . Essentially the bill provides that Congress with the acquiescence of the Attorney General can promise a witness that his testimony will not lead to prosecution in federal courts ; then by giving the witness this much , the Congress takes from him his Constitutional right . Nominally the bill is directed against the long line of suspected Communists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cited their Constitutional privilege against self-incrimination . But the purpose of the bill far antedates the Communist Party . Since Roman days a struggle has continued between prosecutors whose objective is conviction and citizens whose concern is liberty . The prosecutors have sought to make husbands testify against wives and priests violate their allegiance to God . And in America they have so far failed . There are points of detail without end in the Mc ? Carran Bill which passed the Senate last year . But the heart of it was stated by Sen. Clyde Hoey : " We are granting to a committee of Congress the power to take away Constitutional guarantees . . . " The Wall Street journal also has dealt with the dan ? gers in Senator McCarran 's bill : Under such a law it would be possible for those who have committed crimes to use a Congressional investi ? ation as an escape from accountability . For the unscrupulous it would be a temptation to connivance ; for the vindictive it would be a temptation to bear witness as revenge . It is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is enough to say that these abuses would be made possible . Judging from Mr. Brownell 's endorsement and his latest statements , this is the bill that we may expect to be passed as part of the Eisenhower program in 1954 . There are of course other measures on the agenda ? matters such as agricultural production , taxes , tariffs , the welfare of our allies , the defense of the United States . The President of the United States supposes that the enactment of his program is important . His party 's high command appears to differ . The President expresses concern for the nation 's unity and good standing overseas . His party 's high command could not appear less concerned . The President expresses the hope that the Communist issue will fall into proper perspective and die away be ? fore next November . But Mr. Eisenhower apparently is no longer leader of the Republican Party . The lead ? ers of the Party announce that the Communist issue will be the issue in 1954 and 1956 . It may be that from March @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ store of secret files . From June on , as plans now stand , we can look forward to a hot time in the old town each night through November . The Department of Justice has indicated that Judith Coplon will be retried soon after the wire-tapping bill is passed . If the schedule holds , she should go to jail the last week of October . And doubtless if Mr. Brownell 's advice prevails , there will be many more . , As we turn inwards in anger , bitterness and division , is it too much to hope that Russia will be more blind or weak than we are ? And on the real fronts , where real battles are fought , how many nations may pass to the slavery of Soviet Communism before we get back to the important business of producing a domestic and international program for strengthening the forces of individual liberty and opposing realistically Soviet strat ? egy for dividing and conquering the world ? It would be contemptible to suppose that common sense and decency do not still govern the American people . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motion by Mr. Brownell could not get out of hand . It would be unbecoming to forget that this is not the first time that Americans have confronted and overcome such threats to their liberty . In the 1790 's conservatives were similarly aroused . They talked about Jacobinism ? they acted against Jef ? fersonianism . They tried to prevent its rise by the Alien and Sedition Acts . They controlled the COngress . They threw editors who opposed them into jail . But they did n't carry the people along . The bills did n't halt the Jeffersonians , but they did halt the Federalists . If the descendants of the Federalists of 1953 have not learned , the children of Jefferson stand unchanged .                     