@@494326

BEHIND THE HEADLINES SIGNS that some members of the Eisenhower Administration had come to realize that the West has been co-existing competitively with the Communist bloc for a long time ? and that to admit it really does not constitute treason ? have been popping up since late summer . Now the Administration has announced a new program of economic aid for Asia . Such a program has long been urged by the NR , and by a few individuals like Chester Bowles and Averell Harriman and as formal recognition that the emphasis in East-West competition is shifting from the military to the economic the announcement is encouraging . But as things stand now there is very little chance that the new Asia-aid program will be adequate . Congress is reluctant to spend much more on foreign aid ; it will have to be convinced . And the Administration as usual is split : What President Eisenhower has done so far to overcome that split indicates that this program like so many others in the past may be whittled down to splinter-size before it ever reaches Congress . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ want a program limited only by what the underdeveloped nations can effectively use . Staff studies by both departments as well as an exhaustive research job by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology indicate that to compete effectively in , the , underdeveloped areas with Communism , the Western nations should earmark $2 billion a year for co-ordinated economic glevelopment throughout the world : the bulk to come from the US , and to be spent in Asia . This ? plan calls for ' joint use of private and public funds : business investment , government bonds and ? ' government grants . But Treasury Secretary Humphrey adamantly opposes such a plan . He wants the US budget balanced . Foreign economic development , he believes , should dePend on private investment ber of Export-Import and International Bank loans . This is the position he held to at the Rio de Janeiro Conference of American States ( NR , Dec. 13 ) and this is the position he has maintained toward the new Asia-aid policy since his return . Humphrey is strong in this Administration . If he needed any reinforcement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appointed . Joseph Dodge to set up and head a Foreign Aid Council and to mediate the Humphrey-Dulles dispute . As Eisenhower 's first Budget Bureau Director , Dodge , together with Humphrey introduced the " hard-money " policy which finally had to be reversed in the face of falling production and rising unemployment . Like Humphrey , Dodge is a banker whose dedication to the concept of a balanced budget is greater than his appreciation of the immensity of our task in Asia . As an administrator , he will do much to minimize waste and red tape in our foreign7aid program ; as a policy-maker , he will fight to keep that program from expanding .. In Congress , it is the Democrats who will decide the kind of economic program with which we will challenge Communism . Democrats , both on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and in the : Senate itself , will follow the lead of . Walter F. George of Georgia , who will again be Chairman during the coming session . Without George 's backing , Eisenhower can not have the Democratic support he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But George will demand a very specific program , and one which will satisfy his three main fears ( 1 ) that Asia is a bottomless pit into which all the wealth of this nation could be poured with little effect , ( 2 ) that many Asian nations can not properly administer substantial aid funds , ( 3 ) . that the new program may be primarily a scheme by which Harold St ? ssen and the FOA bureaucracy hopes to keep their jobs beyond the agency 's July 30 , 1955 , cut-off date . So the kind of program Humphrey wants is the kind of program George will look upon kindly . And if a George-Humphrey alliance is allowed to harden , there will be no chance of getting Congressional support for a prograth which could put the Communists on the defen- , sive in Asia . Given Eisenhower 's full support , Dulles might be able to con- , vince George that a new approach to Asia is required or , if that fails , of lining up enough national and Senatorial support to force a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degree of Communist economic penetration , the conditions of East-West competition there , all will be examined in a forthcoming issue of the New Repub- lic . In general , ' the problem is this : Communist China is gaining more rap ? idly as an industrial state than any other country in the area , including Japan and India . " No matter what I .. want or what do , " said Indian Prime . Minister Nehru , " in the end my people will decide the government they want by comparing with progress elsewhere . If democratic progress is slower than , Communist progress they will choose Communism , " Fear of the H-Bomb . WE , HAVE pointed out in some detail ( NR , November 8 ) that the H-Bomb is a two-stage weapon ? killing through blast and through the gradual fall-out of radioactive debris ? and that any accurate estimate of its real killing power must include both effects . Now the American press is beginning to take some notice of the implications of fall-out and there seems to be a possibility that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the public with at least some information on the subject . But this long official silence , broken only by the insistence of AEC Chairman Lewis Strauss that there is no such thing , has already had its effect . With nothing but patently fa/se statements emanating from this country , speculation as to ? the true nature and effects of the new weapon has been encouraged everywhere . And any serious expression of concern , however theoretical , by whatever scientist in whatever country , has been eagerly listened to by people increasingly fearful . Now , as the US Government braces itself to say something about fall-out , speculation and fear have moved along to center on the long-range effects of H-Bomb explosions upon man as a species and upon his environment . Asa result there is an ever-louder demand , from Europe and from Asia , for a ban on H-Bomb tests . This is not the work of quacks . Nor is it the product of some devilish plot hatched in the Kremlin ? though the , Communists certainly will turn it to their advantage . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ de Broglie , Nobel Prize winner , and his colleague , Charles-Noel Martin . Their warning follows the general line taken , by a number of scientists in this country and England : H-Bomb explosions have a cumulative effect upon , the atmosphere which in time can render it in a sense poisonous to human beings . But'the two French scientists have added a new element of precision , spelling out chemical , climatic , radioactive and genetic effects which they say are irreversible and could be set in motion by as few as 10 explosions ? there have been 10 already . ? The truth is that very little is known about , for example , the effect of radiation on human genetics . Much in this latest warning is highly speculative . But this his not prevented the French and European press from , seizing upon it as further evidence that H-Bomb tests must be stopped immediately as a crime against humanity . Our government may regret or even fear this trend in iworld opinion , but only a lot of sensible talk full of fa.cts ? will have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effects of H-Bomb explosioris upon men and the environment they live in ? No one yet knows . But some of our most distinguished scientists are now involved in trying to find out . The NR soon will present the best opinions available and open the question " should kl-Bomb tests continue ? " to rational , informed discussion . In the meantime , the question for the Administration is whether to meet the fears of people throughout the world with silence or with fact and reason . Kabul and Helsinki Two SMALL countries , one Asian and " underdeveloped , " one European and " modern , " both on the- borders of Russia , provide clues to the kind of tactics the West will have to match as we enter a period of intensive economic competition with the Communist bloc . Rarely discussed developments in Afghanistan and Finland , though less dramatic than Russian offers of steel-mills to India and Chinese bids for trade with Japan , reveal the everyday methods of Russian economic infiltration . The US has not ignored Afghanistan ; according to the State Department an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country during the past three years . American engineers and technicians , working with Export-Import Bank funds , have helped the local government complete two irrigation projects acrd currently are working on a flood control program . Russia has taken a slightly different approach . In the capital city of Kabul , for example , , the people see daily a lot of big and brightly identified Russian machines manned by Russian technicians ? Russia has the contract to pave Kabul 's streets . Russia also is financing , on a loan basis ( and Russians are building ) a number of capital projects in or near population centers ? grain and gasoline storage facilities , bakeries , a flour mill . Czechoslovakia is providing a cement plant , a leather-processing factory and a textile factory . Repayment is to be by barter goods ? thus . establishing lines of trade which could become permanent Finland has frustrated Russian efforts to take her over through war , political subv , ersion and reparations . The last did , however , give Russia a means of corn- , mercial penetration into its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Before World War , II , Finland had DECEMBER 27 , 1954 almost no trader relations with Russia ; now she depends on the Soviet bloc for 30 percent of her foreign trade : much of her coal and non-ferrous metals as well as an increasing amount of industrial materials . Russia today supplies 90 percent of Finland 's petroleum needs , and a new trade agreement will raise that figure to 98 percent by 1960 . The same agreement will significantly boost the 30 percent over-all trade figure . Since Russian reparation demands were especially severe in metal wares , which Finland did not ordinarily export , the expansion of Finnish industry re-. quired to meet these demands left Finland dependent upon Russia as both a customer and a source of raw materials . Now the only , alternative to trade with Russia is a shut-down which would cause unemployment and thus play into the hands of the Communists . Of course , any time she chooses , Russia can try to bring about this condition by halting purchases of Finnish goods . And the Russian grip on Finland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase their sales in Russia and the government accepts Russian loans ( two this year ) .                     