@@266666

" Think , " said President Marcos Prez Jimnez , " of a country convulsed in political battle ; of different parties , each trying to get votes by speeches filled with threats and defamation mixed with promises and offers of wellbeing ; of streets in cities and towns painted and papered to the saturation point with posters designed to incite ; of the populace abandoned to discussion and mental struggles , to screaming and tumult . " It made a horrifying picture , but Venezuela 's dictator was able to reassure his own people last week that they , at any rate , were in no great danger of free political discussion and debate . Instead , he energetically pressed his own no-party , me-or-nothing version of an election : a plebiscite set for Dec. 15 . <P> In splashy newspaper advertisements , businessmen prudently lavished praise on Prez Jimnez ' substitute for free elections . The semiofficial press carried supplements as long as twelve pages crammed with nothing but the names of citizens expressing their " adhesion " to the government . The President ordered all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bonuses ( $60 million this year ) before the election not after . <P> The government 's authorization of voting by foreigners , and its heavy pressure for everyone to vote , disturbed the 70,000 U.S. citizens who live in Venezuela , until the U.S. embassy got them off the hook by warning them that they could lose U.S. citizenship if they voted . Also troubled by the one-man election : university students , particularly in Roman Catholic schools , where resentment ran high against the jailing , ever since September , of Rafael Caldera , once the Christian Socialist presidential hopeful . But after a spate of student demonstrations a fortnight ago , most colleges are temporarily closed . " The agitators can only stir up students , " said Pedro Estrada , chief of the Seguridad Nacional . " They can not stir up the workers , because everyone is making so much money . "                     