@@493809

CAN FREE INDIA SURVIVE ? JAWAHARLAL NEHRU , Prime Minister of India , opened the Institute of Pacific Relations Conference in Lucknow by charting an independent course for all Asia to follow . That night in Lucknow an aged woman was dragged from her but and eaten by a wolf . The ironic contrast of these two events seemed ines ? capable . For the wolf , though driven by hunger , could hardly have been hungrier than its victim . Many sights ? the swollen bellies of children , the blood coughed up on the streets , the crowds sleeping uneasily on the pave ? ments at night , the women trailing cattle to scoop up the last handful of dung ? testified , to the rift between the ambitions of India 's leader and her present state . Nehru is British in upbringing , and the state he leads is created in Britain 's image . Its judiciary is independ ? ent . Its army is subordinate to civil power . Its consti ? tution is essentially democratic . Its press within limits is free . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largest free electorate , will go to the polls in one This is the first of a series on nationalism , Communism and democ ? racy in India and the Far East . ? THE EDITORS.of Asia 's first general elections . Eleven in every twelve voters are unable to read or write . They will place marks against pictures of birds , trees , tractors , the symbols chosen by the candi ? dates . What is important is not whether India is or is not a democracy , but that she is setting out on the road to democracy . How far will she travel down that road ? In India , today , population is rising rapidly , production is stagnant , living standards are falling , disillusionment is spreading , even before the first election , as the Government fails to keep pace with its tasks . These developments , and ? not the speeches of Indians on the faults of the United States , must be our primary concern . The population of India is rising by three and a half million each year . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tons more foodstuffs ? each year , and obtain a 12-percent rise in production during each decade . Those tasks are not easy in a land already overpopulated . The most grandiose projects of the state to raise production can hardly match the in ? crease in output that the population rise alone requires . The women of the villages , with their children swarm ? ing around them , may be ready for instruction in birth control . The Government is not ready . The long-range solution is to make children economically unprofitable by prohibiting child labor , making education compulsory , and placing on parents the cost of school books . But even primary schools are a long way off for the villages . In contrast to India 's rising population , industrial production , which increased 20 percent during the war , has fallen back close to 1939 levels . Productivity in basic industries is well below prewar levels . Agricul ? tural output , which rose six percent above 1936-39 levels in 1943 , is now below the levels of those years . The wholesale price index @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 413 and is rising at the rate of 1.4 percent a month . Inflation has redistributed income in favor of the peasants and reduced the burden of rural , debt . But it has led to intolerable hardships and costly strikes in the cities . Americans might absorb a 20-per ? cent cut in living standards without injury to their health . But for Indians , who work a lifetime to accumulate two earthen pots , a few yards of cotton for clothing and a rope bed , there are no margins . Three million died of starvation in the famine of 1943 . Inflation is ruining India 's tiny and all important middle class . The doctor who serves ten thousand citi ? zens , the teacher struggling with a newly-started school , the soldier and policeman who maintain order and essen ? tial services , the technicians and clerks who keep the railways moving , the civil servants whose integrity is the mainstay of democratic government : all these groups are exhausting their savings and can not see ahead . They are the men and women who may save @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is worth remembering that there were groups in China with the same standards in 1927 , who were destroyed by mounting inflation . The Government is determined to do what it can to save India . Its first task is to free itself from its own illusions . Forty years of political agitation persuaded Indians that their poverty was caused by British rule . The de ? mand for independence was partly a demand for eco ? nomic development , fired by the belief that independence would usher in the age of plenty . In the exuberant days of 1947 the new Government produced the Bombay Plan , providing for a 130-percent increase in agricultural output and a fivefold expansion of industry within five years . Since then plans have slowly been brought down to practicability . In agriculture , the Government knows now that it must first avert famine this year , that it must next check the food deficit caused by rising population , and that it must work to raise . nutritional standards some time during the next 10 to 20 years . The Government has set out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another three million acres , and to increase the infinitesimal use of chemical ferti ? lizer . It is moving ahead with hydroelectric projects that will mean another four million tons of food a year . Meanwhile the provincial legislatures are enacting legis ? lation authorizing villages to purchase land with pay ? ments of eight to 12 years ' rent , from the Zemindari who have owned the villages and have ruled them with feudal powers . Yet the peasants lack the funds to buy out the Zemin ? dari , and where they find funds , the shortage of land will leave many more landless laborers than peasant proprietors . Land reform in itself tends to diminish rather than increase agricultural production . Rising prices lower production still farther as farmers achieve traditional standards with less effort . Partition and the trade war with Pakistan have deprived India of close to a million tons of grain a year from the Sind , Punjab and East Bengal . The land itself is drying up . It needs tube wells for irrigation , but tube wells require elec ? tricity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tilizer plants . There are no funds within India to finance large-scale capital investment in the land . Yet a flight over the country demonstrates how indefinable are the limits between the colorless desert and the pale green fields where crops struggle in the dry heat between the monsoons . South India has endured . three years without rain . In North India , floods have destroyed crops and ware ? houses in six provinces . In a land that knows only parched heat and brief weeks of heavy rain , less than a third of the land has an assured water supply . Mechanization of agriculture has been seen as one great hope . But mechanization is checked by the break ? up of farm units , and the limitation of farm holdings by legislation in order to create work for millions of surplus farmers . Mechanization is further checked by the absence of trained personnel . As in Nationalist China , the Government has been impatient with on:the-job ? training programs . Farm machinery companies in turn have played for short-run profits in pushing sales ahead of service centers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and wasted farm machines . For these reasons India 's goal of self-sufficiency in foodstuffs is still over the horizon . Thirty-five percent of her imports from the US and Canada are foodstuffs at a time when her future turns on her capacity to import capital equip ment . Self-sufficiency in foodstuffs may be no alternative to industrialization and international trade . Yet a nation which keeps 70 percent of its people on the land and is unable to feed itself can never progress . aniWer nee in the villages where traditional Hin ? duism perpetuates an acceptance of caste , of poverty , of superstition and corruption . Until the villages become ambitious for higher living standards , for education , and for the responsibilities of democracy , productivity will not rise . I visited one village where 800 Indians live off 60 acres of sandy , irrigated soil . It had been adopted for educational work by the Indian Village Service , a mis ? sionary project of the Methodist Church . A voluntary teacher was seated in a circle of laughing children as we walked in between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pot over a fire . " We boil the water before we drink it , " the children shouted . Next a picture of corpses lying in a row . " We kill the mos ? quitoes before they kill us ! " chanted the children . A man with a stick , " We must not chase the blind man away ! " Later the children brought out flat bits of wood blacked with charcoal . They drew painstaking letters with bamboo sticks dipped in chalk and water . The smallest children had lines of charcoal drawn around their eyes to keep demons away . When school ended they rushed off to purify their houses by spread ? ing wet cow dung over the floors . Yet in school there were Brahmins and Untouchables , brought together after weeks of argument . More weeks had brought a concen ? tration of livestock in one square , a competition for the cleanest house , a movable latrine . Next would come tactful suggestions on the heartbreaking primitiveness with which the villagers draw their water and till their fields . The villagers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the next village a mile away ; she went and found the women sitting patiently with blackened boards and bamboo pens in their hands . Yet what can one church mission accomplish among 700,000 villages ? The universities might help . But too often the professors are pursuing the common linguistic origins of Homeric and Hindustani legends while the students debate imperialism and the 38th Parallel . In rural India , " the government " is largely a myth . India 's industrial future is equally uncertain . Capacity is wholly inadequate , and Indian industry is running at two-thirds of existing capacity today . In prewar years , the industrialists were the financiers of the independence movement . In turn the nation rallied behind them in buying home-made products and boycotting British goods . The identification of conserv ? atism with imperialism abroad led the independence leaders toward an alignment with Socialist groups over ? seas . But Socialism was not a predominant faith in the independence movement . In wartime , however , prices were forced up by specu ? lation hoarding and black market profiteering . Private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carried India toward an indeterminate Socialist program . India in 1947 lacked two essentials of Socialism : trained personnel , and a taxable source of savings to be applied to investment in nationalized industries . The Civil Service was trained to administer law and collect revenues , not to develop resources and manage industries . It was cut in half by Britain 's withdrawal from India , and the tasks assumed by Government were already beyond its skills . Taxes were barely able to meet existing expenditures of Government , and the shift in national income to the villages made it much harder for the Government to levy on national savings . At the same time India lacked a vigorous capitalist class . A small group of industrialists are expansionists in outlook ; a large class of merchants , like moneylenders , lack accepted business ethics . Between the two extremes is a type of businessman to whom the idea of low rates of profit on a large turnover is unknown . He may shut down his factory if current accounts show a loss . He may close his engineering plant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the black market for his allotted quota of imported steel . He may clear his investment on new equipment in four years and ruin it in five , instead of running it through the 30-year span for which it is built . He may raise prices at every opportunity instead of seek ? ing an established market for his product . Inflation has reinforced his concentration on cornering scarce goods for a price rise , rather than on creating new wealth . Over the next 20 years , a new generation of young and expansionist bankers and industrialists may arise in India . Their emergence is delayed by the uncertainties of government policy and the climate of public opinion , which is hostile to private enterprise and individual wealth . Still more serious are restrictive loyalties to group , locality , religion and caste . Despite rapid progress towards equality , a man is born into a caste in most of India , he marries within his caste , works and lives within it , and is buried in a caste graveyard . Every pro ? fession , and each sector @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reserved for a particular caste . Ability becomes a minor qualification in management ; mobility of labor and skill is greatly restricted . Nationalization becomes one way in which non-favored castes can enter industrial management . And caste , by forbidding wide practical experience , perpetuates the theoretical bias that dominates Government and university circles . The new Government of India chose to compromise between Socialism and private enterprise . It carried through legislation to provide arbitration , job tenure , profit-sharing and cost-of-living bonuses in private con ? cerns . It extended government regulation to all impor ? tant industries and reserved new undertakings in basic industries for government ownership . It asserted its right to acquire any basic industry at any time . It granted the private sector of industry a ten-year period of grace before deciding on nationalization . Foreign and domestic investors laid down the conditions under which they could function ; the Government replied that this was an intolerable intrusion on its newly-won sovereignty . Twip thirds of new investment in industry has been financed by Government . Its ambitious plans for irriga ? tion and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the liquidation of over ? seas balances built up during the war . Today inflation is forcing a halt in deficit spending , the overseas balances are running out , and nation building services are crippled further by expenditures on armaments which take more than half of India 's budget without producing an armed force that can help the UN . For these reasons public investment is crippled while private investment is stagnant . Private investment has been difficult , given the un ? certainty of communal tensions , the trade war with Pak ? istan , the instabilities caused by refugees , and the absence of basic social facilities for workers in industrial centers like Bombay , where a million workers are today without any housing . The Government 's threats of nationaliza ? tion have certainly contributed further to India 's indus ? trial stagnation without providing for any Government plants . - Fair-  rates of profit , set by the Government , may correspond to standards recognized by the London School of Economics . Yet they have little bearing in a nation where prices have been rising 20 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compensation set for the Zemin ? dari , businessmen have felt with reason that they have no incentive to expand capacity or even to replace exist ? ing capacity . The people of India , exploited for centuries , have been fully justified in demanding that the political revo ? lution of 1947 should be followed by social reform . Yet , as in many nations , social reform may conflict with short-term economic progress . In India labor productivity has fallen 40 percent below wartime peaks and is 30 per ? cent below prewar levels today . One-half of this decline is due to a shortage of raw materials , and a return to one-shift production . The rest is due to legislation andlabor 's own attitudes . The labor force rose more than 50 percent in wartime , from 1,700,000 to 2,600,000 . Labor and the Government undertook to hold it at peak levels when production declined in postwar years . By Government action , no competent worker can be fired today without a hearing before a Government tribunal , and an award . In addition to a normal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human tendency to take advantage of the existence of the tribunals by slow ? ing down . This padding of the labor force keeps prices and costs up without greatly discouraging new investment . In contrast , the payment of cost-of-living allowances , which are higher than wages in many factories , reduces the effectiveness of piece rates and cuts down labor 's incentive to work . A major reason given by Indian industrialists for their present paralysis is the restriction imposed by domestic and import controls . In 1948 , certainly , the textile in ? industry was greatly damaged by Government regulation . This year , textile manufacturers were forbidden to buy US cotton when it was available ; now , when the Govern ? ment seeks to buy it there is none left . The Government is not fully able to manage a controlled economy . Yet Indians resist the abolition of haphazard restrictions , remembering the disastrous price increases that followed the premature lifting of controls after the war . Low productivity causes inflation . In turn , inflation has destroyed India 's present capacity to save @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war a group of one million Indians , each of whom set aside $700 a year , maintained a rate of saving equal to 10 percent of India 's national income . Now the group is living on past savings to make both ends meet . India 's present rate of saving is three percent of national in ? come and can not finance a significant increase in in ? dustrial capacity . So Iridia 's farsighted leaders turn abroad , hoping that the West will come to India 's aid . So fore the West has not responded . One half of the foreign holdings in India were sold when the British withdrew . Since 1948 , British firms have invested only $12 million in new enterprises in India . Established firms like our own Standard Oil have maintained and added to their equipment . In new enterprises the US and Hong Kong investors as a group have each staked $20,000 apiece in India 's future . The US Government has not been very helpful to India . Indians , inhibited by fear and pride , have been kicked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bank with little to show for their pains . A year 's negotiations for a transfer of wheat fell through when a weary Administration in Washington decided that Congress would vote no more foreign aid . Since then bitterness has grown on both sides . If no aid is given , living standards will decline in India . Since independence and democracy are identified with rising incomes , what will happen if living stand ? ards continue to fall ? In any Western country the answer might be clear . In Asia , the traveler begins by analyzing economic fac ? tors because other factors are still more obscure . But he learns to recognize their limits . In addition , a people who have known nothing but misery have a certain patience and tenacity that Americans can not easily grasp . Yet we have brought a vision of a better life to Asia , and today we are working to a timetable forced on us by Chinese and Soviet revolutions that press on regardless of human costs . For a generation , any one of these factors may hold India @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ standards of living . The evidence of economic progress . The belief that the Government is on the side of the people . In the next 10 years the first of these factors may be impossible to achieve , even with large-scale aid . Thesecond and third we can help to bring about . Beyond one generation it is hard to believe that stagnation is compatible with a society based on voluntary initiative , education and consent . Already the necessity of com ? pulsion is talked of more and more and the question is raised whether , for Asia , there can be a half-way house between a free society and a police state . Either India is likely to turn off the democratic road , down bypaths that lead to oligarchy and theocracy ; or she may pull up stakes and set out on the Moscow road , to indus ? trialize her economy by indoctrination , sacrifice and ter ? ror , without regard for the cost in human life . That is a natural course in the sense that in Asia the individual counts for very little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Burma , Ceylon , Indonesia and Pakistan . And if democracy fails in India , where will the line hold , east of Calcutta and west of Bombay ? Indians who are not afraid to ask these questions know that the answers lie within their people . Yet , since there is little time left , they wonder how far Americans , politically impatient and economic ? ally hard-pressed , are willing to help a continent that is at best determined to find its own way to its own form of democracy . Neu ' Delhi , India                     