@@488266

THE electoral battle in Britain is now fully joined , and until the counting of the votes on October 25 determines the complexion of the next British govern  --  ment , there will be no grappling with the mounting eco  --  nomic difficulties of the country . Not , it appears , is there to be much realistic public discussion of the problems involved , even though the basic Issue before the voters is whether they are to be solved by socialist or " free enter  --  prise " methods . For different reasons neither Laborites nor Tories are prepared to talk frankly about the nature KEITH HUTCHISON , financial editor of The Nation , dis  --  cussed the causes of Britain 's economic crisis in last week 's issue . BY KEITH HUTCHISON and consequences of the economic crisis : neither party is ready to tell the people the harsh truth that if the rearmament program is to be carried out in full and on schedule , living standards will have to be reduced . This is so because competing claims on the national income are too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and services . The arms program , which is still far from reaching its peak , must absorb an increasing proportion of Britain 's resources of man-power , plant , and materials . The increased cost of imported food and raw materials must be offset by a further expansion of exports . Investment , which is currently absorbing around 20 per cent of the national income , must be maintained if greater productivity is to be achieved in the futizre . In the light of these " musts " the final claim on the national income , that of domestic consumption , must be restricted . How , then , is this to be done ? If we turn to the Labor Party 's manifesto , approved by the Scarborough conference , we find that this question is not even posed , let alone answered . The main theme of the document is the amelioratibn of the condition of the workers that has been achieved during six years of Labor government : the return of Labor to power , it implies , will make possible a steady continuation of this process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ superimposed on a fully employed economy , has created a critical situation , apart from a statement that the short  --  age of raw materials has caused " great difficulties " and that " rising world prices have increased the cost of liv  --  ing , but muCh less in Britain than in most other coun ? ? tries . " To check any further rise , Labor , we are told , will continue its efforts to secure by international action a fairer distribution of raw materials and a reduction in world prices , while instituting at home stronger controls and more drastic action against monopolies . However , the manifesto ignores the major cause of domestic inflation  --  the rise in the total of money in  --  comes in the face of prospective decline in the volume of goods available for the home market . True , it refers briefly to increased taxation of great fortunes - and large unearned incomes , and proposi-s measures to prevent large capital gains . On the other hand , it promises to reduce taxation on small incomes , when " possible , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the public service  --  a long overdue act of justice but one which will swell the total of money chasing scarce goods . THE-Tory program does recognize the existence of a crisis but fails to relate it to rearmament , which , it declares , would be carried out in full by a Conservative government . Instead , it ascribes Britain 's economic and financial troubles wholly to the extravagance and incom  --  petence of the Labor government and its attempts " to impose a doctrinaire socialism on an island that has grown great and famous by ' free enterprise . " Once the Tories are returned to office , the voters are told , this situation will rapidly be remedied by relaxing controls and giving free enterprise incentives to produce more . If elected , the Tories will " cut all unnecessary expen  --  diture . . . and prune waste and extravagance in every department . " Possibly a few millions can be saved by administrative economies , although historically the Tories have not proved very provident housekeepers . But any really significant reductions in expenditure , outside the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in so  --  cial policy . The Tories , however , are assuring the voters that they have no designs against the welfare state . They promise " to give housing a priority second only to national defense " and to set up " a target " of 300,000 October 20 , 1951 houses a year-50 per cent more than the total for which man-power and materials are now being found , More  --  over , an undertaking to provide better education and health services " for the money now being spent " is hardly compatible with a reduction of total costs in these departments . Nor is a proposal to review the position of pensioners to insure that " the hardest cases are met first " likely to produce savings . In view of the impact of rising prices on pensioners such a review should lead to an increase in total disbursement . Finally , the Tories admit that food subsidies , the abolition of which has long been a primary aim of advocates of disinflation , " can  --  not be radically changed in present circumstances . " None @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fiscal means to bring about that cut in consumption which the relief of inflationary pressures requires . But there seems to be a discrepancy between the Tories ' public and private thinking on this question , and it would not be surprising if , back in of  --  fice , they discovered that circumstances forced them to renege on their election promises . In a recent article in the Manchester Guardum , Colin Clark , the distinguished economist and statistician , recalled the way in which the Tories misled the electorate in 1931 with warnings against the danger of inflation , warnings which in the circumstances of that time-were either " foolish or dis  --  honest . " " I get the impression , " he adds , " that the same vein of dishonesty runs through their propaganda to this day . ' Of course we must cut food subsidies and social services and work longer hours , but it is no use saying so . We must win the election on some other line of talk and then proceed to do these things . ' " Reading the rival @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to avoid the conclusion that both are offering the voters soothing syrup instead of the harsh medicine that the economic situation demands . Both breathe a spirit of easy optimism : neither faces the fact that if rearmament is to go ahead at its present pace , total supplies of food , clothing , and consumer goods of all kinds will have " to be diminished and an even greater degree of austerity imposed on the country . The alternative is inflation , which in the long run  --  and not such a very long one at that  --  will undercut living standards still more drastically . I fear , therefore , that whichever side wins on October 25 Britons are going to experience a series of rude shocks . The first duty of the new . government will be to take steps to reduce the volume of exports and to divert domestic resources from the production of goods for the home market to the manufacture of arms and goods for export . Simultaneously , it will be necessary to curb the flow of cash incomes so as to lessen the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If Labor wins , we can expect that the requisite sacri  --  fices will be spread as equitably as possible and the heaviest burdens placed on the strongest backs . But it is no use pretending that the whole load can be carried by the rich ; until the hump of rearmament is negotiated and-total national production increased , living standards of all but the very poor are likely to be adversely affected . Thus , however wrong Mr. Bevan and his followers may be in their assertion that the rearmament prograrri is larger than international dangers warrant , their fore-cast of its social and economic consequences is being proved right . It would be better if both Labor and Tory leaders publicly recognized this fact and told the country frankly what the real costs of rearmament will be and how they propose to meet them . By failing in candor they are insulting the character and intelligence of the electorate in a way that could cause real harm to democratic morale in Britain . Peace Through Trade Geneva , September 29 ANYONE who judged the international situation from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Social Council ( Ecosoc ) would have supposed this the best of all possible worlds . For more than an hour spokesmen of the two hostile blocs joined in praising the way in which President Hernan Santa Cruz had directed the Council 's work . The atmos  --  phere of Geneva was undoubtedly favorable to harmony , and this was the principal reason why the French dele  --  gate , Georges Boris , proposed that the 1952 summer session also be held here instead of in New York , though he politely declared he was thinking of the weather . However , since the Latin American delegates had re  --  ceived strict instructions to vote with the United States , New York won by a narrow vote . An . issue closely connected with the question of site had been debated on the preceding day . This was whether a state had the right to refuse to allow a person accredited to the U. N. ? as a delegate , an expert , a representative of an unofficial organization , or a journal  --  ist  --  to enter the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agency . A majority of the council held that a state did not have this right , no matter what the political  --  cal affiliation , ideology , or sympathies of the person seek  --  ing entrance . The discussion visibly irritated Isador Lubin , United States delegate ; from his remarks one might have thought that the Justice Department 's re  --  strictions and the McCarran law were no more than fig  --  ments of The Nation 's imagination . The speeches of the Eastern European delegates on this matter were curiously reserved . Their caution strengthened the belief that Foreign Minister Vishinsky might offer formally a sug  --  gestion casually thrown out in the last Assembly  --  that the next session-of the Assembly , be held in Moscow . In his farewell speech Senor Santa Cruz struck the balance of Ecosoc 's successes and failures . He justly praised the work of the International Children 's Emer  --  gency Fund in providing food , clothing , and medical care for millions of children in. all parts of the world . He mentioned the accomplishments of the commission for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example , in the recent seizure of 239 kilograms of raw opium at Marseilles . ' Unfortunately , much of the progress made has been counterbalanced by the failure to set up a system of international control of the manu  --  facture- and sale of narcotics . At a conference of the principal drug-manufacturing countries held at Geneva in 1950 the creation of an international non-profit opium monopoly with powers of inspection and control was proposed . This would have been a great step forward , but it was checked by the fear of establishing a precedent which could be invoked for other purposes . When agreement seemed hopeless , the conference decided to submit the question to the governments concerned before November 1 and to ask the Narcotics Division of the U. N. to urge the advantage of international control . Senor Santa Cruz had the courage to admit that " in social matters the results achieved by the council at this session are somewhat disappointing . " He referred to its delay in tackling the problem of over:population in cer  --  tain parts of the world , and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field of financing European emi  --  gration to Latin America . Outspoken though he was , Senor Santa Cruz refrained from bluntly recognizing that the West 's rearmament policy has relegated to second place the famous Point Four program and other schemes to aid underdeveloped regions . Just as in individual countries rearmament has held up social reform , new housing , educational advances , old-age assistance , and efforts to raise wages or lower the cost of living , so on the international plane it has reduced Point Four to a mere rhetorical abstraction . Priority everywhere is given to expenditures for defense . " I cannot- but regret , " said the conservative Sellor Santa Cruz , " that the council has failed to fulfil the express recommendation of the General Assembly that it should propose practical methods to obtain an in 