@@491438

Stewart and Jw-eph Alsop . That Washington Security Curtain By JOSEPH and STEWART ALSOP In the name of " security , - the authors say , the Government vit. h h olds from the American people the life-and-death facts of our struggle for survival  --  facts the enemy already knows . Two veteran reporters here protest ? with their gloves off . NOT so long ago , one of these reporters asked two old Washington friends to share a quiet supper . They accepted the invitation cheerfully , but the husband , who holds a fairly high Government post , was oddly insistent on eating in a restaurant . When he and his wife picked the reporter up on the way downtown , he was even more oddly reluctant to stop at the house for a quiet presupper drink . Finally , in the safe seclusion of the car , this somewhat mystifying behavior was abruptly explained : " I hear your house is all bugged up . I guess they want to know who gave you the dope for your stories about the Il-bomb fall-out . Anyway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of you two to end all investigations . l could be wrong , but I 'm not especially anxious to make a sound recording in the Alsop library . " The tone , though mildly embarrassed , was perfectly matter of fact . In Washington nowadays , you see , it is taken for granted that the American Government may be secreting listening devices in the houses of American newspapermen who persist in doing their reportorial job of gathering and printing significant facts . The little incident , of no great importance in itself , is nonetheless decidedly important as a symptom . For it reveals one of the methods , and it also suggests something of the atmosphere , of a far-reaching change that has been creeping into our American political system . Until recently , the American people have always been the masters of their own fate . When the chips were down , the people made the decisions and the Government executed the decisions . Those have always been our system 's basic principles . But now our people are ceasing to be the masters of their fate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less about the influences that control their fate . The American people can not make the great national decisions any longer , because they do not get the essential facts . N this manner , with good intentions , in the per- suasive name of - security , - the traditional Amer- ican political process is being suspended  --  one might almost say subverted . That change is the subject of this report . How far that change has gone already is pretty plainly revealed by the new governmental habit of investigating newspapermen who print what officials do not want printed . Less than two decades ago , when the elder of these reporters came to work in Washington , the merest hint of this kind of investigative harassment of the press would have raised a bipartisan ruckus to make Armed Freedom tremble on her pedestal on the Capitol dome . Nowadays , everyone in the political world of Washington knows that such investigations are recurrently ordered , and not an eyebrow is raised . No one is quite certain , to be sure , whether wiretapping and bug-planting are actually practiced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and we found no bug . No one is quite certain . either , how often these investigations of newspapermen happen or whether they are being used , as yet , for simple purposes of political retaliation . In the language of crime fiction , net , spapermen seldom advertise that the Feds are on their trail , for fear of being considered too hot to talk to ; and the reds are even more reluctant to publish any statistics . Probably the investigating is limited , as yet , to the reporters who write about the two life-and-death subjects , defense and foreign affairs ; for the facts that are now most closely guarded are precisely the facts of life-and-death importance . At any rate , t , e know of several other reporters working in thesefields who have received the same agreeable attentions that we have received . And we ourselves have been investigated five times in the past five years , as nearly as we can determine . We are not dead sure of the total , because in these cases the reporter is not officially notified of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directly , by two polite young gentlemen from the FBI ; and that was long after we had learned from the grapevine that the heat was on . That time there had been lulling public hints that the Soviets did not have the A-hondi after all : and these grossly misleading hints had spurred us to describe how one nation could know another nation had an A-bomb , and to give the probable rate of Soviet A-bomb output . None of this was news to the Kremlin . It was also information of the highest public importance to America . But President Truman , who was himself strangely inclined to d. old the evidence for the Soviet A-bomb , had been very much annoyed by our story , and so the heat that time was very hot indeed . T HE wiird that the heat is on can come in rather curious ways . Once we got it from one of the most highly respected officials of the postwar period , who was then Secretary of Defense . He led one of us into the Pentagon corridor  --  for apparently the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hugged  --  and he whispered the tip that the Feds were after us again , in the tone of a friend warning a political suspect in a very different kilid of country . Other curious things can happen too . Pretty transparent attempts have twice been made , for instance , to frighten us with hints of prosecution . Such episodes are comic , of course , but also just a mite nasty . There is only one feature of these investigations , in truth , that any sensible reporter takes seriously . The gumshoes regularly harass and sometimes severely penalize all the reporter 's friends in Government  --  and if you have any friends in Washington . they almost have to be in Government . The new rule has been established of guilt by association with reporters . And this is not only a serious thing for the newspaper business , As we shall try to show , it is much more serious , in an indirect way , for the country as a whole . We do not want to be too solemn about all this , Reporters , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life-and-death facts , are not yet friendless in Washington . Reporters , including these two , are not yet creeping about in fear of the Feds . But it is a Ivry serious matter indeed , and not just for reporters but for everyone , when the American Government actively seeks to stop the flow of sign ificant information to the American public . And that is what is happening today , on the specious pretest of ? raurntaining security. - " Security classification " is , of course , the main device employed to this end . Classification has now been extended to the point , as a cynic remarked , where the only unclassified paper in the Pentagon is to be found in the restrooms . Everything is classified on one excuse or another . More and more , the habit is spreading of using security classification to screen facts in no way secret , but politically inconvenient to disclose . But in the main , this indiscriminate classification is just automatic official behaviorism  --  a habit that feeds upon itself . The habit grows stronger yearly . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spoken or unspoken departmental rules that all informs .. on must be channeled through the mouths of public-relations officers ? who are usually uninformative because they seldom know anything . The whole movement , in short , is toward public information by mimeographed handout and controlled press conference , which really means no public information at all . Naturally , there are men in this administration , as there were in the previous administration , who obstinately recognize the right of the American people to he informed about their own affairs . Secretary of State John Foster Dulles is a conspicuous example . But such men are getting rarer and rarer , for two simple and obvious reasons . It is coming to be generally accepted that an official who discusses grave public problems for public consumption is inviting a visit from the Federal gumshoes . And although reporters may not fear the Feds , almost all officials fear them greatly . By intimidating officials , the new trick of sicking the Feds onto newspapermen is already getting real results . Once again , we do not want to exaggerate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Government can arbitrarily decree that the American people are to be kept in ignorance of matters intimately affecting their fate , and can be sure of making the decree stick . Even today , even for individual newspapermen , contests with officials seeking to suppress vital facts can still be both successful and enjoyable . In our own experience , the contest has rarely been sharper than mortior ( Continuum 1111111 Valise 123 ) In the old days before the emulsification curtain descended , any of them could have got any story he set out to get . Today that is no longer altogether true . Partly because of the classification curtain , but also because the great national problems are increasingly complex and increasingly technical , a reporter now has to specialize if he wants to get the real news  --  which is utterly different , of course , from the empty urbanities of press conferences . But if you spend as much time on a subject as we spend on the subjects of defense and foreign policy  --  if you read all the technical publications , keep in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to get the facts that are classified in Washington , but are street-corner gossip in Hong Kong  --  if you do all these things to learn where the bodies are buried , and if your feet do not give out , you can generally end by digging up the bodies . In short , someone or other  --  somehow or other , sometime or other  --  still discovers and publishes almost every new fact with real bearing on the American fate and future . In this limited sense , the flow of significant information to the American public has not yet been stopped . But even in this sense , the flow can finally be stopped if present trends continue without check . And in a larger and much more meaningful sense , the effort to stop the flow of information has already attained a dangerous degree of success . The front pages . after all , and not the reports of specialists , are what arouse and excite and inform our public opinion . The main stream of news stories debouching on the nation 's front pages is not written @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the governmental stoppage of the flow of information , fewer and fewer of the life-and-death facts are appearing on the front pages . So the life-and-death facts no longer focus public attention . They have ceased to be the topics of the general , opinion-molding , common-sensible debate which is the breath of democracy . Concerning them , there is no informed , realistic public opinion , which is the life of democracy . in this roundabout but effective way , the democratic process has already been largely suspended with respect to the life-and-death problems that grow out of the life-and-death filets . Looking back to the simpler Washington before the second World War , the elder of these reporters sometimes finds it hard to believe how far we have already departed from the older American way . Even in 1939-40 , with the war shadow already darkening , no one vaguely imagined that the American Government would ever say to the American people , " Daddy knows best and you must n't ask questions , " about matters of the highest public import . The American people used to insist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not dare to withhold any fact of major national meaning . Until the second war , to be sure , the big problems were mainly domestic and internal , rather than international and military . The court-packing bill , not the H-bomb , was what we worried about : and it is certainly easier to be open about a court hill than about a hydrogen bomb . All the same , the cold war was just as cold , and the big problems were just as much international and military in the years of the first Truman Administration as they are today . But in those years a quite remarkable group of offi cinla ? James F. Byrnes and Arthur H. Vandenberg , Robert Patterson , Robert A. Lovett , James Forrestal , with his educator 's mind , and many lesser men  --  made very great and conscious efforts to see that the American people got the important facts . The result was the golden age of American postwar policy making , when the American people , in full possession of the facts , always acting with their eyes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national decisions that began with h Greek-Turkish aid and ended with h t he formation of NATO . All that ended , however , and the Government 's effort to stop the flow of information to the public began in solemn earnest , with the beginning of President Truman 's second term . Partly it was because the Truman-Louis Johnson program of defense " economy " was basically deceptive ; for governmental deception , like other deception , always generates a wish for secrecy . Partly it was because the new Secretary of State , Dean G. Acheson , mistakenly thought British precedents ought to be applied in the altogether different American system . Partly , too , it was because the explosion of the first Soviet atomic bomb in September , 1949 , suddenly gave an overriding importance to weapons problems , with their special overtones of secrecy . For all these reasons , the classification curtain was firmly rung down . It . has never since been lifted ; and in the opinion of these reporters , the American people are now getting fewer lifeand-death facts in a way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formal , second-world-wartime press censorship . The theory is , of course , that this situation is unavoidable . Those who still seek to get and publish the facts are pompously reproved , and the practice of concealing the facts is speciously excused , on the ground that " we ca n't tell our people because we do n't want the enemy to know . " But although the officials who say this may be sincere and honorable , they are still talking the purest balderdash . We have been investigated five times . but never for publishing something the enemy did not know already . No one in his senses , including these reporters , wants to publish or will consciously publish what is truly secret . But what is truly secret is only something of value to the enemy that the enemy can poasihly be prevented from learning . Almost no information t hat genuinely belongs in this category has the slightest real public interest . The blueprinls of our 11-homb , for instance , or the latest , most equation-burdened titudirm of missile guidance would be absolutely meaningless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had public meaning , moreover , it is obviously possible to keep such things from the enemy , and for that sole reason hey should be doubly classified and triply guarded . On the other hand , the facts about the H-bomb that are really needed to insure a realistic and informed public opinion are precisely the facts about the H-bomb that the enemy knows already . Our Government has sought to hide the bomb 's real power , the extent and effect of its noxious fall-out of radioactive particles and the degree to which it may create an enduring radiological hazard in the air we breathe . Thus our Government has hidden from our people essential information that is wholly familiar to the masters of the Kremlin , who also have their H-bomb . The concealment is all the more ostrich-headed because these same points have already begun to be touched upon in public debate abroad . Sir Winston Churchill , for example , has told the House of Commons that the H-bomb has upset every established strategic calculation  --  has rendered " obsolete all the thoughts that were well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago . " And Churchill has also stated ( making Page 7 in one leading American newspaper and getting no notice at all in most others , that even continued H-bomb tests , let . alone mass use of the bomb in war , can perhaps radiologically poison the earl h 's atmosphere for a period of 5000 years . Because Churchill has raised the issue , the American public may learn the truth about the radiological hazard before these words can he printed . Meanwhile we must pray that Churchill was mistaken in this instance . He was certainly not mistaken , however , about the H-bomb 's revolutionary effects on world strategy . The bomb changes everything , from the status of our civil and air defenses and strategic air power , to the policies of our allies , ourselves and the enemy . But unless there is something very like a revolution in Washington in the interval , this revolution of world strategy will not be admitted by the American Government to the American people ; and those who seek to describe it for the public will court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what do these two words , " world strategy , " really mean ? They really mean nothing more or less than the simple conditions of national survival . In a dictatorship like the Soviet Union , national survival is the sole business of the tiny ruling group . For that reason , and because the Kremlin controls all the apparatus of dictatorship , the Soviets can practice an ironclad " security , " which is certainly an advnie tags to them . But this advantage is tar outweighed by the disadvantage of limiting the problems of national survival to the tiny group at the top  --  which is the real weakness of dictatorship , as the record shows . That is why the American officials and military men who hanker to imitate Soviet-style security are not only wrong but foolish . They can not do it , in the first place , because they lack the instruments of dictatorship to close our borders , make the growth of great new industries n closely guarded secret , halt t he publication of the Federal budget , 1111 ( 1in t these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the enemy intelligence as difficult as the task of our intelligence . In a free society like ours , in the second Mace , national survival is not , can not be , and ought not to be , just the business of the Q-cleared . When I he conditions of survival change , it is wrong in principle and folly in practice not to let 1 he people know about it ; for I his keeping I he people in ignorance is an attack on our fundamental strength . And it is doubly wrong and foolish , of course , to do what our security system now does , which is to conceal from the people what the enemy knows already . Yet the H-bomb problem is only one especially big problem among many big national problems that have been handled without the slightest recognition of all these basic truths . Because all these problems are not adequately ventilated , we now suffer from an acute national schizophrenia , with the vast , complacent , uninformed majority as one part of the national split personality . and the tiny @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was ludicrous , and it was also pretty shocking , to listen to the windy public debates of the last campaign , and meanwhile to have a general notion of the topics of secret debate among those having Q-clearance . The Q-cleared were privately arguing about the increasing danger of a full-scale Catastrophe in South Asia ; the increasing Chinese communist threat on the approaches of Formosa ; and whether the United States should light for Quemoy Island . They were also mulling over the desperate need for an . American air defense against Soviet A- or H-bomb attack ; the urgent need for a mighty effort to overtake the Soviet lead in guided missiles ; the probable need to build an artificial satellite of earth in competition with the Kremlin ; and other such grim matters . You could almost say , in truth , that while the politicians were solemnly discussing the President 's multibillion highway-construction program , those with Q-clearance were discussing whether there would he any Americans left to ride on the highways . Hence we Americans , or at least the very great majority of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Wizard of Oz , if she had waked up after her cyclonic leap and concluded she was still in Kansas , Our Kansas was the world we knew before the vast **33;257;TOOLONG revolution of our time  --  the world , for example , in which America 's surrounding oceans were uncrossahle , all-protecting moats . We still think we are in this Kansas of ours ; but we are not t here at all . And our Land of Os , where we actually are , is nothing like the cozy place that Dorothy came to rule over . It is the real world of those with Q-clearance , with alt its strange perils and unimagined challenges , and its faint promise , too , of something better for mankind if those challenges can be met and those perils can be averted . Now , a good many able , experienced . public-spirited men have come to think that this schizophrenic state of affairs , is at least inevitable , and perhaps a good I hing . The new challenges , they hold , are really too unfamiliar and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people in ignorance , and leave those with Q-clearance to do the best they can . Dean Acheson held this view in the former adminis ( ration , and so did George F. Kennan . Secretary of Defense Charles E. Wilson and the secretary of the National Security Council , Robert Cutler , whom Washington calls " Mr. Top Secret. , " seem to typify the same viewpoint today . Kennan , who is sine of the finest and most brilliant public servants these reporters have known , is also one of t he must honestly articulate ; and he ham even supplied a kind of rationale for the view he instinctively holds , He once staled publicly that all sorts of terrible and unpredictable things would happen if the American people were told the full truth about the American national situation ? by which he meant that the people might demand a preventive showdown with the Kremlin if they understood the full threat of Soviet power . More privately , Kennan has also compared trained , qualified and expert officials to trained , qualified and expert doctors . And he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us should not take official decisions on great national policy problems almost as much at , their face value as we take our doctors ' incomprehensible but important prescriptions . Kerman 's friend , the wise and witty Englishman , Isaiah Berlin , once remarked t hat the Kennan system would lead to " government by a nest of brooding Salazars . " And he art utely inquired how on earth you could he sure that all the occupants of the nest were as intelligent and selfless as George Kennan and the Portuguese dictator . Yet this is not the real objection to the change in our political system that is being produced by the descent of the classification curtain . There are two such objections , both insurmountable . First , this change is wrong in principle . The basic principle of the American political system was eloquently stated by Abraham Lincoln when he declared that the dead at Gettysburg had fallen to make sure that " government of the people , by the people , for the people , shall not perish from the earth . " You can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when you conceal from the people the influences that will determine their fate . What you then get is government of the people by those with Q-clearance . Second , and even more important , government of the people by those with Q-clearance is just not practical in t he United States . In quite large measure . we have this kind of government today , but if it goes on it is hound to fail , and perhaps fail catastrophically , in the nal Out come . The reason is simple enough . Our people have not yet reached the stage of letting any nest of brooding Salazars make great national decisions on their behalf . If great , decisions are to be made , our people want to know why . If they know why , they will support the boldest new departures , as was finely shown in the Truman Administration 's most creative period of policy making , But if our people do not know why they should support a policy , they will not support it ; and thus the policy becomes politically impracticnble and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ t m t ey are governing and policy making in their next of secret papers , hut , in fact , they will finally reach a condition of nongoverq. merit and nonpolicy . They may know what ought to he done , but they will be unable to do it . Thal may riot Iles ? dangerous today , when muny persuasive appearances -- which may well be deceptive , however  --  suggest that we are entering a lull in t he cold war . But it is bound to be fatally dangerous in the long run : for we are still living in a period of enormous , almost volcanic change . The changes in the world around us in. sistently demand new adjustments and new departures . The new adjustments and departures must be made forehandedly . They can not be made at all unless the people grasp the reasons for them . And already , among the high officials of these reporters ' acquaintance , one can see the danger signals . These take two forms . When an official is confronted with a problem he feels he can do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the nearest top-secret file and forget all about it . Or worse still , he will blame upon the whole society his own failure to act . Ask any high official nowadays about the air-defense problem , for example . He will either deny that it exists or , more probably , he will argue that we can not attempt an adequate air-defense program because " the country wo n't stand for it. - Then ask the obvious next question : " How can you say the country wo n't stand for the effort and expense of defending itself against Soviet A-bomb and H-bomb attack , until you tell the country all about the danger and what can be done to avert it ' ? " And to this there is no answer . In such exchanges , in truth , there is the hint , of a greater peril to the free societies than any H-bomb . For the people of a free nation must know and understand their national situation in order to respond to it wisely and courageously . And this is a time when the need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past . Just those points were recognized by President Dwight D. Eisenhower , a little over a year ago , when the Soviet H-bomb test led him to give the orders for Operation Candor . For two months , in the autumn of 1953 , the White House staff labored to prepare a care . ful , detailed and comprehensive presentation to our people of all those facts which the classification curtain std.l largely hides . For two months there was the hope that the people would get the whole truth at last , and from the President himself . But then , unhappily , the President 's first judgment was overcome by the pleas of the secrecy addicts , the **26;292;TOOLONG , and the type of politician who ' never wants to rock the boat . Operation Candor was abandoned . Yet the impulse that produced the order for Candor was far more characteristic of Eisenhower than is the I still-continuing governmental effort to stop the flow of information to our people . Soon or late , we are convinced , the whole truth will have to be told @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And although these reporters have the name of pessimists , we have no real fear for the future , no irremediable alarhl about the problems and challenger ' of our time , if the American People are only told the truth . That is ' t he quickest way to real national security , instead of the false " security " We have today which only breeds insecurity .                     