@@488232

Mr. Meany 's Ox Inept , shortsighted leadership has placed American labor in a highly unfavorable position to defend against the spate Of anti-labor measures that will certainly be introduced once Congress is back in session . For some reason  --  abhorrence of corruption , a blind passion for social respectability , an itch for offiCial approval  --  the general staff of the AFL-CIO has permitted itself to be booby-trapped by the Senate Select Committee on Improper Activities in the Labor or Management Field . First of all , as we have pointed out before , the federation agreed to impose penalties on union officials who invoked the protection of the Fifth Amendment= -- a betrayal of principle as well as a needless surrender of hostages . MOre recently , the federation failed to challenge the propriety of the committee 's frenzied efforts to prevent the election of Jimmy Hoff a as president of the Teamsters Union . That the intervention was aimed at Hoffa does not minimize the danger of the precedent ; tomorrow the intervention might be for an entirely different purpose or aimed at another kind of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protest , when the committee subpoenaed delegates ' credentials and other documents relating to the convention which elected Hoffa , although even ' the New York Mirror , not krioWn for its friendliness to labor , found the action a bit high-handed . Nor has the federation objected to a dangerous enlargement of the scope of the committee 's inquiry . In opening the investigation in February , Senator McClellan listed seven subjects for study , all related to internal union problems . Mr. Meany promptly pledged ? full cooperation . But in July the committee listed three new areas of study  --  second-ary boycotts , organizational picketing and union political action  --  without draWing from Mr. Meany any qualification of his earlier pledge of full cooperation . It is important that the original and the new groups of subjects be kept separate . Internal union Problems relate to the rights of members in unions ; the new subjects relate to management 's desire to be free from labor 's economic pressure . But even before the scope of the inquiry was enlarged , the committee 's singular neglect of management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be on guard . Whether Mr. Meany is still unaware of the fact or not , it is ' his ox that is being gored . Behind the Headlines John O'Kearney 's report on Turkey ( p. 282 ) throws a , revealing light on the latest flarre-up in the Middle East . With rare exceptions , the American press has failed to note the relevance of the election scheduled to take place in Turkey on October 27 to the headlined statements issuing from Ankara and Damascus , Washington and Mokow . Nor have the press and wire services pointed up the televance of the pipeline dispute , which has only come into full view since Mr. O'Kearney 's report was written . During the Suez crisis , the Syrian Army blew up three pumping stations on the Iraq Petrolum Company 's pipeline . Repairs were begun in March and the flow of oil has since been restored to abotit three-fifths the former rate . In the meantime , efforts were made to execute a treaty which would make possible the construction of a new pipeline bypassing Syria and terminating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ felt that they could not safely undertake a venture , estimated to cost $800 millions , without formal ' , treaty guarantees against nationalization . The concurrence of Syria was particularly important , since the Bay of Iskenderun is in short range of the Syrian port of Latakia . As might be expected , Syria has not looked with favor on the proposal and has been exerting strong diplomatic pressure to upset it . Military activity near the Turkish border is Syria 's , way of suggesting to the oil companies that Turkey , although a full-fledged member of the Western Alliance , might not be able to back up guarantees of an uninterrupted flow of oil . Faced with economic difficulties , the Turks were not enchanted with these efforts to block a profitable deal . Apparently the Syrian efforts have succeeded , fOr the oil companies announced ( October 16 ) that negotiations for the new pipeline have been indefinitely postponed , and the word is out that super-tankers , rather than a new pipeline , will be their main hedge against further interruptions of the pipeline across Syi-ia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " or " election " in most of the stories about the Turkish-Syrian dispute emphasizes once again the importance of interpretative analysis of the type ' which goes behind the charges and counter-charges of parties in interest in an effort to probe the sources of tension . The Belligerent Red Cross The chief business before the quadrennial International Red Cross Confetence , currently in session in New Delhi , is the threat to civilians implicit in the rapid build-up of nuclear weapons . A non-political body , the conference can not act ? directly to prevent war , but it can register , its opposition to war in principle and it can tfy to mitigate the effects if it occurs . Certain draft proposals now before the conference seek to do both . They are the work of the twenty-five-man International Committee of the Red Cross , composed entirely of citizens of neutral Switzerland . If the document thus produced must of necessity be neutral in the cold war , it is not neutral on the subject of mass murder : Everyone knows that the extensive use of certain weapons would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . . Many existing rules of wail are too often forgotten , their validity questioned , on the grounds that one can not stand in the way of scientific progress . . . . But reason must be the master of scientific inventions and although the law can not disregard them , it must not merely recognize the effects they produce ; it must control them . The draft document thereupon lays down a series of rules governing war aimed at protecting non-combatants , and then comes to the heart of the matter : The use is prohibited of weapons whose harmful effects  --  resulting in particular from the dissemination of incendiary , chemical , bacteriological or other agents  --  could spread to an unforeseen degree . . . . The non-political International Committee of the Red Cross has thus come up with the most explosive political issue of our time . The conference itself , of course , can make recommendations only ; governments must ratify to make the recommendations legally effective . But if the Red Cross can not itself create law , it can help to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ run , authors all law . A Bully of a Word . " Sputnik . . . . Overnight a fearful new word has bullied its way into our language . " Thus says Life magazine in an advertisement for its article on " a supreme challenge " to the United States . We recognize and sympathize with Life 's feeling of chagrin because the Russians have scored first in outer space , but that is no reason for kicking our own Ian-274 guage in the teeth . " Sputnik " means " earth satellite , " and there is nothing fearful about that  --  unless , of course , all Russian words rouse your fears , in which case you should also tremble at " borsch " and " troika . " And in what sense did the word " bully its way " into our language ? It got in because it is a shorter word than " satellite " and therefore better fits headlines ; also because it has an amusing , outboard motor sound to it . If anything , it ingratiated its way in by cuteness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we should hesitate to call it " supreme , " is to determine at what level of concentration the fallout from advertising will transmute the English language into Newspeak . The Hiss Case No issue of recent years has drawn more mail to this office than Fred J. Cook 's article on the Hiss case ( September 21 ) . The comment , we blush to acknowledge , is almost uniformly favorable ; only a few critical statements have been received . But there is , we have discovered , an odd aspect to the Hiss case . The public interest remains surprisingly high , but the case itself is still encased in layers of editorial reticence and caution . The lack of interest which the press has shown in Mr. Cook 's fresh assessment of the evidence is remarkable , perhaps , only in that it appears to be total ; fortunately , it is not shared by the public . Any number of readers have inquired what we intend " to do " about the case . A more relevant query would be : What does the public intend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the courts is most unlikely ; reconsideration could only come about through Congressional inquiry or by Executive action , as by an order opening the files of the Department of Justice to the inspection of an impartial committee of inquiry . But these possibilities depend on the intensity and volume of the public 's interest . A parade of governors in California refused to review Tom Mooney 's endless petitions ( although the governors would concede privately that there was merit in them ) . It was not until Culbert L. Olson was elected governor in a campaign in which he stressed the case as an issue that Mooney finally won his freedom . The Hiss case remains under submission to the court of public opinion . Mr. Faulkner Exhausts the Future William Faulkner , in a letter to The New York Times ( October 13 ) , has summarized the lesson of Little Rock . It is that " white people and Negroes do not like and trust each other , and perhaps never can . " But this , says the recluse of Oxford , Miss. , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important for us to like and trust each other " ? what is " important and necessary and urgent is that we federate together , show The NATION a common unified front not for dull peace and amity , but for survival as a people and a nation . " ' The United States , this country in which whites and Negroes can not learn to " rub along somehow in amity , " will have to stand firm " as the last people unified nationally for liberty in an inimical world which already outnumbers us . " The Negro , whom we of the white majority can not like or trust , will be expected to do his part . Mr. Faulkner acknowledges that the hour is late ; that indeed it may already be too late . But he will not despair . He thinks that , " because of the good luck of our still unspent and yet unexhausted past ; " we may become the rallying point for all men " no ' matter what color they are " Who wish to dedicate themselves " to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merely must endure , but can endure . " Mr. Faulkner 's letter is a melancholy ' spectacle- , anger would be an irrelevant reaction . For the point is not that the arguments he advances are poiSonous , but that they are irrational . It is mad to suppose that a free , society can be maintained in a country where men must dislike and distrust one another because of the color of their skin ; and it is mad to suggest that a nation can become the spearhead in a holy war because it enjoys the strength of an " unspent and unexhausted past . " In his novels , Mr. Faulkner has often provoked the charge of obscurity , but there is nothing obscure about that phrase . It is clearly and explicitly- meaningless , and persuasive evidence that its author more deserves our sympathy than our hostility . The Case for Bilateral Talks Washington , The United States has rejected direct Russo-American negotiations on disarmament : We hope this answer is not irrevocable . It 's about two months since the Soviets first hinted that the arms-limitation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time being and thrown into bilateral Washington-Moscow discuSsions . Among the Russian diplomats who have been suggesting this is the Soviet Ambassador in West Germany , Andrei Smirnov . He raised the point informally with a senior U.S. Government representative in Europe . He would scarcely have done so without the krenalin 's approval . b , n October 5 , Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gro-myko had a long talk with Secretary Dulles in WaAiington . Both sides kept silent about the content of their dialogue . However , competent Ainerican authorities report , that Gromyko referred obliquely to the subject , emphasizing what he considers the dreary prospect of continuing the dilatory debate in the five-nation U.N . disaimainent subcOmmittee , which is empowered only to make recominendations . , Octo'ber 26 , 19.57 , . The next Soviet overture came a couple of days later in the Moscow interview which Nikita Khrushchev gave to James Reston of The New York Times . The Soviet leader brought into the open the idea of bilateral Russo-American negotiations , although he phrased the proposal in generalities . " In the years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the . Soviet , Union and the United States fought together against the aggressors . One can ask why it is that we can not prevent war ? Now , we can and must do this . . . . We think that if , the'United States displays a readiness , there are no questions upon which agreement could not be reached . " Furthermore , the Russians subtly showed ; their hand in New York . When India presdnted a resolution to the U.N . Assembly a month ago , urging enlargement of the , disarmament subcommittee , the Soviets withheld their support . Theretofore , India and the U.S.S.R. had acted in close harmony in the disarmament field . Now , however , Russia wants to narrow ' the discussions to a bilateral basis , while India prefers to widen them ? clearly to gain admittance to the subcommittee . President Eisenhower and the State Department have squelched the suggestion of exclusive American-Russian negotiations on control of " objects entering outer space " ? that is , earth satellites . The official statement was so worded , bowever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negotiations on disarmament generally . The State Department announced that the London negotiations " called for a multilateral international study , and not a bilateral study between the United States and Soviet Union , and that the United States would not be disposed to consider any alteration of this aspect of the proposals . " President Eisenhower gave maximum authority to this statement by reading it aloud at his October 9 news conference . What 's behind all this ? On the one hand , there are those in Washington who sense only sinister motives in the Soviet desire for bilateral talks . They dismiss the idea as just another Russian maneuver to drive a wedge between America and its allies ( indeed , the Eisenhower Administration 's " No " to Russia is prompted mainly by deference to the fear of certain allies that the United States might make a deal with the Kremlin behind their backs ) . Another motive ascribed to Moscow is the desire to enhance Soviet prestige by the establishment of a Big Two Club . Many who hold these views are convinced that the Russians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an opinion which the State Departthent does not share . On the other hand , there are some American senior diplomats who are sympathetic to the Soviet suggestion . But they attach an important proviso : they insist ' that the Americans must ? keep their NATO allies abreast of the proposed bilateial discussions . This 275 ' is the procedure which Harold Stassen , the American representative , used during the last three months of this year 's London disarmament subcommittee talks . Stassen consulted the other NATO powers at every step . Thus the U. **26;1633;TOOLONG package offer made to Russia in August had been approved in advance by NATO . , The Russians acquiesced in this practice . They would presumably do so again in the altered circumstances of Washington-Moscow conversations . The United States could give its allies a promise that it would sign no disarmament accord with Russia without NATO 's prior knowledge and consent . Those Americans who favor direct talks with Moscow on this greatest of all issues have anticipated ' another objection , namely , that removal of the discussions from the U.N @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would dispel such uneasiness- by a clear understanding that at a given stage the Americans and Russians shall render to the U.N . an account of their conversations . We believe the Eisenhower Administration is assuming a grave responsibility in refusing to give bilateral talks with Moscow a try . On at least three occasions in recent history , momentous gains were scored precisely by this approach : I. The end of Russia 's menacing blockade of Berlin in 1948-9 was initiated on February 15 , 1949 , in a chat in the lounge at Lake Success between U.S.delegate Philip Jessup and Soviet delegate Jacob Malik . 2 . On June 23 , 1951 , a radio speech by Malik in New York conveyed the suggestion that the war in Korea might be settled . This led to informal U.S.-Soviet talks which were followed by the opening of truce discussions on July 10 , 1951 , and the ultimate signing of the armistice on July 27 , 1953. 3 . When , on December 8 , 1953 , President Eisenhower first proposed the establishment of an International Atomic Energy - Agency , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idea . There followed talks a deux between Dulles and the then Soviet Foreign Minister , Vyacheslav Molotov , on the sidelines of the Big Four conference in Berlin in January-February , 1954 . In July , 1955 , the American and Soviet leaders privately reviewed the plan  --  again in a twosome  --  during the Summit Conference iri , Geneva . Meanwhile , the Soviet Ambassador in Washington and the American Ambassador in Moscow pursued the subject ' with the opposite foreign ministries . As a result , the Russians dropped their objections . The agency was founded and held its first meeting this month in Vienna . On each of these three occasions , it was direct U.S.-Soviet talks which led to highly important agreements . It seems to us that the United States , which ardently wants peace and arms limitations , can lose nothing , and can perhaps thaw the frozen disarmament negotiations by putting to the test the Russian desire for bilateral talks .                     