@@487615

NOT long ago Wall Street was happily anticipating the biggest business wedding in years , with the Bethlehem Steel Corporation , number two in the industry , leading to the altar Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company , number six . Then , on September 30 , Attorney General Brownell forbade the banns , declar-ing that in the opinion of the anti-trust division of the Department Of Justice the union would violate the 1950 amendment . to the Clayton Act by effecting " a significant reduction in the vigor of competition . " This pronouncement put a slight crimp in the corporation marriage market , which , active ever since the end of the war , has been really booming for the past twelvemonth . Temporarily at least , the matrimonial schemes of the larger corporations have been discouraged . Smaller concerns , however , continue merging merrily : hardly a day passes without the financial society columns announcing one or more betrothals . Since it is common practice for corporations contemplating matrimony to seek an advisory opinion from the Anti-Trust Division , we must assume that most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some of these marriages have been between aristocrats of the business world : such were the Burlington Mills ? Pacific Mills and , the Chemical Bank and Trust ? Corn Exchange Bank mergers . In the same class , although the parties concerned had in , these cases encountered hard times and fallen somewhat in the social scale , were the two big automobile weddingsStudebaker ? Packard and Nash ? Hudson . But more frequently we find- an aristocrat stooping to marry a middle-class concern with a handsome dowry , as was the case when the Sponge Rubber Company was successfully wooed by B. F. Goodrich , one of the Big Four of the tire world . Still more common , of course , are the petit-bourgeois matches between modest enterprises that seek to advance their fortunes by combination . ? Corporate morals do not exclude polygamy ; indeed , harems are very fashionThe NATION able . Thus the MathieSon Chemical Company , which married Squibb last year , accepted this summer a proposal from Olin Industries , already a veritable Bluebeard among corporations . And Burlington Mills had not consummated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Goodall-Sanford Of course , some discretion has to be observed . A multiple wedding of the kind that launched the United States Steel Corporation would nowadays cer-tamly invite an anti-trust suit . Nevertheless , many if not most of our corporate giants owe much of their growth to a succession of carefully spaced matrimonial alliances . electronics , and they hope . also to get their share of defense contracts . In short , their objective , to quote Business Week of August 21 , , is " something like a lower-case G. M. " The desire for diversification is , in fact , one of the principal motives inspiring mergers . In particular , producers of specialized capital goods who in the past have alternated between feast and famine seek to stabilize their businesses by acquiring concerns with a different demand cycle . A notable example of this trend is to be found in the railroad-equipment industry , leading members of which now turn out a wide variety of goods , including truck trailers , pumps , and valves for the oil industry , machine tools , storage tanks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have spread into the field of earth-moving and road-building equipment on the intelligible theory that public works are likely to come to the fore when general business is depressed and the demand for railroad goods especially slack . ON August 29 Stanley N. Barnes , sistant attorney general in charge the Anti-Trust Division , said he was seriously concerned about the recent wave of mergers . He added , however : " There is nothing wrong with bigness as long as the bigness does not affect competition . The effect on competition is the criterion , not the size of the firm resulting fr'om the merger . " It was on these grounds that the division turned thumbs down on the proposed Bethlehem Steel ? Youngstown , merger , which would have formed a very large enterprise but still one significantly smaller than the gigantic United States Steel Corporation . Bethlehem and Youngstown executives , who have not abandoned their plans and may before long seek to test the ukase of the Department of Justice in the courts , claim that actually their union would not affect competition , since they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Bethlehem 's operations are very largely confined to the East and West Coast areas , while Youngstown 's territory is the Central States . The main objective of the merger , in fact , was to secure for Bethlehem a share of the rich and expanding Middle Western market , and its consummation might well increase competition in that area . But this would not mean the permanent strengthening of competition . As the automobile industry shows , the result of a fierce struggle between major car , potations may be the squeezing to death of their minor competitors and the final concentration of production in the hands of two or three concerns . Then competition , if not entirely suppressed , is apt to take a very attenuated form . Formal agreements of the kind that the Anti-Trust Division would pounce upon become unnecessary : all that is needed is an occasional friendly luncheon or golf game . Thus the Department of Justice , which by law is bound to prosecute mergers that result in a " substantial lessening " of competition or have " a tendency to create @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the immediate but the ultimate effects . In the case of the Bethlehem ? Youngstown plan it had to take note of the opposition of the smaller steel operators , who according to Business Week of July 31 , feared it " would tighten still further the price , labor , and marketing leadership of the two giants . " If it became effective , there can be little doubt that it would promote a further series of mergers in the industry which the Anti-Trust Division could then neither logically no in equity oppose . IT IS true , as the New York Times pointed out recently , that the wording of the 1950 Amendment Act lends itself to differences of interpretation and that SO far therehas been no judicial determination of the - meaning " substantial lessening " of competition . The Joint/al of tommetce , which holds that the Department of Justice is applying the act too strictly , admitted frankly in an editorial on October 27 that " because con. cerns that enter into mergers generally compete in one way or another an incidental consequence is some curtailment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represents a natural response to current technological and economic challenges , this paper argues that a " rule of reason " should be followed and that " so long as substantial competition is maintained no obstacle should be placed in the way of mergers . " But this contention leaves the problem of definition unsolved : it is no easier to measure " substantial competition " than 479 ? ? substantial lessening " of competition . In any case , some economic arguments for dikouraging the present plethora of mergers have been slighted and deserve a brief mention . If we are to keep our economy growing , if we are to attain the goal of a **27;1363;TOOLONG gross national income that the President recently adumbrated , a steady expansion of real investment is essential . Mergers may sometimes facilitate such an expansion , but in many cases they tend to act as a substitute for investment rather than a stimulus As the October issue of the Monthly Stock Digest remarked , in calling attention to the stocks of some marriageable corporations , " If a corporation is interested in expanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in many cases it is currently much cheaper to buy existing facilities  --  through purchase of control or full ownership of existing corporations  --  than to construct new plant and equipment . " In other words , when United Gadgets marries Ameriyn Gadgets we not only have a reduction of competition in the gadget industry but the probability of reduced investment in gadget-making machinery . Such a union from the point of view of national economic welfare is apt to prove sterile . That does not mean stockholders will not profit : more likely than not the merger will boost the prices of their stocks . As in the late twenties , mergers and rumors of mergers have been a prime ingredient in a Stock Exchange boom that is tending toward the dissipation of savings in the purchase of securities at inflated prices . And that again could prove a threat to a healthy economy .                     