@@494659

Alabama THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT of 1957 embodies a number of Northern concessions . These were justified on the ground that a small but sure step forward was better than a larger one of dubious effectiveness . Results were confidently expected from this Act because it achieved in the Senate a considerable measure of Southern acquiescence . The South , it was widely thought , could and would live with it , decently and peacefully . But that was more than a year ago , before Second Little Rock . Last year 's assumptions are not valid in today 's worsening situation . When the Civil Rights Commission , taking up its duties under the Act , mildly and civilly undertook to investigate registration of Negro voters in Alabama , it was faced with an almost total refusal on the part of the Alabama officials concerned to produce records or give relevant testimony . One of the Southern members of the Commission , former Governor John S. Battle of Virginia , reacting infinitely more in sorrow than in anger , remarked that Southern obstinacy of this sort will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He was not referring to the Soviets nor to the Communist Chinese nor to others in this small world who are instantly informed of such incidents and only too pleased to sneer . He had in mind the 86th CongresS of the United States . Mr. Battle , to be sure , is a moderate , a man of relative good will , and not to be lumped together with the officials he was addressing . It is all the more shocking that the phrase " our enemies " should come to his lips in reference to the federal government ; all the more symptomatic of the danger against which he should have warned , the danger that repeated official defiance of lawful federal process will turn into a pestilence of general lawlessness , which may in the end engulf us all but which is bound to ravage the South first . The Department of Justice , acting with commendable promptness , has obtained court orders to back up the Commission 's subpoenas . The penalty for continued failure to comply is now contempt of court ; and the consequence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be . Mr. Patterson , the Governor-elect of Alabama who is advising the defiers , doubtless knows that his clients have n't a leg to stand on . There is not even a colorable legal issue involved here . It is about 100 years too late to argue that the quasi-judicial status conferred by local law on election commissioners , jury commissioners and the like can stand in the way of enforcement against them of the 15th Amendment 's guarantee of the right to vote or the 14th 's assurance of the equal protection of the laws . So utterly clear and constitutionally well-grounded is the authority conferred by Congress on the Civil Rights Commission that we can only wonder what other lawful , long-established function of the federal government will meet with defiance in the South next . The plague of Little Rock spreads . It is a harsh and unpleasant thing to say , but it is about time someone went to jail . Spilled Milk IN THE EARLY 1930 's , Alexander Sachs remarked that the New Deal reminded him of one of those many-armed Indian Goddesses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lefts are doing , but there is confusion on each side . Comparable confusion surrounds the recent decision of the Federal District Court of the District of Columbia in the case of US v. the Maryland and Virginia Milk Producers Association , Inc . The decision may initiate new interpretations of the antitrust acts and is given added interest by the fact that it comes at a time when legislators are seriously asking how much immunity from antitrust laws should be afforded another group of organizations which have privileged status under the law ? the labor unions . In 1914 , Congress clearly intended that there should be a sheltered position for farmers ' cooperatives . Section 6 of the Clayton Act reads : Nothing contained in the Antitrust Laws shall be construed to forbid the existence and operation of labol : , agricultural or horticultural organizations instituted for the purpose of mutual help and not having capital stock or conducted for profit , nor shall such organizations be held or construed to be illegal combinations or conspiracies in restraint of trade under the Antitrust Laws . But in 1914 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the distinction between economic upper- and under-dogs . Today vertical and horizontal integration have gone much further in all kinds of business , and particularly in agriculture . Administered prices and monopolistic competition have become familiar ; and the strength of groups sheltered by the Clayton Act has been greatly increased . Whether old antitrust bottles can hold the new wine ( or milk ) remains to be tested . The Maryland and Virginia Milk Producers case began when the Department of Justice hailed into Court , under a civil action for attempted monopoly , a milk producers ' marketing association . The association , in turn , contended that it was entitled to operate as it did under the general provisions of the Clayton Act and the special provisions of the Capper-Volstead Act . Furthermore , the milk producers could point out that their association had not been prosecuted by the Secretary of Agriculture ( and he had the legal power to do so ) ; it had been financed by the Federal Bank for Cooperatives and was supplying milk to an area where Congress had set standards materially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government 's case rested on two central charges . First , it said that the Association 's monopoly of the milk supply in the District of Columbia and environs was the outcome of activities that went back many years : there had been , the government charged , a studied attempt by the Association to keep all non-member milk producers out of the Washington market . Here , Judge Alexander Holtzoff ruled for the defendants ? declaring that the Clayton Act and the Special Provisions of the Capper-Volstead Act do indeed give special immunity to agricultural cooperatives . But on this point , District Judge Aldrich of Boston , deciding a similar case on November 20 , specifically disagreed with Judge Holtzoff as to the scope of the exemptions allowed under these Acts ( April v. National Cranberry Association ) . " With all respect , " Aldrich said , " I believe the learned Judge reached this conclusion far too readily . " The other part of the government 's case against the Maryland and Virginia Milk Producers Association turned on the Association 's acquisition of a large Washington dairy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from non-members of the cooperative . Here , Judge Holtzoff said that the Milk Producers Association by its acquisition of Embassy did violate the Antitrust Act . But Holtzoff stressed that the extent of exemptions and immunities under existing statutes does constitute a question of " novel impression . " And so , over the next months ( the decision is being appealed ) , doctrine is likely to be developed by the courts on whether such bodies as agricultural co-ops are entirely exempt from provisions of antitrust laws ; whether acquisition by a producer of a distributive outlet which tends to lessen competition is forbidden under these acts ; and whether , if a producers association should be requested to divest itself of a recently acquired outlet , a purchaser exists other than an organization whose membership would likewise contribute to a monopolistic situation . China 's Elder Brother T HE SOCIAL REVOLUTION initiated in the Chinese countryside has been treated with eloquent reserve by Moscow and its European satellites . Only sparse factual reports followed the publication in Pravda , September 11 , 1958 , of the text- of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Party to create " People 's Communes in the countryside . " There are several reasons why the commune development is viewed with misgivings , some of which are noted by George Sherman in his dispatch from Poland in this issue . Mao 's " Great Leap " could be interpreted as an implied criticism of Khrushchev 's recent agricultural reforms ? notably his transfer of machine tractor stations to the collective farms , which seems to be a step back from the professed Communist goal of nationalizing the countryside and converting the peasantry into wage earners . While the Chinese leap forward , Khrushchev 's critics could argue , the Soviet Union creeps backward . But even more upsetting to the Soviet elder brothers must be the Chinese claim that their communes herald the imminent advent of Communism , that is , the final coming of that historical development in which the principle of " to each according to his needs " will prevail . In words almost identical with the thesis published in Russia on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of the Bolshevik revolution , the Chinese Party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no longer something remote . " This must surely seem a travesty of Marxism to the Kremlin . For how can an economically and culturally backward country like China , lacking the material abundance and level of literacy necessary to sustain a mature Communist society , claim it has reached or is about to reach the " highest stage of history . " More than ideological deviation is involved here . Implicitly the Chinese challenge the Soviet role as pioneer and leader of the Communist world . A distortion in lzvestia is significant in this connection . In an article by Bo-I-Bo , a candidate member of the Chinese Politburo ( October 1 , 1958 ) , the above phrase is directly quoted , but in an altered form : " The realization of the communes in our country is no longer something remote . " The word communes has been substituted for Communism . Other passages are also paraphrased , though not directly quoted , in a sense reducing the role ascribed by the Chinese to the communes . Thus the phrase " the Commune will be the lower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Izvestia to read " the commune will in fact become the basic unit of Socialist society . " In Communist discourse such minor verbal divergencies are not fortuitous ; they often reflect profound dissensions . Raising the Minimum THERE Is a good chance that within the next two years additional groups of employees will come under the protection of the minimum wage law . And there is at least a fair chance that the hourly minimum wage will be raised to $1.25 . By so doing , the Congress will substantially assist the one-fifth of the nation that , despite our " affluent society , " remains ill-clad , ill-housed , and ill-fed . Passed 20 years ago , the Fair Labor Standards Act stated that : labor conditions detrimental to the maintenance of the minimum standard of living necessary for the health , efficiency , and general well-being of workers . . should be eliminated as rapidly as practicable . The Act itself , which established a 25-cent hourly minimum and a 44-hour week , was viewed as a first step . But although by 1941 , a 40-cent minimum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not until 1950 that the floor was raised to 75 cents an hour , and then at the price of narrowing coverage by a redefinition of " interstate commerce " and by specific exemptions for a variety of businesses ? retail and service , laundry and dry cleaning , irrigation , newspapers , telephone , taxicab , telegraph and logging . Another six years went by before the minimum was lifted to $1 an hour . About 20 million workers are not yet covered by the law , and these are in trades where union organization is weakest . The single largest group is the 9 million employed in retailing , hotels , dry cleaning and laundries ? 4 million of whom now earn less than $1 an hour . Another 3 million ? the most hard-pressed ? are in agriculture . where 1.5 million also earn less than the $1 minimum . What Difference ? T T WOULD BE interesting to have at this time a short , but trenchant and authoritative statement from the Newspaper Publishers Association of New York City defining exactly the responsibility to the public that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the city 's newspapers acknowledge to each other . If one is struck , the others suspend publication . This would seem to leave little room for any responsibility to do everything humanly possible to give the public a true account of current events . Yet some shrewd observers have accounted that a heavy responsibility . Thomas Jefferson , for instance , said that " if a nation expects to be ignorant and free it expects what never was and never will be , " which would raise the purveying of information to an importance not surpassed by any other function of public life . But when a newspaper feels absolved of that responsibility because another newspaper is hampered by a strike , it is evident that it takes the responsibility very lightly , about as lightly , indeed , as William H. Vanderbilt took his responsibility to provide public transportation . It is difficult to see much difference between the present attitude of the New York publishers and that expressed in Mr. Vanderbilt 's well-remembered apothegm , " The public be damned ! " Object : Economic Growth A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to special pleaders for various foreign investment interests , testified last week before Rep. Hale Boggs ' special Congressional subcommittee on overseas trade and investment policy . Much has been said about the feud aired in the hearings between the Treasury Department and the Commerce Department ( Treasury opposes tax-concession proposals for attracting private capital to the underdeveloped areas ) . Little or nothing has been said , however , about what could and should be done ; about the extent to which it is desirable for our government to underwrite tax windfalls for overseas investors . In our view Republican Sen. Jacob K. Javits made one of the few pertinent contributions at the hearings when he emphasized the need for selective tax concessions . The Senator seemed to be warning against turning our foreign economic policy into one big bonanza for private interests in the name of combatting Soviet economic penetration in the underdeveloped countries . " More favorable tax treatment , " said Senator Javits , " must be justified by its contribution to the foreign policy of the United States . This I do not think can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasize that " virtually none " of our foreign investment now goes to " Asia and the Middle East . . . the less-developed areas . We should try by selectivity to stimulate investment in areas where it will do the foreign policy of the United States the most good . " There are undoubtedly certain countries where more US private investment in industrial growth would do US foreign policy a great deal of good . The Javits principle of selectivity implies that such countries ( India , Indonesia and Ghana are good current examples ) must be the focus of any tax concessions ; that concessions should be granted solely to induce new investment , not to fatten profits on existing holdings ; that such investment should conform to industrialization objectives in the countries concerned and not be employed for purposes of political leverage . Those officials in the State Department and International Cooperation Administration who would have to take the responsibility for the kind of screening process implicit in any selective program of tax concessions might well throw up their hands in bureaucratic despair at the prospect . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax concessions ( and the opposition of the Treasury makes this questionable ) , then some form of political control should be imposed or more harm than good may follow . NATO Meets T HE NATO Council is holding its December meeting this week , again in an atmosphere of crisis . This is becoming an annual affair : in 1956 the December meeting had to deal with the Suez imbroglio ; last year the Council assembled at this time in the shadow of the Sputnik ; now the primary concern is the Russian threat to Berlin . If this were all , NATO as an organization would be fortunate , because any overt threat to Western Europe closes the NATO ranks , even though it also stirs fears of nuclear war . But NATO has other problems that it must either solve or somehow manage to bypass if it is to continue a going concern . The most immediate is the vexed question of the European trade area , which Britain seems determined to put on the agenda . This is , of course , not really within NATO 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be achieved between the six members of the European Common Market , led by France on the one hand and Britain on the other , the consequences for NATO 's unity could be grave indeed . There is also the obscure issue of what de Gaulle has in mind concerning the overhaul of NATO 's leadership . Some time ago it was reported that France was going to demand a position alongside Britain and the US in a NATO directorate ? an organ that does not exist on paper , though it certainly has some substance in fact . Not so publicly on the agenda is the question of NATO 's military posture , which can hardly be regarded as satisfactory to anyone . NATO 's military problem presents a tragic dilemma . There seems little doubt the Council will decide to stand fast on Berlin , and this raises distinctly the possibility of armed conflict with the Warsaw Pact countries if the West uses force to keep the way to Berlin open . The Russians have said that the Warsaw countries would respond to this " aggression " with all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , that their counterattack would be made with nuclear weapons , since in present circumstances this would be unnecessary . The West would then face the alternative of either backing down , or initiating a nuclear war . In view of the strategic stalemate , it is as unlikely as it is unthinkable that the latter would include a US strategic nuclear attack upon the USSR . Moreover , in view of the imbalance in Russia 's favor in long-range missiles , it seems equally unlikely that the Russians will be deterred by the expectation an attack on the USSR would be the US response . Finally , it seems almost as unlikely that the West would risk a so-called limited nuclear war in Western Europe as that the US would initiate a total nuclear war . The question , then , is whether the Russians would be deterred from pressing a decisive conventional attack , in retaliation for the West 's use of force to keep the way to Berlin open , by anticipation of this unlikely Western reply . If there is a solution to this dilemma that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision to increase greatly NATO 's capacity for non-nuclear military action . Despite the lateness of the hour , it is possible that this might suggest to the Russians that unless they back down on Berlin they are risking a stalemate in a protracted non-nuclear conflict which they could win only by resorting to nuclear weapons ? and assuming thereby responsibility for the destruction of Europe .                     