@@309419

Space pioneer of the week : a male Latin American squirrel monkey . Strapped into a rubber-padded chamber in the nose cone of a Jupiter intermediate-range ballistic missile , the bright-eyed , bushy-tailed beast , Little Old Reliable by name , made space-research history as the first higher mammal to travel hundreds of miles into space , where only a Russian dog and U.S. mice had gone before . Purpose of the test : to gather data on how a human might fare in space flight . Reasons for picking a squirrel monkey : small size-Little Old Reliable weighed less than 1 lb. - and close anatomical similarity to humans . <P> The Army Jupiter with Little Old Reliable aboard got off its Cape Canaveral launching pad in a perfect takeoff . Atop the passenger 's head was a tiny helmet with a microphone attached to record vocal sounds , and fitted into the little compartment were assorted instruments to measure heartbeat rate , blood pressure , body temperature , breathing rate . During the first few minutes of flight , while the missile was accelerating under the thrust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breathing , slightly speeded-up heartbeat . Then , during about eight minutes of weightlessness while the missile was in ballistic flight , breathing and heartbeat went back to normal , indicating that , for eight minutes at least , weightlessness causes no severe immediate physiological changes . <P> Some 15 minutes and 1.500 miles after the Jupiter soared into the sky , its nose cone plunged into the Atlantic off the West Indian island of Martinique . The cone had been fitted up with devices-automatically inflated float , flashing light , beeping radio transmitter , etc. - that had enabled Navy-Army task forces to find and recover three earlier Jupiter nose cones . But this time , somehow , the apparatus failed to work . After searching for six hours , the task force gave up , and the Army announced that Little Old Reliable was missing in action and presumed dead . But after his electronic fashion , he had made his contribution to the physiological space chart .                     