@@487570

THE dismissal of a score of teachers suspected of Communist connections from the New York City schools and municipal colleges has conspicuous features of cruelty and stupidity . Those turned out lose both purse and good name . Those who eject them enjoy nods of ap- , proval now , to suffer in reputation some years hence . The more widespread effect of this seizure of intolerance is less evident to the public gaze but is more serious . The process of persecution ' has gone on long enough to cause the substitution of caution for candor in the classroom . This is the testimony of informed observers ; it appears in the silencing of leaders and groups that could be expected to proteft ; and it is illustrated in minor meaningful episodes . Many who see the vat machine of New York public education functioning seemingly as usual will scout this report as imaginary . But one who works at the trade can recognize the signs of palsy . The people Who are footing the bill are cheated when forthright teachers become furtive . All over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be subversive . When they are outsiders- and volunteers their character is plain , and they have been discredited in responsible quarters . They pervert Pasadena and are condemned . New York , by contrast , has an inside job . Here it is official , seeks to appear even routine . Prime movers are in the Board of Education , the Board of Higher Education , and the Regents at Albany . Their allies are the usual ones , religious , reactionary , and patriotic , but screened this time by governmental sanction . What is happening to accused teachers in New York City schools and colleges would be less depressing if it provoked more open controversy . As distinguished from a few years ago , when leading educational spokesmen and organized bodies remonstrated , now the woeful spectacle of sudden arraignment followed often by summary trial and swift dismissal proceeds with little remark . The Board of Education barber calls , " Next ! " A new customer takes the chair and is promptly clipped . BROADUS MITCHELL is professor of economics at Rutgers University . BY BROADUS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , policy statements , rulings , and decisions to be able to set down precisely the methods used to oust New York City teachers suspected of subversive beliefs or connections . The instruments are-three : 1 . A regulation of the Board of Education . This is the oldest device . In a policy declaration of a year ago a bylaw is so construed as to subject the accused to new perils . The interpretation says that " where substantial reason exists to believe that a teacher is or has engaged " in an illegal act or conspiracy , " it is the duty of the Superintendent . . . to inquire as to such participation and the extent thereof . . . . Any failure or refusal on the part of the teacher to reveal the facts must be regarded as an act of insubordination and conduct unbecoming a teacher , subjecting such teacher to disciplinary proceedings provided by law . " The policy declaration and the practice show that the stigmatized conduct is chiefly membership ? certainly present and possibly past  --  in the Communist Party . Refusal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and reference to the board for final action . What happens is that the superintendent , on information which he thinks sufficient , directs a teacher to appear before a person on the staff of the corporation counsel who has been assigned to work with the board . The teacher is asked whether he is or has ever been a member of the Communist Party , whether he has attended . certain meetings , known particular persons , and more to the same effect . If he refuses to answer , he is suspended by the superintendent , and a trial examiner is appointed by the Board of Education . In the " trial " that follows , the city 's case rests simply on proof that the accused refused to answer . The examiner - hears witnesses called by the teacher 's counsel  --  colleagues , supervisors , community leaders , students . Invariably the testimony has revealed an unblemished record , but this is declared , irrelevant , and the result is always conviction and dismissal . 2 . Section 903 of the city charter . This may be invoked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ section was inserted in the charter in the early thirties as a result of the Seabury investigation of corruption in the municipal government and was ' intended , historically and textually , to prevent officials and other employees of the city from escaping punishment by refusing to appear before a proper inquiring body or to reply to questions on the ground of self-incrimination . The questions must concern " the property , government , or affairs of the city . or ? official conduct of any officer or employee . . . . " If one refuses to respond , " his term or tenure of office . . shall terminate . . . " Under Section 903 the teacher who has refused to answer the McCarran subcommittee , citing , say , the Fifth Amendment , is summoned to identify the transcript of his hearing . A few days later he is informed that his post is vacated . Section 903 is held to be self-executing . It has been the contention of defendants that Section 903 does not apply . First , they are not officers or employees of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a creation of the state government . Second , questions about possible membership in the Communist Party are not concerned with " property , government , or affairs of the city . " However , Corporation Counsel Denis M. Hurley has ruled that- interrogation on membership in the Communist Party " constitutes an inquiry into the employee 's official conduct , within the purview of . . Section 903 . " This section has been used against all six teachers who have been dismissed from the municipal colleges by the Board of Higher Education , which is distinct from but in this particular observes the same procedure as the Board of Education that has jurisdiction over the elementary and high schools . These teachers invoked the Fifth Amendment , among other constitutional privileges , when questioned by the Senate subcommittee . 3 . The Feinberg law , This was enacted in 1949 by the New York legislature and directs the Board of Regents to institute certain procedures to enforce - two existing sections of the education law proscribing seditious utterances and connections . The Feinberg law was held unconstitutional by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States Supreme Court . The Regents must , after notice and hearing , promulgate a list of subversive organizations . Membership in any one of these will constitute prima facie evidence of disqualification for a position in the school system unless it has been canceled within a ten-day grace period . School authorities must report annually on " the extent to - which ... previsions of the law have been enforced . " This law was opposed by both the teachers ' unions because it sets up a spy system that will dissuade teachers from expressing themselves on controversial subjects and gives the Regents , other boards , and supervisory officers arbitrary power. , Further , it proclaims guilt by association , a thing unknown to the tenure law . For an extraordinary reason the Feinberg act , though framed as the chief means of eliminating supposed subversive teachers , at present is inoperative . The Board of Regents did not implement the statute during the pendency of the legal proceedings . It began hearings on December 4 to determine whether the Communist Party should be placed on its list of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ January 1 , 1953 . On September 26 , Lewis A. Wilson , state Commissioner of Education , had vacated a stay granted in March to a group of teachers who had been suspended or were being investigated . In lifting the stay the Commissioner said that the New York City Board of Education might make its own list of " organizations which advocate the overthrow of the government by force " and question " any teacher as to his or her membership in any organization which it suspects is in such category . " Charles A. Blind , Jr. , counsel to the state Education Department , in a speech to school superintendents on September 30 seemed to give this permission the widest application : any school board may promulgate its own subversive list , including merely suspicious organizations , and dismiss those who belong to them . He added , however , that the school board must prove the organization in question is subversive . The New York Times criticized Wilson 's September 26 ruling in an editorial printed on October 3 headed " Confusion Worse Confounded . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Board of Education has made no list and probably will make none . It will leave this ticklish task to tardy action by the Regents , since the board applying such a list must be prepared to prove in court that the included organizations are subversive . Further , the Feinberg law prescribes procedures which are likely to prove lengthy , expensive , and problematical in the outcome , whereas the dismissal of The NATION suspected teachers under the regulation of the board re7 garding " insubordination " is sure and under Section 903 of the charter is also swift . THUS far , in the current " drive " against supposed subversive teachers in the public schools , sixteen have been dismissed , twelve are under suspension . Ten resigned after being summoned for questioning ; seven retired , Half a dozen convinced their superiors that they had broken with the Communist Party , but others are under investigation . Six faculty members have been dis- missed by the Board of Higher Education from the a municipal colleges . The same issue is involved in the case of two members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unless they answer questions regarding alleged Communist affiliations put to them by the McCarran committee . One has been on the faculty for twenty-five years . All the teachers dismissed from the public schools on charges connected with suspected subversive beliefs and associations are members , most of them active members , or officers of the Teachers ' Union , Local 555 , U. P. W. The parent body of this local was expelled from the C. I. 0 . Almost all the work and expense of defending and supporting financially the suspended and dismissed teachers have been borne by the union . Although it has been officially discountenanced by the Board of Education and joining it or continuing in it has met strong official discouragement , few members have dropped out and it succeeds in collecting emergency funds . The zeal and resourcefulness of officers and members stand in contrast to the more passive position of the Teachers ' Guild ( A. F. of L. ) on the issue of freedom in the schools . The Guild has remonstrated against the Feinberg law and against refusal of the Board of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except for " suggesting " procedural protection it has left accused teachers to their fate . The decision has been made by small majorities in test votes in the delegate body ; a shift of perhaps 5 per cent would have yielded a different result . Recently an apposition slate wanted , among other reforms , more affirmative action on academic freedom , but it made a poor showing in the balloting . The Guild appears not to object to dismissal for what is taken to be proved membership in the Communist Party . So far as teachers dropped for supposed subversion are concerned , the Guild has passed by on the other side . The Academic Freedom Committee of the American Civil Liberties Union is preparing a public announcement of policy on pending dismissals . From past performance it may be expected to denounce attacks on teachers for mere membership , actual or alleged , in the Communist Party . Some doubt about the A. C. L. U. 's ultimate position has been aroused by a recent speech of Patrick Malin , December 27,11952 its director . Mr. Malin said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ starting-point " in a careful investigation of all factors relevant to judging a particular person 's capacity for honest performs ante of a particular teaching task " ( New York Times ? ; December 7 ) . The enemies of these school and college teachers are not easily embarrassed by lack of logic in their indictments . But they are hard put to devise arguments when they can not present any facts against the conduct of the accused as teachers and scholars during many years of service . Thus critics are driven to peripheral , hole-and corner alarms , conjectural , vague , and inconsistent : a. person who has joined the Communist Party has surrendered intellectual independence , has engaged to teach propaganda  --  though during his ten , twenty , thirty years in the classroom no such offense was detected in spite of an elaborate system of supervision . If you point this out , you are met with a smile . The insinuations of the captive mind are cunning , so infinitely patient and subtle that at no point may the abuse be determined . But this proves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be palpable indeed to be felt . Anyhow , if insidious " indoctrination " was known to be practiced , why has the small army of principals , ; assistant superintendents , associate superintendents , superintendents , deans , presidents , and board members not taken the field long since ? - The Communist Party , it is said , is not a political persuasion ; it is a spy ring . But , unhappily , it is legal . If a teacher , who should command respect for his integrity in all relations of life , declines to answer a question as to his beliefs and associations put by any public inquisitor , he is " irresponsible " and therefore unfit . No lack of professional responsibility has been shown ; the accused has not purloined school property or poisoned the minds of his pupils . The question " Are you now and have you ever been , etc. " may be improper , but all grounds of refusal to respond are equally fatal . If a committee of roving Senators does not crush the witness for contempt , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dismiss him for what is held to be confession of guilt . The fact is that the present frenzy is another chapter in the long history of intolerance . Defendants have varied in their attachment and teaching ? Quakers , Catholics , Protestants , Jews , Masons , Socialists , Abolitionists , pacifists , evolutionists , and many more . The air is charged with fear , the crime is dissent , and the real victim is public morals .                     