@@202458

Two Minnesota psychiatrists last week set forth a startling and controversial theory of sex deviations . Its net : many outwardly respectable American homes may , more or less inadvertently , " seduce " children into becoming sexual deviates . The two psychiatrists , who published their theory in the A.M.A. Journal : Dr. Adelaide M. Johnson , 52 , professor of psychiatry at the University of Minnesota , and Dr. David B. Robinson , 33 , of the Mayo Clinic . They put the blame for deviations squarely and almost exclusively on the parents-who in turn must have been warped by their own parents . <P> Under " sexual deviation " the authors include hostile , destructive sexual behavior toward others ( sadism ) or accepted from others ( masochism ) , of the same or opposite sex , and all socially unacceptable forms of overt behavior such as exhibitionism , voyeurism , fetishism , transvestism , homosexuality and bestiality . To understand the origin of these disorders , the two psychiatrists say , " the physician must face a disquieting but demonstrable fact : examples of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commonly than it is comfortable to contemplate . . . The seduction may be as subtle as a caress or as blatant as actual incest . " <P> Modern Frankness . Drs . Johnson and Robinson realize that most doctors , like laymen , react with anger and revulsion to accounts of seduction . But , they insist-and this is where they differ most markedly from many other psychiatrists-that sexual deviation is invariably the result of seduction as they broadly define it , ranging from lascivious permissiveness when a child engages in sexual stimulation to outright coercion . <P> Much of the behavior that they term seductive is not consciously so intended , conceded Psychiatrists Johnson and Robinson , and may actually seem remote from it . An outstanding example , as they interpret it , is the frankness of modern parents in discussing sex or appearing naked before their children . More obviously unhealthy is the continuance , far beyond infancy , of practices appropriate only for infants : " Under the guise of ' motherly ' or ' fatherly ' affection , boys and girls may be bathed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Children sense at bathing whether a mother 's close inspection of the genitals is an honest , brief , physical necessity or an anxious , seductive maneuver . . . Sleeping with children of the opposite sex is prolonged into the teen-age period . The mother may still continue to lie with the son , despite awareness that erections occur . " Beyond this is a wide range of openly seductive behavior , from varying degrees of physical intimacy to incest . <P> " Stimulated by this parental behavior , " the psychiatrists say , " the child finds no outlet for his aroused sensual impulses . Eventually , mounting frustration and anger force him to follow one of two courses . One is regression to the relative safety of more infantile attitudes and behavior patterns . . . The other is physical aggression toward women . Neither course resolves the rage nor dissipates the overstimulated unconscious sexual drives . "                     