@@491281

WHEN , John Davison Rockefeller , Jr. , went to work in his father 's private office just before the turn of the century , he learned his way around by doing all kinds of odd jobs , including filling the inkwells , as was expected of a young man in an era of top hats , frock coats and dignified financial giants . A great many changes had come about some three decades later when Mr. Rockefeller 's five sons ? John , Nelson , Laurance , Winthrop and David  --  were emerging from college and looking around for a way to make their own mark in the world . The vast personal empires of the nipeteenth century were being transformed by introduction of the managerial system and by the pressure of governmental regulation . The day of Wall Street baronswho pushed the railroads and factories westward beyond the horizon was coming to an end . Even the aura of great personal dignity and discretion so long associated with financial leadership seemed to be overshadowed by the hustling , bustling showmanship that had come to the front @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the times was not lost on the young Rockefellers , none of whom filled inkwells . Furthermore , there were five of them , and sometimes it may have seemed to their father that they quintupled the effect of change that had occurred since he was graduated from Brown University in 1897 . But if so , he was not one to object . Nor was he one  --  any more than his own father had been  --  to interfere or impose advice on his sons after they had started their own careers . Even though in the old days Mr. Rockefeller 's horse-drawn carriage had been one of the last to give way to the influx of automobiles in Wall Street , he could understand and approve the fact that Laurance preferred to race down the Hudson River to his office in a speedboat . He could appreciate the reasons behind Winthrop 's decision to gain experience by shoveling dirt as a common laborer in the Texas oil fields instead of immediately parking himself behind a desk . And he could understand David 's scholarly life at the London School @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idea  --  in which Nelson concurred ? that the time had come for him to abandon his lifelong advocacy of prohibition , Mr. Rockefeller felt that things were being carried too far . Liquor had never been and still is not served in the elder Rockefeller 's household , and he argued that opponents of the Volstead Act had been guilty of gross exaggeration when they claimed that the speak-easy situation had become a greater evil than saloons . This was a deep religious and moral conviction , backed up by a long family tradition . His mother and grandmother had been among the women who often prayed on their knees in the saloons of another era . A story has frequently been told that Nelson persuaded his father to declare himself in favor of repeal of the Volstead Act by guiding him one evening on a quick tour of mid-Manhattan , where he pointed out in the space of a few blocks more than a score of speak-easies , all running full blast and ignored by the police . " And , pa , " Nelson was supposed to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Circumstances were such that this story might well have been true except for the fact that Mr. Rockefeller could not have made such a difficult decision so lightly . The truth is that his decision was made in the spring of 1932 when he had dinner with his two oldest sons , John and Nelson , and a group of friends , including Thomas M. Debevoise , probably his closest associate , Harry Emerson Fosdick , Raymond B. Fosdick and George W. Wickersham , who was head of a commission investigating prohibition problems . At a long and grueling session , the arguments were presented for and against prohibition , including the fact that there were numerous speakeasies on land recently acquired for construction of Rockefeller Center . Not long afterward , Mr. Rockefeller issued a statement in favor of repeal , and was generally credited with influencing public opinion considerably to that end . This attitude of give and take , of subtly combined independence and interdependence and of willingness to profit by one another 's experience is a major factor in the handling of family affairs , particularly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They are strongly conscious of the importance of each sharing in the job of carrying on the continuity of family affairs , and yet each is determined to strike out on his own as well . Only John D. , III , the oldest of the lot , went into his father 's office to take up as a full-time job the philanthropic work to which Mr. Rockefeller has devoted so much of his own lifetime . The others , as they finished college , assumed various similar duties , but it was John who devoted himself most completely to the philanthropic field . " I suppose it 's worked out that way because I 'm the oldest , " he said recently . " Father had the whole job when he was young because he was an only son . There are five of us , and as the other boys came along they helped pick up the ball , so that each of us has opportunity . for other things . " The Rockefeller philanthropies are on a worldwide basis and John began his education in international problems while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he served as an assistant in the information section of the League of Nations at Geneva , where he got a vivid close-up of the complicated immensity of the world 's social and political problems . He also occasionally rubbed elbows with the famous headline personalities of the middle 1920 's , including French Foreign Minister Aristide Briand , who insisted that John bore a striking resemblance to Charles A. Lindbergh . After his graduation the following year , John traveled around the world and was a junior secretary at the 1929 conference sponsored by the Institute of Pacific Relations at Kyoto , Japan . But by the end of the year he was back in New York and , in the next three years , he had become a trustee on the China Medical Board , the Rockefeller Foundation , the General Education Board , the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research , the Spelman Fund , Industrial Relations Counselors , Inc. , and Colonial Williamsburg  --  all representing enterprises , mainly philanthropic , which his grandfather and father had originated or supported . " The genius of the Rockefeller family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " is an ability to do many things without throwing their weight around . " This definition can be applied more accurately to the family as a whole than to all of the brothers as individuals , but it is particularly true in John 's case . He was the one who , his father felt , could be given a drawing account in college days with confidence that he would spend conservatively and wisely . He is the most reticent , the most cautious and the most careful , and yet he is perhaps the easiest to work with . Unlike some of his more extrovert brothers who occasionally like to bang a fist on a desk , John approaches a problem with quiet , painstaking thoroughness . When he was studying problems of juvenile delinquency , he took nobody 's word for conditions , but went himself on long visits to the most notorious penal institutions in an effort to get all the facts . Nor does he like to hurry a decision . Once when an important question had to be decided , an associate gave him all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as quickly as possible . Several days passed with no word from John . A decision was becoming urgent , and when John finally called on the telephone the associate rushed to answer with a sigh of relief . " I 've been thinking about our problem , " John said . " How about playing a round of golf this after-noon ? " They played a round of golf  --  John shot a deliberate nineti-two ? and were at the eighteenth hole when the question of a decision was raised and John gave his opinion of the course to follow . " When he finally got around to telling me , " his companion recalled later , " I ' was so relieved I knocked my putt into a sand trap and conceded the hole . " ? Five Careers  --  Alike but Different T HIS attitude of cautious deliberation is balanced by John 's extreme thoughtfulness in his relations with others , a very natural friendliness and a slow-burning enthusiasm that rises to the top when his interest is aroused . " You do the best job , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you get the most satisfaction . " He lives with as little fuss as possible . Often  --  as did his grandfather  --  he has a snack of crackers and milk at his desk in midmorning and  --  unlike his father ? he serves liquor when he entertains , but he seldom takes a drink himself , and then only a glass of sherry . In some ways , John 's career stands out rather sharply from the activities of his brothers , although his practical and clear-cut philosophy of giving guides all of them . He is president of Rockefeller Brothers Fund , an organization set up by the brothers to meet what John calls their " citizenship responsibilities . " The recipient agencies are those in which all five brothers share a common interest , including community funds , and Protestant , Catholic and Jewish charities . Being concerned primarily with philanthropic work , John operates in a field where it is customary to measure success in broad terms of the progress of civilization rather than in financial or business results or specific personal achievement . In the Rockefeller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to help themselves , of using money as a tool to make available the means for progress and self-improvement , is inseparably linked to the development of sound business practices . And when John returned to New York after wartime service in the Navy , he was in a position to contribute substantially to the joint operations of the third generation of Rockefellers . By that time , too , the others were well started on their careers . The second brother of the Rockefeller clan is Nelson Aldrich Rockefeller , who , since November of 1950 , has been chairman of the Advisory Board for President Truman 's Point IV Program . Nelson is an irrepressible optimist , a believer in man 's ability to do the improbable and a more or less cosmic catalyst in the affairs of his busy , wealthy and beneficent family . He is the most assertive , the most restless , the most impatient of the five brothers and perhaps the most likely to fly off on a tangent . " Nelson , " an acquaintance said not long ago , " has a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ baby under the chin , but at work he does n't worry much about the details . He likes big , broad ideas and large-scale action . And when he makes a mistake  --  which is n't often and is usually due to the fact that he 's in a hurry  --  it is likely to be a whopper too . " Nelson is instinctively an organizer , sometimes a relentless and overwhelming organizer , whether he is running Rockefeller Center , of which he is president , or operating as chairman of the National Conference of Christians and Jews Brotherhood week , or merely buzzing around one of his own cocktail parties seeing that everybody has a drink and that nobody is having a dull time . " Well , let 's get organized " is a familiar phrase to his friends and associates , and one that he is just as apt to apply to plans for going to lunch as to a $3,000,000 project . - He likes crowds and action and punchy phrases , and he becomes so intent upon getting things done that there is little time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he takes time out for a half hour under a sun lamp , he keeps right on reading or writing while he gathers in the violet rays . If he goes to a cocktail party he is likely to spend arphour talking to a business associate in a corner and ten minutes being so charming to everybody present that his hostess is almost sure to forgive all . Even the guests at his home are usually persons whose views he wants on some particular subject , and he seldom wastes time or resorts to subtlety in getting the conversation around to what interests him . Fortunately , he is interested in almost everything and believes everybody else should be too . He was once amazed when a friend ( Continued on l'age 54 ) 52 water could be brought , unimpaired by salt . contamination , down to the Bushy Park industrial sites virtually at the head of Charleston harbor , a great new fresh-water supply would be available right at the edge of the ship channel . But it was impossible to bring that fresh water down the river to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intruding up the lower Santee-Cooper was an impassable barrier . It may have been that word " impassable " taking shape in his mind that gave Field his idea . The thought came to him that sometimes an impassable barrier can be by-passed , outflanked . Looking down from his plane at the two parallel rivers which were like the prongs of a two-pronged fork , Field saw suddenly , like a revelation , the solution of his problem . That impassable barrier , the salty lower Santee-Cooper , could be bypassed by bringing the fresh water of the upper Santee-Cooper down the other prong of the fork ? Back River . A canal dug from the upper Santee-Cooper to the head of Back River , a distance of only four miles through low ground , would connect the two prongs , and through this canal fresh water from the upper Santee-Cooper would pour into Back River . Meanwhile , at the tower end of the latter stream , just above its confluence with the lower Santee-Cooper , a dam would be thrown across Back River . That darn , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the intrusion of salt water from the lower Santee-Cooper into Back River , while at the same time impounding the fresh water brought into Back River via the canal from the upper Santee-Cooper . Thus the whole of Back River and its wide marshy basin would become a great fresh-water reservoir fed at its upper end from the inexhaustible and always-fresh upper Santee-Cooper and protected at its lower end from the salty lower Santee-Cooper . Industrial plants built on the Bushy Park tract between the two rivers would draw their fresh water from the fresh Back River reservoir in front of them and discharge their used water into the salty Santee-Cooper River behind them , up the deep channel of which ocean steamships would come to unload their cargoes of raw materials at the factories ' back doors . The impossible would have been accomplished . The fresh soft water of the upper Santee-Cooper , onspoiled by salt contamination and in any needed quantity up to 10,000,000,000 gallons a day , would have been brought down to the head of Charleston 's deep harbor  --  an ocean-side fresh-water supply unequaled in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a pretty big thing , exactly the thing that many of the largest industries were looking for . And now , perhaps a little frightened by the size of it , he began to have another worry . When industry learned that a great new fresh-water supply adjacent to a deep harbor had been discovered , would the 4000 acres of industrial sites in the Bushy Park tract be enough to accommodate all that would want to come ? Eight miles away , across the Santee-Cooper River and its flanking lowlands , was a highland area of nine square miles adjacent to the ship channel  --  another perfect industrial site , except that it was so far removed from the fresh-water supply . In view of the cost of the huge pipe lines which would be needed to carry fresh water to it , those eight miles might as well be 100 . Then suddenly Field remembered the Cooper marl . This is a stratum of THE SATURDAY strangely plastic greenish-drab rock , averaging probably 150 feet in thickness , underlying the region just back of Charleston for a distance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nowhere else . The remarkable thing about it is that it can be cut and shaped with sharp-edged tools , and yet upon exposure to the air it becomes very hard . Fourteen years ago , when the city of Charleston had to get a new water supply , a boldly imaginative engineer , J. E. GibEVENING POST son , then manager of the city 's Public Works Commission , and F. B. McDowell , Jr. , his assistant and later his successor , drove a seven-foot-diameter , twenty-three-mile-long tunnel through this marl to the Edisto River . They did not bother to line it ? thereby cutting costs tremendously ? because their studies of the Cooper marl had convinced them that its extraordinary self-hardening faculty would render a lining unnecessary . So it proved , and the January 6 , 19M Gibson-McDowell unlined tunnel , something of an engineering marvel , is as good and sound today as ever . Field , looking down from his plane on the panorama of rivers and woodland , thanked heaven for the Cooper marl , for the presence of that strange plastic geological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thick mass of soft but self-hardening rock underlying the whole area at . depths of a few feet , an unlined tunnel could easily be driven from the Back River reservoir , passing under the Santee-Cooper River , to the spacious industrial sites on the eastern shore of the ship channel ? a tunnel capable of supplying all the fresh water needed there . That would make available a second large industrial area if Bushy Park 's 4000 acres proved insufficient . In fact , whenever the need arose , still other unlined tunnels could be driven through the marl to many other points on the ship channel and harbor , creating a whole cluster of industrial sites served by Santee-Cooper fresh water . There was something almost fantastic in the way these different physical factors  --  the perfectly spaced parallel rivers , the intervening highland , the deep ship channel bordering it , and now the underlying plastic marl  --  were combining to make possible a near miracle , a water supply of fabulous volume at absurdly small cost . Was it all just an engineer 's castle in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Armed with a plan that looked perfect on paper , the Development Board submitted the project to the appropriate agency of the Federal Government  --  the United States Community Facilities Service , which advances without interest preliminary funds to local public-service bodies for launching approved public-works projects . The Federal engineers pronounced the plan apparently practical and declared it of national importance , because in a time of general water shortage it would provide a virtually unlimited supply of high-quality water for national industry . Therefore they recommended that the necessary initial fund , amounting to $275,000 , be advanced , provided detailed engineering study proved the project to be sound . To answer that all-important question beyond cavil , first-rate authority was brought in . After a six-weeks study on the spot , one of the famous engineering firms of the country , Ford , Bacon and Davis , of New York , declared the project entirely sound and estimated the construction cost , including the Back River canal and dam and the eight-mile tunnel , at $5,900 , - 000 , a trifle compared with the results to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the necessity of enlarging its own water supply , had been considering another tunnel to the Edisto River . It now abandoned that idea and assumed sponsorship of the Santee-Cooper project , which will bring it a far greater volume of water . Upon completion of the preliminary engineering work providing exact data and detailed estimates , the City 's Public Works Commission will issue revenue bonds to cover construction . Since it already has net revenues well in excess of the interest and amortization costs , the commission is amply able to finance the bond issue , and no Federal funds will be sought or needed . Thus an enterprise of national significance , which yesterday was only a vision , is now on the way to realization . ( Continued on Page 54 ) ( Continued from Page 52 ) As this is being written , work on the project is expected to begirt shortly and may be started even before this article is printed . Except for the eight-mile tunnel , which will not be needed at once , construction should be completed in from nine to eighteen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ construction , the importance of the project to the national-defense program may cause the Federal Government to expedite the work , in which case the new industrial water supply of 2,500,000,000 gallons a day should be ready for use in considerably less than a year . An extraordinary feature of the development is this : The 2,500,000,000 gallons a day soon to be on tap can easily and cheaply be increased to 5,000,000,000 gallons a day by dredging the Back River reservoir to a greater depth and perhaps placing a valved floodgate in the Back River diversion canal to retain the reservoir at a high level when tide ebbs in the Santee-Cooper . And if the time ever comeswhen even that huge volume is found insufficient , a mole or darn in the Santee-Cooper just below the Back River diversion canal would throw moat or , if necessary , all of the former 's full 10,000,000,000 gallons a day into Back River , whence , after use , it would be turned back into the Santee-Cooper at Bushy Park . American industry is a calm as well as a colossal thing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water development will quicken even industry 's unexcitable pulse . The project is so new that it has received but scant publicity as yet . This article is the first announcement on a national scale . Hence the only industries which know of the development are some like the West Virginia Pulp and Paper Company , which has been established for years south of the Bushy Park tract and which has now bought 129 additional acres for a great new alpha-cellulose plant using from 50,000,000 to 100,000,000 gallons of fresh water a day ; and a few others , including United Piece Dye Works , which were interested in the possibilities of Santee-Cooper before the new water project crystallized . Of these , the last named has just botight a site for a large rayon finishing plant . That many large industries will cluster around the new water supply is the opinion of industrial specialists who know the national water situation intimately . Indeed , some consider the discovery of Santee-Cooper more valuable to the national economy than the discovery of a great new oil field would be and predict an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new water , they point out , is now more urgently needed than new oil , and at Santee-Cooper , to a degree unapproached anywhere else in the East , there is the needed new water , not only in prodigious volume but also in admirable conjunction with the other facilities which industry desires  --  a deep harbor , ample acreage for factory sites , easy disposal of effluent , three railroads , paved highways , cheap power , an abundant labor supply , excellent living conditions , with housing already in existence for much additional labor . And there is another feature of Santee-Cooper which shoiald not be forgotten  --  the Cooper marl . One of the significant facts of the new water supply is the presence of that thick underlying stratum of plastic rock in which , if essential industry must seek safety underground , a subterranean industrial city can be hollowed out more easily , it is believed , than anywhere else in the East . The marl is not only self-hardening but also self-healing , so that it contains no water-conducting faults or fissures , the bane @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be carved cheaply from rock which is almost as pliant as clay and yet quickly becomes so firm that it will support the heaviest machinery . It will be a whimsical trick of fate if Charleston , richest of American cities in the architecture of the past , finds at her back door the first underground city of the future . THE ROCKEFELLERS ( Continued from Page 37 ) remarked during an argument that he had never actually read Karl Marx . Next morning Nelson appeared at the man 's office with a copy of Das Kapital and said , " Here . You ought to know about this . " There is about him a positiveness that sticks out in large and small affairs . Once in Haiti , he ignored the stern warnings of doctors in charge of a native clinic and shook hands with dozens of patients suffering from virulent skin diseases , including yaws , saying that he understood there was little danger involved . As it turned out , he was right . He has countless acquaintances and a few close friends , but even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A couple of years after the war he invited several friends for a week end on his newly acquired yacht . Delighted , the friends set forth for a few days of luxurious life . It turned out differently . The yacht was an unconverted English Channel patrol boat with some equipment missing , a defective lighting system and one man for a crew . She was n't really ready for a trip , but Nelson could n't wait . Everybody worked until dark getting the lights on and the boat under way . The wheel was so stiff that it was hard labor to hold the craft on her course and they had to spell one another frequently . Nelson did the cooking , but in the middle of his preparations the stove burst into flames and had to be doused with a fire extinguisher . Dinner , late at night , consisted of black-bean soup ? Nelson 's favorite dish ? and nothing else . They were , however , afloat , and that had been Nelson 's objective . It was after a trip around the world with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ digging into the mysteries of the Chase National Bank every morning and acting as director in charge of real estate and renting for the new Rockefeller Center enterprise every afternoon . As far as the record shows , he left no indelible imprint on the nation 's banking system , but he did a supersalesman job of renting skyscraper space in a depression period and came in for harsh words from competitors , who protested the center 's methods of offering below-market rentals to lure tenants into the new buildings . Although he soon deserted the banking world , Nelson devoted his spare time to a number of other enterprises , including the Creole Petroleum Corporation , of which he was a director , and the Museum of Modern Art , which elected him president in 1939 and which he promoted so vigorously that membership soared from 3000 to 8000 . In an odd way , these two distinctly different projects are closely linked to the beginning of his intense interest in Latin America . His job with Creole took him south of the Rio Grande , and he promptly became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there . As usual , he wanted everybody else to share his interest . He gave the museum $25,000 anonymously for purchase of Latin-American paintings and was largely responsible for a period in which the museum put heavy emphasis on Latin-American art , as a " contribution toward better understanding of the people and cultural life . " This contribution may not have made any tremendous impact on the world of art , but it at least showed Nelson 's persistence . Earlier , with considerable publicity , the famous Mexican painter , Diego Rivera , whose work Nelson had long admired , had been selected to do a huge Rockefeller Center fresco , but he was subsequently dismissed with still more publicity when he imbedded in the wet plaster two subjects that had not been in the original sketches  --  a group of diseased women and a picture of Lenin . The Rockefellers felt these were something less than appropriate . Nelson argued with the Mexican without much success before he was fired with full pay of $21,500 , and the picture was destroyed . But Nelson did n't let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was six years before Rivera would speak to me again , " he said recently , " but we 're on good terms now . " In June of 1940 , Nelson 's interest in South America came into full flower as a result of the European war crisis . He felt that something should be done toward the integration of defense and economic affairs of the Western Hemisphere and he worked with a group of experts to prepare a memorandum on the subject . Harry Hopkins was interested and took Nelson to the White House , where he batted the question around with President Roosevelt , who subsequently appointed him co-ordi nator of what became the Office of Inter-American Affairs . Primarily , his job was to spread good will and convince the other American nations that it was good business as well as morally right to be on our side in the world conflict . It is possible that there were other recruits to Washington in those days who were as ignorant of the bureaucratic wilderness as Nelson , but it is doubtful if there was any who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " was turned loose in virgin territory , with the Atlantic , the Pacific and the wild blue yonder as the only limits , or so it seemed at first . Actually , he made several false starts , was caught leading with his chin on a couple of occasions and was rocked back on his heels by ambitious rival co-ordinators who had been around longer and knew the tricks . But when he learned to keep his guard up Nelson made progress . He mixed in the propaganda hopper a good deal of back slapping , a measure of top-notch journalism and a high degree of up-to-date diplomatic enterprise , well seasoned with business incentives . He became an entrepreneur of culture , a publicist who peddled everything from one-paragraph newspaper items to a four-color picture magazine , a sponsor of a $25,000,000 health program and a promoter with incomparable contacts in the business world and a $45,000,000 Government budget . He knew everybody , or at least he had everybody 's name handy in his extensive card-index files . It was inevitable that his job came in for some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fact that the Rockefellers are stanch Republicans , but after the war most observers agreed that it did as much to create good will in Latin America as any other effort in our history , and perhaps more . It also did a great deal for Nelson , who may yet become a kind of economic Simon Bolivar in the eyes of Latin Americans . But that is getting ahead of the story . For nine months , as the war was coming to an end , Nelson was Assistant Secretary of State in charge of relations with the American republics . Then , at the United Nations Conference at San Francisco in 1945 , he ran head on into controversy over admission of the dictatorial Perrin government of Argentina . In line with Administration policy , Nelson assisted in securing admission of Argentina , but the action resulted in a wave of public criticism , and after Secretary James Byrnes later took over the department Nelson was permitted to resign . Once out of the Government , he began to concentrate on specific measures that private business might undertake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to his brothers . Just across the ball from Nelson , in the ultramodern and functionally designed offices of Rockefeller Brothers , Inc. , is the office of Laurance , who has been Nelson 's partner in various deals since they made pocket money as boys in a rabbit-raising project . At that time both Nelson and Laurance felt that their parents had given them " sissy " names and they began calling each other " Dick " and " Bill . " Nelson did n't last long as " Dick , " but the " Bill " stuck to Laurance , and the family still calls him by that name . Like Nelson , he has drive and intense ambition , but , instead of boyish enthusiasm , he has a dry , almost sardonic humor that tends to keep plans from floating off on global wings . " This idea , " he said recently concerning a business project , " is just common sense when you stop to think . " A half grin twisted the corner of his mouth . " Maybe the only reason common sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " He sometimes refers to himself as a " gadgeteer " because he is always trying out something new . In high school he built an entire automobile chassis of wood , lowered it out a window and took it to Pocantico Hills , where he installed a motorcycle engine ... and the thing ran . His passion for speedboats led him to experiment with hulls similar to those used on the wartime PT boats and he now has a sixty-five-foot aluminum craft that was built according to his own specifications to combine speed , seaworthiness and cruisability . His business acumen developed early and tended toward taking a shrewd risk where there was a chance for an important success . At the Lincoln School , he was business manager of the yearbook , which had always been a financial disaster so serious that it supposedly was Laurance 's job to keep the editor from spending money . He decided that such a policy was nonsense and spent most of his time hounding the amazed editor , Harmon Goldstone , to spend more money and develop a ( Continued on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bigger and better book . Goldstone nervously tried to hold back , but Laurance organized his classmates to contribute to school auctions  --  they sold everything from pups to plates of fudge  --  and otherwise raise cash , and in the end they not only had a record-breaking book but there was a surplus in the till . Princeton University was a period of conscious adjustment , a time of orientation for Laurance . He had been , like his brothers , brought up in a strict religious atmosphere . John 's naturally devout attitude fitted smoothly into his philanthropic work as he grew older . Nelson had no trouble with the practical reconciliation of religious training with everyday adult life . But Laurance found himself facing the necessity of making a rational adjustment between religious ideals of his boyhood and the world of practical affairs . He felt rather as if he " always had a Bible in one hand , " and he felt a need to bring his thinking into line with the realistic world in which he was going to live . His attack on this problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the university  --  not just most of them , but all of them ? in an effort to round out and balance his personal philosophy . He believes it helped , but the " long , slow process " of orientation is still going on . Once be had begun his business career , it was fairly obvious that Laurance 's interest in gadgets and his en-t husiasm for new fields would make for unusual combinations . It showed up even in minor matters . On one occasion when he was furnishing a house a friend told him about some new modern furniture designed by Alvar Aalto , noted Finnish architect . They had only a photograph to judge by , but Laurance took a chance and ordered a houseful of it from Finland . When it arrived , he was so impressed that he and his friend decided to go into business importing it , even before they had the wrappings pulled off all the pieces . Several New York furniture experts told them they would lose their shirts  --  a rather imaginative figure of speech in Laurance 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doing a thriving business and , when the war forced them to close down , they were able to split a good profit . Eventually , the furniture was widely copied all over America . Laurance 's first big business venture was similarly unorthodox . He went into Eddie Rickenbacker 's Eastern Air Lines in the middle 1930 's when the leading financial experts in the field had decided that Eddie was a great guy , but no businessman . Laurance had a different idea about the financial future of the famous flier and was willing to back up his opinion with cash . In the next fifteen years Eastern became a leading example of financial success among the nation 's air lines . Encouraged by this success , Laurance kept his interest focused on new horizons where science was beginning to produce spectacular results in airplane design , electronics , helicopters and , eventually , rocket engines . Thew. were fields that would expand most . rapidly in the coming years and they were fields that had already attracted the nation 's finest engineering and creative brains . At the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that many new concerns lacked managerial brains . And conservative capital , as usual , was holding back until time had lessened the risk of investment . This was an opportunity well tailored to Laurance 's temperament and talents . Time out for service in the Navy slowed him down , but when the war was over and the Rockefeller brothers reassembled in New York , he was soon hip-deep in enterprises that overflowed with ideas , skills and boldness necessary for mastery of the Atomic Age , but which needed money and a firm hand on the reins until they were out of swaddling clothes . Laurance was ready with both the cash and a firm hand . The fourth Rockefeller son is Winthrop , who is also the biggest , the most convivial , and the most likely to employ a personal approach to a job or a problem . Where his brothers often think in abstract terms of what might be done about the " housing problem " or the " racial-minority problem , " Winthrop is likely first to see the human factors involved and look for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , broadly , human relations , both during office hours at Socony Vacuum and in such outside activities as the Urban League , where he has provided vigorous leadership in dealing with the social and economic problems of Negroes . Perhaps only a psychologist could suggest whether his interest in this field stems subconsciously from the fact that his older brothers sometimes were inclined to push him around as a child ... until he outgrew them all . " It seems cruel to me , " Mrs. Rockefeller once wrote to her older sons , " that you big boys should make Winthrop the goat all the time . . . . You know very well that the only way to help him is by being kind to him . Abuse only makes him angry and much worse , while for love and kind treatment he will do anything . " And some years later Winthrop suggested how well she understood him by writing on Mother 's Day that " it seems strange to me that anyone would need to have any particular day Bet aside in which to remember @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a mother Iike you . " His ability to make friends , his enjoyment of people and his sympathy for the underdog crop out in odd ways . When he quit Yale without a degree and went to work in the oil fields  --  a decision for which his parents never reproached him ? he familiarized himself with every possible job , including digging holes at seventy-five cents an hour . The " cellar gang " was suspicious of him , and he realized on the first morning that they were testing his willingness to work . By noon the hole in which he was digging was deeper than any other and he was accepted as one of the gang , but he was so exhausted that he could n't crawl out of the hole to eat . Unwilling to admit his condition , be asked one of the men to hand his lunch down to him , saying it was cooler in the hole than out . After eating , he managed to drag through the rest of the day . During the war ? he enlisted as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was largely made up of Southerners and on Leyte beachhead there was considerable tension when a Negro unit was unexpectedly attached to them . The next day two officers from Georgia came to him and demanded that a Negro sergeant be broken because he had not quickly ceased the work he was doing to obey an order . Winthrop felt . that the trouble was largely due to prejudice and that it was vital to make his position unmistakably clear at once to avoid future trouble . He called in the Negro sergeant and listened to his story while the two officers stood by . " Your outfit is new here , " he then told the sergeant , " and perhaps you do n't understand exactly how we operate . When a superior officer gives you an order , you carry it out immedii fely . You do n't use your own judgment as to whether it would be better to delay . However , I should have explained that to you when your outfit first arrived , so I believe that this misunderstanding has been my fault instead of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make certain that all of your men understand and do n't let me hear of it happening again . " The complaining officers were angered because the offender was n't punished , and Winthrop waited nervously for trouble in the next few days , but everything went fine . " I decided , " he said later , " that it was a valuable experience and that it applies to business or industry or whatever . If the management backs up the idea of equality , everybody will go along . If the management is n't firm , you 'll havetrouble . " Winthrop made a lot of new friends in the Army , including a boy of Italian parentage named Jimmy , who later had Winthrop up fora spaghetti dinner at his house in the Bronx and eventually went into business for himself in a town about 100 miles from New York . One day in 1949 , Jimmy telephoned Winthrop at his office . " I 'm in town , Brother Rock , " he said , using the name by which most of the outfit knew Winthrop . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " but I ca n't meet you today . My wife is ill and I have to go home . " " But , Brother Rock , that 's why I 'm here ! I read about it in the paper and drove down to ask if there 's anything I can do . " Winthrop likes to tell that story because he believes good human relations are a two-way street and that mutual respect and co-operation will flourish under any conditions if given a chance . " You can be cynical about my friends , " he adds , " but I 'm not . " After suffering serious burns when a Japanese suicide bomber attacked an American ship in the Kerama Retto near the end of the war , Winthrop was invalided home and started looking into the postwar problems of veterans . Secretary of War Robert P. Patterson heard about his plans and asked him to make a survey on behalf of the department . In the next , six months Winthrop traveled about 18,000 miles and turned over to Patterson a report that eventually was buried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When David , the youngest of the Rockefeller brothers , was a small boy he so enjoyed playing host that his schoolmates were likely to descend frequently and by the score for a picnic on the Rockefeller estate , and his mother once remarked that he apparently would not be happy until she had invited every teacher in his school to dinner . This inclination has diminished only slightly if at all with the years , and David still enjoys collecting several score assorted guests for dinner on the terrace around his swimming pool high on the hills above the Hudson River . Such a gathering might include the Prime Minister of Pakistan , a half dozen scholarship students from Africa or South America , a hard-working stenographer in some organization with which be is connected , and a heavy sprinkling of internationally famous names . David has a happy faculty of finding something in common with each guest. - This is a trifle baffling to strangers at first , because he gives the impression of personifying Wall Street dignity to the point of stuffiness . On second glance , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He likes to talk about a variety of things , ranging from beetles  --  which he collects  --  to bulldozers  --  one of which he maneuvers // skillfully around his place  --  and on to high finance and the problems of the United Nations , in which he is intensely interested . He likes political give-and-take and is particularly pleased when he can maneuver distinguished acquaintances of radically different opinions into an impromptu debate across the coffee cups . David is basically an economist and a scholar , and more than any of his brothers he has a casual , almost academic air of assurance that arises from an easy sense of humor , a deep enjoyment of life and a broad educational background . He gives the impression of knowing what he wants to do and why he wants to do it , and of taking most things in his stride  --  whether it is a matter of international banking or the arrival of his wife in the front driveway with a small , newly purchased burro named Cleopatra ensconced in the back seat of her automobile . This casualness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sustain an intense interest in many things . When he was small , one of his teachers interested him in collecting beetles , which he gathered industriously from the woods , classified and mounted on cards . With most boys it would have been a passing hobby , but once David 's interest was aroused he carried through to the entomological end . He went on several expeditions of the Museum of Natural History and , later , financed a notable expedition to Mexico where some 100,000 specimens were collected for important agricultural-research work . He still carries a small bottle in his pocket and , to the amazement of new acquaintances , is likely to go poking around in the grass or the stump of an old tree whenever the opportunity arises to search for specimens . Today his collection numbers more than 40 , - 000 beetles , ranging from pin-point size to several huge African specimens as big as a mousse , and is one of the finest in the world . When he was at the University of Chicago during the depression days , hebecame interested in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He enrolled at the university bureau which provided speakers for any occasion and found himself addressing all kinds of meetings , including rallies where a left-wing audience was eager to give any capitalist a going-over . Having survived and enjoyed this experience , he waded into New York politics in 1940 as one of the secretaries of Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia , answering mail , pacifying indignant voters who telephoned City Hall , conducting city surveys and accompanying the mayor at various public appearances . He liked the life , but came to the conclusion that he needed experience in other fields and , anyway , the war was coming on fast . He served briefly as assistant regional director of the United States Office of Defense Health and Welfare Services and then enlisted in the Army as a private . Most of the war he spent in the intelligence service in Africa and France , and , upon discharge with the rank of captain , he went to work at one of a number of desks " on the floor " in the Foreign Department of the Chase National Bank . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of vice-president  --  the last of the Rockefeller brothers to graduate to a private office . Thus , soon after the war , all five of the brothers were back in New York , picking up the threads of their varied careers and looking for the best way in which they could work together . The war had been an interruption , but it had helped to reduce the disparity in their ages  --  almost a decade in the case of John and David . When they came home they were all grown up ; yet all still of an age at which they could plunge enthusiastically into new enterprises that would demonstrate what the third generation of Rockefellers was going to stand for . They began plunging almost immediately . 