@@494393

THE QUESTION whether the Eisenhower Administration intends to open up government-owned forest lands to exploitation by private interests has been put squarely up to the US Forest Service by one of Kentucky 's biggest coal and lumber operators . Robert L. Stearns Jr. , who has his eye on rich coal deposits in the Cumberland National Forest , has asked for permission ? and thinks he 'll get it ? to strip-mine wooded ridges in the forests that give watershed protection to the headwaters of the Cumberland River . Local forestry officials would like to tell Stearns to go packing . They are convinced that approval of his request would have the effect of opening up all national forest lands-175 million acres or thereabouts ? to ruinous exploit. : ation . But they take orders from the Agriculture Department and Secretary Ezra Benson has n't committed himself , nor , after 90 days of soul-searching , has the National Forest Service . Stearns seems to think Benson will side with him . The strip-mining proposition , he says , is a " good business proposition " and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington wants to hear these days . He has built his case on the premise that the government 's surface rights in national forests are inferior to private mineral rights . In 1937 , Stearns cut the last saleable tree off a 47,000-acre tract of land in Southeastern Kentucky . Then he sold the land to the government for inclusion in Cumberland National Forest created , like all national forests , with two objectives ? to conserve timber resources and to protect streams and rivers from the silt pouring off hillsides and from ridges left bare by lumbering operations and fires . But Stearns retained the mineral rights on the land . And for several years he has carried on deep-mining operations in the area . The Forest Service had no objections to this kind of mining be-:cause it was not incompatible with either of its objectives , Lately , however , Stearns claims he can not compete with companies that get their coal by strip-mining . So on August 13 he went to the Forest Service with his proposal to take out 6 million tons of coal by strip-mining ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representatives said they could n't agree to strip-mining , the abomination of all abominations to conservationists . It would mean , they said , the sacrifice of all government surface rights and conservation objectives . Strip-mining on the ridges would involve , literally , tearing off the ridgetops , and cutting 60-foot gashes in the ridge-sides . Huge rocks , and untold tons of topsoil would be hurled willy-nilly down the ridgesides , destroying thousands of young trees grown since Stearns abandoned the cut-over land to the government 16 years ago . The land could never be restored . It would be a permanent source of a great outpouring Of silt into the Cumberland River . Eventually , the silt would create serious problems at the multi-purpose Wolf Creek Dam a few miles downstream . Stearns promptly offered to pay for the ruined timber ? a figure of $10 an acre was mentioned but he admitted there was nothing he could do for the watershed . He hinted later that if the Forest Service did n't go along with him , it would run into trouble in the future when it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . After Stearns put his proposal in writing , Robert F. Collins , supervisor of Cumberland National Forest , spoke out . He told the Kentucky Conservation Council that no public lands would be safe if Stearns ' proposal were upheld . He charged that the proposal is part of an effort by strip-miners nationally to establish a precedent opening up forest lands for exploitation . But Collins ' superiors in Washington still have n't made up their minds . If they refuse Stearns , he may go to the Supreme Court . If they rule in his favor , Kentucky conservationists will go to the Court . " Easing " Prosperity DESPITE the staunch optimism emanating from the 3,000 delegates at the National Association of Manufacturers ' annual convention , our major banks and finance companies , and one of our biggest unions , the United Auto Workers , CIO , are worried about the economic prospects for 1954 . At the NAM meeting , top manufacturing executives overwhelmingly predicted no decline worth mentioning in production and sales during the coming year . Only a few would admit the possibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order of 10 or 15 percent ; " not serious , " they insisted . The " definite feeling of pessimism " which existed three months ago is " evaporating now , " according to one St. Paul industrialist . But as the NAM delegates were packing their bags , the Wall Street Journal announced that banks and finance companies were contemplating the relaxation of consumer installment credit terms as a " hypo for 1954 retail sales . " Any such relaxation , ho matter how slight , would be a major change in the credit policies of these companies . For . just about a year ago , they began tightening up ? raising interest charges to borrow- 4 ers . They would hardly switch that policy so soon unless they thought they foresaw a definite drop in consumer buying power . Statistics just released by the CIO United Auto Workers and the US department of Commerce would seem to confirm the bankers ' apprehension rather than the optimism of the Manufacturers . Despite the normal annual increase in the working population , there are 300,000 fewer people employed this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1,578 plants , shows that em-ployment , in the automobile , agricultural implements , aircraft and supplier industries is down by a quarter of a million . Of the workers laid off , 127,396 were seniority employees . The UAW believes that plentiful job opportunities this year would have resulted in a 700,000 increase , rather than a 300,000 decrease , in the labor force . And that to the 1.4 million officially reported as unemployed must be added another million who would be working or looking for work if the job situation were better . " The economy , " says CIO President Walter Reuther , " is not expanding at a sufficiently rapid rate to provide jobs for the normal additions to the labor force . " In short , despite the NAM 's determined optimism , wholesale sales this year have declined by $700 million , unemployment is increasing , and purchasing power has been affected enough to make the bankers reverse the tight credit policies in force a few months ago . Now Everyone Will Know ANOTHER attempt to do administratively what once was blocked as legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will be Congress ' turn again to speak its will on regulation of the natural gas industry . The last time Congress had this opportunity , it chose to weaken gas-price regulation by passing the Kerr Gas Bill . Harry Truman vetoed that bill , but the Federal Power Commission virtually made it law by adopting its ' interpretation of the Natural Gas Act of 1938 . For example , in the case of the Phillips Petroleum Company , the FPC ruled , in effect , that " this gas company is obviously not a gas company since it sells gas into interstate commerce only after producing and gathering it . Since Phillips does not sell at the well-head , we have no authority to fix its rates . " Phillips agreed and boosted prices . The gas-buying Midwesterners , unable to grasp the relevance of this fine distinction , recognized echoes of the Kerr Bill , and realized that millions of their dollars were involved . So Midwestern cities , counties and states turned to the Court of Appeals ? which ruled that the FPC has and must exercise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that produce and , gather gas . The gas-producing states ? Texas , New Mexico and Kerr 's Oklahoma ? appealed that decision to the Supreme Court , but it refused to review . Now the oil-gas interests are forced to turn once more to Congress . They do NEW REPPILIC not find the prospect discouraging : Congress co-operated handsomely on tidelands ownership ; the Kerr Bill was passed by both houses once before , and this time the man in the White House can be counted on to listen to the right people . Of course , the publicity attendant upon getting this sort . of bill through Congress is regrettable from the industry 's view . Still , it obviously can not be helped . A bill to undo the mischief done by the Supreme Court was recently outlined by H. H. Baker , president of Humble Oil ? a subsidiary of Standard Oil of New Jersey and one of the handful of oil companies that control the bulk of our natural gas reserves . Baker spelled out the industry 's claim to the privilege of charging its 40. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Chairman Jerome K. Kuykendall of the FPC , for his part , has reassured the industry that there will be no " harassment " from his agency . The GOP Committed WITHIN the chambers of the Supreme Court , the Constitutionality of racial segregation in public schools is being argued ' in legal terms . Outside of those chambers , attention is also focusing on the political aspects of the argument , for Attorney General Herbert Brownell has committed The Administration ' by submitting a brief which asserts that the Court has ample constitutional power , under the Fourteenth Amendment , to outlaw such segregation . By this action , it is believed the Republicans have lost the advantage they exploited so well in 1952 . Then , with no record to hamper them , Republican candidates talked one way in the North and another in the South . The theme trumpeted throughout the Southland by the GOP was " states ' rights . " And its effectiveness was evidenced when Eisen-hower polled his biggest Southern votes in the states that had gone Dixiecrat in 1948 . Eisenhower was strongest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in predominantly white counties . Since politics in these states is fundamentally tied to the racial problem , Eisenhower 's showing seems to have depended upon his success in convincing people there that they would be free , under the Republicans , to deal with the problem without interference from Washington . Now that Eisenhower 's Administration has had to act in terms of national interest , the Dixiecrats will have to choose a party affiliation on other than racial-policy terms . IT HAS long been argued that peaceful co-existence in the Middle East between Israel and her neighbors could only be achieved by raising living standards of Jews and Arabs alike . Accordingly , United Nations experts have explored methods of exploiting existing water resources for the benefit of a broad area . All such plans , however , have foundered on the rock of Arab insistence that Israel take back a large number of the 900,000 Arab refugees and Israel 's persistent refusal to do so . Now the United States , which has shouldered the main burden of Palestine refugee relief , has made it dear that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is prepared to finance programs that would provide a permanent solution by locating the majority of DP 's in areas which would be made arable . Carrying this " new approach , " Eric Johnston was recently dispatched to the Middle East to win support mainly for two objectives : ( a ) A Jordan Valley Authority which would bring irrigation and power to parts of the Syrian and Jordanian desert in which up to 200,000 refugees could be settled and given ar means of livelihood ; and , ( b ) irrigation of the Sinai peninsula by water from the Nile ? providing fertile land for 60,000 to 100,000 Arabs from Palestine now rotting in the Gaza region . These two schemes , to cost the US an estimated minimum of $120 million , could not solve the entire refugee problem . Additional projects are under consideration , all based on the idea that the bulk of the refugees will remain for generations to come in the lands where they now are . But October , 1953 , was an awkward moment for talking with Arab , The Arab-Israeli @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . No Arab leader today dares to say publicly that he favors any program except revenge , any solution other than strangulation of Israel by economic , diplomatic and , if need be , military pressure . For the Israelis also , the TVA-onthe Jordan proposal appears menacing . Israeli engineers insist that if the Jordan Valley Authority were to be created , it would make it impossible for Israel to carry out its own plans for irrigation of the Negev , under which plans water-storage facilities west of the Sea of Galilee would be constructed . The Negev would remain an arid desert , and since the Negev is the only sizable region not yet settled , Israelis contend that a JVA would mean the levelling of Arab and Israeli economies not by raising the former but by lowering the latter . Engineers who drafted the Jordan Valley project confirm the Israeli analysis to some degree . They admit their plan is designed primarily to profit Arab states ( especially Jordan and Syria ) , and that they were not requested to take into account long-range effects on the Israeli @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arabs and Jews would benefit equally from the development of the Jordan waters . This being so , political considerations come into play . Mr. Dulles returned from the Middle East with the firm personal conviction that the Arabs have valid grievances against the West . Mr. Dulles has also expressed strong moral misgivings about the Israeli attitude toward the refugee problem . He said that Israel " will have to " take some of these impoverished exiles back , though he admits that such an arrangement is impracticable for the majority of the refugees . But the main factors responsible for the new American approach to Arab-Israeli tension are : 1 .. Britain , more than the United States , has urgent and immediate incentives for cultivating Arab goodwill . It was Britain , more than the United States , which wanted a full debate in the UN Security Council on the Palestinian problem . Ties between the U. K. and Jordan are well known . Beyond that , London is now engaged in important negotiations with Egypt , is trying desperately to recover lost ground and investments in Moslem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where , it is reported , Britain intends to install at least part of its garriion from the Suez Canal once agreement with Egypt is reached . 2 . Since Britain and the United States are , wisely or not , committed to the French colonial position in Tunisia and Morocco , the two governments find it to their advantage to ease Arab antagonism this stand arouses by supporting in part Arab demands on Israel . The tension which has developed and erupted into tragic violence in the past few months reflects a deep belief by both sides that " survival " itself is at stake . Israeli extremists argue that now is not the time to sit back and permit Western powers to exchange Israeli interests for Arab friendship . The Arab governments , representing largely feudal societies in which the masses are incredibly poor , still see in Israel and its promise of higher living standards a threat of possible social convulsions. 