@@492589

KOROR , WESTERN CAROLINE ISLANDS . One sweltering day last June . the trading ship Gunners Knot arrived at this lush green tropical island from Tokyo and Guam . In her hold was a cargo of rice , canned goods and assorted merchandise . " Also , " the ship 's master admitted , " we 've got a couple of men aboard who 've been complaining of fever and headache . " During the next few days five crew members were taken for treatment to the whitewashed hospital on the hill above the lagoon . On July Fourth , other members of the crew came ashore to participate in holiday festivities . Then , on July sixth , a raging epidemic ... of Asian influenza broke out and swept across the island with terrifying speed . Within a few weeks , an astounding proportion  --  more than 85 per cent ? of Koror 's 3100 inhabitants were stricken . Many suffered from pneumonia and other complications . This was clearly a major medical crisis . One American physician , Dr. William Conover , had been assigned to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Honolulu , nearly 5000 miles away . No other physicians were within 200 miles . Accordingly , the care of Koror 's flu victims was entrusted to three young Micronesians known as native medical practitioners or , in some circles , simply as island medics . They had been licensed to practice after receiving incredibly brief training  --  about five years of Japanese grammar school and the equivalent of less than three years of premedical and medical school courses . Don Heron , the district administrator here , flashed the disquieting news to headquarters of the Trust Territory Administration in Guam , 800 miles to the northeast . He was immediately offered more native practitioners and nurses from other islands . He was offered American physicians from other districts and full assistance from the United States Navy Hospital in Guam . " The Navy has teams of doctors ready to move in to help us . " Delmas Nucker , the high commissioner , told him by radio . " They 've offered all the drugs and equipment you need to set up field hospitals . The admiral has planes and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? " " Nothing right now , " Heron answered . " Our fellows think they can handle it . " The three young medical practitionersLomisan Ngirailild , Alfonso Faustino and Yuji Mesubed ? battled the epidemic and its deadly complications to a standstill . They worked day and night in the jammed 105-bed hospital , even when they themselves were hit by flu and ) Whenever a native doctor believes it necessary he can send his patient to the nearest U.S. Naval hospital . burning with fever . With ( heir equally devoted native nurses , they made constant house calls throughout Koror 's tiny villages . They drove jeeps where there were roads and walked where there were only trails . By small boats and outrigger canoes they sent what supplies they could to outlying islands . They supervised the administration of such nails e remedies as latkau leaf , guava leaf and crushed banana stem , to bring down temperatures and case sore muscles , and they also gave injections of antibiotics , sulfa drugs , sterile dextrose solutions and chlorpromazine . They ran blood tests , took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with asthmatic or cardiac complications , and used tracheobronchial suction to clear clogged windpipes . But this was not all . At the same time , without fuss or furor , they also delivered babies , performed Caesarean sections , and even did emergency surgery for appendicitis , perforated stomach ulcer , broken bones and smashed skulls . The results of the epic medical battle in this Western Pacific paradise were close to perfect . The surgical operations were performed with no deaths and with routine recovery in every case . No mothers or babies were lost in childbirth . Only one death was directly attributed to influenza  --  that of a two-month-old enfant who was suffering from bronchial pneumonia when admitted to the hospital . When Doctor Conover was rushed back from Honolulu , he found that the hospital was still overflowing , but the peak of the epidemic had passed . Lomisan Ngirailild greeted him with the report , " We 've been a little busy . " " There was nothing Lomisan and the other practitioners had overlooked or failed to do , " Doctor Conover said later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good as anything in the United States . " In his formal report , he added , " It was the combined efforts of these recently trained medical practitioners and nurses that brought swiftly under control a serious epidemic . . . . Those who have been instrumental in the training of these capable and dedicated Pacific Islanders have reason to he proud . " In Koror and the other islands of this vast portion of the ocean known formally as the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands and mostly under jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior , there are now about two dozen native medical practitioners plus a score of native dental practitioners , forty native graduate nurses and more than 200 other technicians or health aides , either at work or undergoing advanced training . Measured by current American or European yardsticks , their education was ridiculously incomplete , They were not taught , for example , to operate inside the heart , graft blood vessels or detect the more bizarre forms of cancer . Yet their work has been so good that it has won the praise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has made warm friends for America , improved the morale of the Trust Territory islanders , earned the high tribute of United Nations observers , opened the eyes of numerous medical educators , and even received the grudging admiration oldie Russians , " The medical services . " Soviet delegates to the U.N . Trusteeship Council staled recently , " were not inferior . " These services are now being rendered to some 57,000 Micronesians inhabiting the Trust Territory . This is an assemblage of 2141 islands and coral atolls administered by the United States as a trusteeship for the United Nations . The whole territory includes a land area of fitt7 square miles  --  about half again as big as the city of Los Angeles  --  scattered over more than 3,000,000 square miles of ocean . A practitioner called for a consultation or special surgery from one island to another may have to travel a distance greater than that from San Diego to Miami . The Navy became the first administrator of the area in World War II , when the Japanese were swept from the Marianas , the Marshal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the storied Smith Sea islands of dusky . grass-skirted maidens , lush tropical verdure , palm trees swaying gracefully in the trade winds , coral reefs and unbelievably blue lagoons . On island after island , however , the glamour was gone . The lagoons were choked with the rusting wreckage of invasion barges . The palm trees had been blasted into splinters by bombs and shellfire . The lush tropical vegetation  --  the hated boondocks of the G.1. ' s  --  had been incinerated by flamethrowers . The dusky maidens , along with the dusky men , were still around , but they were hungry . frightened and afflicted with such ancient ills as yaws , tuberculosis , intestinal parasites , dysentery and leprosy . In the summer of 1944 , the surgeon general of the Navy , Rear Admiral Ross NIcIntire , foresaw the need for eventual long-term medical care in the Pacific . " The Navy will never have sufficient personnel to do the job , " he said . " We 'll never be able to induce enough civilian doctors to move out there . We 'll @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ key aides , Comdr . Richard Fletcher , a one-time director of public health for the state of Washington , de- dared that the only solution would be the training of the Micronesians themselves . The natives , however , had been given less than six years of elementary schooling by the Japanese , and they spoke almost no English . They could not be ad-milted to any medical school in America . They could not get into a college . Most of them could n't even meet the entrance requirements of an American high school . " We 've got to start our own school , right out in the islands , and give the natives a streamlined medical training ourselves , " said Commander Fletcher . Objections to the plan were presented with great vigor . In a number of quarters , it was denounced as unwise . Impractical . too costly , too cheap , probably unnecessary in the first place , and unquestionably a frightful affront to the good name of medical education . " But this has nothing to do with our own medical standards at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We 're not going to turn out full-fledged M.D. 's . We 're simply going to teach these people enough in four years to handle a few of the most common procedures in medicine and surgery . " " Oh . no ! Not surgery too ! You ca n't be serious ; you 're not going to let those natives handle a knife ! " Admiral NIcIntire and his associates refused to be swerved by these and similar protests . Many of them had seen with their own eyes that the Micronesians might be different or exasperating , but they were not stupid . Furthermore , the Navy had its own records to show that young men , most of them Americans with only a high-school education plus a year 's intensive training , had been able to serve brilliantly as hospital corpsmen on naval vessels and as " island does " on remote shore stations . Finally , the Navy doctors had the record of an old British school at Suva , April 1 ' 2 , 1055 on the island of Fiji , which had long been training @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We admired the goals of the school at Fiji , " said Admiral McIntire , " but since many of our problems were dilTerent , we knew we 'd have to give more intensive training . " ( More recently , the Fiji school has been modernized and is now training all the medical practitioners for the Trust Territory . ) Late in 1945 , the Navy started to build its School for Native Practitioners at Guam , near the Navy Hospital , together with a school for native nurses . Doctor Fletcher , by then promoted to the rank of captain , was made the first director . He had a staff of live Navy doctors , twenty-five enlisted men and five Navy nurses . As quickly as possible , he flew on a personal recruiting tour through the Trust Territory . He talked to native chiefs , schoolteachers , missionaries , Navy island commanders and Navy doctors , and asked them to propose potential students . He interviewed candidates and checked on their education . In January , 1946 , the school was formally commissioned and the students began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and American Samoa . Later came the students from the Marshalls , the Marianas and the Carolines , and these were wondrously arrayed . Some of the men appeared with pants and no shirts . Some came with shirts , but no pants . One was dressed in the fragments of what appeared to be a Japanese general 's uniform . Some wore only brilliant red lava-lavas , or loincloths , and sported the dark purple tattoo marks of their tribes . One towering , grinning youth had a flaming red hibiscus blossom artistically. tucked behind one ear , and insisted on wearing such a floral decoration to class each morning . A few of these first students could speak a little English . One was a Gilbert Island youth who had taken an outrigger canoe and fled out to sea from the Japanese-held island of Tarawa , just in time to be picked up by an American destroyer in the Tarawa invasion fleet . Another was the son of a Marshall Island village chief who had been taught some English by missionaries . Most , however , could speak only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in learning English in a hurry , even with the patient help of Navy nurses , language teachers and co-operative sailors . There were additional problems rarely faced in standard medical schools . The young medical students , for instance , were financed by the Navy , but they had almost no spending money . They accepted this situation gracefully , but early in the term they went on strike and demanded shoes and long pants , so they might look like doctors . In the nursing school , young Guamanian girls from strict Spanish-Catholic families were placed in the same dormitory with warmhearted maidens from remote islands ; one or two of the latter followed what can best be described as a substantially less rigid moral code . The parents of the proper Guamanian girls were horrified , pulled their daughters out of school , and could be appeased only by the adoption and enforcement of strict rules and regulations for the whole nursing school . " Actually , " one Navy nurse said later , " the whole affair was the result of a little misunderstanding . We 'd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mark of every good nurse . But I guess we did n't make it clear that the ' tender loving care ' was to be rendered exclusively to the patients , not to the medical students . " Meanwhile , education was pushed as fast as the students could absorb it . They 73 were taught English , history and arithmetic , They were taught simple anatomy , chemistry , physiology , pharmacology and bacteriology . When they were ready for bedside teaching , they moved over to the big Navy hospital for classes in medicine , obstetrics , pediatrics , anesthesiology , radiology and surgery . " In surgery , " says a Navy doctor , " we taught them mostly the procedures for appendicitis and the like . They were not to attempt more serious operations , except in an absolute emergency . If it was elective surgery , if there was n't any emergency , they were supposed to send the patients up to us . " In their high-powered , four-year course , it was estimated that the students were given the equivalent of 60 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the standard four-year medical-school program . The training was aimed at enabling them to cope with roughly 80 per cent of all medical problems . " Remember that you will be under the supervision of Navy doctors in the field , " they were told . " Du not attempt any treatment that you have not been taught . Send word for help , and we will send a plane to get your patient . " In 1950 and 1951 , when the first two classes graduated , the young practitioners were returned to their islands and installed in small hospitals which the Navy had built for them . It soon became apparent that they had learned their lessons well . It also became apparent that they could rise to emergencies . For example , on the island of Tinian , a workman was thrown from a truck and suffered a fractured skull , multiple head injuries and a dislocated shoulder . " I have done for my patient what I could , " the native practitioner reported by radio , " but I think he needs more attention . Please @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bomber from Guam . It landed at Tinian , picked up the patient and flew back to Guam , where a waiting ambulance rushed him to the Navy Hospital . There a team of doctors gathered to examine the victim . " I do n't know what we expected , " one of the doctors said afterward . " Maybe a cockeyed mess of bandages , adhesive tape and baling wire . But we found the patient was in excellent condition , with his shoulder set and his head wounds immaculately dressed . There was nothing for us to do but check him with X rays and then put him to bed . He made LI complete and uneventful recovery . The native medic had done a perfect job . " Young Jose Chong. scarcely six months out of medical-practitioner 's school , faced a different emergency one night when he was called to the bedside of a pretty young expectant mother in an island hospital . In the eighth month of her first pregnancy , she had suddenly been stricken with abdominal pain and severe hemorrhage . The practitioner first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his own blood . Then he stood by the side of her bed and grasped her hands in his . " It will be necessary to operate , " he told hcr . " You must have a Caesarean operation . I have not done this operation myself , but I have watched it done four times by the Americans . I think I can do it . Will you trust me ' ? " " Yes , go ahead , " said the woman . Chong then performed his first Caesarean operation and delivered a healthy , five-pound baby boy . " I was very gratified , " said the practitioner . " As a matter of fact , my patient tells me afterward she is very gratified also . This patient is my wife . " Working under the gradually decreasing supervision of American physicians , the medical practitioners have dune almost every kind of surgery , and some they have done without any supervision at all . They have performed operations not only for obstetrical complications and appendicitis but also fur hernia . strangulation of the bowel , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tubes , gall-bladder disease , cleft palate and harelip . They have repaired skull fractures , broken limbs and even the tricky Culles 's fracture of the wrist . They have done partial gastrectomies  --  removal of a portion of the stomach  --  for cancer or perforated stomach ulcer . They have operated on the eye and removed blinding cataracts . " By and large , " claims one surgeon who has viewed this work , " their results and their surgical mortality are not substantially different from those at an institution like Massachusetts General Hospital . " The practitioners have successfully treated heart disease , arthritis and asthma . They have slashed maternal mortality rates until these compare favorably with figures in the United States . They have done almost as well with infant mortality rates . They have practically banished typhoid fever and vitamin deficiencies . " We still have infestations of intestinal worms , " reports one of them . " And we still have too many cases of tetanus . Some women insist on having their babies at home , without any help from even our nurses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ umbilical *cord with dirty scissors . " The native practitioners have made a better mark in their light against yaws , the terrible spirochete infection with its raspberry-colored sores and ulcers . Once it afflicted tens of thousands of victims in these islands . During the past four years , thanks to the practitioners and their diligent use of penicillin , only one new case has been detected . Tuberculosis , for a century the great killer of island peoples , has been fought until the death rate is now about as low as that in America . Since last year the practitioners have been using BCG vaccine in an island-by-island campaign , and hope to eradicate the white plague forever . Leprosy , which was afflicting an estimated 200 victims as recently as fifteen years ago , has been nearly throttled by the combination of potent anuleprosy drugs , effective detection dragnets and remarkable medic-patient relationships . While the practitioners clearly know how to handle their medical equipment , they apparently also handle all native traditions and superstitions with the greatest delicacy . This holds true for romantic islands like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fabulous maidens dressed only in grass skirts . It holds for the distant groups like Tobi Island and Kapingamarangs which the practitioners visit only a few times a year with one of the trading expeditions . It also holds for the relatively sophisticated centers like Majuro , Truk and Koror . On Koror , for instance , the practitioners approve many of the old rues of puberty and childbirth . They have established what seems to be a mutually satisfactory arrangement with the few remaining old tribal medicine men , who continue to exorcise the devils of disease with herbs , incantations and magical signs . " They worked it out so these tribal medicine men do most of the physiotherapy  --  the massaging and application of hot packs  --  and much of the psychiatry , " claims an American health expert . Credit for the medical program in the islands can be appropriately shared by the Navy doctors , who started it , and the Trust Territory Administration of the Department of the Interior , which has operated the major portion of the area since 1951 . In that year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assigned to the Trust Territory Administration . with the Navy r ' taming administrative control of only -. span and the northern islands of the Marianas group . Headquarters for the new agency was established first in Honolulu and then moved to Guam , geographically one of the Mariana Islands , but an American possession since I898 . For the last three years the chief doctor under the administration has been Dr. I lame Eugene Macdonald , a wispy Maine brain surgeon with bright blue eyes , a bristling mustache and barely enough lung tissue to keep him alive . Born in Bangor m 1901 , he describes himself as a hard-bitten New Englander who spent nearly fifty years trying to get away from snow . " As far back as I can remember , " he says , " I 've been aiming for the tropics . Probably comes from reading too much Robert Louis Stevenson . " He went to the University of Maine  --  Rudy Vallee was one of his classmates  --  and then headed south . He got as far as the Medical College of Virginia . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Panama , but was forced to decline this because of family problems , Instead , he went to Massachusetts General Hospital to study Lain surgery . In 1933 he returned to Maine and started practice in the city of Portland . For most of the next two decades he combined a lively and successful career as a neurosurgeon with a personal battle against tuberculosis . In 1951 , while he was recovering from chest surgery , he spotted a classified advertisement in a medical journal . It began , " Wanted : Doctors to sit under palm trees in the South Seas . " He sent in his application . Months later , a secretary from the Department of the Interior telephoned him from Washington , D.C. " How long will it take you to go out to the Pacific ? " she asked . " Seventeen minutes , " he snapped . " I did n't mean exactly that , " " Oh , you 're in a hurry , " continued the surgeon . " Then I can be ready in ten : : When his appointment finally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Maine and rushed to Honolulu . Finding he was about to practice tropical medicine , he dashed to the local medical libraries and spent two weeks reading every available textbook on tropical diseases . Next he rushed to Guam and then on to the islands , and immediately started work . With true Yankee teal , he embarked on a double= time schedule . " Let 's go on that vaccination pro ; gram . " he ordered . " Let 's go with that sterilizer . Let 's go on fixing that roof . " The natives were both astounded and delighted . Within a few days , they were saying , " Let's-Go needs more sutures , " or " Let's-Go wants a nurse in surgery , " or " Anybody here seen Let's-Go ? " Later , as he learned to retard his tempo , he became known from one end of the Pacific to the other simply as Doctor Mac . Few men have become so widely beloved . When he first came to the Trust Territory Administration , he was one of more than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the work of the native medical practitioners . Since 1954. when he became medical director , he has released nearly all the Americans ? " I 've been hell on the career boys , " he says  --  and replaced them with Micronesians . One of the few remaining Americans is a sixty-eight-year-old Illinois dentist , Dr. Aaron Jaffe , a World War II lieutenant colonel who agreed to come to the Trust Territory in 1946 , . although he was not altogether sure in which ocean it was located . He has become famed throughout the Western Pacific . He began by going on his first ride in an outrigger canoe and sitting on the outrigger instead of the canoe , whereupon he was dumped into the ocean . On his first field trip . he was driven from one island by giant rack and took refuge in a canoe safely anchored in the lagoon . He was nearly terrorized by his first interpreter , a fifteeoyear-old Bikini T II ( Continued from Page 74 ) girl with a hairdo resembling a volcano in eruption . " 1 do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ibec me as particularly courageous , At the same time , however , he began gave hugei laukge friends by the thousands . He c Christmas parties for the island children . He distributed bubble gum in fantastic quantities . He taught the islanders to brush their teeth with everything from coconut fibers to whatever toothbrushes he could buy , beg , borrow or steal . He also showed his native aides how to clean teeth , fill cavities , make extractions , prepare excellent dentures , and prevent dental decay with the aid of sodium-fluoride applications . Today his campaign is beginning to pay off in the form of healthier teeth in the island children and fewer missing teeth in the adults . Only four civilian physicians remain in the Trust Territory . One of these is Dr. William Conover , a thirty-five-year-old Los Angeles surgeon , who is now medical director of the Palau district in the Western Carolines . He first came out to the Pacific in 1947 as a Navy doctor assigned to the Marshall Islands . In 1949. he returned to the States for additional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Angeles . " After six months of the smog and the traffic on Wilshire Boulevard , " he says , " I knew I had to come back to the Pacific again . " The Yap district is under Dr. John Elliott , a young Texan . Dr. Glenn Roark. a former medical missionary in South America , directs the medical work at Truk . Dr. Eugene Melnikof , Russian-born , but now an American citizen , is in charge on the little island of Rota , in the Marianas . " In two other enormous areas we 've pulled out all the American doctors , " says Doctor Mac . " We 've got good Micronesian medical practitioners there , and we 're letting them run their own show . " At Ponape , in the Eastern Carolines , the medical director is Ciro Barbosa , now the " old man " of the native medics . Described as an excellent technician with good judgment , he has won not only the respect of the thousands of native peoples in his district but also that of the Americans stationed there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to care for two American women , both facing difficult and possibly dangerous childbirth . A few weeks before their babies were due , they were visited by the island administrator . " We do n't want you to take any risks , " he told them . " You 'd better go to Guam and have your babies in the hospital there . " " Nothing doing , " said one of the women . " We 've already talked it over . We want to stay here and have Doctor Ciro take care of us . He 's the best there is . " Under Ciro Barbosa 's care , both women safely delivered their children . At Majuro , headquarters for the Marshall Islands district , the medical director is Arobati Flicking , born in the Gilbert Islands and educated by the Japanese before World War II . Later he was trained further by the Americans and then given a special year of postgraduate training at Hilo Memorial Hospital in Hawaii . In wartime medical circles , Arobati had won fame when he found he could give coconut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ material to save the lives of his starving patients With Arobati in the Marshalls are Isaac Lanai , Navy-trained and now the eye specialist for the whole Trust Territory , and John laman , one of the top i surgeons in the area . One of lalnan 's SATU It DAV EVEHIND POST most eloquent supporters ill a high American official who was suddenly stricken with violent abdominal pains . " You have a very bad appendix , " the practitioner told him . " In your case , we can not take even the slightest chance . A Navy plane is already on the way to take you to the Guam hospital . The chief of surgery there will do the operation himself , " " For heaven 's sake . why go to Guam ? " asked the American . " You 're here . You 're the surgeon 1 want . Call off that plane and let 's get to the operating room . " The official recovered smoothly , and declared delightedly , " They could n't have done better at the Mayo Clinic . " Significantly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practitioners is supported by excellent case records , good hospital equipment , modern drugs and supplies of some of ' the best medical journals . The issues of the journals are obviously well read . Some medical experts have indicated a need for improved nursing care in the Trust Territory , but few have criticized the devotion of the nurses themselves . Many of these young women are married , with small children of their own . Repeatedly , they have left their own families to provide care for others . They have gone alone for three months at a time to run remote island dispensaries . Many have left their husbands and children for as long as a year to take graduate training at institutions like Leahi Hospital in Honolulu . Perhaps the most difficult problem for the supervising American doctors has been learning to accept the pace , or tempo , of the islands . " You ca n't make things rush out here , " says one of them , " You tell the medical practitioners what you want . Then you go away and stay away . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and in their own time . " This does not mean that the island medics ca n't more fast when speed is indicated . For example , one of the most memorable emergencies in this area occurred when a practitioner named Nlasats Kumangai was called to sec a demented woman whose throat had been slashed from ear to car . A few minutes later he put in a radiotelephone call to an American surgeon on another island . " 1 have a difficult problem here , " he began . " This poor lady wished to commit suicide . " He described the wound . " That 's terrible . " said the surgeon . " Can you stop the bleeding ? " " The bleeding is stopped . I tied off all bleeding vessels . " " Is she breathing ? " " Yes , " said Masao , " she breathes . " " Well , you 'd better put in a tracheal tube so she 'll have a good airway . Do you know how to put one in ? " " I do not think I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have already done it . The tube is in . " " You 've done all this so fast ? Swell ! But what 's your difficult problem ' ? " " Oh , " said the practitioner , " I do not know how to write all this in the hospital recrecords. " . e " opinion of one distinguished American medical leader , such a case helps reveal the real significance of the Micronesian medical practitioners . " Those native medics have been criti-cize4 ? on the grounds of what they ca n't do , . it was asserted recently by Dr. Paul Hawley , outspoken director of the American College of Surgeons . " This is a smug , ridiculous and dangerous attitude . The important thing is what they can do . No honest American doctor can consider their accomplishments without getting a healthy feeling of humility . It 's a feeling that could benefit all of us. "                     