@@476866

She has defied the best professional advice , made plenty of enemies ... but she also has disappointed a lot of people who hoped she would make a mess of her job in Rome . THE SETTING is so right it is almost theatrical . The Palazzo Boncompagni , which houses the U. S. Embassy in Rome , is a handsome Renaissance-style building , built in the late 1870s for a wealthy Roman prince ? and is as genuine an imitation of the real thing as a Newport villa . In the eighties , an American Ambassador who had been a Civil War general lived there ; later it was the residence of the Queen Mother ? a clever and handsome blonde ? who reigned over fashionable , literary , political , and official Rome until her death in 1926 . There is also something ironically suitable about the location : at the turn of Via Veneto , one block from the American tourists ' hangout , the Excelsior Hotel , and from the sidewalk cafes whererefugees from Hollywood endlessly plan movies which are sometimes made . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sat for the first time at the desk of the United States Ambassador to Italy , in the splendidly decorated " Louis XV " room which had once been the Queen Mother 's private drawing-room . Behind her desk , on a pedestal to the right , was the American flag , and , to her left , her own Ambassadorial flag with the forty-eight white stars on the blue background , which she is entitled to fly from the mast of any warship she sails on . On her desk she could read her favorite prayer , written in ye olde tea shoppe 's script and suitably framed : " Lord , Thou knowest I shall be verie busie this day . I may forget Thee . Do not forget me. ? Lord Astley before the battle of Edgehill . " ( On a side table she later placed a motto , " And above all , not too much zeal. ? Talleyrand , " perhaps not so much to remind herself of its advice as to prevent other people from offering it to her . ) At the end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meetings , with a large map hanging over it , a projection of the hemispheres seen from the North Pole , indispensable for global thinking . The Embassy staff of more than a thousand employees , American and Italian , were breathlessly alert for new orders . Official Rome was curious ; amused , and skeptical ? waiting for the new United States Ambassador to make a fool of herself and go home , so that serious business could be resumed . Jokes and gossip had preceded her arrival . Nobody believed the Luce experiment would last long . It was said that she had accepted the job as one does a decoration , something to add to her official biography . ALL THIS she knew . And she knew also that she was facing one of the'most difficult countries to understand and advise . ( Italy is nobody 's oyster . Curzio Malaparte said that Mussolini told him in despair : " To govern Italy is not only impossible . It is useless . " ) If this had been 1903 , or even 1913 , the job would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States , aside from some set views about a few particular problems , had no foreign policy just as it had no cognac . It bought the best , whenever it needed it , old French brandy and matured Downing Street views . The American Ambassador in Rome had little to worry about . He was usually a distinguished but elderly businessman , who sat at his desk a couple of hours a day , and spent the rest of his time visiting churches and museums , exploring late archaeological finds , or riding to hounds with his French , British , and Imperial German colleagues . He frequented the Royal Court with an eagerness and cordiality which only stanch republicans could afford to show and was great friends with the Roman aristocracy , who owned the most stupendous palazzi and the best cooks . There were few problems to deal with , mostly related to postal rates , immigration , commerce , navigation , and sanitary precautions . Even in April 1953 , had Clare Boothe Luce been another person ? a career diplomat or the woman many people who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might still have been a fairly easy one . There is no longer a Royal Court , of course , where she could play the part of the American grande dame ; there are no brilliant military parades of the King 's Guards , the Piemonte Reale Dragoons , or other historic units . ( What is left of the Army is now dressed in NATO khaki and rides in Italian jeeps . ) Still , Rome is one of the last great capitals . There is the oldest and closest society in Europe , with names reverberating down the corridor of centuries , with immense painzzi in town and ruined family seats in the country , where dinners are still served by bewigged and powdered flunkies in eighteenth-century liveries , one for each guest , and where an empty throne , covered with red damask , always waits for the Pope 's visit . There is , of course , the pomp of the Vatican court and the pageantry of church functions . There are scheming dowagers , subtle Monsignori , shrewd politicians , clever writers , and some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ era , who still know how to court a woman of rank in an unobtrusive but dangerous way . Rome teems with gossip and intrigues , fascinating to follow or to try one 's hand in . Everybody sooner or later comes through RoMe . It is beautiful , decayed , skeptical , carnal , energetic , and immortal . Sir Victor Mallet , who was the British Ambassador at the time , told Mrs. Luce , when she arrived , not to worry , to go to the office only in the morning , see as few people as possible , leave everything to her staff , read no official reports or men-Iolanda , take long siestas , and enjoy herself in the afternoon . Rosie von Waldeck , a good friend who stayed with her a while , sharply reminded her of the working habits of the German Ambassador to the Kremlin in 1917 and 1918 : he slept all day , gave parties every night , and moved in the inner circles of the Revolution by entertaining Bolshevik leaders till dawn , having discovered something which has since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Talleyrand 's advice about zeal also was quoted , during those first months , till she and her husband winced . THE STAGE , THE WORLD , THE CHURCH F COURSE Mrs. Luce could do none of these things . Her appearance is decep-tive to Europeans . She looks like an idle , soigne lady , simply but smartly dressed , bearing herself with almost queenly dignity . The hair is silky blond , the eyes are water blue and worried , the pale face has something medieval and Flemish in its stiffness , which , of course , could also be New England and Puritan . Her manner is " society " : she is almost always extremely kind and often listens to the answers to her questions . For a well known satirical playwright , her repar-tee is remarkably subdued : she rarely allows herself the satisfaction of a good biting line . The real woman is something quite different . Italians know little or nothing about her meager and severe childhood and the contrasting home environment of culture which bred in her a fiery polemic quality . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made a modest living , and the granddaughter of a Baptist minister , she grew up in Old Greenwich , Connecticut , attended Saint Mary 's school in Garden City , New York , and later Miss Mason 's in Tarrytown . Theoretically , she might have become a pro-Roosevelt leftist , but her personal fight against vested interests took a conservative turn . During a European tour in the 1920s with her mother and stepfather , Albert E. Austin , an ex-Congressman , she was stirred by the battlefields , the hospitals , and the devastating inflation . She decided to become a journalist so that she could " really do something about it . " She later went to work for Mrs. 0 . H. P. Belmont in the cause of equal rights for women and flew in rickety planes distributing handbills from the air " to help make women 's influence felt more strongly in American politics . " Her marriage to wealthy George Tuttle Brokaw went on the rocks in 1929 , and she started her career in journalism . She got a job at Vogue and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1932 . A year later she published a book , Stuffed Shirts , a satire on tycoons and socialites , written not ( as a left-wing liberal would have done it ) from the sidewalk looking into the lighted windows but scornfully from the inside . " The Women , " her most successful play , which was presented on Broadway in 1936 , attacked the vulgar new rich , and " Kiss the Boys Good-by , " struck at the illusions of the " intellectuals " of the appeasement era . When , in 1939 , her third play , " Margin for Error , " started a longish run , it was the only successful anti-Nazi play on Broadway . Her attacks against contemporary society all tended to be fundamentally in defense of traditional values , In 1935 she was married to Henry R. Luce , head of the Time-Life empire , but , restlessly active , she continued to write new plays , articles , hooks . After war broke out she became a correspondent for Life . She made tours of the Philippines and of India @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elected Representative from Connecticut . The first woman member of the House Military Affairs Committee , she had seen moreof the war than any of her male colleagues . During her four years in Congress , she was energetically in favor of military preparedness , foreign aid , admission of refugees , equal rights for Negroes , fair employment practices , and " a healthier relationship between labor and capital . " Assuming the role of Cassandra , she attacked appeasement of Soviet Russia , battled against the Yalta and Teheran agreements , and warned her countrymen against Russia 's aggressive aims long before this campaign became fashionable . To the vast surprise of the public , she became a Catholic convert in February 1946 , shortly after the death of her daughter in an automobile accident . She explained her spiritual vicissitudes in The Real Reason , published the next year . At the end of her political career she resumed her writing and lecturing , this time with a new point of view , the Catholic conception of life ? in which she had found a coherent framework for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ added a stern-and uncompromising tendency to battle against all sins , errors , and misconceptions , which is more Puritan than Roman . ( In Italy she discovered that most people were unconscious Catholics , thought little about the religion which is part of their lives , and sometimes made jokes about the Cardinals and the Pope . " I go to mass every morning , " she said . " I seem to be the only one . " ) Her literary activities came to an end , for the time being , when she started campaigning for General Dwight D. Eisenhower 's election . She did all she could to secure his nomination , getting herself sent as a Connecticut delegate to the Republican Convention in Chicago in 1952 . At the end of the year Eisenhower appointed her Ambassador to Italy . THE AMBASSADOR WHO WORKS NO , WHEN you know how she got there you can not imagine Mrs. Luce in Rome taking afternoons off and , like a seasoned diplomat , letting things flow their fatal way . To begin with , the American Embassy is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization in the whole city where nobody takes a nap in the afternoon : after lunch , on hot summer days , it hums with life , when the streets are empty and the shops closed . American office routine keeps mountains of mimeographed paper circulating from room to room , most of it arriving sooner or later on the Ambassador 's desk . Complicated problems arise daily . The United States Ambassador in Rome is responsible , among many things . for the operation in Italy of the Foreign Operations Administration , the Mutual Defense Assistance Program , the Military Assistance Advisory Group , the U. S. Escapee Program , the U. S. Battle Monuments Commission , the U. S. Information Service with branches in the principal Italian cities , the U. S. Narcotics Attach ? Office , the Treaty Claims Office , the Navy Purchasing Office , the Veterans Office , the American Commission for Cultural Exchange with Italy , the U. S. Foreign Building Operations , the Army , Navy , and Air Force Attaches , the Foreign Agricultural Service , the U. S. Representative in Trieste , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ambassador is the only person who can give American policy in Italy a uniform direction . From any one of these offices can come , any day , unexpectedly , the big blunder which might wreck United States policy in Italy and embarrass the President . They must be watched . HER TYPICAL day is easily the most strenuous in Rome . Between 8:30 and 9:30 she handles personal matters with her private secretary at Villa Taverna , the handsome Renaissance villa owned by the Department of State for the residence of the Ambassador . Between 9:30 and one o'clock she is at her desk at the Embassy , each quarter of an hour filled with calls , staff meetings , briefings , perusal of decoded telegrams , and dictation . Lunch at her residence is always official : she invites Italian politicians , Ministers , other Ambassadors , and members of her staff , in turn , to discuss current events and problems ; any visiting American who has a valid introduction to her ; former colleagues in the House of Representatives ; friends from Washington ( a term which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Pentagon , and National Press Club ) who happen to be traveling through . Clare Boothe Luce is now considered one of the sights of Rome like the Colosseum and Saint Peter 's . She carefully receives everybody . The number of Italians she manages to see is enormous : industrialists , bankers , princes , Socialists , labor leaders , journalists , astronomers , actors , and musicians . Business is resumed at her office at 3:30 and goes on till 7:30 or eight o'clock . Almost every evening , between 7:30 and nine , she must appear at a diplomatic cocktail party or two . At nine , she presides over a large formal dinner at Villa Taverna , unless she is somebody 's guest at a similarly formal dinner party elsewhere . Bedtime comes at indefinite hours , before midnight if she manages to disappear inconspicuously , much later sometimes if she is interested in the information she can get from her guests . Very seldom she manages to run away and have an early small dinner in a trattoria with a few people she really wants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a clever and well informed diplomat . The only sure way to get her to accept a dinner invitation is to ask her alone with a hand-picked group of men who know all the answers , the kind she would want to talk to if she were still an active journalist . Her knowledge of Italian is sufficient for her to follow the conversation and to answer with slow , faltering , but exact words . She studies the language in her spare time , on Sunday morning or before going to sleep at night , often by listening to recent Italian books or articles , recorded for her on magnetic tape . Her knowledge of French is better than average . Most of her days vary from the typical . Last autumn , in two weeks picked at random , she went to Salerno to view flood devastation , spoke to every patient in every hospital , and arranged to have fourteen American military trucks full of emergency supplies sent from - Leghorn . The following day , in Naples , she stamped the 10,000th visa under the Refugee Relief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Rome , she awarded the Legion of Merit on behalf of the President to General Aldo Urbani , on his last day as Chief of Staff for the Air Force ; gave a " friendship dinner " for top Italian , British , Yugoslav , and American officials ; then , on the same evening , attended the Marine Corps Birthday Celebration Ball , where she cut the cake and played the trap drums . During the same period , she also reviewed American troops in Leghorn , flew to Sardinia for a two-day program of ceremonies , and attended the regular number of national holiday receptions at other Embassies , exchanged half-a-dozen protocol calls with newly arrived diplomats , appeared on TV and spoke on the radio for welfare appeals , had several meetings with Admiral Fechteler , Commander in Chief , Southern Europe , NATO , attended official dinners and luncheons , and carried on routine Embassy work during her stays in Rome . If Mrs. Luce possessed the strength of a horse , all this extra work would be understandable . But she is frail and always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mountain village , among cows and waterfalls , to regain her strength . She drives herself relentlessly . She smokes too much . Trained in journalism , she is constantly on a deadline , trying to define indefinable situations , to suggest plans of immediate action , to resolve impossible dilemmas . In a city where clays , months , years do not matter , where decisions are postponed in the hope that the lapse of time will make them unnecessary , she seems to be the only person who hears the ticking of history 's meter . At the most frivolous moment , during a cocktail party , at a ball , she will take somebody aside and Fervently ask : " Now , this is a vital question . I would like you to answer only after you have thought about it . What do you think of Don Sturzo 's latest pronouncement ? " or , " What do you think of the latest vote in Parliament ? " HENRY LUCE BY HENRY JAMES THE BEST of the bargain is Henry Luce 's . In Rome he lives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He had often said , " Some clay I will go to Europe , to Asia , anywhere , and study one country , not just move from place to place . Learn the language , get to know the people , their philosophy of life , their hopes , past , and present . " The Italy he has come to is a fascinating and irritating place , rich with experience , crackling with the challenge of Communism . Luce unconsciously fell into the role of a Henry James character , the honest , straightforward American , defending and promoting the simple ideas Americans abroad believe to be theirs above all : courage , private initiative , responsibility , honesty , independence from government aid and interference . He is often asked to speak , mostly at businessmen 's gatherings , and always takes great pains to explain his message , warning Italians about government encroachments , encouraging them to rely on their own strength . His speeches and his private conversations carry great weight . He was given the honorary rank of Minister , for correct placing at dinner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says : " I only help Mrs. Luce at social gatherings . I pour tea . " In reality he carries out a leisurely and unofficial flanking action , often doing things and making contacts which would be awkward for her . ( He is very proud of her . He heartily concluded a speech with the words : " Thank God for the American Ambassador . " ) He has organized his life in order to he in Italy half of the time , having discovered that his publishing business can be run efficiently from a distance . In Rome his telephone does not ring as often as in New York , his editors can communicate with him only by cable or by letter , appointments are fewer . In Rome there is more time to talk to American " personalities " than in New York or Washington : in Italy they have nothing much else to do . He can study long-range ' plans , examine editorial policy , and do some writing . Copies of his magazines reach his desk by air mail one or two clays ahead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office in Corso d'Italia , a couple of doors from the Communist Confederation of Labor , with large windows overlooking the ancient trees of Villa Borghese . ( He could not work in the Embassy , of course , and he did not want to embarrass the Rome office of Time and Life with his presence . ) He has a small staff , one assistant , three secretaries , one chauffeur and errand boy . He takes Italian lessons , reads the Bible in Italian ( the fact that he knows it in English almost by heart helps ) and reads Italian versions of well known nursery tales . He loves a long lunch with a well-informed Italian who tries to answer his many questions , ranging from ethics to theology , from politics to the culinary art , which come down to one : the fundamental difference between Protestant , industrial , modern America as represented by Henry Luce and Italy as represented by his guest . When he travels , he takes on one city at a time , planning with care and seeing everybody worth knowing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enjoyed half a century ago . He studies only the problems that really interest him , can see anybody in Italy by merely expressing a desire , or call on the Time-Life staffs all over the world to dig up background material and follow developments in a particular field . In the privacy of their apartment , the Luces debate all details of United States policy in Italy . They do not always see eye to eye . Clare Boothe Luce is a self-confessed pessimist who does not allow her doubts about the final outcome to interfere with her activity . Henry Luce is an optimist , impatient with the warnings of old Italian hands and professional diplomats . He likes to say : " There is really no problem in this country which a little courage and some effort can not solve . " When a course of action is suggested , he always asks : " What good will come of it ? " She wants to know : " What 's the worst that can happen ? " Final decisions , of course , are Mrs. Luce 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which are extremely heavy ? to run an Ambassador 's residence with nineteen servants , six gardeners , and a dining-room seating forty-two : to dress the Ambassador appropriately ; and to add to the Luce collection of Impressionists and Chinese art ? are his , because his is the money . HOW WELL DOES IT WORK T HE IMPACT of the Luce household on recent Italian political developments is difficult to estimate . How successful is the Luce experiment ? not merely of placing a woman in a responsible diplomatic post ( something which the Russians really invented long ago ) but of placing this particular woman , backed by her husband 's power and advice ? There is , of course , something mechanical in the operation of international affairs which should not be underestimated . State Department decisions , plus the U. S. Defense budget , have their inevitable influence on Communist power . To be sure , the Luces are very popular ? everywhere they go they are followed like movie stars ; composers dedicate songs to her ; poor people write hundreds of letters a day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pour into the Embassy . This prestige is partly their own , because of their obvious interest in the welfare of the country . But it is also the United States ' in general . To most Italians Mrs. Luce is " America , " a female personification of a great friendly country , the symbol of hope in a world of despair . Nevertheless , it is fair to admit that , perhaps not propter hoc , the situation has radically changed in Italy since the Luces arrived . Clare Boothe Luce came to Rome intimidated by the size of the task she had set for herself . Moreover , she was naturally embarrassed by the dangerous vicinity of the Vatican . Many Americans were afraid their predominately Protestant country would become involved in Popish intrigues ; many Italians were afraid the Christian Democratic hegemony would be reinforced with American help ; and Vatican circles were afraid that American Catholic political trends mightpredominate in Italy , through the offices of the American Ambassador . ( The Vatican is slightly to the left of Cardinal Spellman . ) But Mrs. Luce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at great pontifical ceremonies , when all the diplomatic corps is invited . Once she came within a few feet of him , during the inauguration of the North American College . Pius XII , walking through the crowd waving his hand iii blessing , suddenly saw her and moved as if to come nearer . She looked nervously at the news photographers and hid behind some fat prelates . The Pope , probably understanding her gesture , walked on . However , she does see the Pope 's two nephews , Carlo and Marcantonio Pacelli , who are personal friends . She sees almost all the American bishops and archbishops , when they come to Rome for their ad hmina visits and ask to be received . She can not refuse them . A United States Senator , who had opposed her appointment on the ground that she was a Catholic convert , recently wrote her a letter asking her to see that a nephew of his traveling through Italy be received by Pius XII . Mrs. Luce enjoyed answering that she could not grant the request , as she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all other American visitors , however , audiences are arranged informally by an Embassy official , as a matter of routine . THE TASKS she had set herself to do in Italy were primarily three : Communism had to be defeated , the Trieste problem settled , and the country solidly embedded in the Western military alliance . The Trieste question was the key , for it prevented a vigorous , independent , and clearly understood foreign policy of collaboration with Yugoslavia and smaller Eastern Mediterranean nations . At the same time , Italy 's participation in Western defense was flabby and half-hearted because of the large Communist opposition and because of the presence on Italian soil of British and American Occupation troops . In applying her energies to finding an acceptable solution to the Italian-Yugoslav dispute , Mrs. Luce prodded the Embassy , the State Department , and the Foreign Office for months . When , after more than a year of negotiations between the two countries , the Trieste albatross was cut from the Italian government 's neck , the settlement was widely conceded to be a victory for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to adopt a more vigorous anti-Communist policy have been less successful . She pleaded first with the late Prime Minister De Gasperi and with Pella later ; lately she has been after Mario Scelba . Their answers have always been evasive . Yes , Madame was right , the problem was an urgent one , not a day should be lost . Still nothing was ever done . She was baffled by the apparent lack of determination she found in most everybody . " What can be done ? " she would dramatically ask her friends . " What can 1 , what can the government of the United States do ? " The reasons why nothing could be done right away were many . Communists in Italy control one-third of the electorate and are not merely a foreign-dominated conspiracy but also the largest and most powerful labor party , the only one which actively defends the workers ' interests . Any violent anti-Communist policy would remind people of Fascism , repugnant to the new , postwar political leaders , whose authority comes from their long stand against Mussolini . What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being subservient to American orders . Finally , the Christian Democrats have resented the publicity she has given to their weakness and to the Communists ' gains , naturally preferring to play up their modest achievements . The American Ambassador could not bear to waste time on subtle diplomatic maneuvers , but dramatically advertised the danger of Communism in every possible way ? in her speeches , in off-the-record talks to Rome correspondents , in conversation , and when in Washington , in leaks to a few favorite columnists . She has been ably helped in all this by her husband . Between them they certainly have helped to create a new atmosphere in Italy , a widespread feeling that something must be done quickly . In a few cases , the Embassy has intervened more directly . For example , the United States is paying for a considerable amount of military equipment , manufactured in Europe , for the use of the NATO forces , under the so-called offshore procurement program , Until recently all such contracts were awarded , almost . automatically , to the lowest bidders . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the workers were under the domination of Communist leadership ? with the result that the Communists have lost ground in a number of recent trade union elections . The real obstacles in hcr path must not be underestimated . A beautiful and ambitiouswoman , with the backing of a powerful government publicity organization , she soon won the crowd . But leading Italians , jealous of male prerogatives , resented her dominant position . At first she provoked hostility front every quarter . Palazzo Chigi officials treated her gingerly , as one more American oddity , a strange joke . Women , of course , hated her . Foreign diplomats derided her informal , enthusiastic , and revolutionary methods of doing business . Roman high society , Papal aristocracy , and the newly rich found her not sufficiently flattered by their invitations , which she seldom accepted . Ordinary people were irritated by the royal splendor of her life , the many servants , the jewels , and the beautiful clothes . Communists made her the butt of all their jokes : for them she was Enemy Number One . Togliatti @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her of bringing bad luck . ( She complained : " The government defended me from all his false charges but nobody remembered to deny that I am an ' old lady ' . " ) Anti-Communists resented her open and tireless nagging . Fascists called her a " decadent democrat , " democrats and progressives accused her of trying to revive Fascism . The British too were alarmed . They thought that , by her efforts to bring about an Italo-Yugoslav rapprochement , she was endangering the subtly engineered equilibrium of forces in the Mediterranean . The British press kept alive the story of her imminent resignation . WILL SHE FALL ON HER FACE ? VERYBODY waited for mistakes . When in May 1953 she spoke to the American Chamber of Commerce in Milan , saying what was obvious to all ? that should the general elections of the following month go the wrong way , Italy would no longer receive the same amount of American aid ? everybody happily accused her of having greatly helped the Communists . As a matter of fact , similar words had been quietly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former U. S. Ambassador to Rome , and by George Marshall , then Secretary of State ? and had been plastered on all Italian walls , at the time , with excellent results . She passed another difficult moment when L'Elo-opeo ( a pm-Government , anti-Communist weekly ) printed what was purported to be an off-the-record speech she had made to American journalists , at a Mayflower Hotel luncheon in Washington in the summer of 1953 . Some of the things attributed to her sounded authentic , a few were obvious examples of distorted reporting , others were plainly absurd . The opposition press attacked her violently . Professional diplomats deplored her outspoken language . Her remarks to Mr. James Reston of the New York Times , on the predominance of Communist trade unions in the Italian plants working for U. S. defense projects , provoked further objections . As the months passed , Mrs. Luce learned to hide her hand more and to abide by some of the traditional rules of the diplomatic craft . Veterans grudgingly admired her fast flying trip to Rome , in the summer of 1954 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gasperi , when she forced all other Ambassadors to leave beaches and golf links to follow suit . It was a good political gesture , especially since she and De Gasperi had not got on well together . At the funeral she found a clever way to express her regrets . She said : " Maybe De Gasperi 's death is a gain for Italy . All countries must have a past , a present , and a future . Democratic Italy had no past . Now the memory of her late Prime Minister is her past . " In the United States , the deadline for the Administration may be 1956 .. In Rome , as everybody knows , it is the Italian general elections of 1958 . Three years are not enough to solve Italy 's fundamental problems , but they might he enough to put the Communists on the defensive . There was substantial evidence early this year that the Scelba Administration was waking up . In December 1954 , about twenty months after Mrs. Luce arrived in Rome , the Cabinet finally determined to fight Communists wherever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) to eliminate them from important posts in the Ministries , the police , and the armed forces ; ( 2 ) to curtail their monopoly of exports and imports across the Iron Curtain and their stranglehold on tax collections in municipalities under Communist party control ; and ( 3 ) to threaten diplomatic breaks with Communist satellites which continue anti-Italian broadcasts written by Italian Communists in Rome . This sudden brave stand of the Scclba Government was due to several factors . The new Soviet foreign policy based on " co-existence " shackled the Italian Communist party for the time being , forbidding attempts to seize power legally or illegally . Then , too , the party has been weakened by internal squabbles , the illness of Palmiro Togliatti , the Communist boss , and apparently by a first small infection of disillusionment among the rank-and-file workers . Hence it is safer to oppose the Communists . At the same time , the Scelba leadership ? criticized on all sides for its feebleness and confronted by a new challenge by the election in May of a leftist President of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Nothing , to be sure , is constant in postwar Italy ? but since 1953 the will to resist Communism undoubtedly has steadied . It is equally indisputable that one reason for this change has been the persistent pressure of Clare Boothe Luce and her formidable husband . Moreover , so long as they remain in Rome , it is a safe guess that the exertions of the blonde lady of the Palazzo Boncompagni will be unflagging ? and by far the most dramatic American performance Rome has ever seen .                     