@@476249

A FORMER federal judge , discussing the handling of newsworthy trials by the press and radio , recently wrote : " If you or I wrote upon a little memorandum , I think Witness X is a liar and you should not believe a word he says , ' and if you or I handed that memorandum on the courthouse steps to a juror , we may be sure that whoever was trying that case would send the bailiff to fetch us forthwith before the court where we would be dealt with summarily . Why should it make a difference that I have a big machine which multiplies that memorandum into a million copies and that I have a newsboy deliver it to the jury for me ? " Readers who followed the newspaper accounts of the two trials in Federal Court of Alger Hiss for perjury will realize that former Federal judge Simon H. Rifkind must have had in mind the Hiss case as well as other recent trials when he wrote the above paragraph . It appeared in an article entitled " When the Press Collides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Bar Bulletin of the New York County Lawyers Association . Judge Rifkind wrote that he was not so much attacking the press as underscoring a conflict within the Constitution itself : the incompatibility of the First Amendment , which guarantees freedom of speech and the press , and the Fifth , which assures every individual of due process ? a fair trial . That the First might one day override the Fifth could not have been foreseen by the framers of the Bill of Rights . For they lived before the days of powerful mass media , which are not always judicial in their handling of a noteworthy criminal case . It will be recalled that the motives of witnesses who appeared for Hiss , including two United States Supreme Court justices , were impugned by columnists , that evidence ruled out by the first trial judge immediately appeared in print , and that only a few newspapers felt obliged by our Anglo-Saxon tradition to give the defendant the benefit of the doubt until he was proven guilty . This is not the first or only time the press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nineteen-thirties the exploitation of the Hauptmann trial by the sensational press and some radio stations alarmed the American Bar Association . Last year the question whether an untrammeled press nullifies the individual 's right to a fair trial was revived not only by the press handling of the Hiss trials , but by the coverage in advance of the trial of Dr. Hermann N. Sander , charged in Manchester , New Hampshire , with a mercy killing ; by the press lynching in New York City of Raymond M. Fernandez and Mrs. Martha Beck , who were later convicted of the robbery and brutal murder of a Long Island woman ; and by the court controversy growing out of broadcasts by several Baltimore radio stations which told of the purported confession of a Negro arrested for the murder of a child . IN THE last two cases the damning evidence against the defendants ? their alleged confessions ? was obtained by the newspapers and radio stations from the police : these were examples of how law enforcement authorities often become a party to trial by press and radio . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Grand Rapids , Michigan , that they had murdered a woman there , with her child , as well as the one on Long island . They were extradited to New York and a change of venue was granted by the court from Nassau to Bronx County , on the ground that " the news accounts in Long Island newspapers of the couple 's alleged murder activities had created an atmosphere prejudicial to a fair trial there . " But the New York City newspapers had published full accounts , too , and they are read in the Bronx . Looking at criminal trials in general , Associate Justice Robert H. Jackson of the United States Supreme Court said last July in a speech at Leland Stanford University Law School : The custom of injecting evidence and opinions upon the trial by publicity proceeds to such a point that verdicts in highly publicized American cases will no more really represent the jurors ' dispassionate personal judgment on the legal evidence than do those of the " People 's Courts " we so criticize abroad . The law journals for their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fifth be held paramount ? Is it possible for a defendant to have a fair trial in court when the press acts as prosecutor , judge , and jury ? Should we be better off if our judges were as free as are English judges to fine and even imprison newspaper editors and publishers who go beyond official court proceedings in their reporting of a pending case ? Justice Felix Frankfurter , who Found occasion to complain of press practices long before he became involved in the first Hiss trial as a character witness , apparently thinks we should be better off . " It will hardly be claimed , " hewrote in 1946 , " that the press is less free in England than in the United States . Nor will any informed person deny that the administration of justice is more effective there than here . . . . Freedom of the press is not an end in itself , but a means to the end of a good society . " " The right to influence juries , " he added , " is no more freedom of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right to vote . " II w RrriNc , from the standpoint of one who had sat on the bench of the Southern District of New York for fourteen years , until May 1950 , Judge Rifkind in his article in the Bar Bulletin his view of the impact on the jury of reports of newsworthy cases : The process of erosion begins long before the trial . . . . By the time the jury panel is called to the courthouse its members have been living in a climate surcharged with emotion either favorable or unfavorable to one of the litigants . Then comes the trial itself . In the ordinary unpublicized case evidence that is irrelevant to the crime is excluded by the judge , after a conference with counsel , and the jury never hears of it , Judge Rifkind explained . But in a newsworthy case the excluded evidence is spread on the front pages of the newspapers and retailed over the radio . Or if the judge has ruled that a witness need not answer a question , " the jury can still get what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a hypothetical Mr. Sokolborn . " " So , " Judge Rifkind commented , " we have unworn testimony , unconfronted-witness testimony , uncross-examined testimony going to the jurors . " Jurors can be directed by the trial judge , and usually are , not to look at the newspapers or listen to the radio while the trial is on . A waste of breath , in Judge Rifkind 's opinion . A judge might as well " ask Katharine Hepburn not to read her press notices following an opening night . " The jurors could conceivably be locked up and insulated for the duration , but if they faced such a prospect , Judge Rifkind asked , could a sufficient number be empaneled to try a case that was sure to be protracted ? In his bill of particulars against the press Judge Rifkind might have quoted the late Clarence Darrow . Years ago the dean of criminal lawyers said : " As the law stands today there is no important criminal case where the newspapers are not guilty of contempt of court day after day . But nothing is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the courts and the lawyers do n't like to proceed against newspapers , which are too powerful . " Judge Rifkind might even have quoted a powerful newspaper on its own and other papers ' sins . in 1924 , as Leopold and Loeb were awaiting trial for the murder of the Franks child in Chicago , the Chicago Tribune said in an editorial : The courts are in the Colosseum . The Franks case . is an aggravated instance of what has happened with increasing frequency for two decades since the Thaw trial and before . .. . The dangerous initiative that newspapers have taken in judging and convicting out of court is journalistic lynch law . It is mob murder or mob acquittal in all but the overt act . Prosecuting attorneys now hasten to the papers with their theories and confessions . . . . Defense attorneys do the same thing . ... " Drastic restriction of publicity before the trial , " the Tribune declared , " must be imposed by law . " Now , twenty-six years later , the Tribune has reversed its field . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Hiss ' dear friend , " and never one to admit that anything good can come out of Britain , Colonel McCormick 's paper said in an editorial on February 1 , 1950 , that " the British operate what amounts to an official censorship , " which leaves their newspapers unable " to expose official corruption , vigilance against which is a primary function of American newspapers . " More recently , on November 27 , the Tribune , in commenting on Judge Rifkind 's article , said , " Hiss was brought to justice only because , first , the House Committee on Un-American Activities persisted in uncovering his record .. . and , second , unbiased American newspapers printed what the committee found out . " 1 Ess ready to endorse the British practice than Mr. Justice Frankfurter , ' the Su- j preme Court majority has so far failed to say at what point freedom of press and of speech on the radio impinges on due process . The Court has passed on a number of cases in which editors and publishers have been convicted of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's decision or all but threatened him before he had acted . In all these cases the Court majority has lined up on the side of freedom of the press . It has refused to concede that any judge could show such " a lack of firmness , wisdom , or horior " as to be swayed by what was said of him or to him in print . But so ? far the Court has avoided telling us whether jurors may be supposed to be as immune as judges to outside influence . In its October 1949 term the Court declined to review the case brought by the State of Maryland against three Baltimore radio stations which had been fined $300 each in a lower court , following their citation for contempt . They were charged under a rule similar to the English , adopted by the city bench in 1939 . The stations had broadcast the news that a thirty-one-year-old Negro , Eugene H. James , had been arrested for the brutal murder of a child , had confessed to the police and reenacted his crime ; and also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same woods some time previously and had served eight years in prison for a series of stabbing attacks on women . A commentator for one of the stations had prefaced his broadcast with , " Stand by for a sensation , " and used lurid details in reciting the story . This commentator was personally fined $100 . " The Court can not help but feel , " Judge John B. Gray said in his oral opinion , " that the broadcasts . . . must have had an indelible effect upon the public mind and that that effect was one that was bound to follow the members into the jury room . " Change of venue to another county , he continued , would not have helped the defendant , since one radio station had a radius of 750 miles . Screening of jurors would have been no better remedy , since questions put to prospective talesmen as to whether they had heard the radio story would have " driven just one more nail into James ' coffin . " As the case turned out , James , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was tried by a judge . He pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity , his counsel claiming that the confession , because it had been obtained improperly , was inadmissible . He was convicted by the trial judge of first degree murder and sentenced to death . It was not , of course , James ' guilt or innocence that concerned the court , but the principle involved ? the interference with due process . The radio stations claimed another principle was at stake ? free speech and a free press . They were supported in their appeal by the American Civil Liberties Union , while the Maryland Civil Liberties Committee , an affiliate , backed the contempt convictions on due process grounds ? proof of how thorny was the issue . T HE convictions were reversed by a majority of the Maryland Court of Ap- peals , which held that prospective jurors would not necessarily have been prejudiced by the radio broadcasts . " There are citizens , " the opinion read , " who by training and character are capable of the same firmness and impartiality as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only such citizens are invariably selected to sit on juries . ) The Maryland Court of Appeals buttressed its opinion by citing previous United States Supreme Court decisions in which a majority had held that the publication in question had not presented " a clear and present danger " to the administration of justice . In the Bridges case , in 1941 , Justice Hugo L. Black wrote that even if an out-of-court publication had had " a reasonable tendency . . . to interfere with the orderly administration of justice " it would not be sufficient to establish punishable contempt . " The substantial evil likely to result , " Mr. Justice Black wrote , " must be extremely serious and the degree of imminence extremely high before utterance can be punished . " ( This high court decision involved two contempt citations based on an allegedly threatening telegram Harry Bridges had sent a judge who was passing on a labor dispute , and three editorials about another case printed by the Los Angeles Times , calling on a judge not to grant probation to two " gorillas . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following Supreme Court precedent , Mr. Justice Frankfurter later wrote that the high court 's refusal to pass on the case did " not remotely imply approval or disapproval " of the state court 's action . In an unusual opinion he went out of his way to say , " Wise adjudication has its own time for ripening . " Then , as if to hint at his own views , Mr. Justice Frankfurter digested in an appendix thirteen English decisions , some recent and all twentieth-century , in which punishment was meted out to editors and publishers . The most recent English case cited , one decided in 1949 , was almost a dead ringer for the Maryland case . It concerned a man named Haigh , a so-called Bluebeard , who had been arrested and charged with murder . He was in custody when the London Daily Mirror said that he had committed other murders . The newspaper published a photograph of one of his alleged victims with a description of the manner in which the crime had been committed . Whereupon Haigh sued the editor and publisher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the publication was immaterial , but that the story had made it very difficult for Haigh to get a fair trial . Accordingly , the court sent the editor of the newspaper to jail for three months , fined the publisher ? 10,000 plus costs , and warned the directors of the company that the arm of the law would be long enough to reach even them in the future . In another case , decided in 1936 , a fine of Fifty pounds Ivas imposed for the use of a caption , " Attempt on the King 's Life , " accompanying a news film which depicted the arrest of a man after a revolver had fallen close to the King 's horse . Subsequently the man was charged merely with unlawful possession of firearms . W HILE English newspaper readers learned only that Klaus Fuchs had been arrested as an atomic spy ? and got no more facts until he pleaded guilty in court ? we in this country read all about his confession and the manner of his espionage long before the case was disposed of by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the persons charged with atomic spying here were convicted by the newspapers well before trial , whether or not they confessed . For the Federal Bureau of Investigation in each instance obligingly supplied full details about the alleged spies ' operations . Not Only defendants accused of treason and political crimes have their guilt prejudged . When an arrest has been made for a shocking crime , a favorite device of the police and prosecuting officials is to obtain a confession and publicize it , the better to advertise their own zeal . And otherwise sophisticated newspaper readers tend to believe that a confession reported by the authorities must be the real thing in this country , if not behind the Iron Curtain . Yet Professor Edwin Borchard of Yale University Law School , in his book , Convicting the Innocent , published in 1932 , cautioned that confessions , while they may often be conclusive , need to be scrutinized . " Persons charged with crime , " he wrote , are not infrequently of defective or inferior intellect , and even without the use of formal third-degree methods , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produces by persuasion or suggestion the desired result . . . . " . Where there has been no confession the public appetite for revenge , whetted by the press , may compel a defendant 's conviction . " In fourteen cases , " Professor Borchard wrote , " in which the frightful mistake committed might have been avoided , public opinion was excited and moved by revenge to demand a sacrifice , a demand to which prosecution and juries are not impervious . " Certainly it can be argued that if Hauptmann had in fact been innocent , no jury which valued its collective life would have dared acquit him . III S OME of those who think that " trial by newspaper " is a bogy and not a reality , insist that newspapers have no more influence on jurors than on voters . Jurors , the Yale Law Journal argues , are creatures of their environment , and press comment makes a strong impression on them only when it conforms to pre-existing stereotypes in the public mind . In other words , the newspapers tend to follow , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deny that when the newspapers publish a damaging revelation about apolitical candidate , as for instance the Hanley letter in the 1950 senatorial campaign in New York , it costs him votes . By the same token , publication of a confession made to the police , or of facts supplied by the latter about a defendant 's record , would seem bound to affect the judgment of prospective jurors . We have only to look honestly into our own minds to know that our attitude toward a defendant is colored by what we read or hear on the radio . And it seems doubtful that all prejudiced jurors can be weeded out by defense counsel 's questioning and use of challenges , a device not considered necessary in English courts . In Judge Rifkind 's opinion all jurors drawn to try a widely publicized case are bound to be " precharged human vessels " if they are not " blind , deaf- , or illiterate . " Those of us who have not served as jurors in criminal trials are more in the dark about what happens to jurors ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the judge to consider only the evidence presented in court , and made aware of their solemn responsibility . Will they be inevitably influenced , as Judge Rifkind claims , by what they may read or hear on the outside ? Social scientists say we do n't yet know the answer , but constitutional lawyers point out that even if one juror is swayed the harm is done . The jury system , they remind us , presupposes that all twelve jurors decide the case on the same body of evidence and arguments , and that all testimony be subject to cross-examination . Summing up the situation , Mr. Justice Jackson said at Palo Alto , " The trial judge has largely lost control of the influences that can be brought to bear upon the jury . " I T Is easier to describe an evil than it is to prescribe a wise remedy . Three possible reforms have been suggested : ( 1 ) legal restraints on press and radio ; ( 2 ) self-regulation by them ; ( 3 ) the cutting off of information now freely supplied by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reform , laws would have to be passed by Congress and the states making executives of newspapers and radio stations liable to fines and imprisonment if they reported ( a ) the criminal record of the accused ; ( b ) an alleged confession bearing on his guilt ; ( c ) any statement by a constituted authority bearing on his guilt ; ( d ) any person 's testimony as to the defendant 's guilt ; ( e ) any comment as to the credibility of a witness or prospective witness ; ( f ) any statement as to matter excluded from evidence by the court at the trial of the accused on his objection . This is certainly a drastic proposal . Some law journals have held that it would lead to the judicial tyranny that has been imputed to the English system . The Harvard Law Review disagrees , suggesting that this danger could be averted by providing for a trial by jury ? and under a different judge ? of the publisher or radio station owner charged with contempt . ( In the Baltimore case , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radio stations did not have the benefit of a jury trial . ) Yet even if those charged with contempt had the full benefit of due process , there would be grave danger that legislatures and lower courts which once started limiting the freedom of the press would , like the camel with its nose under the tent , go beyond protection of the rights of the defendant and limit all reporting of trials , as in England , to the court record . Then , when a Sacco and Vanzetti or a Scottsboro or a Samuel Instill case were up , the newspapers would not be free to ventilate such facts as they could ascertain , and to make their own comments . The view that nothing short of legal restraints will correct the situation has come close to being adopted by the Bill of Rights committee of the influential Association of the Bar of the City of New York . In an interview given this writer last June the chairman of the committee said that " tentative " recommendations for such legislation as that outlined above , were being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to seek with the New York publishers a voluntary modus operandi under which both courts and newspapers would endeavor to protect the rights of defendants . S ELF-REGULATION is no new idea . After the Hauptmann trial a special committee of the American Bar Association recommended not only that photographers be excluded from the courtroom and the dignityof the proceedings be preserved , but that " newspaper accounts of criminal proceedings be limited to accounts of occurrences in court without argument of the case to the public " ; that no popular referendum be taken during the trial as to the guilt of the defendant ; and that bulletins by the defense to the public be forbidden . The ABA set up a committee to meet with representatives of the press and radio , but nothing came of the demarche . Now Judge Rifkind and the New York County Lawyers Association talk of an agreement that may be worked out , and the New York City Bar Association 's committee hopes that a plan which could not be implemented nationwide may succeed citywide . The hope would seem to be forlorn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspapers which depend on sensation for circulation can hardly be expected to abide by a self-denying convention , and if one newspaper broke the code , others would have to follow in self-defense . The Yak . Law Journal had a point when it said : " Unrestricted comment is an important check on corrupt , inadequate , abusive , or politically dominated police and judicial authority . . . . Restrictions on the press would keep from circulation some material vitally needed by an informed electorate . " The journal did not add , but might have , that our police are more corruptible than the English and our courts not so free from political influence . It would seem wise policy , in view of all the losses and gains , to let the press print what it thinks and what it can find out on its own initiative . B UT is it wise policy for public authorities to pass on to the press revelations that should be reserved for presentation at the trial , provided the judge allows them in evidence ? Should not the courts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and cut off at its source the stream of information which regularly flows to popular media from prosecuting attorneys , the police , and the FBI ? Granted that such a rule would put a crimp in the political ambitions of prosecuting officials who , as the Chicago Tribune said , " now hasten to the papers with their theories and confessions , " and would mean less publicity for the front-page-loving FBI . But vested interest in self-advertisement should hardly be held paramount to the requirements of justice . Under a rule of this kind , confessions ? whether obtained fairly or unfairly ? could not be disclosed to the press , nor facts about the defendant 's record . This would seem reasonable enough to most thoughtful Americans until an attempt were made , as happened recently , on the President 's life . Then many would say the public had a right to know not only whether an arrest had been made , but whether the man had confessed and in what detail , and all that the authorities had learned of his background . Since we have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the facts about the man whose revolver dropped close to the King 's horse , a rule of silence imposed on the police and prosecuting officials would in a crisis take some getting used to . It would be acceptable only if the courts brought to speedy trial defendants accused of crimes infused with great public interest . At present , reporters will tell you , police and district attorneys in most jurisdictions are ready and eager to pass out not only news of confessions but juicy evidence , provided this will not tip their hands . The situation was a little different in Baltimore , where the court rule forbids disclosure by officials . And yet , after James ' arrest , when the police station was swarming with diligent reporters , some member of the police force must have talked ; for the newsmen dug out the story of the confession and phoned the Police Commissioner , who directly or indirectly confirmed it . If a no-disclosure rule were enforced in earnest , no news of a confession , bearing an official stamp , could be published . While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these would be few if the bench dealt severely with offenders . The secrecy successfully imposed on grand jury proceedings proves that an inquisitive press can be balked . Such a reform would not remove all the threats to justice . A newsboy would still be free to hand a juror a printed comment on a witness ' reliability or on the defendant 's alleged guilt , or a story detailing excluded evidence . But the chance of empaneling unprejudiced jurors would be greatly en-hanced . If we prevented prosecuting officials from making improper disclosures , this would not , it goes without saying , save from trial by press and radio a man who , like Alger Hiss. had already been accused by a congressional committee in open hearing , without benefit of due process . It seems clear to this writer , who happens to believe Hiss was guilty as charged but had long since ceased to be a danger to the State , that the House Committee 's handling of his case would have militated against a fair trial regardless of the nature of the press coverage following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every man tried in court has not come first before a congressional committee . For the benefit of defendants generally , the courts and bar associations should consider a reform in procedure which would impose a self-denying ordinance on police , FBI , and all prosecuting officials . It is a reform which could be made without recourse to Congress and the state legislatures , and one which could be made reasonably effective without the invoking of criminal sanctions . Some years ago the Journal of the American Judicature Society wrote , " Except for the slush and gush of the sob artists , there is very little offense chargeable against the press in which it is not led or abetted by lawyers , judges , and other public officials . " 