@@487613

WE CONTINUE to win Pyrrhic victories in the Far East . At Geneva we resolutely refused to discuss our relations with China , and Mr. Dulles refused even to bow to the Chinese delegate , a great diplomatic feat . In the United Nations General Assembly we prevented any consideration of Communist China 's admission . Who was the king or general who said , " One more such victory and we were undone " ? Never was a great power so tightly bound by shackles of its own making as this country is at present in its relations with the Far East . We can not go forward ; we can not go back ; it is uncomfortable and dangerous to stay where we are . We get relief in petulance , in recrimination , in wild but futile threats , and in self-flagellation in the form of proscription of any American who does not believe that Communist China is the principle of evil and Chiang Kai-shek the avatar of liberty . As a result American dignity has been lowered in the eyes of the world , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1920 . Is there anything that can be done ? Is it possible , now that the election is over and issues of foreign policy are not sticks with which to beat opponents in domestic politics , to look at the whole question of China freshly and with a perspective not distorted by passion or demagoguery ? One has no confidence , but one can hope . The first principle to recognize , perhaps the only one , is that there can be no international stability in the Far East unless the West 's relations with China are regularized and unless China ceases to be a bone of contention among the great powers . That has always been true since China came into the scheme of world politics a hundred years NATHANIEL PEFFER , professor of international relations at Columbia University , lived in the Far East for many years . His latest books are " Basis for Peace in the Far East " and " America 's Place in the World . " ago , and presumably always will be . We got into war with Japan over China and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Russia over China . It follows , then , that we must come to some understanding with China or sooner or later drift into a major war , one ugly incident following another until there is one from which neither side can retreat : The Chinese Communists ' recent imprisonment of American airmen as spies is a case in point . The episode makes it all the more necessary for us to reexamine our relations With Peking . If we recognize this , the first essential is to disabuse our minds of the myths , delusions , and skilfully concocted half-truths that have numbed and warped our thinking for five years . And the first misconception to be cleared out is the nonsense , originally fomented for domestic political purposes , that this country , or rather the Truman Administration , was responsible for China becoming Communist . In no country in Asia , in no country in Europe , nowhere in the world except here is that idea thought to be anything but nonsense . Events and persons within China  --  most of all , our present prot  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made China go Commu nist . Nothing but an American expeditionary force of 500,000 men could have kept it from doing so . And who among the now passionate advocates of Chiang Kai-shek in or out of Congress had the courage to propose that in 1948 , when it might have been effective ? Next we must free ourselves of the delusion that Chiang Kai-shek and his regime can be reinstated on the mainland . The Communists may in time be overthrown because they too have forfeited the Mandate of Heaven and the confidence of the people . But if they are overthrown they will not be succeeded by Chiang Kai-shek and his foltowers . Chiang 's credit has run out . We can take it for granted , then , that the Communists will remain in power in China for the foreseeable future  --  always with the reservation that there is no third world war , in which case nothing can be clearly foreseen . Therefore if we are not to continue in a state of near-war in the Far East , in a situation at least as inflammable as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind of live-and-let-live relationship with China . China exists ; it is there ; we have to go on being in the same world with it . IS THERE a basis for any kind of accord , however distant , cool , and distrusting. ? What a-re the obstacles ? On the one side , China is Communist in belief and practice , which is enough to kindle American resentment . China has joined the Russian bloc , which arouses American fears , not without warrant , though it may properly be asked whether America did not drive - it there . China resorted to force in Korea , to a degree intervened in Indo-China , and threatens elsewhere in Southeast Asia .. Finally , China is conducting a vicious campaign of hate against the United States . These are our grievances , and they militate against normal relations . On the other side , the United States gave assistance to the enemies of the Communists in the civil war th:t preThe NATION ceded their victory . It has refused to recognize the Peking government and is responsible for the failure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peking 's admission to the United Nations . And it has stationed part of its navy around Formosa to prevent the Communists from taking that Chinese island . These are China 's grievances . Can the differences be composed ? First of all , if there is to be a return to a stable order , the dead past must be buried , both sides participating in the obsequies . China 's adoption of communism and affiliation with Russia must be accepted as irreversible for the time , exactly as we accept Russia 's being Communist . After that , if the ? grievances of bOth sides are considered together , there appears to be room for compromise and settlement in the way ordinarily practiced by nations when passions are not so aroused as to preclude reason . So long as either side is stiffnecked and regards even an approach to negotiations as " appeasement " ? whatever that now prostituted word means  --  there is no hope . This is to say that as long as the American ' government and an artificially and perhaps cynically created public opinion remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change , then China must be required to withdraw its forces from Korea , the United States doing the same , and both must pledge themselves not to reenter Korea with military force except in case of renewed aggression there . Korea will meanwhile have to remain divided , pending a larger settlement between the Communist and non-Communist blocs  --  like Germany , in other words . China must pledge itself also not to intervene in North Vietnam and not to give it military aid on a scale larger than that of American aid to any country in Europe . It must cease supplying arms to organized Communist forces elsewhere in Southeast Asia and must not interfere in the internal affairs of any country there , either directly or through resident Chinese communities . This last is not far different from ' what Nehru is repoited to have asked of China . If China accedes to these conditions , the United States must bring itself to recognize the Peking regime as the legitimate government of China , regardless of protests by certain groups , regardless of the uproar in domestic poliDecember @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to it sooner or later . As has been said , nobody who has kept his balance believes that the Communists can be overthrown in any period that counts in the present critical state of international politics or sees anything to be gained by our continued ostrich-like refusal to look at the facts . Nor is what is to be lost . by recognition any more apparent . Have we been imperiled in any way or even embarrassed by our maintenance of an embassy in Moscow ? Consider the Berlin blockade : was it better or worse for us that we had a normal way of negotiating with the Russian government on that ? MUCH the same argument applies to admitting Communist China into the United Nations . There is something incongruous if not preposterous in a nation numbering one-fifth of the population of the world being represented in the world organization by an evicted rump taking shelter behind American warships on an island off the continent inhabited by that nation . There might be some ground for saying that China is temporarily ineligible to be represented in the United Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for its being represented by Chiang Kai-shek and the small group of aging courtiers who surround him . What of vital interest to America would be lost if Communist China did take its seat in the United Nations ? Before that is answered it must be observed that our present obduracy and the constraint we put on other countries to yield to it are irritating and even antagonizing a number of those countries , including some which are our natural allies . Suppose Chou En-lai , the Peking Prime Minister , does come to the Security Council ? Suppose he adds his veto to Russia 's ? How much worse off are we with two vetoes against us than with one ? The assumption , of course , is that admission would be preceded by the required concessions on China 's part . There is left the question of Formosa , perhaps the most difficult one . It is too late to ask whether the question should ever have arisen , whether we should have sent the Seventh Fleet to Formosa and thus taken on the commitment of protecting it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is also a fact that there is no possibility of a settlement with China and therefore of stability in the Far East as long as we keep the fleet there as a forcible cease-and-desist order against the Communists . The Cominu-nist government will never agree to the permanent alienation of Formosa from China proper or to its subordination , even at one remove , to the interests of another great power . Neither would a revived Nationalist government . Are we , then , to have generation after generation of young navy lads serving in cruisers and destroyers going round and round Formosa in order to pievent Mao Tse-tung 's grandsons from landing there ? What could be more absurd ? Certainly it can be taken for granted that once the fleet is wits : drawn the Communists will attack , and successfully . The past can not be undone , and it must be admitted that the United States can not at once withdraw and let the Communists have Formosa . There is always the wretched thing called prestige to bedevil relations between nations . Our immediate voluntary withdrawal would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need . not be heeded and that China can not be resisted . In all probability the Chinese would conclude , since they are given to losing their heads in times of national success , that America was what they call " a paper tiger , " not to be feared , and that they could advance with impunity into Burma or Thailand or both . In that event the major- war would come . THE question of Formosa must be dealt with after all other differences between the two countries are settled , but it must be embodied in the general settlement . Here , too , there must be compromise . Formosa must be declared to be part of China , within the scope of Chinese sovereignty . The present Ntionalist regime must be liquidated ; with 505 asylum elsewhere given to the leaders of the government and such others as wish to leave . But for a transitional period  --  ten years , if possible , five years certainly ? Formosa must have a special status . It must be put under the jurisdiction of the U. N. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small states . After ten years or five Formosa would be incorporated in China proper , whatever government was in power . By that time all the important men now in Formosa would have left or died and the incidence of penalization by the Communists be minimized . This is for us a retreat , no doubt . But sooner or later we must retreat or go forward into war  --  war against China sure-ly , against Russia probably  --  a war we shall fight without allies . No European country is going to spend its treasure or send its young men to fight for Formosa . War being what it is in our time , can any sane American think that Formosa is worth the risk ? If many of us do , then we really are in a psychotic state over the Far East , as many Europeans believe . There is only one argument in favor of not yielding at all , even for compromise  --  the strategic one . And the strategic argument may well be more political than strategic . It is doubtful whether navy men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not see why they should now . Presumably we look on Formosa as a bastion . But ifthe Chinese or Russians wish to attack the United States or its possessions they can do so from a Humber of points on the Asian coast  --  say Canton , or Haiphong in Indo-China  --  far more effectively than from Formosa . In any situation of international conflict there comes a time when compromise is no longer possible , when both sides are carried by a tide they can no longer resist , - when events get beyond their control . A small incident , unimportant in itself , can then release a holocaust . In our time and in this case the holocaust may be final . It is not melodramatic to say that the time draws short in the Far East . We had better settle . quickly or prepare to fight .                     