@@476416

THE carter of Harry Truman demon- strates that power in a free society can be an elevating force as well as a corrupting one . Whether Truman has been a great President , a merely passable one , or a national catastrophe , he has becn , in his seven years in high office , a bigger man than he was before the lightning struck and a bigger man than nature seems to have intended him to be . In general , the American experience has tended to undermine the doctrine that power corrupts in more or less direct ratio to its magnitude . Although , happily , we have never put absolute power to the test , the record of our trafficking in limited powers suggests that they may be corrupting in something like inverse ratio to their magnitude . For the real insolence of office , for quick resorts to brutality , and certainly for boodle and graft , county and city officials are matchlessly culpable . State legislatures are as a rule more corrupt than Congress ; mayors and governors offend more often than Presidents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corrupt and power-lusting President , and it is certain that the one we now have , whatever his shortcomings , has not used the office for any kind of self-aggrandizement . To be sure , other people , friends and associates of his , have used him for pernicious ends , and his tolerance of them deserves reproach , but that is not corruption in the grand , or Napoleonic , sense . Of this , he seems wholly innocent , having , indeed , surrendered and dispersed the traditional powers of his office to an extent considered positively dangerous even by many well-disposed critics of his Administration . As for his own person , there can be no doubt that power has given him a dignity he did not have when he assumed the Presidency . This is not to say that he has become a figure of any great stature , but merely that his stature , however it may presently be appraised , is greater than it used to be . Before 1945 , he was a man who had exhibited no gifts of mind or spirit other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country in one war and had served it in another by riding herd on war contractors and government procurement agencies . He has probably been overpraised , or praised in the wrong way , for his work on the Truman Committee . The Committee did an important job and did it well , but Truman 's leadership of it did not , as so many people have contended , set him apart front other machine politicians as a uniquely honorable and conscientious member of the breed . Defrauding a government in wartime is considered as loathsome in the Pendergast school as in any Citizens ' Union or league for democratic rectitude . Between it and vote-stealing or any of the commoner forms of political waywardness there is a moral distinction that the boss-ridden legislator would overlook at his peril . George Washington Plunkitt , celebrated for his pioneering work in distinguishing " honest graft " from " dishonest graft , " never dealt with the problem of war profiteering , but it is safe to say that he would have placed it squarely in the second category , along with watering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something that only the most depraved could condone . p ATRIOFISM is a widespread , all-but-uni- versal virtue . Truman had it , and he had , too , a kind of Men 's Bible Class worthiness , but in what we know of his pre-Presidential career there is no evidence of any values beyond these , About the best picture now available of his mind before 1945 is to be found in a paper recently published in William Hillman 's Mr. President . It is a kind of reprise of Truman 's first fifty years written by the hero himself to calm his nerves and occupy his mind in the small hours of a sleepless night in May 1934 , when he had just turned fifty and was on the eve of his first campaign for the Senate . It is rather a touching document , with its high resolves and its praise of parents , wife , toil . and the Holy Scriptures , but it gives us the mind of a man who in middle age looks for his ideals to Abbott 's Lives and holds that true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a kind of eclectic Walter Mittyism in it , manifest in sudden transitions from his own experiences in Jackson County politics to contemplations of Cyrus the Great , Hannibal , and Gustavus Adolphus , and in along , rueful account of a shattered dream of quick riches through oil leases . Though it was written at a time of great miseries , of political perplexities on every hand , by a man about to seek an opportunity to grapple with them , the only political ideas that show through it are in the realms of road-paving and the building and maintenance of municipal structures . The career that was opening up for him was appreciated not primarily in terms of opportunities and excitements ? though at the close of the memoir there is an expression of devout hope for favors of the kind bestowed on King Solomon ? but of surcease from drabness and penury . " I have come to a place , " he wrote , marveling at the magic of it all , " where all men strive to be at my age , and I thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some minor county office was all that was in store for me . " It was not a mean outlook , but it was as parochial a one as any man has ever brought to the United States Senate . It may have broadened somewhat in the Senate , but this can not be proved by the record . In almost every act of his Presidency , however , he has in one way or another surpassed his own limitations . Most of the values he has undertaken to defend were either undreamed of in his earlier philosophy or in some fashion hostile to it . It may be that certain of them ? his championing , for example , of the equality of races ? were acquired in the first place for purely strategical reasons . It is well known that even in his senatorial days he was disturbed not by the Negro 's lack of equality but by the prospect of equality being achieved . But convictions come upon all of us in unplanned and sometimes sordid ways , and no one in Washington who has seen the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ views he now professes are part of his credo and are with him to stay . He has acquired in power and clearly as a consequence of it moral values , moral courage , and even a kind of moral sophistication which should hearten those who deplore , as well as those who approve , the political forms he has given them . He has represented before the world the most generous and decent of American ideals . Though his foreign and domestic policies have mostly been mapped out by TRUMAN AFTER minds other than his , he has grasped the issues with which they were intended to deal and has often discussed them with some force . He has met the Yahoo assaults upon himself and his associates with dignity and a good deal of fortitude . His recall of General MacArthur , probably the one large piece of work in his entire Administration where the initiative was clearly his own , may or may not have been a statesmanlike act , but it was one that took considerable courage and an appreciation of the whole complex of issues and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more remarkable in the light of this passage from the memoir written in 1934 : " Of all the military heroes , Hannibal and Lee were to my mind the best because while they won every battle , they lost the war , due to crazy politicians in both instances , but they were still the Great Captains of History . " ) President Truman is not the most effective or eloquent defender that free civilization could have in this crisis , but he has at least become one of its deserving citizens . II H is growth in office is not , of course , any basis for a final verdict on his conduct in office . On the contrary , it is in a way an excellent argument for replacing him with a man with a firmer foundation to build upon . There have , after all , been several Presidents whose moral values were wholly admirable and who were not deficient in moral courage but who nevertheless did rather a sorry job of it . The Presidency is not a reward for character but a challenge to leadership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether Truman has been an estimable man but with whether he has been a good President . In one sense , it must be noted , he has hardly been President at all . He has scattered powers and responsibilities from one end of Washington to another . Perhaps , in view of his lack of knowledge and experience , this was the wisest thing to do . Wise or otherwise , it has been done . Truman 's foreign policies have been made for him by his Secretaries of State , by advisers like Averell Harriman and Paul Hoffman , and by the agency created for the purpose by the Administration , the National Security Council . His diplomatic advisers have not been the tacticians of the cold war but its strategists . And although Truman will be remembered and may be honored for an historic assertion of political over military authority , the truth is that he has functioned only sporadically as Commander-in-Chief . Most of his military decisions have been made by military men ? by Generals Marshall , Bradley , and Eisenhower , by the Joint Chiefs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose vigorous recommendation that ground troops be sent into Korea that momentous step might never have been taken . It is , plainly enough , a fact that every President must rely heavily on his advisers even for the framing of high policies . Very few of Franklin Roosevelt 's policies originated with him . But there is an enormous distinction between the way policies were arrived at under Roosevelt and the way they are arrived at under Truman . Roosevelt solicited ideas from specialists and chose those which seemed to him best in the circumstances . He did not devise many strategies himself ? no President can ? but he made certain that he had advice to spare , and among the plans offered him he made his own , deliberate choice . Truman 's choices are of men , not ideas . He places his faith in a policy because he places his faith in the man who has urged it on him . No other President in recent times has turned so many of his rights and prerogatives over to subordinates ; there have been times , indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settlement of policy questions as a constitutional monarch . It is one of the many paradoxes of the Truman Administration that while it has hugely augmented the powers of some of its Cabinet officers , it has allowed certain others to escape and evade their responsibility in an equally unprecedented fashion . The Secretary of State makes foreign policy , but the Secretary of Labor has almost nothing to do with labor policy . The present Attorney-General is a superfluous figure in the Department of Justice , and the Secretary of Commerce , while he is a man of more substance than most people suppose , performs no services that would be missed if he stopped performing them . The pattern , though , is really the same in their cases as in the cases of the Secretaries of State and Defense : it is one of dispersed responsibility all round ? either from the President to his Secretaries or from the Secretaries to their secretaries IT is probably a matter of no fundamental importance that Departments like Labor , Commerce , and justice are without effective leadership at the top @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the damage , if any , has been slight . But the making of high policy in the State and Defense Departments raises a number of serious questions in addition to the question of whether these are the proper places for the making of policy . For one thing , it draws diplomats and military men into political disputes which not only take them away from their own lasts but embarrass their relationships with people ? their counterparts in other governments or the career men in their own services ? who do not wish to become involved in party controversy . It puts not one extra burden , the determination of policy , upon them but two : obviously , if they are going to make policy , they must justify and defend it . For two years now , the Secretary of State has had to give as much of his time to upholding the government 's policy in this country as to seeing that it is effectively represented and carried out abroad . There have doubtless been obscene aspects to the campaign of abuse that has made some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not been without a certain logic and reasonableness . If there is to be any abuse , he is the man to get it , since the government 's policies have for the most part originated in his office . The involvement in party politics of the Joint Chiefs of Staff may have even graver consequences . " We see now , " Walter Lippmann wrote when the MacArthur hearings were about to get under way last year , " the beginnings of an almost intolerable thing in a republic : namely a schism within the armed forces between the generals of the Democratic party and the generals of the Republican party . " Actually , the schism , at least so far as it was apparent to the country at large , was between the generals in the service of the Democratic party and one general with presumably Republican leanings , but the fact that the armed services were not split down the middle reduced the gravity of the affair only in slight degree . The unpleasant truth is that in recent years the military leadership of the country has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond that , supplied the political leadership in certain ways ? that a shift of party power would almost certainly necessitate a shakeup in the defense establishment comparable to the shakeup in the White House staff . For saying that this would be the case , Senator Taft has been heavily belabored by members of the Administration and by many shocked journalists . It is hard to see why . A Republican President ? unless he were General Eisenhower , who is. of course , part of the military leadership of the Truman Administration ? would want and deserve men with no political pasts to justify and no personal or political reasons for opposing the changes in policy he would wish to make and for which , in the event of his election , he would have the country 's mandate . In other words , if we were still at war when a Republican administration took over , we would have to accept a new set of commanders not because the old ones had been derelict as officers but because they had been political losers . The reorganization might extend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult for a Republican administration to place men like Bradley and Collins in positions where their ability and experience could be put to good use . Whether our supply of military brains is great enough to provide a new team as professionally competent as the present one is a question which very few civilians are in a position to investigate , much less answer . But the answer may be forthcoming in a matter of months . III T RUMAN 'S dispersal of power is a measure of his limitations and an example of his ability to surpass them . Not all men are led by their ignorance to seek informed advice and assistance ; ignorance and officiousness often go hand in hand , the one licensing the other . Moreover , it seems quite likely that Truman has been led by his deep need for counsel and assistance to discover and develop certain procedures that other Presidents will use to advantage ? that he has stumbled , so to speak , on a pattern for the future of the Presidency . Actually , even if Truman had come into office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been able to run the show as Roosevelt did . Roosevelt could be his own Secretary of State not only because he was so confident of his own rightness but because his foreign policy was so simple ? far too simple , as events have shown ? and because the imperatives in the situations he faced were such that they tended to supply their own strategies . Either his policy was isolationist , in which case there was n't much work for anyone , or it was unconditional-surrender and force-to-the-utmost , in which case all he had to do was needle the generals and the production authorities . He led us into a coalition , at least in one theater of operations , but it was a coalition to which everyone welcomed us and in which for the most part the membership shared our appraisals . Truman has faced a harder world . It is one in which the very terms of victory and success are uncertain and indefinable , and one in which American free-wheeling is impossible . Foreign policy is no longer merely a matter of defining an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries but of reconciling our attitudes and appraisals , once we know them , with those of other nations and associations of nations . Where Roosevelt led us into one coalition which gladly accepted our leadership , the Truman Administration has involved us in a half-dozen alliances and associations in which our participation is necessary from the viewpoint of national interest but in which our presence is met as often with hostility and resentment as with appreciation . The very number of these associations has made the direction of policy by the President next to impossible . American diplomacy is now a show being put on by several road companies at once ? in the United Nations , in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , in the Ncw European Defense Command , in the negotiations for new alliances in the Middle East and Southeast Asia , and eventually in the alliances themselves , in Panmunjom and Paris one day and in Cairo and Tehran the next . It is also a show with many producers , of which the State Department is only one , others being the Defense Department , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Psychological Strategy Board , the Materials Policy Commission , andthe Office of Defense Mobilization . Most of these agencies had antecedents in the Roosevelt Administration , but all of them were then dedicated to a single , short-term goal , for the achievement of which everything in the way of human resources and material resources was , broadly speaking , immediately expendable . Not the least of this Administration 's problems has been that of trying to find a policy that can be followed for twenty or thirty years without leading the country to psychological or economic ruin . I N THE view that hindsight now affords , and that better foresight might have afforded years ago , Roosevelt 's detailed direction of foreign and military policy was not wholly to the good . But at least it was possible . Nowadays it would not be possible , and if Truman had adopted Roosevelt 's style and had had all of Roosevelt 's gifts of temperament , the results might have been disastrous . This does not mean that Truman 's temperament and inexperience have been what the age @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pity that he has had to lean so heavily on others for the political defense of his policies as well as for their formulation . But much of what he has done he had to do , and there have been some positive gains . Unable to employ yes-men because lie could not give them much to say " yes " to ? having the wisdom to be himself a yes-man ? the President has laid the foundation for what may be a new tradition of expertise in diplomatic and military affairs . His appointments in these fields , except for the brief interlude in which Louis Johnson was Secretary of Defense , have been far better than Roosevelt 's and about as good as they could be . Acheson , Marshall , Lovett , McCloy , Harriman , Paul Hoffman , John Foster Dulles ? these and a good many others have demonstrated a competence rarely seen in the State Department and in the services in Roosevelt 's time . ( Except for Hoffman , they all served Roosevelt , but only General Marshall held a position of the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only man who merited comparison with any of these was Henry Stimson ? aside from James Forrestal , who entered the Cabinet as a stopgap less than a year before Roosevelt 's death . Neither Cordell Hull nor Edward Stettinius was in the same class as Acheson , and Harry Hopkins was not as wise in the ways of the world as Averell Harriman . There is no doubt that Roosevelt 's appointments in other fields were several cuts above Truman 's , but in the most vital areas Truman 's have been far superior . Under Truman , the State and Defense Departments have worked out techniques of liaison and co-ordination which they had needed for some time . This was less Truman 's doing than a consequence of his non-doing , but it is to the country 's benefit , and the future may not make many fussy distinctions between the intended and the inadvertent . In the creation by this Administration of the National Security Council , an agency conceived in the minds of James Forrestal and Ferdinand Eberstadt to meet the needs of an administration without strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keeping diplomatic and military commitments in balance with military power and , through the participation of the National Resources Planning Board , with economic power . In the Council of Economic Advisers and the Central Intelligence Agency , future Presidents will have the means for getting orderly , systematic appraisals of the facts of national and international life . IV A FEW months ago Henry Steele Cornmager , exercising his franchise as a historian , announced that members of his profession fifty years from now will look upon the Truman Administration as " one of almost uninterrupted and unparalleled success . " Asserting that " the verdicts of contemporary critics and of the historian rarely agree " ? and not going into the tendency of historians to disagree with one another and to change their own minds from time to time ? he argued that long after Harry Vaughan , E. Merl Young , and T. Lamar Caudle have been forgotten , monuments will be erected to the President who sponsored the Marshall Plan , the North Atlantic Treaty , the Truman Doctrine , the Atomic Energy Act , the Point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Korea . The future will be more impressed , he thought , by the bulging pocketbooks of workers and farmers in the Truman era than by the fact that a few members of the Admin-MAGAZINE istration feathered their own nests with public funds . Behind this familiar line of reasoning lies the familiar assumption that judgments made long after the event are sounder than contemporary ones . By and large , they probably are ; if they are not , then the pursuit of history is worthless . Yet historians occasionally discard the judgments they have reached in the perspective of time and revert to ones commonly held when events were in the making . Thus , a formidable number of American scholars now see the Civil War pretty much as it was seen by Union sloganeers and editorialists when the fever was at its peak . Whether they are right or wrong , the possibility exists that certain contemporary insights may have a validity which historians will be a long time in appreciating . Time may separate the transitory from the permanent , but in so doing it may work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the transitory is necessarily unimportant , and it may overlook the bearing of small events on large ones . Dr. Commager , thrusting himself a generation or two ahead , makes no mention , for example , of the four appointments Truman has made to the United States Supreme Court , and this is perhaps a proof of his gift for prophecy . It is a fairly safe bet that Mr. Justice Clark and Mr. Justice Burton will not excite many thoughtful people fifty years from now . Yet it is more than remotely conceivable that the climate of mediocrity which now prevails in the Supreme Court will affect the American future as deeply as , say , the Atomic Energy Act or the expansion of social-security coverage , both of which Dr. Commager feels certain that the discriminating future will applaud . THE impact of a man on his age is a mystery to the historian and the con-temporary critic alike . Neither can say with any assurance whether any particular act of a statesman was a triumph of the man over the times or of the times over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Truman selects men is to describe a difference in procedure which is bound to a degree to affect the results but which , particularly in matters of high policy , may affect them far less than most of us assume . Given the circumstances Truman and the men around him have faced , have they had any genuine alternatives to the major policies they have pursued ? Take , as a case in point , the Marshall Plan , which is considered by most people to be an act of creative statesmanship and which deserves the description if anything does . It is quite possible , though , to defend the proposition that it was in fact a necessary reaction , almost a reflex , and not an act of initiative at all . Given Europe 's need , given this country 's relative well-being , given the American national interest in preserving European sovereignties , was there any real alternative to the Marshall Plan or some scheme similar to it for keeping our allies reasonably solvent and in tolerably good spirits ? It is easy enough to say that many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who did had been President , as could well have been the case , the plan would never have been put to a vote . This is easy to say , and it may be true , but it is not easy to prove . For we know from Truman 's case and from many others that the chances would be heavily against any one of them being thesame man in office as out of office . It places no great strain on the imagination to conceive of circumstances in which the Marshall Plan or the Truman Doctrine might have borne the name of Taft or of some other figure in a Taft administration . If there is any merit in this line of reasoning , it would seem to involve , for those of us who hope to live through the next few years , an approach rather different from Dr. Cornmager 's . For if large events are in any degree determined by necessity , then small events take on greater significance . A President may be as powerless as any of us against the drift of history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his individuality felt . His appointments , his sense of timing , his individual style , the atmosphere he creates in government ? all these are secondary matters which are worthy of our consideration even if the historians plan to overlook them . In Truman 's case , the almost universal judgment on these questions is that he should have been a great deal better than he is . But in fairness it must be said that he is better than he was , and it must be asked if there is anyone on hand who would have been any better .                     