@@493760

WHY EUROPE HANGS BACK THE SOVIET Government , we must assume , dictated the march of two Chinese-Communist armies into Korea . The UN armies are fighting Chinese troops , and under the terms of the Sino-Soviet Treaty China can bring Russia into the fray . Since this was predictable , does it mean that the Russians are ready to force the Third World War ? Until recently , Soviet involvement in world war has not been Stalin 's objective . Stalin 's purpose , on the contrary , has been to delay his world war long enough to break up the unity of the United Nations and to prepare the Soviet armies . That line was laid out frankly and brutally by the French-Communist leader Waldeck-Rochet in a speech , widely reported and never denied , made to Communist Party officials on October 6 : It is certain that if the Soviet Union intervened in Korea the war would soon be over and the Americans thrown into the sea . But it would start a world war which for the time being is contrary to the peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a year of guaranteed peace is a year utilized to the utmost by the Soviet Union to reinforce its armies and those of the popular democracies . It is to permit this rearmament , this development of the Soviet Union 's strength as well as of the strength of the popular democracies , that we must actively continue our propaganda in favor of peace . It is this movement for peace that will undermine the imperialist armies and delay the outbreak of the war . The Soviet Union will choose the right moment and the imperialists will have no say in the matter . You will see , therefore , how important it is to develop our action in favor of peace . Since the statement was made , it has become more than ever clear that the purpose of the " year of guaranteed peace " has been to use the Communist " action in favor of peace " as a weapon against the West 's rearmament . The immediate purpose of Soviet policy has been to accomplish outside the United Nations what can no longer be done inside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Security Council to the General Assembly . That is to cripple collective security by attacking the basis of sound " AtIanticism " ? the effective co-operation between the American Government and the peoples of Great Britain and France . The Soviet political strategy has been based on the assumption that America has gone too fast and too far , for the common good of Western policy , in exploiting the effects of the Kremlin 's own errors : the withdrawal of Soviet representation from the Security Council , andits connivance in the North Korean aggression . Two coordinated and interrelated Soviet interventions ? Mao Tse-tung 's attack in North Korea and Josef Stalin 's intervention in the German political situation ? have been intended to split British popular opinion away from the advanced position of American policy in Asia , and French popular opinion away from the similarly advanced position of American policy in Europe . The theory is that although the British and French governments may follow wherever Washington leads , the peoples of the two countries may balk . Russian propagandists and their puppets , therefore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public opinion of having misused and even betrayed the mandate of leadership acquired in the first phase of the Korean War . In the changed and far more explosive situation caused by Chinese aggression in Korea , months spent by Soviet propagandists in spreading their peace line have served well . What chance is there today that the free nations can stand together against the pressures of Russia , the blunders of MacArthur and the horrors of a Third World War ? In forcing a division among the free nations in Asia , Russia is relying on widespread hatred of Syngman Rhee , widespread distrust of Gen. Douglas MacArthur , the link between the two men and the apparent inability of President Truman to break that link . The British are willing to believe that from the strictly military point of view MacArthur may have been the intellectually honest man Truman considers him , when he said that the United Nations forces had all but finished the Korean campaign before Mao 's troops and material made their appearance . But British public opinion has never considered the Korean campaign ? or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Despite the Government 's acquiescence , there were serious doubts about crossing the 38th Parallel . Events in Korea since the Parallel was crossed had a very bad press in England . Rhee 's right-handed treatment of both UN directives and his own Parliament built up strong criticism not only in all parties but even more in all classes of the population . His barbarous treatment of the Korean people aroused such widespread indignation that the British could not feel committed emotionally to his cause . Tom Hopkinson , the editor of Picture Post , one of Britain 's most important popular weeklies , chose to be discharged rather than agree to keep pictures of these atrocities out of the magazine . The independent conservative Observer wrote : Syngman Rhee is unchecked in exercising what from all reports appears to be a police terror of the most barbarous kind . .. . Surely it is a matter of the utmost urgency for the United Nations to take control in Koiea before irreparable harm is done to their reputation by a vindictive oriental tyrant , whose present constitutional credentials are as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If any such action was taken by the UN commander it was not reported in Europe . Many statements and posed photographs persuaded Europeans that Rhee 's chief protector was General MacArthur . There were rumors that MacArthur had deliberately disobeyed orders in crossing the Isthmus Line , and this was said to have been a direct violation of assurances given to the Peking Government . These rumors were certainly without foundation , but many in Britain lost their enthusiasm for their Government 's close co-operation with Washington . The consistently anti-American New Statesman and . Nation found support among friends of the US and of collective security when it wrote : The danger is manifest that American and Commonwealth forces will be bogged down indefinitely in a profitless and endless war in the ? mountains of North Korea ? with an inevitable risk that hotheads in Washington will advocate re- , course to the atomic bomb as the only alternative to the draining away of America 's strength . We still hope that , the results of the US elections notwithstanding , the US Administration will think twice before it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war . In addition to MacArthur 's actions , two elements in UN policy in Europe have caused great uneasiness here . They are the changes in Washington 's attitude toward West Germany and Spain . The high-speed steam-roller methods used in connection with West German rearmament have cost Washington very large numbers of friends who had been won over to support of American policy during the early phases of the Korean campaign . The Soviet bid for a big-power meeting on Germany coming after the Prague session of the satellites , was even less a surprise in Europe than Mao 's intervention in Korea . American officials tended to brush it aside as mere propaganda . British officials went through the motions of agreement . But in terms of its effect on public opinion not only on the Continent but also in England the Soviet gesture was a shrewd and effective blow . Not long ago , the views of the New Statesman were wholly unrepresentative of British public opinion . And Russia , for all its 200 divisions , was forced to speak through the ragged little band of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Warsaw . Now the USSR no longer counts on these voices for " action in favor of peace . " The 22 Labour members of the British House of Commons , who petitioned for British counter-proposals on foreign policy and for the establishment of a " no further " line of military advance of the UN forces in Korea , were not fellow travelers nor were the 41 additional Labour members who put down a motion calling on the Government to press for an early settlement of differences between the West and the East . It is in France , however , that the Soviet interventions in Germany and China have been most successful as wedges between public opinion and the advanced positions to which American policy has raced . For it is in France that the popular soil is most fertile for the seeds of Soviet peace propaganda . The reason , says the New York Times sadly , is lack of French greatness , lack of French leadership and ? worst of all in the category of French values ? lack of lucid foresight . The Times recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in French policy " assuring them that " our road is the only one worth following . " It added : " We can not say that it is a safe , a short or an easy road , but we can surely claim that it is the way of honor and decency , the only road that is a free one and that it leads toward liberty for all countries and all peoples . " an this may be true from the perspective of Forty-third Street in New York . French hearts and consciences however remain unmoved . The French Premier Rent Pleven had practically invited Stalin 's bid for a conference on Germany . When the bid was made , nearly all the newspapers in France welcomed it in one way or another . For French public opinion was stirred up about German rearmament ? and American methods of bringing it about ? far more than most Americans can imagine . It is rather soon for Germans to be accepted willingly as the comrades in arms of Frenchmen from Montelimar , Nancy , Oradour , Figeac and other martyred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imminent tomorrow . Soviet propaganda today points out that in another war German units may be commanded by General X who in 1943 was stationed in Lille and shot so many hostages ? while German Regiment Y includes the officers and the former Sturmbahnfeuhrer of the Waffen-SS who were responsible for so many war crimes . One of the factors which has most strongly reinforced the resistance of French opinion to German rearmament and its implications is the American-sponsored United Nations action on Spain . Secretary Acheson only last year said that the 1946 resolution of the General Assembly has become symbol of the Western governments ' disapproval of a regime installed by Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini , and representing a Fascist dictatorship denying human rights . He expressed the opinion that a vote to repeal the resolution would be taken as " a symbol of the fact that after all we do not care much about these rights . " But now Acheson seems to believe that the rights are less important than what he calls " orderly international intercourse . " The phallism is not entirely new in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do to accept for France the role of becoming the link between Spain and Western Germany , large sections of French opinion are bitterly opposed to such a role . They are only slightly less opposed to the American policy of embracing the dictator who was responsible for Guernica . For a Madrid-Bonn link brings up memories of the Rome-Berlin axis . After the UN action on Spain , the dangers of German rearmament have become political as well as military . The prospect of being flanked by Spaniards as well as by Germans has made the at best hesitant support in France for.an all-European army slip away . And even in England , public sentiment on the issue has recently changed for the worse , from the American official point of view . There is now support well outside the ranks of Labour for the position of Kurt Schumacher that German rearmament should follow , not precede , the building up of a really large and dependably democratic American military force in Europe . Yet if there is one lesson which Europeans draw from the American elections it is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of tomorrow 's big war ? the infantry . Europeans suppose that the Americans , feeling betrayed in their good will to Europe as represented by economic generosity , are bitter about the unwillingness of the Europeans to share the bitter burden of lost lives . And Europeans conclude that the US will seek a solution in the use of new weapons , including the atom bomb , against the Chinese . They fear that Soviet bombs will be dropped in return , not on Japan , or America , but on Europe . Finally , public opinion in Western Europe has been shaken by the contrast between US invocation of the necessity of Atlantic unity and the failure of the US to consult the British and French governments before taking steps that greatly increase the need for unity and the threats to Western Europe . Public opinion could understand the military reasons for launching an offensive without full consultation . But surprise is the mildest description of the reaction to the apparent fact that neither the British nor the French foreign office was consulted in advance of Mac-Arthur 's shattering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China as an aggressor against the UN . Newspapers in London and Paris have playedup Acheson 's new stress on the defense of Europe . They add " We are all in the same boat . " Their readers talk of getting out of the boat before it casts them on the rocks of a war in which an undefended Europe is exposed to the full force of the Red army . As always in a time of crisis the British reaction is one of self-discipline and restraint . In Paris there has been a wave of semi-hysteria of which the center is poisonous and barren speculation concerning Soviet occupation or surrender and capitulation to a Communist dictatorship under French puppets of the USSR . Negotiation , patience , compromise , conciliation , even humiliation may be the price of continued parternership between the US and its European allies . Yet unless beneath all these qualities there is boldness and resolution and the willingness to take risks under threat of aggression , all will be lost . As war moves closer , and . risks mount , the danger in France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of neutralism than the kind that existed before the Soviets made their mistakes in the UN and in Korea . Moreover , there is the new danger of neutralist " co-operation " between the French and other European peoples . The Monde of Paris minces no words : If France hesitates so much about going along to the logical consequences of the Atlantic process ? that is , the rearmament of Germany and the acceptance of Spain as a partner ? she can not ignore the fact that between this refusal and the other extreme of France 's inclusion in the Soviet bloc , the only intermediary position is the demilitarization of Germany ? and of this , the logical consequence is ? whether one likes it or not , and no matter by what name one calls it ? the neutralization of Europe . On its face value , this implies that Mao 's intervention in Korea is pinning down American troops in Asia at precisely the time when Stalin 's intervention in Germany makes their presence in Europe more necessary . The sum mad of the Western European situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by going forward too quickly and too far in order to take fullest advantage of the Soviet 's errors , has itself made serious errors which the Kremlin is exploiting . Because the Americans have acted on the theory that preventive surgery of all obstacles to immediate rearmament ? political , moral and psychological ? is urgently dictated by the world situation , the Soviets have been able to do even more of their notorious bloodletting . If , as seems probable , Soviet intentions are still to delay the war until the UN front is broken , the US must answer by a policy of continued strength and boldness , coupled with more patience , preparation and understanding .                     