@@714195

txt One prowess which is getting awfully well developed in Washington these days is the ability to start from a major premise and take a running broad-jump into a foregone conclusion . Practically everybody starts with a major premise that resounds with the crack of doom , the only particular difference between speakers is that each is attuned to a different reverberation . Thus with the nation in peril we must  --  a priori , a posteriori and ipso facto ? leap to action , and never mind if in haste we leap a little logic also . The major premise , in the words of Mr. Manly Fleischmann of the Defense Production Administration , is that the nation is in peril . Therefore , we must do all of the things we did the last time the nation was in peril , and in his particular case we must hate a Controlled Materials Plan . The simple word " therefore " ' will bridge almost any gulf betaiet premise and conclusion . To Mr. Eric Johnston and Mr. Michael DiSalle the - particular echo of doom , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we must have rigid controls over wages and prices . It is almost impossible to catch up with anyone who jumps to conclusions so rapidly . Do you question the manner and amount of aid to Europe ? Then you are either blind to the crisis that impends or indifferent to the collapse that is to follow . Do you question the advisability of enlarging the Army to garrison the bastions of Asia ? Then you are blind to the dangers of Communism in the East . Do you question the advisability of price and wage controls , or their practicality ? Then you are " for " inflation . or at least indifferent to its threats and its potential ravages . It is because of this leaping logic that so much of the debate on public affairs , whether it be over foreign policy or domestic economic policy , seems to bounce around in erratic circles with theopposing debaters appearing to talk about two different things . In the past few days both Mr. Johnston and Charles E. Wilson . the Defense Mobilizer , have made public statements to argue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Administration . In each instance the major premise ? i.e. , that this is an " emergency " ? was elaborately argued , and one may say convincingly . But the question is not really whether we are faced with dangers , but whether the particular remedies proposed are in fact the best for the particular dangers . This is the question that is leap-frogged . Mr. Johnston . in a speech before the National Industrial Conference Board , took as his topic " Freedom Under Controls . " He drew a pretty accurate picture of what can happen to a nation buffeted by inflation and he made a persuasive argument that if we are not careful we shall be so buffeted . For three-fourths of the speech one could find little to argue with . Then came the " therefoi e " The honestly inquiring listener who w anted to know what effect price and wage controls would have on inflation , what effect it would have on other aspects of the economy , went disappointed . All this was sloughed off in the " therefore " ? it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ curb inflation . And from this quiet assumption it therefore logically followed we should have them . Somehow in all this leaping logic the listener was led to the conclusion also that more controls would give us more freedom . Mr. Wilson put it in co. en simpler terms . He explained to a group of editors that he knew from eNperien. e what spiraling wages and prices could do . He was opposed to controls in In inciple , but because there was an emergency therefore we had to have them We frankly do n't know how you get hold of that kind of lock . But we do know that if people follow it they can lean to some very strange places .                     