@@714498

txt The number of workers seeking - unemployment insurance in this city and state has declined 20 per cent since the beginning of the year . Statistics compiled by the Division of Placement and Unemployment Insurance of the State Labor Department showed yesterday that the number - of insurance applicants over the state had dropped from ? 314,169 in the week ended Jan. 11 to 253,844 in the Week ended Feb. 22 . In the same period the volume of claims from jobless workers in the metropolitan area fell from 200,587 to 155,103 . The drop eased , but did not erase , the concern of state and city officials over idleness in this area . State experts explained that only part of the falling off in insurance applications was attributable to an improvement in the job situation . Some workers dropped off the insurance lists because they had been without employment so long that they were not eligible for futher benefit payments . Terminations of Eligibility Under the law payments , stop after any worker has received twenty-six weekly checks in a twelve-month period . In the first five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , according to a spokesman for the Division of Placement and Unemployment Insurance . The closing of insurance offices on Lincoln 's Birthday and Washington 's Birthday also tended to cause an artificial reduction in the unemployment statistics , officials said . Even with these qualifications , however , there was a willingness to acknowledge that the employment picture was somewhat brighter than it had been at the beginning of the year . At ? that time the division feared that uneniployment in the state would go up so fast that New York would have one-quarter of the country 's idle workers by July 1 . ' Ben Cooper , area director of insurance operations for the division , reported that fewer workers were being laid off now than two or three months ago . This was reflected in a sharp decline in the number of first claims , as distinguished from claims filed by workers who were already on the benefit rolls and still out of work . Mr. Cooper said the women 's apparel industry was increasing its payrolls as the spring season approached its production peakaand he predicted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the next few weeks . However , he warned that there were no signs of , a real pick-up in any industry and he expressed fear that the number of workers seeking benefit payments would rise again at the end of April . This fear was based on the prob-. ability that employment in the garment trades would begin to drop sharply in the second half of next month . The men 's clothing industry and the building trades , two other mainstays of the city 's commercial life , are at low ebb with no indications of substantial revival . One state official said 17,000 fewer workers had construction jobs in this city now than was normal at this period , but that only 4,000 more construction . workers were drawing unemployment insurance . The most probable explanation for the gulf between the number of jobs and jobless , the official observed , was that many building trades mechanics had left the state to work in areas with a larger volume of defense contracts . New York has been classified by the United States Department of Labor as a labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have additional military orders placed here to relieve unemployment . Welfare Commissioner Henry L. McCarthy reported last week that the slow , decline in relief rolls that began here twenty ( months ago had been reversed in 1 . Tanuary . The public assistance lists went up by 2,899 persons in that month . The reduction .. in unemployment insurance applications was reflected in a drop of 46 per cent in payments to jobless workers in all parts of the state . Total payments went down from $6,407,050 in the week ended Jan. 11 to $3,401,695 in the week ended Feb. 22.                     