@@720256

txt The fourth day of Prime Minister Harold Macmillan 's visit to Moscow has produced a hitter surprise and severe setback to the moderate hopes he brought with him here . Like others before him , he learned the hard way that warm Nvords of greeting in public , official receptions , and long , genial and even apparently candid conversations in private are one thing  --  and Soviet policy quite another . The hard lesson came Feb. 24 after three days of ritual , banquets , receptions , exchanges of compliments . mutual expressions of desire for better relations , and long hours of easy , relaxed conversations in private . Then , during an interval while Mr. Macmillan dutifully went off to trudge around the Soviet nuclear research institute at Dubna  --  a pilgrimage expected of highlevel visitors but obviously a heavy chore to a man unversed in synchrophasotrons and synchrocyclotrons  --  his genial host , Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev , made a speech . Timing Heightens Slap The speech itself would have seemed almost routine had it not come during an interval in the talks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was merely a restatement of the Soviet position on foreign - policy matters . It neither added to nor subtracted from previous public statements ? with the single exception that it heaped ridicule on the pending Western proposal for a four-power foreign ministers meeting . Otherwise , it was a repetition of Soviet distaste for West German armaments , of Soviet dislike for the Atlantic Pact , of Soviet intentions to eliminate the Western enclave in West Berlin . But Mr. Macmillan had come precisely to seek some modification of the Soviet position on such matters : so the reiteration , with all the customary adjectives of Soviet propaganda in the very middle of the visit , was at the very least an expression of callous , calculated . and public indifference to the Macmillan mission . Episode Played Down - Al the end of the day British spokesmen did their best to minimize the episode , saying they did not consider it a rebuff . They acted quite calm about it , rejected as going , a bit too far a reporter 's suggestion that " the gaff had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long private tap : Feb. 25. this time with Mr. Khrushchev 's latest attack on the West as a wet blanket , the Associated Press said . Mr. Khrushchev and his chief aides had lunch with Mr. Macmillan , . and afterward they retired to a private room for conversations on cold war issues , their third such exchange since the British leader arrived Feb. 21 on his 10-day mission Moscow . Between the Khrushchev speech and the attempt of the British spokesmen to put the best possible.tace on the matter , Mr. Macmillan had returned from his 200-mile round trip to Dubna to find the unexpected and disappointing text being studied by his staff and with barely time to dress for a big formal reception he was giving for the Soviet hierarchy plus the entire Moscow doplomatic and foreign press corps . Mr. Khrushchev attended the reception as genial as ever , just as though nothing had happened . Sharp LeSS ' 011 While the principal guest was holding court under the gaze of past British sovereigns. the British host retired upstairs . His aides said he had been temporarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resembles the visit here of West German Chancellor Konrad Ademmer in 1955 . The German Chancellor had also been received with fanfare and then subjected to a rebuff so humiliating that he has never since considered a return journey . However , there is a difference . In this case there has been nothing unpleasant in the public meetings nor , the press is assured , in the private ones . All is courteous and genial when host and guest meet . But the two visits arc alike in that both visitors have been given a sharp lesson in the non-relationship between reasoned argument and Soviet operating policy . Sir . Macmillan came here to sound nut Soviet views and inclinations . He hoped to be able to chart a future course for Western diplomacy . In effect , he haci been told that his hosts are quite willing to talk as much as he likes but that their policies remain untouched , unmoved , and unchanged . A Palmerston or Castlereagh would have packed his bags and taken the next sledge home . Mr. Macmillan must turn the other cheek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . for otherwise he might be accused on his return of having failed to do his utmost to find the road to peace .                     