@@717627

txt BRITAIN IS FLYING TROOPS TO CYPRUS EN MIDEAST CRISIS By KENNETT LOVE Special to The New York Times . TROOPS TO CYPRUS IN MIDEAST CRISIS Riots in Jordan Bring Move for Speedy Strengthening of Mobile Garrison AID TO HUSSEIN HELD AIM 2 New Paratroop Battalions of 1,600 Men Could Shift to Any Trouble Spot By KENNETT LOVE Special to The New York Times . LONDON , Jan. ** British Government today ordered about 1,600 paratroopers flown to Cyprus " in view of the disturbed position " in the Middle East . According to reliable authority , the move is intended to bolster the regime of 20-year-old King Hussein in Jordan . AntiWestern rioting in that country , believed to have been fomented with the aid of Saudi Arabian money , has shaken the regime in the past month . Three Jordanian Cabinets have fallen in the period . The speedy dispatch of two battalions to the area was the subject of a meeting today between the Prime Minister , Sir Anthony Eden , and the War Minister , Antony Head . The troops are scheduled to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cyprus . From there they could be flown in a few hours to Jordan , Saudi Arabia or other trouble spots . The additional troops are not intended as reinforcements for the present Cyprus garrison of approximately 12,000 men , who are largely engaged in quelling the Cypriote terrorist movement seeking union with Greece , The British Middle East headquarters was established on Cyprus following the troop withdrawal from the Suez Canal base in Egypt . It was intended as a base for a mobile trouble-shooting brigade rather than as a major strategic base such as Suez was . Official Announcement The War Office announcement said : " In view of the disturbed position in the Middle East , Her Majesty 's Government have thought it desirable as a precautionary measure to increase the number of troops at the disposal of the commander in chief for the protection of British subjects . in the area should the need arise . " Additional troops , including airborne units , are therefore being flown to Cyprus . " Although neither the War Office nor the Foreign Office would elaborate , the move indicates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Jordanian crisis than has been generally realized . It is probably intended to demonstrate a firm British attitude to Saudi Arabia , Egypt , Syria and the Communists , who are regarded here as primarily behind the rioters . The rioters were Palestinian Arabs , most of whom are destitute refugees from Israeli territory . It is thought that the dispatch of troops will emphasize to officials in Washington the gravity of the situation and its implications beyond Jordan 's borders . Evelyn Shuckburgh , British Assistant Under Secretary of State - for Middle Eastern Affairs is about to fly to Washington for talks with the State Department // prepatory to the visit of the Prime Minister later this month . As seen here , the problem now is not to obtain Jordan 's adherence to the Western-sponsored Baghdad pact but to bolster her essentially pro-Western regime against further subversion by anti-Western interests and by Arabs . The latter are not so much against the West as they are jealous of Iraq 's rising star as a founding member of the pact . The Arabian alignment includes Egypt , Saudi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sponsored by Egypt in opposition to the Baghdad pact . The three recently offered to take over the British subsidy to the Jordanian armed forces . In addition to Britain and Iraq , the Baghdad pact members are Turkey , Pakistan and Iran . Complicating the picture is the fact that King Saud of Saudi Arabia receives about $250,000 , - 000 annually in oil royalties from the Arabian-American Oil Company ( Aramco ) . His foreign policy has been mainly one opposing the Hashemite dynasty from whom his father took the Hedjaz , containing the Moslem holy cities of Mecca and Medina , early in the Nineteen Twenties King Hussein of Jordan and King Feisal II of Iraq are Hashemite cousins whose grandfathers were first placed on the two thrones by Britain . Britain has mutual defense treaties with both countries . King Saud has spent his royalties liberally to subsidize tribes in his own country . British sources say he has also used them to bribe sheikhs and petty sultans in British protectorates and autonomous territories on his oil-rich coasts , to influence Syrian political issues and to induce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expenditures of this sort are variable but always large . Saudi Arabian agents are authoritatively reported to be cooperating with Communists working from headquarters in Lebanon . As King Saud 's relf , enues come from an American oil company , Government circles here are hoping that the United States will agree to try to curb his antiWestern activities . British concern over Saudi Arabian activities 4 .. s evident in a Foreign Office statement that R. W. Parkes , Ambassador in Jidda , who came here for the conference of Middle Eastern envoys last week , was remaining for consultations , Mr. Parkes was appointed two months ago but has not yet succeeded in presenting his credentials to King Saud . The seven other envoys who attended have returned to their posts . Mr. Shuckburgh said tonight that he would return to London to report to the ' Prime Minister before the latter 's Washington visit .                     