@@719804

txt The President , along with his upbraiding , reaffirmed his complete faith in Mr. Adams . Nonetheless , as one local wag put it , " The high priest of sanitary government has desecrated the altar . " Such a man , however unintentional his indiscretions , can no longer star in the role Mr. Adams has played . In that role , Mr. Adams has stood , among other things , as one of the symbols of the Administration 's integrity . That being so , Mr. Adams could , and on occasion has , - asked and received the resignations of lesser officials for indiscretions that were , it could be argued , lesser than his own . Now , it would be difficult indeed to see Mr. Adams forcing the retirement of any White House subordinate or even acting as the President 's intermediary in such a resignation . Subordinate officials could hardly be expected to look upon Mr. Adams with their former respectful awe . Moreover , on many an occasion the top Presidential aide has found it convenient to plead a violation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that inevitably fall on h , a heft .. As u. is now , Mr. Adams has been revealed , If nothing more , as a man who , like other men , enjoys the gracious life and the attentions of his wealthy friends . One of the facets of the Adams affair that Washington finds difficult to understand is how Mr. Adams , of all people , could have fallen into his present predicament . He attempts to explain it on the basis of a longstanding friendship with Mr. Goldfine . That explanation , at best , is a weak one indeed . Before coming to the White House , Mr. Adams was governor of his native New Hampshire . Before that he was a member of the Granite State legislature and a member of Congress . He has been at the President 's right hand ever since Ike won the Presidential nomination in 1952 . Thus , what is so puzzling now is how a man with such background could have ignored one of the most elementary principles of political life , especially Washington political life  --  that no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oriental rugs out of friendship alone , expecting nothing in return . The Adams episode has raised lots of questions that the White House can not , or does not , answer . Mr. Eisenhower left them unanswered at his press conference yesterday , or at least not answered fully . For example , reporters were already trying to needle the President about whether heembraces a double standard of morality ? one for lesser officials , a lower one for Mr. Adams . One of them asked " whether you ( the President ) thought that any other official in the Government could do what Mr. Adams did and get your approval . " Mr. Eisenhower replied that " the standard of conduct in the White House should be impeccable . I would expect the same thing in all other departments . " Thus the President left standing the widespread feeling in Washington that any lesser official caught in Mr. Adams ' plight would already have felt the boot . The reasons Mr. Adams has n't perhaps came out between the lines of the press conference . First , Mr. Eisenhower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I beheie with my whole heart that he is an invaluable public servant , doing a difficult job , honestly and tirelessly . " More succinctly , Mr. Eisenhower said , almost in plaintive tones , " I need him . " It 's a question how long the President sill feel this need in view of Mr. Adams ' plainly diminished effectiveness . Still more pointedly , another newsman asked the President whether he " could distinguish this ( Adams ' behavior ) from some of the cases like the Caudle and Matthew Connelly ( former Truman Administration officials ) case and the other Truman problems . " Mr. Eisenhower referred the questioner to his press secretary , James C Hagerty , saying he had " certain pertinent facts that would help to answer your question .. Within the past week , Mr. Hagerty has been repeatedly asked to make such distinctions . He has asserted there were no similarities , but so far has failed to fully explain the differences . The political damage from the Adams episode is simple . One of the Eisenhower Administration 's campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Washington . " Since then , one G.O.P. theme song has been that the Republicans have cleaned up the mess . Time after time , subordinate officials have been summarily , though usually quietly , eased out for relatively little political sins . Rewriting the Script " The Republican party has been identified with integrity , " as one G.0 P. state chairman put it , " and there has been enough suspicion In this case to indicate that everything might not be pure integrity . " Still another chagrined state party leader lamented , " I 've been going around for years making speeches about mink coats and deep freezes . Now I 'm going to have to change my speeches . " ; . Many another Republican politician may find it necessary to rewrite his script before the November elections . Another party leader lamented that Mr. Adams is so longer " the epitome of honesty " he was until a week ago . In other words , however honest Mr Adams may be , he no longer stands as the symbol of purity . Mr. Eisenhower has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the effect that he had no trouble sleeping at night , knowing Sherman Adams was keeping the gate . Yet yesterday , the President felt impelled to admit that , as Mr. Adams himself confessed , his chief deputy has been " imprudent " As for Mr. Adams ' usefulness to the President , it goes without saying that a man thus categorized as imprudent can not in the future serve his chief as Mr. Adams has in the past Politically , Sherman Adams has been controversial in the past partly because of his reputation for granite-like integrity Ironic as it seems , he has become controversial now , and thus a liability to his party , because that integrity has been publicly challenged .                     