@@717693

txt ALGIERS DISORDER HALTED BY POLICE ; 6ACOS'fE ARRIVES With New Minister at Hand , Mollet Leaves for Region Harried by the Rebels RAIN REDUCES CLASHES Veterans and Mayors March to Memorial  --  Anti-Regime Sentiment Dwindling By THOMAS F. BRADY Special to The New York Times . ALGIERS , Algeria , Feb. 10 ? The police and bad weather broke up a demonstration by European Algerians ? here today as Robert Lacoste arrived and took up his post as French Cabinet Minister Residing in Algeria . About two hours later Premier Guy Mollet left quietly to visit ' the guerrilla-harried area around ! Bone . It is expected that M. Mollet will fly to Paris tomorrow without returning to this restless city . No public ceremonies or appearances marked M. Lacoste 's arrival or M , Mollet 's departure . The press was not informed of the Premier 's going until after he had left . The citizens of Algiers did not know of it until tonight . Meanwhile , street demonstrations collapsed under police pressure and intermittent rain . There were minor claAhes and disorders , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious as those in the riots that welcomed Premier Mollet here last Monday . The demonstrations were a protest against political ' reforms the Mollet Government is expected to . introduce in Algeria to stem growing Moslem nationalism . European Plea Not Granted Europeans here had demanded an assurance from the Premier that he would not establish a single voters ' roll lumping together the 8,000,000 Moslems and 1,000,000 Europeans of Algeria . Under the present tworoll electoral system the European and Moslem communities are equally represented in the Algerian Assembly and the National Assembly in Paris . Premier Mollet never gave such an assurance . He said only that there would be equal rights and equal justice for all . He indicated , however , that he would seek some means of maintaining a balance between the two ethnic groups . The demonstration today was organized last night , but was forbidden by the Government . Nevertheless , a group of about 600 war veterans , led by Mayors of many of the communes of the Department of Algiers , wearing tri-colored sashes , marched on the monument to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for public manifestations . Police Line Is Broken The police line at the approach to the memorial park checked the marchers momentarily , then broke and let them crowd against the high wrought iron gates of the park , which had been locked . After singing " The Marseillaise " three times the demonstrators broke down the gates and about 200 pushed through into the park . At that point the police intervened with truncheons , and the remaining marchers and a larger crowd that had gathered behind them fell back hastily . Those who had gained entrance climbed to the monument and laid a wreath . Surrounded by helmeted police , they sang " The Marseillaise " again , then dispersed at the demand of the police . Meanwhile , the crowd below ? now grown to several thousands ? was forced down side streets by the police . There were cries of " Algerie Frangaise ! " and occasionally " Mollet to the gallows ! " but there was no real fight in the crowd . An hour and a half after the demonstration began , the streets were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were taken away in police wagons . A general strike that had been called to coincide with M. // Lacoste 's arrival closed most shops in central Algiers . Restaurants , bars and all public services were open , however . Moslem Algerians tok no part in the demonstration . The Government-built war veterans hall , the center of the anti-Mollet agitation and headquarters for a recently formed European " Committee of Public Safety " was closed by the authorities . Jean-Baptiste Biaggi , a spellbinding Corsican lawyer who arrived here two days ago ostensibly as a representative of a small war veterans group in ' France , and who has been whipping up emotion against M. Monet , declared tonight that the demonstration was intended only as a peaceable ceremony . He said it would have occurred without incident except for police interventiox . Meanwhile the anti-Mollet excitement appeared to be collapsing . The steering committee of Algerian veterans ' organizations announced that it was no longer associated with the Committee of Public Safety and that the Committee of Public Safety would no longer be housed in the veterans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , M. Lacoste pledged himself to maintain the ties between France and Algeria to build a " confident , fraternal and prosperous French-Moslem community . "                     