@@718903

txt The House of Representatives rejected today a demand from the South that jury trials be guaranteed to defendants accused of denying , civil rights , especially in the field of voting . The vote was 199 to 167 . This test foreshadowed pas-1 sake of the bill on Monday . It will then go to the Senate , wherel it will face , fiercer and perhaps More effective opposition from the South . The jury question was the biggest issue in House consideration of President Eisenhower 's new effort to get a civil rights program through Congress . The House had spent three days of general debate and three more in arguing the jury trial pro-1 posal . The issue was viewed as the crux of the whole fight . The Administrfition bill seeks to give the Attorney General the right to institute injunctions , as a civil law proceeding , against , persons or groups accused of de . priving anyone of his legal right to vote . The mere entry of the Government into a case would ban a jury trial . Debate Almost Record @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the place where debate is supposed to be limited rigidly  --  have pointed to a conclusion that a denial of jury trials in cases of alleged contempt of injunctions would strike hardest at the South . Arguments , including those of Herbert Brownell Jr. , Attorney General , have included a suggestion that all-white juries in the South would hesitate to convict a defendant accused of denying voting rights . House leaders at first were determined to get a final vote on the whole program tonight or tomorrow night . In midafternoon , Representative Emanuel Celler , Brooklyn Democrat handling the bill as chairman of the Judiciary Committee , attempted to close debate within an hour . When he asked how many still wanted to speak on the subject , forty-two members arose . It finally was agreed to take a vote on the jury trial amendment and then adjourn until Monday , when a final voting would be taken . Meanwhile , ? the Southern proponents of a jury trial guarantee were aided by members from the North . Surprisingly , the proposed amendment that underwent hours of debate was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a first-term member of the House . Mr. Keeney 's amendment somewhat watered down the original plans of the Southern delegations . It would have limited a guarantee of jury trials to cases in which violators of injunctions had committed a criminal offense under Federal or state law . This left open to wide controversy what would constitute a civil or a criminal offense . It was argued in some quarters that , even in civil proceedings , a person who had violated an injunction still would be liable to fine or prison penalty under a Federal judge's. finding . This , it was said , would , put the violation in the - criminal law column . Representative . Celler raised a point of order against the Keeney amendment . It was overruled by Representative Arnie J. Forand , Democrat of Rhode - Island , presiding officer . The South seemed to bow to the Keeney amendment , though it fell short of the original plan . No substitutes were offered despite the fact that other and stiffer proposals had been prepared for a test . The vote , taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not necessarily the last test . There remained a chance that the whole House could be put on record Monday , through a motion , to recommit the measure with instructions to insert the jury trial and other provisions . Any such moves are expected to fail . Monday 's big fight is expected to be over a provision in the Administration bill that would let the Federal Government step in with injunctions against denial of civil rights even though all of the state remedies in such cases have not been exhausted . States ' Rights an Issue This is called the states ' rights amendment . The issue of states ' rights has figured in every civil rights fight during the last generation . The South has contended , in this instance , that the Administration bill would permit the Federal Government to nullify state laws and centralize legal power within the Federal establishment . A rough fight is expected Monday . The South has accused House members of voting against the sponsors of amendments HOUSE KILLS BID FOR JURY TRIALS // rather , than deciding according to the merits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Northerners instead of Southerners have sponsored the most recent amendments . Members of the North have denied that they are voting according to amendment sponsorship . Debate today was bitter bitt generally polite . Representative Keeney said he had offered his amendment because , as a former Illinois judge , he had always viewed ? a jury as an integral part of any court . Representative Adam Clayton Powell Jr. , Democrat of Manhattan , returned to the House chamber from his sick bed to denounce those who had fought the Administration program . Stripped of the " hypocrisy , dishonesty and subterfuges " employed by the opposition , he told the House , the battle against the program is without validity . The House , he said , has a choice between " hypocrisy and honesty . "                     