@@717697

txt Ten thousand stamping , cheering Alabamans jammed the State Coliseum here tonight for a mass denunciation of racial integration : Waving Confederate flags , and rising to cheer whenever the band broke into the strains of " Dixie , " their temper appeared far ahead of the orators who called on them to fight integration within the limits of law and order . The principal speaker was Senator James 0 . Eastland , Democrat of Mississippi , a leader in the fight for states ' rights and against the Supreme Court 's decision on integration . The audience heard him call for a Southern federation of states , backed by public funds , to bring the South 's views to the rest . of the , country . Earlier today , at Tuscaloosa , Dr. Oliver C. Carmichael , president of the University of Alabama , condemned what he called " untrue , unwarranted and outrageous " charges by a Negro Woman student suspended by the university this week . Miss Autherine J. Lucy had accused the trustees of deliberately permitting the mob outbursts , on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The crowd at tonight 's rally lined up in the corridors of the huge auditorium to pay $3.50 for membership in the White Citizens ' Council , sponsors of the rally . And they tossed heaps of coins and bills into cardboard drums set up at the exits . Literature was passed out that included copies of a ' purported speech ' of a leader of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People advocating interracial marriage . The speech rhas been disavowed by officials of the N. A. A. C. P. , but it is continually circulated at such gatherings in the South . Some of the reprints bear northern addresses . The rally was the largest yet sponsored by the Citizens Councils , which were founded in 1954 in Mississippi . In recent weeks in Alabama membership has leaped upward . Estimates of the number of persons now enrolled fluctuate from 12,000 to 60,000 . The increase has largely been attributed to . tension at the University of Alabama . Mr. Eastland 's ? speech failed to excite an audience that for a week now has been fired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ audience was a mixture of every strata of Alabama life . There were livestock farmers rubbing shoulders with city business men , taxi-cab drivers , teachers and students . Poor and rich alike , they all arrived with eager faces , enthusiasm high , like at ' tendants at a religious revival . Much more in the temper of the crowd was the brief statement of Police Commissioner Clyde C. Sellers . Mr. Sellers , a stocky , heavy set man , began by saluting the Confederate flag that stood beside the speaker 's rostrum . The only American flag in the auditorium was one behind the semicircular speaker 's stand ? I flanked by two slightly smaller Confederate banners . " If any Negro wants desegregation , " Mr. Sellers said , " let him go where there is desegregation . " The crowd took up the chant , " Let him go , let him go " and there were shouts of " more , more . " But Mr. Sellers cut his talk short with the shout ? " Let our battle cry be states ' rights and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sam Englehardt of Macon County , chairman of the Central Alabama Citizens Councils , opened the rally at 7:45 with the cry that " segregation is an institution of the South we do n't intend to see scrapped . " One after the other , the speakers denounced the decision of the United States Supreme Court outlawing segregation in the public schools . Robert H. Patterson , executive secretary of the deleted 27 lines not change the law . " His tie loosened , collar unbuttoned , one hand thrust in a side pocket and the other with fist upraised , he shouted : " We must organize every county and every city and every community into a grass roots organization . Unless we organize in the South and unless we " We have got to take the initiative . The Southern , states must set up a regional commission and use public funds to present the South 's side of this controversy before the bar of ' public opinion . His talk was interrupted by shouts interpolated by the highspirited audience , some in praise of what he was saying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often  --  a reference to Gov . James E. Folsom of Alabama . Governor Folsom has disapproved of the activities of the white councils , and was not invited to take part in the rally . Eastland Cuts Speech The crowd had started to drift out of the Coliseum even before Senator Eastland had finished his half-hour address . He discarded the last seven of thirty pages of a prepared address . Mayor W. A. Gayle of Montgomery and several of the speakers tried to make the point that their demand for segregation did not mean discrimination against the Negro . " Tonight we meet to re-dedicate ourselves to our way of life in the South , " he said . " At the same time we want to maintain peace and harmony . We want all races to share and share abundantly in the good things of life . But we also want segregation . " Mr. Englehardt , at the close of the rally , told the audience to " go home peacefully and orderly and remember all citizens ' councils will solve these problems peacefully and legally . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the city , on the opposite side of the city from the Negro quarter . Governor Folsom said today at a press conference that " nothing based on hate can exist for any length of time in a Christian democracy . " " I favor white councils , red and black councils , " he declared . But he added that " I can not lead this state if I base my thinking on hate . "                     