@@713286

txt BRITISH OFFER WAY Sound Nations on Move ' to Unite Korea and Hold Elections After War FOR STRONG COMMISSION Asian Lands Would Dominate It  --  Crossing of the 38th Parallel Still a Question By A. M. ROSENTHAL Britain has taken the initiative on the . Korean problem in the United Nations with the drafting of a plan to have the General Assembly setup post-war elections in Korea for the establishment of one government for the entire country . The outline for Korea 's future also calls for the creation of a new and strong United Nations commission  --  dominated by Asian countries  --  to supervise the voting and work toward the goal of a democratic and unified Korea . Talks on the plan have been going on for several days under British initiative . Still without agreement , though , is the problem as to whether United Nations forces should receive specific authorization to cross the Thirty-eighth Parallel , dividing line between the Republic of Korea and the Communist government to the north . Authorization a Question Some of the countries backing the United Nations in Korea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gen. Douglas to cross the parallel . On the other hand , there is no desire to tie the general 's hands should the military situation demand the crossing of the boundary line . As things stand now  --  and talks are still going on  --  there is a trend toward leaving out a specific authorization to cross the parallel and instead write in a reaffirmation of the United Nations war effort in Korea . That reaffirmation would include reference to the official United Nations decision to take all necessary steps to back up the Republic of Korea . So far the British working paper has been seen by , the Indian , Norwegian , Australian and United States delegations , among others . Several countries have cabled home for instructions , especially on the problem of the Thirtyeighth Parallel . Diplomatic developments on // Korea were being speeded up at Flushing Meadow , where the Assembly is in session , in the hope of keeping pace with the swift march of military events . Many delegates felt that the course of battle would dot the i 's and cross @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the best thing for the Assembly to do would be to set the objectives and create a commission with powers broad enough to work toward it effectively . The chief Korean developments in the United Nations were taking place in behind-the-scenes consultations among Assembly delegations . But the Korean case made a reappearance on the stage of the Security Council , when the Soviet Union introduced another resolution attacking the United States for " barbarous bombings " in Ko rea . The Soviet resolution , introduced by Jacob A. Malik , noted that the North Koreans had filed new complaints of " inhuman bombings " by the United States Air Force . The resolution asked the Council to judge the bombings a " flagrant violation " of international law and to ask the United States to stop bombing or machine-gunning from the air . The Council already has given a resounding defeat to a similar Russian resolution condemning the United States . It was expected that only Mr. Malik would vote for his second resolution on the bombings . Reports of Two Moves The delegates ' lounge at Flushing Meadow was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being done or might be ' done toward a settlement in Korea . Two of the reports were : 1 . The Soviet Union has approached the United States for peace talks . The United States denied that story . 2 . The Chinese Communists have approached India with a suggestion that she sponsor a settlement based on withdrawal of North Koreans and United Nations forces to an agreed line , to be followed by United Nations-supervised elections . The Indian delegation said they had no information on any such proposal . It was firmly established , however , that the Western powers were eager for the Assembly to have its official say on the Korean case and that the basis of talks was a British working paper . The British paper was an attempt to find a common denominator among the views of the countries that are against the North Korean attack but not in full agreement on what course the United Nations should take once the victory is established . The British paper calls for the Assembly to stress the fact that the vast majority of th ) b @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Security Council decision on sending military aid to South Korea and promise full support of the United Nations toward rehabilitation of the country . United Nations forces , under the British plan , would withdraw from Korea as soon as possible . Sometime after the war ended  --  the commission would help decide just when  --  elections would be held under United Nations supervision and a unified government would be created . It would be up to the United Nations commission to decide where the elections were to be held . It was taken for granted that the elections would take place in North Korea , but there was no final word as to whether any would be ordered for South Korea , perhaps on a local basis . The entire plan is based on a United Nations victory in the field . But diplomatic sources said that much would be decided by what turn the victory took ? whether North Korean troops were eliminated south of the parallel , whether strong remnants remained in the north , whether any northern regime clung to power . Speedy Action Sought The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Assembly 's agenda , and Western delegations want it to be debated and acted on as quickly as possible . The Political and Security Committee of the Assembly is scheduled to begin its sessions Friday at Lake Success and the United States will ask that the case of Korea be taken up first . Commenting on an article yesterday in THE NEW YORK TIMES on discussions concerning terms of settlement of the Korean war , a United States delegation spokesman said : " Certain elements of the story have already been the subject of public policy declaration by the United States , while other elements are without authoritative basis . "                     