@@715019

txt It was really all over by 9 P. m. yesterday , but it took a while for Wilson Wyatt , the Stevenson campaign manager , to acknowledge defeat . Gov . Stevenson made it official at 12:45 a. m. today in the Leland hotel headquarters , set up for celebration , and used for condolences . " My fellow citizens have made their choice and have selected Gen. Eisenhower and the Republican party as the instruments of their will for the next four years , " he said to a nation waiting his acknowledgement that he was defeated . No Triumphal Party It was a sad ending for what had been planned as triumphal party . Much of the planning was based on the rosy promises of Wyatt . Wyatt , former head of the left wing Americans for Democratic action , last Sunday predicted Stevenson 's victory with 400 or more electoral votes . He was loath to retreat from that position even in the face of returns which from the start showed his man losing . He Remains Hopeful From the very first , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but at 11 p. m . Wyatt said he still felt that victory was possible . He recalled 1948 , when late returns reversed earlier trends , electing President Truman . " This is no time to concede , " he said in a press conference , and he contended that Republican claims of victory were unfounded . Ile said he thought the conceding by Paul Fitzpatrick , state chairman of New York , of that state to Eisenhower , was a mistake . Wyatt has always had a cheery view of Stevenson 's prospects . In fact , newspaper men have dubbed him " Laughing Boy . " Text of Stevenson Talk Following is the text of Gov . Stevenson 's speech : " My fellow citizens have made their choice and have selected Gen. Eisenhower and the Republican party as the instruments of their will for the next four years . The people have rendered their verdict , and I gladly accept it . Gen. Eisenhower has been a great leader in war . Ile has been a vigorous and valiant opponent in the campaign . These qualities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next four years . " It is traditionally American to close ranks as soon as the people have spoken . From the depths of my heart I thank all of my party , and all of those independents and Republicans who supported Sen. Sparkman and me . United as A -- -ericans " That which uni Os us as American citizens is far greater than that which divides us as political partisans . " I urge you all to give to Gen. Eisenhower the support he will need to carry out the great tasks that lie before him . I pledge him mine . " We vote as many but we pray as one . With a united people , with faith in democracy , with common concern for others less fortunate around the globe , we shall move forward with God 's guidance toward the time when his children than grow in freedom and dignity in a world at peace . "                     