@@718563

txt While the deadlock between Israel and Egypt continues amid new confusion caused by the latest United Nations resolutions another important Middle Eastern problem is racing toward a deadline . This is the problem of the Suez Canal , and the deadline is the end of February , when General Wheeler , now clearing away the wrecks scuttled by President Nasser , expects to have the canal open for ships up to 10,000 tons , with full operations due early in May . If a solution could be found by that time , even for an interim period , much of the damage caused by Nasser 's illegal seizure and blocking of the canal could be repaired . This would restore to the world a major artery of commerce and would relieve Western Europe of a growing oil shortage that is causing increasing economic hardships . But if no solution is found by that time , and since United Nations policies have ruled out the use of force in reaching it , the Western nations will have to choose between two grim alternatives . One is to boycott @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transportation routes can be established . The other is to bow to Nasser 's determination to keep the canal under his sole control as an instrument of his totalitarian and imperialistic ambitions . Because of this situation the Western powers have been pressing for new negotiations ever since the end of the recent hostilities . But Nasser , aware of the tremendous advantage which reopening of the canal will give him , has been holding back and threatening to stop clearing operations , and in any case to bar British and French ships from the canal unless Israel completes its withdrawal without reciprocal Egyptian guarantees of Israel 's national security . Some soundings toward new negotiations have been undertaken by Mr. Hammarskjold , the overburdened Secretary General , but if anything has come of them the public has not been informed . The issue in the Suez Canal problem is not so much Nasser 's seizure and " nationalization " of the canal company , however open to challerge on legal and moral grounds , but rather a restoration of the " definitive system " established by the convention of 1888 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in peace and war , the free use of the canal . To that end the Western powers have insisted that the canal must not . be operated for the political purposes of any single nation and that it must therefore be put under international operation and control . In this stand they have the backing of the Security Council resolution of last Oct. 13 , which established six principles , the most important of which is that the operation of the canal must be " insulated " from the politics of any country , including Egypt . To carry out these aims and principles the main users of the canal , meeting in two conferences in London , adopted first an American proposal for an international Suez Canal Board , which was to operate the canal with due regard for Egypt 's interests and sovereignty , and then another American proposal for a Suez Canal Users Association , whose principal function was to be to act as agent for ships using the canal to prevent overt or covert discrimination and in particular to collect the tolls . It was to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schemes that Nasser seized the canal in the first place , and control over the tolls remains the crucial issue in any settlement to assure both the safety and the development of the canal . For that reason British and French ships paid their tolls into blocked accounts from the beginning , and the United States has pledged itself to take measures to divert the tolls of its shipping to the users ' association as soon as it became a going concern , which it will be when the canal reopens . But for the same reasons Nasser has thus far rejected all such proposals and continues to insist in the name of Egyptian sovereignty that he must operate and control the canal and collect the tolls for his own treasury . At most , he offers to " cooperate " with the users and promises to observe the 1888 convention , which he has already violated , or to negotiate a new convention " guaranteeing " free passage through the canal , unless  --  as in the case of Israel  --  it suits him to do otherwise . That is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular can not accept and it is high time to impress on Nasser that ruling out the use of force does not rule out other measures short of war , including political and economic pressures , to bring him to terms which the free world can accept .                     