@@719330

txt The lowly pig , grubbing in the arid soil of Communist China , has hit the front pages of Peking newspapers with an impact almost as significant as that of Chairman Mao Tsetung 's recent Moscow junket . The core of the story as published in Peking Nov. 24 is that the Peking housewife , who relies on pork as a staple almost as much as rice and oil , now will have to queue up and tear out ration ticket 's ' before she can finish her shopping . And there is no assurance that she will get anywhere enough to meet her normal requirements . For behind the ration story is a much bigger one of the growing crisis in China 's food production program . It not only concerns swine but most other edible commodities . The significance of the new pork rationing lies in the fact that the government has been claiming big increases in production of pigs for this year over last year 's 84,026,000 mark More Mouths to Feed This undoubtedly is true , but what Peking has failed to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or any other food product has been offset by the fact that within the past 12 months there have been some 15,000,000 extra mouths to feed within the country due to natural population increases . Now the true situation is beginning to emerge . And inasmuch as it has hit the nation 's caiptal , observers here look for fresh signs of dissatisfaction over government food-production planning . - Even more important is the government 's need for pigs as an export item . Last year China was forced to cut its pork export quota to one-third of the previous levels and any increase in exports this year would appear to be at the expense of the domestic consumer . Indeed there has been evidence that Communist China is presently hard pressed to meet its quota of 60,000 hogs monthly which trot across the Sumchom Myer for Hong Kong alone . Suindards Threatened Pork rationing , meanwhile , is symptomatic of a growing crisis in agriculture which earlier this month evoked an official government warning that unless there was improvement living standards might fall . The simple fact of China 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feed the population but are relied upon mainly by light industry , which still comprises more than 50 per cent of the nation 's industrial structure . Additionally , agricultural products account for up to 75 per cent of Communist China 's exports . A good example of the problem for the whole country can be seen in the recently announced agricultural expansion plan for Kwangtung Province in south China . The plan provides for an increase of some 350 pounds produce per 1/6 acre  --  an increase of roughly 65 per cent . But farmers and consumers will have to wait 10 years before this relatively modest goal achieved .                     