@@713106

txt President Truman began to shift the country partly to a war footing today by invoking far-reaching credit controls over all phases of public housing . His main action was to slice the $1,250,000,000 mortgage insurance authorization down to $650,000,000 . The move was designed to crimp inflationary tendencies and conserve strategic materials . The Chief Executive accomplished this much by using his executive powers , and ' it was only a mild foretaste of the measures he will submit to Congress tomorrow . He acted on the eve of sending to Congress a message of historic import requesting men , money , munitions and sacrifices in the world conflict between democracy and communism . Enabling legislation would be needed to ? move on from today 's action , and tonight Mr. Truman and his staff were finishing not only the message but the draft legislation itself . The Cabinet was convened at 4 P. M. this afternoon so that Mr. Truman could read to them from the message of 5,000 to 6,000 words that will be sent to Congress at noon , tomorrow . Cabinet 's Satisfaction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the measures that Mr. Truman was proposing for a finish fight against the Communist North Koreans . The CabiAct officers expressed complete . satisf action with what they had heard . For the American people President Truman has conceived a direct talk by means of television and radio . He will write this message tomorrow Summarizing his legislative recommendations and will deliver it from a White House microphone at 10:30 tomorrow night . It will be about half as long as his Congressional message . In reading his message ' to Vice President Alben W. Barkley and other members of his official family President Truman skipped over a blank . space . He told them that tomorrow morning he would write in the approximate cost of the rearmament effort . Informed sources have estimated this at more than $5,000,000,000 . Mr. Truman did not say how many men or division ' he would request , either . The message , it was reported , will request that present manpower ceilings be lifted . Afterward , by executive action , Mr. Truman would summon the additional men to the colors . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that about six National ) Guard divisions will be called into Federal service and at least two Regular Army divisions will be reactivated . Details of costs and manpower were expected to appear in enabl- , ing legislation that the White House said would be introduced in , Congress soon after the message was delivered . Limited but compulsory controls on consumer credits , commodity markets and on the production and allocation of scarce materials were said to be among the demands . Mr. Truman acted today by means of directives that will immediately curb the spending of the Housing and Home Finance Agency : the Veterans Administration , and the Reconstruction Finance Corporation in the housing field . His program was embodied in Seven points in a letter addressed to Raymond M. Foley , the administrator of the Housing and Home Finance Agency . Carl R. Gray Jr. , Veterans Administrator , and Hai ' , ley Hise , chairman of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation . also received letters with their instructions . Mr. Truman then sent copies of all three letters to Charles F. Brannan , the Secretary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of governors of the Federal Deserve System , and Maple T. Harl , chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation . The President directed them to take comparable steps where the money-lending operations of their agencies impinge on the housing field . The Federal Housing Administration followed up the directive immediately by sending telegrams to all field offices , ordering the new restrictions into effect tomorrow morning . Seven Measures Specified Having cut the controlling Congressional authorization for mortgage insurance by $600,000,000 , Mr. Truman specified these seven measures for keeping housing expenditures within the lowered limits : 1 . For purposes of appraising property for mortgage insurance purposes , construction costs will be frozen as of July 1 , 1950 . Thus price increases added since the beginning of the Korean war would have to be eliminated for a property to qualify for Federal aid . Z. The maximum amount of mortgage insurance allowed on a property will be reduced by 5 per cent , thus requiring the purchaser to increase his cash down Payment by 5 per cent . In carrying out this point the Federal Housing Administration directed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to four-family units from $16,000 to $14,000. 3 . A " substantial " down payment will be required to qualify for Federal Housing Administration loans for modernization and repairs . The Housing Administration prescribed a 10 per cent cash down payment . Heretofore , no specific down payment has been required . 4 . Credits by the Federal Home Loan Bank to member institutions , especially those for business expansion purposes , are to be reduced substantially , and there will be an application of stricter credit standards on new mortgage loans by member home financing institutions . 5 . The commencement of construction of public housing will be limited to not more than 30,000 dwelling units in the first six months of fiscal 1951 . Meanwhile the public housing pro . gram should be thoroughly reexamined in relation to the international situation . G. Commitments for direct housing construction loans to educational institutions will be temporarily suspended . 7 . Other actions will /include the restriction of the size of projects built for sale , to curtail the use of national defense materials in residential construction . While the restrictions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediate heavy impact on the economy , as a great volume of housing authorized but not yet started will not be affected by the new restrictions . As the President pointed out , his reduction of the $1,250,000,000 mortgage insurance authorization to $650,000,000 brought to $8,400 , - 000,000 the total mortgage insurance authorized under the National Housing Act since 1935 . The directive to the Veterans Administration required a minimum cash down payment of at least 5 per cent on all loans made through the Veterans Administration , where this was possible under existing law . Any increases in appraised value caused by increased construction costs since July 1 , 1950 , were to be taken into account by requiring higher down payments . The Department of Agriculture was included in the action because it administers the farm home loan program .                     