@@719501

txt Frank W. Burton , 24 , California bad man sought thrucult western Kentucky since Sunday as one of two kidnapers of a Missouri state trooper , surrendered here tonight to city ponce in central ponce station . His partner in the kidnaping , Harold Davis , 33 , was captured Sunday night after shooting himself in the chest in an unsuccessful suicide attempt . The kidnap victim , Missouri Trooper William Little , and a Kentucky farm couple held as hostages for 24 hours on their farm near here were freed unharmed . Runs Into Station Burton came to the end of the fugitive trail by running into the police station with his hands in the air , begging to be allowed to give himself up . On his heels were two Paducah patrolmen who had seen him a block away and were after him with drawn guns . " I give up , " Burton shouted . " I 'm thru . " Police Capt . Marshall Jeffords and Patrolman Billy Cunningham seized Burton and disarmed him just as his pursuers , Patrolmen James Arts and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shelhourne said they had been parked in a squad car a block from the station when they recognized Burton . Hides in Roundhouse They caught Burton in their car spotlight and ordered him to halt , they said . He raised his hands but kept walking , quickening ? - his pace when again called upon to halt . He broke into a run as they started after him . Burton said he was on his way to the police station when he was spotted . He had spent the day hiding in an unused railroad roundhouse on the fringe of the downtown area , he said , and had slept Monday night at the Paducah home of a relative he did not name . City police turned Burton over to agents of the federal bureau of investigation for questioning . Davis , in a critical condition in a Paducah hospital , was charged by the FBI yesterday with violation of the federal kidnaping law and with interstate automobile theft Similar charges were reportedly in preparation against Burton . Burton and Davis are residents of Redwood City , Cal. , where both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two weeks ago . Burton is sought in California for questioning about a liquor store robbery in which a policeman was wounded . Davis is an exconvict on parole for attempt . ed arched robbery . Woman Sightseer Killed The capture of Burton ended ' an intensive manhunt in which state police of Kentucky , Missouri , Illinois , and Tennessee joined forces after Davis and Burton reached Kentucky Saturday night . Little was kidnaped at Van Buren , Mo. , Saturday afternoon . The hunt for the outlaws led Sunday night to the death of Miss Jewel English , 24 , a sightseer , who was shot and killed by a Kentucky civilian who had been handed a. rifle by a Missouri trooper at a roadblock near here . Her death disclosed that Missouri and other out of state officers apparently had no formal authority to operate in Kentucky . An inquiry indicated th a t altho complex legal questions over responsibility far Miss English 's degat may be raised it has nevertheless been common practice for police of Kentucky , Missouri , Illinois , and other states to cross @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Inquest Set Friday McCracken county Coroner Jimmy Davis today ordered an inquest Friday into the death of Miss English . She was in an automobile with her brother , sister , and brother-in-law when the shooting took place , apparently due to the driver 's misunderstanding of police orders at the roadblock : Retie Elliott , Paducah police chief , vigorously defended the action of Missouri and other state troopers in entering Kentucky for the kidnap hunt                     