@@719128

txt ? In the smoke and confusion of the Syrian crisis the old concept of an arms balance between the Arab states and Israel has all but disappeared . This , in the long run , may prove to be the most important result of the present arms race between the Soviet Union and the United States in the Middle East . Arsenals Stuffed Already American weapons are flowing into Jordan . More American arms are scheduled for Turkey , Lebanon , Iraq , and Saudi Arabia , Washington 's other allies in the Middle East . Moscow , for its part , continues to stock the arsenals of Syria , Egypt , and the Yemen with weapons now believed to total more than 350 million dollars in value . Arab leaders , in other words , who a few years ago had to scratch hard to buy a few tanks , now find arms of all kinds being pressed upon them by the two great power centers of the world . Chiefly disturbed at this is Israel , whose spokesmen claim that the primary aim of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ultimately the weapons now pouring into the Arab world may be used against the predominantly Jewish state . This concern is shared by some Western diplomats , who report that already nationalists in pro-Western Arab countries are saying privately that the new arms never will be used by Arab against Arab , but only against Israel . Israel Called Threat . As though to underline Israel 's concern , Samir Rifai , Foreign Minister of Jordan  --  whose country now is a . major recipient of American arms  --  declared Sept. 10 that Israel is a far greater threat to Jordan than is Syria . So far the damage being done to the Arab-Israeli arms balance is overridden in Washington by the need felt to bolster Syria 's pro-Western neighbors against subversive or military threat from Syria , dominated by pro-Soviet leftists in the Syrian Army and political life . In this situation observers now are asking : Will the Syrian crisis blow up into war ? Syria itself almost certainly will not attack its neighbors , it is believed . At the very least , such attack would bring down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Jordan . The Soviet Union also , it is felt , would not want to see the present Syrian coalition  --  useful to Moscow as a channel for Communist subversion in the Middle East  --  wasted in a losing war . There is real danger , however , that Syrian agents  --  some of them Arab nationalists , some undercover Communists  --  may be able to undermine popular support of their governments among the people of Lebanon , Iraq , and Jordan . All three latter governments are considered to be too pro-Western by many of their peoples . No Excuse for Attack The gravity of the subversive threat from Syria was pointed up by recent Lebanese Government assertions that a state of near emergency existed around Lebanon 's oil pipeline terminals at Tripoli and Sidon , because of subversive activity by Syrian agents . So far , it is clear , the Syrian Government has given its neighbors no real excuse for an attack upon Syria , nor are conditions considered ripe for the direct application of the Eisenhower Doctrine . The military aspects of this doctrine can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Middle Eastern country by a Communist or Communist-dominated state . That contingency has not arisen , nor is it considered likely that it will . Thus a major purpose of present American arms shipments to the Middle East , it is believed , is to strengthen the hand of friendly governments against subversion from within . In the wake of this satiation the time-honored pattern of an Arab-Isreali arms balance has disappbared , with nothing firm emerging to replace it .                     