@@719236

txt Scientists of the United States and Britain in the service of their Governments announced today that recent experiments in both countries " suggest " the achievement of controlled thermonuclear reactions . They agreed that this would be an important step in the long-range effort to develop fusion reactors to generate power for conventional purposes . The fusion process has been harnessed by man so far only to the extent of producing the highly destructive hydrogen bomb . Elaborate experiments are already in progress in both cormReproduced with permission of the copyright owner . tries , the joint statement disclosed , to determine whether the effects observed in laboratory tests arose from unrelated processes or whether they were the genuine product of thermonuclear processes . The announcement came near the close of a two-day conference at Princeton University of leading researchers in this field from both countries . The conference on controlled thermonuclear research was arranged by the United States Atomic Energy Commission and the United Kingdom Atomic Authority . This was in accordance with the agreement between the two Governments for the exchange of secret informa- Lion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ruark , head of the division of controlled thermonuclear research of the Atomic Energy Commission , said the statement represented the view of the two Governments . He would not elaborate . Sir John Cockcroft , head of the British delegation and director of the Atomic Energy Research Establishment at HarI well , England , since 1946 , left the meeting at noon , before the statement was given out . British atomic authorities disclosed in September that for split-second intervals at Harwell they had produced a release of unattached atomic particles , called neutrons . They did this by heating heavy hydrogen , or deuterium , to temperatures almost as hot as the sun . In theory , it was explained , these neutrons could provide energy for electrical power . Today 's statement showed ! that experiments in the United States , too , " suggest the achievement of neutrons from thermonuclear reactions . " It was not indicated in which country the first such experiments took place . The high tempeatures reached in these experiments is the reason the scientists believe that the origin of the neutrons was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ main conditions necessary for the attainment of power-producing thermonuclear reactions . First , heavy hydrogen must be heated to a temperature of at least 100,000,000 degrees Centigrade . Second , this hot gas must be confined within a container for an appreciable fraction of a second . When the temperature reaches several million degrees Centigrade , neutrons will be emitted in large numbers . " One of the centers where the work of verifying the controlled release of fusion power is presumably going on is the James Forrestal Research Center at Princeton University , the site of today 's meeting . Under the direction of Prof. Lyman Spitzer Jr . of the university , work in the thermonuclear power field began in 1951 , with the backing of the Atomic Energy Commission . Lewis L. Strauss , chairman of the commission , announced devices costing several million dollars to be built here to provide better control of thermonuclear processes at high temperatures . Scientists and public authorities have been attracted by the major advantages that fusion power might have over fission , or atom-splitting , power . Fission Has Drawbacks In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are split into lighter elements , giving off neutrons and energy . In the thermonuclear , or fusion , reaction , deuterium atoms combine into tritium , a still heavier form of hydrogen , and give off a neutron and considerable energy . Although atomic reactors using the fission processes are reaching the stage of commercial use , they still offer certain drawbacks . Fissionable materials are scarce and expensive and likely to become more so . In addition , atomic reactors produce quantities of bulky radioactive waste that raise longterm problems of disposal . The actual processes of atomic reactors also require extensive shielding against radioactivity . In contrast , the deuterium used in fusion can be extracted at comparatively insignificant cost from sea water . And the thermonuclear process , similar to that which occurs on the sun , offers a potentially far greater source of energy . The total fusion of one kilogram , or 2.2 pounds , of deuterium would produce 100,000,000 kilowatthours of electricity . Today 's joint statement emphasized that if the production of thermonuclear neutrons could be established , it would be " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the long-range efforts to develop thermonuclear reactors for the production of economic power . "                     