@@719977

txt In the face of the military build-up in the Western Pacific , the:nations of Asia have begun to throW their weight on the side of a negotiated peace for the Formosa Strait trouble . At least two Asians , Indian.Defense Minister V. K. Krishna Menon and Cambodia 's Premier , Prince Norodom Sihanouk , have offered to mediate the Chinese dispute , and another , Burmese Ambassador U Thant , has warned that Communist China must be at the conference table if the issue is brought into the United Nations . " My delegation , " the Burman de4ared , " will not support any measures whereby the United Nations assumes the functions of a cobelligerent on one side , in any armed conflict , without hearing both sides . " Background information furnished to United Nations correspondents has indicated that the United States would be willing to accept the presence of the Chinese Communists if the FormOsa issue were brought into the UN , but this assurance has evidently not yet reached the Asians , many of whom consider that the United States stand against admission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contributed to the present trouble . I Briton Voices Plea British Foreign Secretary Selwyn Lloyd on Sept. 25 , called on both Communist China and the Chinese Nationalists to end their military activities in . Formosa Strait immediately , the Associated Press reported . He urged further that " the whole world community should join in insisting that this matter should not be settled by force . " He made no specific reference to the military role of the United ? States in support of the , Nationalists . The British official spoke before the 81-nation United Nations General Assembly as United States and- Chinese Communist representatives met for the fourth time in Warsaw in an effort to find a formula to stop the fighting . Inflexibility Charged " This banisnment provoicea a feeling of frustration in China and has , without the slightest doubt , much contributed to the inflexibilitY of this country toward the West , " reported Prince Sihanouk , who made an extensive visit to Communist China last month . The Prince , who : has been openly wooed by United States officials during his three-week stay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mediator during conversations . with Assistant Secretary of State Walter S. Robertson . A similar offer was made by Mr. Menon during the UN debate on the question of discussing the admission of Communist China . Prince Sihanouk , proud of his country 's neutrality , which allows neither military bases on its soil nor participation in military alliances , proposed during his speech in the UN general . debate that a permanent commission of " impartials " be set up to guide the " great powers " in their international affairs . Services Offered " It seems to us , " he told the General Assembly , " that it is the duty of the smaller nations to be of service by candidly pointing out to their powerful friends , in the interest of the world community , the errors they may commit because of their ' great power complex ' in order to make possible a rapprochement between the conflicting viewpoints . " If the ' very great ' are not , at certain moments , capable of dispassionately appraising a given situation because they have become victims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come to a complete impasse where their prestige prohibits them from taking a step backward , why would they not entrust to a commission composed of representatives of countries aboVe suspicion of partiality or of ' alignment ' . the task of enlightening them and of suggesting solutions which , without harming just interests , would have the . merit . of offending neither justice and right nor the universal conscience ? " he asked . Specifically , on the Formosa problem , the Cambodian Premier said he was told recently in Peking that if the Formosa problem were setteld , nothing could prevent the Chinese Communists from becoming friends with the United States . U.S. Policy Ilit The Burmese Ambassador , meanwhile , sharply attacked the United States Far Eastern policy , stating , " It is a matter for regret that the United States allowed General Chiang Kai-shek not only to cling on to the offshore islands , which have no value for the defense of Formosa , but also to fortify them and to reinforce them . " At the same time he voiced distress at the Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this menace . " UN delegates generally were tensely awaiting the major . policy speech . on the Formosa Strait situation scheduled to be made by . United States . Secretary of State John Foster Dulles be- : fore the Far EastAmerican Council on Commerce and In industry in New York Sept. 25 for possible new light on what appears likely to be an early shift United Preee Inteenettonei of the negotiations from Warsaw to the United Nations . Candmidian Prince Sihanouk                     