@@718589

txt Britain called on the United Nations today for " redress " by the Government of Greece for alleged instigation of terrorism in Cyprus . Comdr . Allan Noble , British Minister of State , told the General Assembly 's Political Committee that there was no doubt that the terrorist movement had been " organized and financed " with Greek official help and " supported and exploited by the Greek Government . " This , he said , was done not in the interest of self-determination for the mixed population of the Eastern Mediterranean island , but in the interest of the annexation of Cyprus by Greece . " The pursuit by Greece of this ambition has dangerously weakened the defenses of the free world in southeast Europe , " Commander Noble said . The British statement was made during a day 's debate on two resolutions before the committee . One , submitted by Greece , sought the establishment of a seven-nation committee " to investigate through direct observation " conditions on the revolttorn island and report to the next session of the General Assembly . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a considerable time terrorist organizations in Cyprus have received support from Greece , in the form of arms , ammunition and money . " It galled upon the Greek Government to " take effective meas- ures " against further " support or encouragement " of the movement . Sam Sarper , head of the Turkish delegation , was the third of the day 's speakers at the opening of debate on the Cyprus question . Approximatelx 100,000 of the population of 500,000 on the island are of Turkish origin and own about 42 per cent of the land . " Mr. Sarper told the committee that Greece had little interest in self-determination for the island , but used that issue as a cloak for annexation while stimulating a " campaign of hate " against the Turkish minority . " The agitation organized in Greece over Cyprus , " the Turkish spokesman said , " has nothing to do with ' anti-colonialism ' or the ' principle of self-determination . ' The only aim of those who first created this artificial issue and thrust it upon public opinion in Greece was to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the annexation of this distant island . " Cyprus is about forty-five miles from Asia Minor and about 700 miles from Greece , he said . Makarios ' Exile Defended Commander Noble defended the exiling by the island 's administration of Archbishop Makarios , the religious and political leader of the Greek Cypriote community , to the Seychelles Islands , in the Indian Ocean . Captured documents , he said , " confirmed that the Archbishop had been privy to the whole organization , E. 0 . K. A. , and had been provided by Greece with large sums of money for the purchase of explosives . " He charged that the Greek delegation to the United Nations had used its position to circulate documents of " glorification of the terrorists " among the representatives of other nations here and to make use of " extreme terms " against its fellow member , Britain . The debate on Cyprus reached full-fledged proportions after remaining pending before the United Nations for two years . Greece Denies Arms Charge Evangelos Averoff , Greek For  --  ign Minister , told the committee that Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regime , in line with Did " colonial " policies . Greece , the Foreign Minister said , never has demanded inclusion of the island in her domain , but merely freedom for its people . " The Hellenic Government never has dispatched arms to the patriots of Cyprus , " he added . Since the British and French Dccupation of Egyptian soil over the Suez Canal issue , " it is not possible for the General Assembly to ignore this crucial aspect of the problem , " he declared . " It is impossible to restore the confidence and sense of security necessary to the consolidation of peace in the area so long as Cyprus can be used as a springboard of aggression , instead of remaining a base for defense , " Averoff said .                     