@@720722

txt Down to the moment when the Speaker of the House put the twice-vetoed $1,200,000,000 billion public works bill to a third try before crowded , hushed galleries President Eisenhower had not been overruled once on 145 vetoes by the Democratic-dominated 86th Congress . This seemed all the more startling since less than a year ago the Democrats won an election , hailed as a " liberal landslide , " an almost unprecedented sweep . But an ominous undercurrent for President Eisenhower 's viewpoint has run through these increasingly bitter veto contests. it has rumbled out as Congress starts its avalanche drive ? for adjournment , Mr. Eisenhower has won his major veto victories through the constitutional advantage of the two-thirds requirement . Thus in the first unsuccessful congress- ional drive to override the public works veto the numerical majority of the House Against the President 's position was 147 members out of 423 voting . Put in another way there were 285 who thought Mr. Eisenhower wrong ( 274 Democrats plus 11 Republicans ) to 138 who thought him right ( 132 Republicans plus 6 Democrats ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary two-thirds so President Eisenhower counted a victory . But the difficulties of running a government affirmatively against such opposition , as apart from the negative advantage of being able to veto the will of the majority through the two-thirds advantage , is obvious . It has rarely been stressed in accounts of the matter . Take the case of the unsuccessful Aug. 12 effort to override President Eisenhower 's veto of the housing bill . The battle here occurred in the Senate . ( The body which initiates legislation makes the first attempt to override . ) As the veto vote was recorded 55 senators opposed Mr. Eisenhower 's position , only 40 favored it . Since this was 9 votes short of two-thirds Mr. Eisenhower blocked action . On the other hand the views of the Senate recorded in the vote were conspicuous . They make an ? ominous latent record of opposition to Mr. Eisenhower 's position . The lions are held back , by the whip but their friendliness to the trainer hardly improves . This uneasy deadlock has not produced a legislative stalemate as it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Some of it , such as the labor reform bill , found the President and a majority of Congress on the same side . Some of it came from an accommodation of both sides  --  temporarily at least  --  to a baffling , situation . The housing bill is an example of the second process . ? ; Compromise Found After two unsuccessful attemps to override housing bill vetoes , White House consultants and Democratic leaders deliberately bargained out a compromise bill which the Senate passed , 86 to 7 . Sept. ' 9 , with assurance Mr. Eisenhower would sign it . The House Sept. 10 sent to President Eisenhower a third-try billion dollar housing bill which carried advance administration approval . The action came on a loudly shouted voice vote . On housing , President Eisenhower defeated aid to colleges which Congress had twice preViously strongly approved . A $50 , - 000,000 item for direct loans ? in classroom construction was dropped . On the other hand , the President abandoned his opposition to $50,000.000 for - housing for the elderly . Democratic leaders insist this is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " WhetheY or not this is correct , the cleavage has been plain . Mr. Eisenhower has put overwhelming emphasis during and since the election on halting federal expenditures and on concern over inflation : the congressional majority has placed emphasis cm social welfare needs . Tax Initiative Avoided Neither the White House nor Congress has taken the political initiative in boldly spelling out proposals for higher taxes to balance the budget , generally the surest way of balancing the budget where widely acknowledged social needs exist , such as inadequate and overcrowded schools . For better roads , however , Congress passed the 1-cent gas tax boost . President and Congress clashed over foreign aid . Here the rules changed . Instead of voting more money , Democrats approved less . With roles reversed , Mr. Eisenhower had no opportunity to use the negative weapon of a veto to achieve an affirmative policy . There was politics in the congressional action in the sense that some , members were bent on emphasizing that the fields in which the President forced them to economize were as important to them as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the party split has not brought legislative stalemate . For the time being Mr. Eisenhower generally has had the better of it . This is because the presidential veto is a negative weapon , and Mr. Eisenhower 's emphasis was negative in the sense that he was against doing something ? i.e. , inflationary spending . There has been some growth of bitterness that may get worse next year , and that can only be resolved at the polls .                     