@@715231

txt It is understandable that the country should have paid first attention to the things President Eisenhower said about foreign policy in his State of the Union message . not only because he said some spectacular things but also because the subject of peace or war lies closest to our hearts . But less than a quarter of that message was devoted to foreign affairs . And what was said in the rest may seem less spectacular but its consequences will touch all of our daily lives . For what President Eisenhower proposes is nothing less than a clear reversal of the political and economic l'hinith7 of the past generation in Washington . What he offers is no " middle way . " It is a sharp , clean break with the domestic course of the Roosevelt and Truman Administrations . The sharpness of the break is concealed by the mildness of the language . The President engages in no exhortation against the past . He advocates many familiar things : Aid to Europe , a large defense program , broader social security coverage , aid to education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welfare . He even plans for the government to play a role in influencing the nation 's economy . But the revolution is in this : He has fit policy to the purse . He would return to an economy regulated by the market place and not by government orders . He would turn back responsibility for the individual citizen 's affairs from the government to the citizen . For a generation we have had a governmental philosophy that if a thing is desirable it must be bought without regard to cost . Thus there was no effective anchor for policy . The Europeans could not really be pressured to help themselves because the premise was we had to support them at any price . Efficiency in the Armed Forces might be desirable but it was never a compelling necessity because they could always get more money . Welfare programs , not being rooted in proved need or having relative merits measured by the resources , could have no stopping place . Great public projects could not be weighed on their economic worth because cost was no criterion . So deficits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because the government could spend limitlessly on " worth-while " things . When spending became a desirable end in itself it could not be limited by revenues . Thegovernment would have to tax to the utmost , borrow what it could not tax and finally manufacture what it could not borrow  --  cheapen the dollar to get more dollars . But inflation sent the economy careening , and therefore the government must try to control it by levying still greater taxes , by trying to fix the price of eggs and the wages of every laborer . The process was inevitably one of more spending , more inflation , more taxes , more controls to try to manage the runaway economy until in the end the people should become oppressed and the economy wrecked . The reversal is to fit policy to purse . Mr. Eisenhower will spend for defense but " to mass military power without regard to our economic capacity would be to defend ourselves against one kind of disaster by inviting another . " He would give aid to the rest of the free world but " recognize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powerful as ours , can alone defend the liberty of all nations . " By the tying of policy to the available resources the course of government can be reversed . Thrift , good management and the prudent weighing of alternatives cease to be nebulous aims and become compelling necessities . Being achieved , they wipe out the excuse for the managed economy .. Thus President Eisenhower can propose to abolish the managed economy . For once the inflation itself is seen clearly , then it is clear also that all the paraphernalia of controls " deal not with the real causes of inflation but with its symptoms . " Once it is seen clearly that a policy of doing everything for all the citizens is limited by the resources to do them , then it is clear also that some of the responsibility must be turned back tothe citizen . And with this , a generation 's philosophy of government is changed beyond recognition . All the consequences of that change will not come quickly , but when they come they will be more than an end to inflation and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ philosophy of socialism and the managed economy and a revitalization , of the free economy from which comes , as President Eisenhower said , our abiding source of strength . The President can only promise us a sure and substantial beginning toward such a change . But that , in itself , is a revolution .                     