@@715112

txt Four hundred and forty-two of the least-known citizens of the United States  --  members of the Electoral College  --  have chosen the best-known citizen of the United States ? Gen. Dwight David Eisenhower ? as the 34th President . Senator Richard M. Nixon made ft , too . He is to be Vice-President . While these 442 men and women were electing Gc --  ? il Eisenhower , 89 other me s of the college , all of there ? , : itially obscure , were voting for Gov . Adlai E. Stevenson of Illinois . These 531 persons were chosen by some 60 million voters on Nov. 4 to vote as they did vote on Dec. 15 . Under the Constitution , none of the 531 may be a member of Congress or a government employee ( " holding an office of trust or profit under the United States " ) . Named Called Misnomer None of the 531 may vote for both a President and Vice-President from the same state as himself . This provision is sometimes mistakenly ' cited as banning a President and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to elect a President and a Vice-President from , say , Ohio . But the electors from Ohio could not vote for both of them . The presidential electors commonly are called the Electoral College , but the term is surely a misnomer . A " college " usually is considered a group meeting together , like the faculty of an educational institution . The 531 , however , cast their votes on Dec. 15 in 48 different state capitals . We might more accurately speak of 48 different electoral colleges . Even then there would be a question if the three electors in Dover . Del .. or the three in Carson City . Nev. or the three in Montpelier , Vt .. or the three in Cheyenne , Wyo .. are sufficiently numerous to be properly called a " college . " Several electors . according to a survey by the Associated Press , said they believe the time has come to discard the college and let the nation 's voters elect the President by direct popular vote . Changes Proposed Others favor retaining the present system , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Instead of one candidate 's getting all of a state 's electoral votes even if he wins the state by just a few popular votes , as at present , some believe the electoral votes should be divided according to popular votes . Both changes would require a revision of the Constitution . However , neither change would have made any difference in the present circumstances , since Eisenhower rolled up a margin of more than six million popular votes over Stevenson in the Nov. 4 election . The final official vote showed Eisenhower with a total of 33 , - 927,549 to Stevenson 's 27.311.316 . Counting other parties with a combined total of 308.000. the final tally was a record-smashing 61,547.861 . Until the 442 presidential electors voted for Eisenhower on Dec. 15. he was not actually President-elect , only President-designate , or President-apparent , or President-presumptive , or President-to-be , or something like that . And until he was elected cn Dec. 15. the provisions of the 20th amendment on the Vice-President-elect succeeding him in case of decease do not operate , For there was no Vice-President-elect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If General Eisenhower had succumbed before Dec. 15 , the electors chosen on Nov. 4 to vote for him probably would have let the Republican National Committee direct them as to who they would vote for for President . In 1912 when the Republican Party had nominated President Taft and Vice-President Sherman to succeed themselves , Sherman passed on six days before the election . There was no time for another Vice-Presidential nomination to be made . By direction of the Republican National Committee , the eight electors chosen for the Taft-Sherman ticket voted for Nicholas M. Butler , president of Columbia University , for Vice-President . In 1872. the defeated Democratic presidential nominee , Horace Greeley , passed on between the election and the casting of the electoral votes . Most of the Greeley electors gave the presidential ballots to the Democratic vice-presidential nominee . The first Monday after the second Nifednesday of December in election years was set by act of Congress of June 25 , 1948 , for the voting by the presidential electors . There is no reason why Congress could n't make the day closer to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the electoral count was expected to be 304 for Truman , 189 for Dewey , 38 for Thurmond , one Tennessee elector supposed to vote for Truman went instead for Thurmond . That made it 303 for Truman and 39 for Thurmond.                     