@@713182

txt Appointment of Mayor O'Dwyer as United States Ambassador to Mexico was accepted yesterday as imminent in Democratic political circles that are usually well-informed . For months the resignation of the Mayor to accept various posts has been reported , and denied , on numerous occasions . Yesterday the information was that only the final nod of approval from President Truman , who would make the appointment , was still to come . One highly placed personage said that was expected next week at the latest . The Mayor himself waved aside all queries with " No comment , " but there was an explanation for this from others . It was said that the Mayor was desirous of the Mexico City appointment and had ' no wish to offend President Truman by any leakage here . The information that he would . be appointed did not come from Mr. O'Dwyer or any of his spokesmen . O'Dwyer Goes to Washington The reports , first whispered among the well informed , became widespread last night when routine inquiries at City Hall disclosed that the Mayor had no calendar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would spend today in Washington , presumably visiting the White House . The Mayor followed this by a quiet departure for Washington on the 6 o'clock train last night . His leaving the city was announced at Police Headquarters without amplification . The Mayor 's appointment as Ambassador would be subject to confirmation by the Senate , and thus the date of his quitting City Hall and Gracie Mansion may remain in doubt for some time . The date is of vital importance on the political calendar . Under the election law , if the Mayor should resign before Sept. 20 the office would be filled at the general election on Nov. 7 for the three years of his term remaining between Jan. 1 , 1951 and Dec. 31 , 1953 . If he should resign after Sept. 20 , City Council President , Vincent R. Impellitteri , who would take office under any circumstance ' from the date of the Mayor 's resignation through Dec. 31 , 1950 , would hold over for an additional year . The Mayor 's successor would then be elected at the general election in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Democratic Slate Is Open The question whether the city would elect a Mayor this year , as well as a Governor , United States Senator and other state-wide officers , can play a part in the determination of the Democratic state ticket . For example , should Mr. Impellitteri be nominated for Mayor ? on the basis of an early resignation ? this would rule out Ferdinand Pecora , also of Italian ancestry , for consideration for Governor , it was held . Similarly , Controller Lazarus Joseph , another definite possibility for Mayor , might have loss chance for the nomination because of the presence on the state-wide ticket of Herbert H. Lehman , running for re-election as United States Senator , than he would have had in another year . It appeared to leave the Democratic state ticket wide open , and explained why the Democratic state leaders , who had advance knowledge of the pending O'Dwyer appointment , have not committed themselves openly as yet to any of the leading candidates for the Governorship . Mr. O'Dwyer himself is regarded as receptive to the nomi-. nation for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of that campaign . Should Mr. O'Dwyer quit as Mayor it would come as no surprise to those who know him . He was reluctant to run in 1945 , when he was first elected to the post , and in 1949 when he was re-elected . His renomination came only after he had publicly declined to run , refused to hearken to a draft movement , and then made a lightning switch just as the party leaders seemed scheduled to pick someone else , either District Attorney Frank S. Hogan , or Justice Pecora , for the job . The Mayor has not been in the best of health since his re-election , and last December sent his retirement application to the city retirement board . It was quietly retrieved by his friends , who persuaded him to tear it up . Has Good Relations With Mexico In the interval , he had numerous occasions to entertain and be entertained by various high officials of the Mexican Federal Government and of Mexico City , and his relations with them were said to be extremely cordial . This led the Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he appeared to have obtained the necessary support . The present Ambassador to Mexico is Walter Thurston , a highly regarded career diplomat , who presumably would be shifted elsewhere if the President decides to make the O'Dwyer nomination . In Washington , State Department sources admitted that the O'Dwyer appointment was " in the works , " but made no predictions as to its timing . The only other Mayor of New York to resign in modern times Was James J. Walker , who quit whilefacing removal from . then Gov . Franklin D. Roosevelt . That was on Sept. 1 , 1932 , too late for a primary nomination to be made , and the nomination of John P. O'Brien as Democratic candidate to succeed him was made at a citywide convention of 32,000 members of the Democratic county committee . About 20,000 actually attended the meeting , held in Madison Square Garden , where Mr. O'Brien 's selection , steered by Tammany leader John F. Curry , was ratified by the conclave . It is too late for a nomination to be made this year at the primary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was assumed last night that a meeting similar to that in 1932 would have to be held . Javits a Possible Nominee Republican leaders had not , up to yesterday , given much thought to a Mayoralty election this year , but Representative Jacob K. Javits of Washington Heights , a Republican-Liberal , has been mentioned as a possible nominee . It is not known whether Mr. Javits , a candidate for re-election to Congress , would accept this year , when ' a short campaign based on statewide issues would probably dwarf the Mayoralty race . Democratic leaders , kept more up to date because the affairs centered in their own party , still were uncertain whether the Mayor 's resignation would be timed to permit an election . Mayor O'Dwyer , ewho was 60 years old on July 11 , was born in Bohola , County Mayo , Ireland , and came to this country at 211 . He worked at such jobs as grocery clerk , hod-carrier , coal-passer , bartender , etc. , before becoming a policeman and studying law . When he entered politics , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ magistrate from Brooklyn in 1932 , then was elected County Judge and District Attorney . He was defeated for Mayor in 1941 by Fiorello H. La Guardia , who was elected for his third term . . Mr. O'Dwyer entered the Army in World War II with the rank of major , eventually becoming a. brigadier general . Later he was personal envoy of President Roosevelt to Italy , with the rank of Minister , and he was elected Mayor of New York , the 100th man to hold that title , in 1945 . He achieved a record in his first term regarded as very creditable , but in recent months has been involved in a controversy over the Kings County gambling investigation . A report from the grand jury in Brooklyn , possibly criticizing the Mayor for his attitude toward the inquiry , is expected to be made today .                     