@@719516

txt The French Government met last night to evolve a policy to counter mounting condemnation , at home and abroad , of a French bombing raid Saturday on a Tunisian border village . A ministerial council called by Premier Felix Gaillard adjourned at 1:15 this morning without announcing any decision . It was indicated , however , that the Premier would make a statement to the National Assembly when it meets this afternoon . Awaiting a more definite government lead , official spokesmen continued to stress the fact that France acted under great provocation and repeated warnings to Tunisia that attacks against French forces by Algerian rebels operating from Tunisian territory would bring reprisals . On the home front , all but Right-wing politicians and newspapers condemned the policy ' or its application or both , promising a difficult time for the Government when it faces the National Assembly . In the international sphere , France was stunned by the almost unanimous condemnation around the world . Those spokesmen who defended France 's right to punish Tunisia for giving aid and comfort to the rebels who have kept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Signs of embarrassment over the methodl adopted . The Premier conferred for almost an hour yesterday afterhoon with United States Ambassador Amory Houghton , Mr. Houghton was reported to have expressed Washington 's concern over the international consequences ' of the incident and to have asked for further information on it . Gen. Charles de Gaulle , wartime leader of Free French Forces and post-war provisional President , broke his long silence to comment on the visit he received Sunday from Tunisian Ambassador Mohammed Masmoudi . A statement from the general 's office said he had expressed the hope that Tunisia would not let present difficulties compromise the future of French-Tunisian relations , which were important to the West and for the world . Lacoste Called to Paris Premier Gaillard summoned Robert Lacoste , Socialist Minister for Algeria , to Paris to give his account of the affair . IIt was reported by informed isources that neither M. Gaillard nor Foreign Minister Christian IPineau had any advance knowledge that such a raid was to take place . It was not clear whether the entire Cabinet had been in a similar sate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chaban-Delmas , Gaullist Minister of Defense.had made any public defense of the action . M. Chaban-Delmas , on Saturday , after the raid , issued a statemmt calling it an action of legitimate self-defense by French forces against continued harassment by rebels employing hit-and-run tactics in Algeria and sheltering behind the Tunisian border . Former Premier Pierre Mend ? s-France , long critical of , the Government 's policies in North Africa , issued a statement that he did not believe " tor one instant " that the French Government had ordered such an action . He recalled that in the past Paris had often been presented with accomplished facts by its servants in the field , notably in the case of the deposition of Sultan Mohammed ben Youssef of Morocco in 1953 , and had then chosen to back up the actions of subordinates . Later , the former Premier said he had believed originally that the raid plan was drafted in Algeria but that " now , I do n't know . " " People worthy of belief , " he said , ' " tell me that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. Mendds-France was one of a group of about a hundred Parisians , many of them prominent in politics and the arts , who gathered early this afternoon outside the Tunisian Embassy to express their sympathy to Tunisian Ambassador Masmoudi before his departure , on recall for Tunis . Others were Francois Mauriac , Socialist Deputies Daniel Mayer , Robert Verdier and Alain Savary , members of the minority of their party out of sympathy with the Government 's policies , several Communist Deputies and repiJsentatives of other Left-Wing groups . The incident presents M. Gaillard with a knotty new internal political problem . The greater part of his majority , the Radicals , Socialists and Catholic Popular Republicans , was deeply disturbed by the bombing , and ithe Socialists and Popular Reipublicans had scheduled committee meetings to consider it before today 's Assembly session . But , with one or two notable exceptions , the Right Wing of the Government , Independents and Gaullists , stood firm in defending the action . Thus , if M. Gaillard should choose to " cover " subordinates responsible for the order he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If , on the other hand , he should decide to discipline those who launched the raid , the Right Wing would react strongly . The influential afternoon newspaper Le Monde devoted its entire front page and most of three inside pages yesterday to news and comment on the incident . Editorially , Le Mode observed that the most probable consequence would be to bring about the " internationalization " of North Africa affairs  --  the one development France has sought most to forestall .                     