@@713744

txt The Joint Chiefs of Staff were reported authoritatively tonight to have instructed General of the Army Douglas to clear all future statements of a political nature with Washington . This instruction was understood to have resulted from General 's recent " peace appeal " to the Chinese Communists  --  a statement that apparently was not cleared with the Pentagon and not approved by the Department of State . General 's statement emphasized the weakness of the Chinese Communist army in Korea , implied that the United Nations could bring about the " military collapse " of Communist China , and indirectly criticized those in the United Nations  --  including his own Government  --  who had offered to discuss the Formosa question after arranging a cease-fire in Korea . Important discussions are proceeding here , within the United States Government , and between the United States Government and the other thirteen nations that have sent troops to fight under General 's international command . Just before the statement was issued late last week , the United States Government handed to the other thirteen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The intent of this statement was to bring about a new approach to the ques. tion of a Korean cease-fire . Before the other Governments had time to comment on the United States proposal , however , General issued his statement , which was criticized here , not only because it was not specifically approved by Washington , but because the State Department felt it was // a maladroit approach to the problem of negotiating a settlement with . Peiping . Moreover , the statement was made public before the United States Government had re solved its own policy of whether it was obligated to fight on indefinitely in order to establish a unified and independent Korea . With the last big Communist pocket south of the Thirty-eighth Parallel being eliminated , there is agreement at the top of the Government on two pbints . All of ' President Truman 's principal advisers agree that General should be free to advance across the Thirty - eighth Parallel whenever necessary to keep the enemy off balance and to protect the security of his international army . They are all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations have a political obligation to try to achieve a unified Korea , free of all foreign troops , independent , sovereign and secure . But do we have a legal or moral obligation to fight on in Korea un- , til this unified , independent and stable Korea is established ? This is where the difference in the Goverment lies ; this is really the root question behind all the vague arguments over crossing the Parallel ; and this is the question behind the arguments over bombing or not bombing continental China . One Group Sees Obligation One group within the government feels that the ? United States does have an obligation to achieve the unity of Korea by , - force of arms if necessary . To stop now , they feel , or even to - wait on the defensive until the Russians give the Chinese the necessary heavy weapons and " technical assistance " to turn the balance would be an immoral policy , unfair to the sacrifices of the South Koreans and the United Nations . Therefore , this group feels , halfway measures are morally wrong and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offensive against the Chinese Communists both in Korea and in Manchuria . The other group of advisers concedes that as long as Peiping continues to make war on the United Nations in Korea and to ignore the United Nations efforts to negotiate an honorable peace , the United Nations forces must continue to resist and punish the Chinese aggressors . They feel , however , that while politically we are bound to try to unify and stabilize all of Korea , it can not be said that we are obliged to do so by force of arms . The United States , this group points out , is politically bound under ' the Yalta and Potsdam agreements to do what it can to democratize Germany and the socalled " liberated " nations of Eastern Europe , but it does not feel obliged to do so on the battlefield . Both sides in this argument cite the resolutions of the United Nations in support of their theories . Those who feel that we must keep going , point to the resolution passed by the United Nations General Assembly last Oct. 7 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authorizing the first crossing of the Thirtygeighth Parallel . That resolution recommended that " all appropriate steps be taken to ensure conditions of stability throughout Korea . " It also emphasized that the objectives ? of the United Nations in Korea had not been achieved and , in particular , that the unification of Korea had not been achieved . Furthermore , it established a commission to represent the United Nations in " bringing about the establishment of a unified , independent , and democratic government of all Korea . " The other group , however , while acknowledging that " the essential objective " of the General Assembly 's resolution was " the establishment of a , unzfied ? independent and democratic Government of Korea , " insisted that this was a political objective , whereas the military objective  --  the reason why we took up arms  --  was to punish the aggressor and drive him back of the Thirty-eighth Parallel . This group asserts that it is the Security Council resolutions of June 25-27 , 1950 , that define the military obligations of the United Nations members , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repel the aggressors , to drive the Communists back across the Parallel , and " to restore international peace and security in the area , " Argument Impedes Accord The longer the argument has gone on here behind the scenes , however , the more difficult it has become for eitheit side to reconcile the various resolutions passed by the various parts of the United Nations . Those who wish to unify all Korea by force of arms concede that they can not do so without attacking continental China , which the United Nations has not authorized them to do . And those who assert that we have no obligation to unify Korea by force of arms concede that , while the enemy is now being driven back of the Parallet , neither peace nor security has been restored in " the area . " So the policy for the present , at least , pending resolution of the argument , is to maintain positions on the battlefield that give priority to the security of the command , rather than to the achievement of the objective of unifying a democratic Korea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issued his public statement was an attempt to solve this dilemma by a return to quiet negotiations . Unable to achieve our political objectives by limited war , and unwilling to resort to all-out war , the Government was trying to find a new diplomatic approach to the problem . The fear here is that General 's statement may have been detrimental to the attempt .                     