@@720029

txt 6 AIRLINES AGREE TO SHARE INCOME IF ONE IS STRUCK Affected Concern Would Get Paid for Some of Its Loss ? Union Doubts Legality By A. H. RASKIN Six major airlines united yesterday in a novel strike-aid pact , They agreed that whenever one or more of the lines was struck the others would turn over any increased revenue they picked up as a result of the shutdown , The pledge was designed to reimburse grounded lines for at least part of their strike losses , It also guaranteed that competing lines would not benefit financially from their rivals ' labor troubles . The pact was made public on the eighteenth day of a mechanics ' walkout that has halted all operations of Capital Airlines , The International Association of Machinists has called a similar strike against Eastern Airlines for any time after 10 A. M. today . Both Companies Covered The one-year mutual aid plan covers both of these companies , plus American Airlines , Pan American World Airways , Trans World Airlines and United Air Lines . Other lines were invited to join , Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Line Pilots Association said it would seek to have the agreement upset by the Civil Aeronautics Board . The pilots contended that the " juggling " of airmail payments under the pact would put the Government in the position of underwriting the intercompany exchange of strike revenue , The companies denied that any legal issues were involved . They announced that they would submit the entire agreement to the C. A. B. this morning . Under the terms of the pact , it automatically terminates if it is dis , ipproved by the board , Details of Pact The way the pact works is this : A t the end of each month the ' lines still . flying will determine how much extra money another line 's strike has brought them in fares or other revenue . After deducting any increased expenses that resulted from the expansion in traffic , the operating lines would send the money to the struck line . The financial arrangement is designed to apply to cases in which the striking union has refused to accept recommendations made by a Presidential fact-finding board or has failed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ PACT // to exhaust the settlement picadores provided in the Railway Labor Act . ' ' The law establishes cooling off periods to permit Government mediation in rail and air labor . disputes . It also provides for appointment by the President of emergency boards to submit recommendations for peaceful disposition of the disputed issues , Under the law , either side is free to reject these recommendations . It was the rejection of such proposals by the 2,500 Capital mechanics that caused the six airlines to get together . They ' called the mechanics ' action a threat to the " influence , position and integrity " of the machinery for orderly collective bargaining . A Presidential panel had recommended a wage increase of 20 cents an hour over a twoyear period , for the mechanics . The company agreed but the Machinists . Union contended that . the %crease was inadequate , Pre-strike . wages averaged $2,46 an hour . In an effort to end the walkout Capital raised its offer to 30 cents an hour , with half ret , roactive to Oct. 1 . 1957 , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The union informed Francis A. O'Neill , a member of the National Mediation Board , yesterday that it would submit the new offer to its members. ; Rejection Is Urged However , Robert Quick , president of the striking local , told United Press International in Washington that the union would call for a " 100 per cent rejection " of the proposal . The balloting will begin tomorrow and will continue until Thursday . Efforts were under way last night to head off the threatened tie-up at Eastern . Leverett Edwards , chairman of the mediation board , was reported on his way from Washington to Miami to participate in negotiations there , Four other lines also are involved in disputes over wages and working conditions for their ground crews , Mechanics at Trans World Airlines are taking a mail vote on a company offer of a 15-cent. pay rise . They were scheduled to strike at midnight Friday , The other companies affected are National , Northwest and Northeast . They are not parties of the mutual aid pact . Northwest Makes Offer Northwest has proposed a three-year contract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase . About 2,000 company mechanics began balloting on the proposal yes-terday , The six signers contended that . their agreement would " strengthen . the ? Integrity and increase the'effectiveness of the collective bargaining process " and encourage respect for the procedures established by the Railway Labor Act . Union officials said It was too early to tell what steps they might take to counteract the pact if they failed . to have it invalidated by the C. A. B. They discounted the possibilty that members would be instructed to ' refuse to work overtime for lines that were making " kickback " payments to struck carriers . The airline accord is one of a number of recent indications that employers are working more closely together in union dealings than in other years . The Big Three automobile manufacturers coordinated their bargaining strategy in their contract talks with Walter P. Reuther 's United Automobile Workers . Similar coordination existed ' among the New York publishers in their recent negotiations with the Newspaper Guild of New York . The air line plan offers a riew type of financial support for companies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some employers have been able to obtain strike insurance policies from Lloyds ' of London . These Provide some offset for lost profits if the company is struck after it has proposed to arbitrate its differences with the union . However , there have been few , if any , parallels to the situation in which other companies in - the same industry pool the extra profit ' they make out of a strike against a competitor and turn it over to the idled company .                     