@@718036

txt The people of Egypt have almost unanimously chosen Lt. Gamal Abdel Nasser as President of the Republic of Egypt . in Cairo , for example , 99.6 per cent of the votes were cast for the present Premier . The results of the weekend 's plebiscite show that an amazingly high proportion of this country 's 5,300,000 registered voters went to the polls , spurred by the fact that voting was compulsory for men but optional for women . It was the first time women had been given the vote in Egypt . The result of the plebiscite has surprised nobody here .. Colonel Nasser 's rule is still authoritarian , and he was the only candidate for the presidency . The voters were restricted to saying yes or no for him . Six-Year Term Under the new Constitution  --  overwhelmingly approved by the voters at the same time they approved Colonel Nasser for President  --  Colonel Nasser will hold office for six years . As President of the Republic he will continue as the country 's chief executive . With the June 23 plebiscite , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nine officers  --  was dissolved as such . However , all nine  --  including Colonel Nasser himself  --  hold ministerial office and are members of the Cabinet . The junta , with Colonel Nasser at its head , therefore remains in control of Egypt 's affairs . The new Constitution comes into force automatically with its approval by the Egyptian people . But this is unlikely to have any immediate significant effect on the present system of government in Egypt . The Constitution provides for establishment of a national assembly , members of which will be chosen from a single-party organization called the National Union  --  which is yet to be formed . The Constitution says the national assembly shall open its yearly session not later than early in November . Egyptian newspapers forecast that the first elections for the assembly will be held in October . To Erase ' Imperialism ' One of the aims of the Nasser revolution now embodied in the preamble to the new Constitution is listed as " the establishment of a sound democratic society . " When Colonel Nasser proclaimed the Constitution last January , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ struggle toward such a society .. The Constitution is perhaps best described as a blueprint spelling out in detail the continuing aims and principles of Colonel Nasser 's revolution . " The new Constitution , " Colonel Nasser said last week , " has been introduced to efface the past and its effects , and to eradicate a society which existed during the period of Turkish and British imperialism . " On the same occasion he remarked , " We have not rid ourselves of the past completely . There are people who believe that there still exists a foreign force which can help and favor them as it did in the past . " It must be remembered that when Colonel Nasser speaks of " a sound democratic society , " he does not necessarily mean Nv ha t an Anglo-Saxon understands by those terms . Sincerity Impresses Parliamentary government and party system have been discredited in Egyptian eyes because of corruption prior to Colonel Nasser 's coup in July , 1952 . Further , Egyptians think of society in collective rather than in individual terms . Above all , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nasser has made it clear that he is firmly opposed to the return to the party system . " The Constitution , " he said earlier this month , " forbids reactionary and opportunist parties which cooperate with imperialism against the people . " Nearly everybody who meets Colonel Nasser is impressed by his apparent sincerity . Few doubt that he wants to give the millions of hitherto underprivileged Egyptians a better life . Any visitor to Egypt can see that Colonel Nasser has achieved enough during his four years in power to ensure his continued popularity and support and to give reason for hope in his eventual success in grappling with the enormous economic and social problems that weight so heavily on Egypt . Some foreign critics may say that the new Constitution and weekend plebiscite are only a smokescreen to allow Colonel Nasser to continue his authoritarian rule . Perhaps the most apt comment on that came from an Egyptian friend of mine of humble station . " If Nasser went , " he said , " we should probably get somebody worse . "     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       