@@718504

txt President Eisenhower proposed today international control of " outer space " missile and satellite development as a disarmament measure . It was the first time that any world statesman had brought up the subject of controls against military use of the projectiles designed to be fired beyond the earth-enveloping air . The President 's offer to enter a " reliable agreement " in this , field was made in his State of the Union message . Presumably it covers intercontinental ballistics missiles and types of artificial earth satellites . It will be presented to the United Nations by Ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge Jr . next week as one of the elements in a new approach to disarmament . The United States hopes its pending program will break the stalemate in negotiations with the Soviet Union . A Primary ' Truth ' Though President Eisenhower referred to coming disarmament negotiations as " a major part of our quest for a confident peace in this atomic age , " he related these negotiations to a , broad foreign policy program . He stated it as a primary " truth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not assure even its own security . " He asked Congress to authorize this country 's membership in the Organization for Trade Cooperation as a contribution to improving conditions of free world trade . He said he would also ask Congress to authorize participation in the new International Atomic Energy Agency . He endorsed West European efforts to cooperate in the field of atomic energy and to establish a zommon market . He repeatedly stressed the " interdependence " of the free world nations and called special attention to the importance of obtaining stability and economic welfare not only in Western Europe but also in Asia and the Far East . The President emphatically reiterated his request for Congressional authority to counter " the threat of Soviet aggression in the Middle East " with United States forces , if necessary . And he spoke of the United States effort to " set a standard to which all who seek justice and who hunger for peace can rally . " ' A. Durable Peace ' " A sound and safeguarded agreement for open skies , unarmed aerial sentinels , and reduced armament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the years ahead , " the President said in introducing his passage on disarmament . Summarizing the projected proposals that he mentioned in his last letter to Soviet Premier Nikolai A. Bulganin , President Eisenhower declared : " We are willing to enter any reliable agreement which would reverse the trend toward more devastating nuclear weapons ; reciprocally provide against the possibility of surprise attack ; mutually control the outer space missile and satellite development ; and make feasible a lower level of armaments and armed forces and an easier burden of military expenditures . " Last year the Federation of American Scientists said that it might become necessary to include satellite control in any international disarmament program . Most of the publicity about earth satellites has revolved around plans for the artificial moons that will be projected into space as part of the program for the 1957-1958 international geophysical year , which begins July 1 . The United States plans to send about ten of them whirling around the planet , at least 200 to 300 miles above the earth 's surface and perhaps 1,500 miles into space . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twenty to thirty inches in diameter . Since the announcement July 29 , 1955 , that this country plans to launch the basketball-sized satellites , questions have recurred as to their military potential . United States officials have stressed that the objects they had in mind could not be used either to take photographs of terrain or drop nuclear explosives . However speculation has continued on this problem , particularly since it is known that the Soviet Union also is preparing earth satellites of a similar type . Most fears about outer space warfare , however , have been generated with respect to the intercontinental ballistics and other missiles . The Soviets are said by some observers to be ahead of the United States in that field , while Administration spokesmen have maintained that this country is leading . Inspection Is Included While the President offered mutual control of missiles and , satellites , Government sources stressed that the same condition applied to these as to nuclear warheads : adequate inspection safeguards . One scheme that is being con- , sidered would call for exchanges . of information and visits by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similar to the International Atomic En- , ergy Agency of the United Na. -1 tions could be created , it was , said . This would require new enabling legislation in the , United States , it was conceded , but then so would any other CURE oN MISSILES agreement on disarmament , it was added . Officials here believe that Ambassador Lodge will not go into great detail when he ' presents the proposals at the United Nations next week . It is felt that the Soviet Union is more likely to respond to concrete negotiations in the disarmament subcommittee rather than in the open give-and-take of the Assembly 's major committees . Official Opinion Sought WASHINGTON , Jan. 10 ( RI ? Senators inquiring into disarmament possibilities decided informally today to seek an official opinion on whether a hydrogen bomb can be exploded in secret . They also agreed to ask for an official opinion on the extent to which nuclear and thermonuclear explosions affect the public health . The issue came to a head today at a meeting of the Senate Subcommittee on Disarmament during testimony by Maj. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrat of Minnesota and chairman of the group , announced the panel might call on the Atomic Energy Commission to set up a special board of top level scientists to get a formal opinion .                     