@@719009

txt In his broadcast night before last Secretary Dulles spoke of the " increase in urgency of reaching agreement " on disarmament . The urgency is such that " marginal risks must be accepted if thereby we eliminate vastly greater risks . " It seems to us there is a risk  --  by no means marginal  --  in this very notion of urgency . The United States entered the current London disarmament talks with considerable skepticism and little optimism . Partly because the Soviets seem slightly less impossible than heretofore , the Administration has gradually come to regard getting a limited disarmament agreement as a matter of overriding concern . The danger here is in thinking of disarmament as an end itself . It is not ; it is only a means . The goal , whether of armament or disarmament , is the national safety . If a disarmament agreement enhances security by lessening the prospect of war , well and good . But it does not follow that any disarmament treaty will have that effect . The Administration , to be sure , has not suddenly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to distinguish between realistic and unrealistic goals ; and a workable inspection system is still the heart of the United States approach . The disturbing question nonetheless remains whether the Administration 's new urgency may not lead it farther than the national safety warrants . Some of the proposals the United States has already made at London could entail more than " marginal " risks . Perhaps the least worrisome , assuming adequate detection , is the suggestion for a ten-months ' ban on nuclear bomb tests ; the period is so short it would not seriously disrupt the broad range of American experimentation . A good deal more serious is , the proposal to halt production of fissionable material for weapons purposes after a date to lie agreed upon . Is it realistic to imagine an inspection system that could guarantee the Soviets were living up to this ? If not , the plan could be dangerous indeed . And it must be assumed that the Soviets will evade any agreement if they possibly can . Even an inspection system , basic as it is to other disarmament steps , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one can be sure that it is possible to devise a " foolproof " inspection . Suppose the Soviets accepted the plan for air and ground inspection of their country in exchange for inspection of ours . Is it really a good idea to throw open the whole United States to Soviet agents ? The chances are they would learn more than we would , and when they learned it they could call off the deal , better prepared for attack . We make these comments not to argue that the United States should stop discussing disarmament with the Soviets . Certainly the subject is important enough that this country should not spurn opportunities which might lead to some safe alleviation of the arms burden . But the urgency of getting agreement is highly debatable . Mr. Dulles offered a harrowing prospect if agreement is not reached . " Do we want a future , " he asked , " where men . . . must learn to live as burrowers within the earth 's crust for protection against the blast , the heat , the radiation of nuclear weapons ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an historic relic ? " Those are by no means necessarily the consequences of failure to sign a disarmament pact . They could well be the consequences of a hasty agreement based solely on the proposition that disarmament is an end in itself .                     