@@714433

txt Jacob A. Malik , Soviet representative in the United Nations General Assembly , declared in another bitter attack on the United States and Britain tonight that not only was " the Anglo-American bloc " preparing a third world war , but " this world war has in fact begun . " Mr. Malik , who was making a final attempt to persuade or frighten members of the United Nations into agreeing to immediate discussion of the Korean question in the Assembly , added that " war is being waged against Korea , China , Malaya , Egypt , Tunisia and Morocco . " " The three imperialistic colonial powers  --  this coalition of colonizers ? are waging war against the peoples of Africa and Asia , who are striving for independence and freedom , " he said . Despite the violence of Mr. Malik 's language , or , as some delegates believe , because of it , the Soviet bloc ended an all-day meeting of the Assembly 's joint Political and Security , Economic and Social Committees standing completely alone . Korean Developments Awaited . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a resolution postponing discussion of a permanent settlement for Korea until after there was an armistice or " other developments " required discussion  --  in other words , if it should become clear that the Communists have no intention of agreeing to an armistice . The resolution , introduced . a week ago by the United States , Britain and France , provides that in either case a special or emergency session Of the Assembly will then be held at the United Nations headquarters in New York . Chile and Yemen abstained and Iceland and Syria were absent . By the same margin the committee then rejected a Soviet resolution calling on the Assembly to remain in session and directing the Political and Security Committee to take up immediately the question of the independence of Korea . - The United States and other Western delegations were particularly encouraged by the fact that the Arab and Asian countries , which in the past few weeks have shown a disquieting tendency to side with the Soviet Union or to abstain , voted almost solidly in favor of the resolution . The fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since they had been abstaining recently on virtually all . important East-West issues . It was agreed that , in his attack on the United States and Britain today , with the United States as his principal tang , Mr. Malik more than held his own with his chief , Foreign Minister Andrei Y. Vishinski , who returned to Moscow recently . Malik Denounces U. S. Mr. Malik said thqUnited States was " afraid " to Have peace in Korea and that United States Government leaders were " like maniacs and cannibals , who can calm their minds only with more killings and bloodshed . " Also , , he repeated and endorsed the North Korean charge of yesterday that United States forces had used " toxic gases , " which he said were spread by " bullets . " Lieut . Gen. Otto P. Weyland , chief of the Far East Air Forces , " categorically " denied ' charges that Allied - airmen or other forces in Korea were using " toxic bullets " against the Communists , The United Press said in a Tokyo dispatch Sunday . However , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more harm by his insistence upon attacking the positions taken by United Nations negotiators at Panmunjom regarding the exchange of prisoners of war and the status of airfields in North Korea . Many delegates were convince ( anew that if the Korean question were taken up in the Assembly before an armistice was reached , the Soviet Union would insist upon debating the whole question there rather than in Korea . ? Mr. Malik apparently sensed this feeling at one point and asked who had ever proposed that the question of prisoners of war be discussed in the Assembly . John Selwyn Lloyd , British Minister of State , immediately replied that it was Mr. Vishinsky himself who had brought up the question . The Brit- , ish representative added that he was convinced that if the , Soviet Union had not raised the Korea question in the Assembly , an armistice would have been agreed upon by now . Since Mr. Malik 's statement about a third world war was made extemporaneously , and at the end of a long duel with Mr. Lloyd and Ernest A. Gross , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take it overseriously . An earlier statement by Mr. Vishinsky , however , had been interpreted as a threat of possible Communist moves against Burma and Thailand , and other delegates said they wanted to consider the implications fully . Both Mr. Gross and Mr. Lloyd insisted that it was necessary , in the language of the resolution , to avoid premature discussion of the Korean question . However , Mr. Malik contended that , even accept-11 ing " your theory , " that it was a United Nations war in Korea , the Assembly had a right to " facili- , tate " armistice discussions . Mr. Malik also charged that the ' United States was afraid to appear . " before the bar of public opinion " because that would interfere with its " plans for aggression " in Other parts of the Far East . The debate had been delayed an hour and a half by a procedural argument when Mr. Malik contended the joint meeting had been called improperly , He finally was overruled by a vote of 40 to 5 , with 12 abstentions . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the question of responsibility for initiating the armistice talks . Mr. Malik challenged Mr. Gross ' statement that the United Nations held the initiative in seeking peace , declaring that his own radio speech of June 23 , 1951 , was responsible for the start of negotiations . He added that the Soviet Union had no control over North Korea , but that the United States had consistently rejected the Soviet Union 's " repeated peace overture " before his public declaration .                     