@@720964

txt 20 APALACHIN MEN GUILTY OF PLOT TO BLOCK JUSTICE ; U.S. HAILS LANDMARK ' CASE LONG TRIAL ENDS Judge Praises Verdict ; ? State Inquiry Calls Seven Defendants Excerpts from statement by fudge are on Page 14 . By EII ? 1 ITEM YEB.1-1,11U1 ? TB The twenty defendants in the ; Apalachin case were convicted ' by a jury in Federal Court late yesterday of conspiring to ' obstruct justice by lying about the purpose of their 1957 gathering . The verdict . was hailed by Attorney General William P. Rogers as a " landmark in the Government 's fight against organized crime . " Judge Irving R. Kaufman , who presided at the eight-week trial , and Milton R. Vessel , the prosecutor , called it a signal victory for law enforcement . The twenty defendants were among sixty-three men believed to be underworld leaders who gathered on Nov. 14 , 1957 , at , the isolated hilltop estate of ' the late Joseph Barbara Sr. at Apalachin , N. Y. Sentencing Set Jan , 14 Judge Kaufman permitted the defendants to remain free bail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Each is liable to a maximum of five years in Federal prison and a $10,000 fine . For some of the twenty there ' was additional bad news . As they left the courthouse , seven were served with subpoenas calling for their appearance before the State Investigation Commission at 270 Broadway on Monday at 10:30 A. M. The jury of eight men and four women got the case Thursday afternoon and deliberated for more than fifteen hours before bringing in their verdict at 5:10 P. M. yesterday . The outcome was a surprisel to the defendants , their lawyers and most observers in the courtroom . Because of the length of the ; . cry 's deliberations and the fact that it had on five occasions asked for review of testimony by individual defendants , A had been thought that the verdict would find some innocent and some guilty . As the court clerk read the finding of " guilty " for all the defendants , some of them // slumped in their seats , others chewed gum furiously , and tears came to the eyes of two , Natale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The group of sixty-three who attended the Apalachin gathering had police records showing a total of 153 arrests and seventy-four convictions . Despite the two years that have elapsed since the meeting and the many local , state and Federal inquiries dealing with it , the true purpose of the gathering has never been revealed . Last May 13 , a Federal grand jury in Manhattan . indicted twenty-seven of the men as defendants and thirty-six as alleged co-conspirators in a plot to keep the truth from the Government . Four of the defendants are fugitives , two had their trials severed because of illness , and one , Frank Cucchiara of Watertown , Mass. , was acquitted by Judge Kaufman during the trial that started Oct. 26 . Kaufman Thanks Jury In thanking the jurors last night , Judge Kaufman said in part : " The nation owes you a deep debt of gratitude for your courage and your fortitude and the patience and the perseverance and the time which you have taken in reaching your verdict . " I am sure that the people will learn through your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the laws of our country will be observed , and in this connection , they expect that when authority and grand juries conduct investigations that they not be defied nor sneered at by any people who consider themselves above the law . " Judge Kaufman also had praise for Sgt. Edgar D. Croswell , who led the state police raid that broke up the Apalachin gathering , and other state , local and Federal law officers , who took part in the investigations . He praised the newspapers for " restrained " coverage of the trial . Similar praise for the lawenforcement units that investigated the Apalachin guests came from Attorney General Rogers . Officials Congratulated He sent congratulatory telegrams to the Government lawyers who prosecuted the case ; J. Edgar Hoover , director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation ; Harry J Anslinger , commissioner of the Bureau of Narcotics ; Stephen P. Kennedy , New York City Police Commissioner and Francis S. , superintendent of the New York State Police . Because all the defendants were of Italian descent , defense counsel had charged at the trial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In his charge to the jury , Judge Kaufman expressed his displeasure at the raising of this issue . He told ite  --  jurors to give a verdict without prejudice . The defense had also charged that the original police action that broke up the Apalachin meeting had violated the Fourth Amendment prohibition against unreasonable search and seizure . But Judge Kaufman ruled that the stopping , search and detention of the defendants had been legal . The seven subpoenaed to appear Monday before the Investigation Commission were Joseph F. Civello of Dallas ; Louis A. Larasso of Linden , N. J. ; Frank T. Majuri of Elizabeth , N. J. ; James Osticco of Pittston , Pa. ; Anthony P. Riela of West Orange , N. J. : John T. Scalish of Cleveland and Angelo J. Sciandra of Wyoming , Pa.                     