@@715862

txt An unimpeachable source tonight denied reports ! , that the ' FIJI had approved a a plan to keep Harry Dexter White in government service after lie was accused of spying for Russia so that he could be kept Mover under observation . The flat denial came as former President Truman in New York City promised to " tell all the facts " about the case in a radio and television broadcast from Kansas City Monday night . Truman indicated he may have kept the suspected high treasury official in federal service with the international monetary fund in order to aid the FBI in its investigation of soviet espionage . A high justice department official said FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover was firmly opposed to White 's association with the government in any capacity . The official added the FBI would not make deals to keep any suspected persons in key posts . Claims Hoover Not Consulted The official said that Hoover certainly did not propose keeping White in federal service as some Democratic sources indicated . He added that Hoover was never consulted on the employment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected to emphasize that Hoover had no part in the reported plan and that Hoover did not favor retention of White in federal service when Brownell testifies Tuesday before the senate internal security subcommittee . Brownell is also expected to deal with Truman 's expected review of his files to answer the attorney general 's charge that Truman promoted White after the FBI had twice warned that the treasury aid was a communist spy . Ends Week of Charges The authoritative denial of any FBI participation in the supposed plan to retain White came at the end of a week long storm of charges and counter-charges over the White case . It was expected that a brief calm will ensue until Truman and Brownell have their say over the air and before the senate subcommittee . The National Broadcasting company , Columbia Broadcasting system , and American Broadcasting company networks anpounced they would carry Truman 's broadcast . Spokesmen for the networks said they will donate the broadcast time , which would cost many thousands of dollars , to Truman and will carry the talk " as a public service . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The senate internal security subcommittee renewed its efforts to obtain the Canadian government 's permission to question Igor Gouzenko , former soviet embassy code clerk at Ottawa , who exposed the Canadian atomic spy ring . Chairman Jenner R. , Ind. wrote State Secretary Dulles asking him to request Canada to reconsider its decision against permitting the senate group to talk to Gouzenko . Canada last week turned down the committee 's request , after THE TRIBUNE reported the former soviet aid wanted to talk further , insisting Gouzenko has already told everything in official reports . Jenner said there are " certain facts on espionage in the United States " in the committee 's report which were not in the official Canadian report on the spy ring . 2 . Alger Hiss , convicted spy perjurer , who was named as a soviet agent along with White by Whittaker Chambers , admitted communist spy courier , will get another ' chance next Saturday at a parole from his five year prison term . Hiss was convicted Jan. 25 , 1950 , on charges of perjury related to his spying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the . Lewisburg , Pa. , federal penitentiary . A year ago , the parole board unanimously rejected a parole for Hiss . Hiss Wo n't Appear The annual review of the case comes up next Saturday . Hiss will not appear to be questioned . The federal parole board will decide whether or not he shall be paroled , and the board will announce its decision shortly after it ponders the question . It is not expected that Hiss will be paroled. 3 . Sen. Hendrickson ( It , N. J. renewed his request that Truman be invited to present his " personal testimony " regarding the FBI reports on White before the senate internal security subcommittee . Hendrickson asserted Truman should be asked to give Congress the same report he will give the public in his Monday night broadcast . 4 . Sen. Ferguson FR. , Mich. raised a series of 10 questions which he said Truman should answer . The questions demand that Truman explain what he knew about the FBI reports and state in detail whether he discussed them with Gov . Byrnes of South Carolina @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the interests of clearing up confusions which have teen generated around the White case thru the raising of outside issues . Refuses to Honor Subpena In New York , Truman showed no disposition to accept Hendrickson 's offer , which has been hanging fire since it was first proposed Thursday after Truman refused to honor a subpena issued for his appearance by the house un-American activities committee . Truman refused on constitutional grounds to answer the subpena . Byrnes , who was Truman 's state secretary , and Clark , who was Truman 's attorney general , also turned down subpenas . However , Byrnes did answer questions put to him by the senate group . Clark has indicated he would give information by mail . Then Truman announced he would tell his story in a broadcast from Kansas City . The former President told newspaper men it was possible he had approved White 's transfer to give the FBI a chance to watch him . He said he had not examined the records on the matter and added his " memory is rather hazy " on that point . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @           