@@719932

txt " We 're here to sell . " That 's the way one British executive deScribes his company 's part of the massive " hard sell " commercial exhibit mounted by the United Kingdom 's atomic power industry to be seen by an estimated 100,000 visitors during the United Nations ' second international atoms for peace conference . Across the aisle from the 64-company , 49,000 square-foot British show , 86 U.S. firms are staging their own sales pitch . But it 's getterally felt the U.S. Industrial exhibit . covering at , 000 square feet of space falls far short of the impact of the British show. , " We sure could take sonic lessons in international merchandising , " wryly laughs an atomic salesman at ? major U.S. company 's booth . Another admits the British have a " reel beast " of an exhibit , but adds : " It takes more than exhibits to sell this kind of equipment . " Back of the British and U.S. commercial exhibits , 100 French companies have an exhibit marked by the high style and artistry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hibitors are Germany and Switzerland . A Different Situation The impact of the commercial exhibit somewhat reverses the situation at the official government technical show on the front lawn of t1 U.N . ' s Palate des Nations where the official scientific sessions will be held . There the U.S. has put up a $4,000,000 exhibit that completely dominates other national displays , including Russian , British and French . One British official speaks deprecatingly of the official U.K. exhibit , saying : " It 'd the corn ? mercial side we 're interested in . We 'll leave pure science to the U.S. " Exhibit specialists estimate the'British cornrr ( ercial exhibition cost its participating firms at least 91,500,030 . While the total U.S. industry cost is probably not much less than that , exhibit people note that bkIlled labor , transportation and shipping costs are much lower for British than for American companies . Neither British nor American concerns disclose the costs of their exhibits . Each of the five major troupe of British companies bidding on atomic power plant contracts Around the world has an exhibit . lerger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ displays of models , actual pieces of equipment and charts are small offices and conference rooms where potential customers will get a more concentrated sales message . The Nuclear Energy Trades Association Congress , an industry trade group , started planning the British show nearly a year ago . The first U.S. company participation was sir . ranged by Molesworth Associates , a New York public relations firm . Then early this year the Atomic Industrial Forum took an Atomic Energy Commission contract to coordinate the U.S. industrial participation . The A.E.C. has a central area in the U.S. exhibit which includes two operating research reactors to be delivered after the conference to European purchasers . The reactors were built by North American Aviation , Inc. and Aerojet-General Corp. , subsidiary of General Tire &; Rubber Co . To help British companies , the U.K. Atomic Energy Authority has prepared a 60-page , hard-cover sales handbook that will be passed out to a selected group of possible customers . The book is printed in English , French , German , Spanish and Italian . " We really did n't see any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comments an A.E.A. man with a grin . The English trade group now has launched Its own multi-language assault on the approximately 1,000 press people expected to cover the conference and exhibitions . Its press releases are available in seven languages and nine trilingual interpreters covering 12 languages are on hand to give press tours of the exhibit . Most of the U.S. commercial sales material and press releases are available in only two or three languages . Debate on Results How much " contract-signing " as opposed to " selling " will be done at this conference is a matter of considerable debate among the commercial exhibitors . The first U.N . atomic conference in 1955 was marked by a burst of enthusiasm for atomic power . Much of this enthusiasm , however , has been chilled In a three-year cold shower of technical and engineering difficulties . The award of an Italian atomic power con ? tract to be financed by the World Bank was originally planned as A highlight of the pre/. ent conference . But it is now reported that award of the job , on which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corn ? peting , will be delayed until after the conference . Since this job may mark a trend to either British or American power designs , the result of the bidding is eagerly awaited by all companies in the field .                     