@@717184

txt Republican leadership today blamed a change in circumstances rather than any reversal in Administration policy for the White House decision Thursday to reconsider the Dixon-Yates power project . Senator William F. Knowland of California today minimized the Democrats ' contention that they had struck " political pay dirt " for the 1956 Presidential campaign in the controversial Dixon - Yates contract . He said that Democratic advocates of public power were " misjudging public opinion " if they expected to win political benefits from the dispute next year . He said the outcome was a victory for the Administration . The President has carried out his " partnership policy , " Mr. Knowland added , by preventing the building of another power plant with Federal funds as an addition to the Tennessee Valley Authority system . This policy stresses local ori private initiative to meet power needs wherever possible . The Senator disputed any argument that the Administration was reversing itself . He said some opponents of Dixon-Yates believed " that all power developments should be by Federal agencies , " but the American people did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leader was referring to the fact that the city of Memphis , Tenn. , had declared its intention to build its own power plant rather than accept power supplied to Ithe Tennessee Valley Authority by the proposed $107,000,000 DixonYates private power plant at West Memphis , Ark . President Eisenhower on Thursday called for a reconsideration of the contract that he had urged be given the private power company . He acted after the T. V. A. had informed him that the plant would not be needed because of Memphis ' decision . Yesterday there were reports widely accepted by leaders of both parties that the President would order a cancellation of the Government 's agreement to buy power from Dixon-Yates . The President 's request for a reconsideration of the power project called the full staff of the Bureau of the Budget , including Rowland R. Hughes , its1 director , into play today . The staff , foregoing a three-day holiday , concentrated on a restudy of the Government 's position in the Dixon-Yates affair . Mr. Hughes intends to submit his recommendations to the White House on Tuesday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , be for cancellation of the con-1 tract . The President was said today to be ready to cancel the Government commitments provided he was convinced that opponents of the contract had not urged the city of Memphis into its announcement of plans for its own plant in order to upset the Dixon-Yates plan . At Memphis , Mayor Frank , Tobey said that the city already had started work on ' ' the financial , the legal and the engineering work to be done " to build the power plant . He said the city would leave no doubt that " we 're going ahead immediately . " Senator Estes Kefauver , a bitter foe of the Administration 's power project , indicated that cancellation of the Dixon-Yates contract would not halt his demand for a thorough airing of what he called " a shocking piece of duplicity " and a " scandal " in connection with the project . The Tennessee Democrat has been investigating the role of Adolphe H. Wenzell , a representative of the First Boston Corporation , financial agents for Dixon-Yates . Mr. Wenzell also sat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power project . In his statement today , Senator Knowland said that he understood the Administration originally had regarded a municipally owned power plant at Memphis as one solution to the power proble min that area , but that the city then had indicated it was unwilling to build such a plant . Memphis ' decision now to go ahead with the plant , Senator Knowland added , had changed the basic facts of the situation and had justified the White House order for reconsideration of the Dixon-Yates contract . Knowland Sees Approval Senator Knowlain ' said he believed that the Senate would ap- , prove yesterday 's decision of the ' Senate Appropriations Committee to withhold a $6,500,000 allotment for transmission lines for the Dixon-Yates project , if the City of Memphis went ahead with its Plans for a municipal plant . The power project for the Memphis area has been a sizzling political issue through two sessions of Congress . Starting as a local affair involving provisions for a source of power supply for the City of Memphis , it has become a point around which supporters of T. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make an issue with proponents of private power development . The controversy got its real start in January of 1954 when the President , in his Budget Message to Congress , noted that no appropriations were contained in the budget for new T. V. A. power generating units . He added that arrangements were being made to reduce T. V. A. 's power commitments to the Atomic Energy Commission by 500,000 to 600,000 kilowatts . The A. E. C. is the world 's biggest consumer of power and T. V. A. 's largest customer . Later the Government entered into an agreement and later signed a contract with the Dixon-Yates power combinations . Under the contract Middle South Utilities , Inc. , headed by Edgar H. Dixon . and the Southern Company , of which Eugene A. Yates is chairman , would build the $107,000,000 plant at West Memphis on the . E.rIcansas side of the Mississippi River . It would supply power to T. V. A. to replace power that agency furnishes to the Atomic Energy Commission for its works at Paducah , Ky . Memphis entered into the picture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needs because of its commitments to the A. E. C. When Dixon-Yates agreement was made known originally , it drew immediate fire from Administration critics . They charged among other things that the compact was slanted in favor of the power combination and that it was an opening wedge by which opponents of public power development hoped to kill off the T. V. A. Memphis ' objection to using Dixon-Yates power is based on this fear . The agreement figured prominently in the Congressional elections of last fall and when control of Congress passed to the Democrats last January , Senator Kefauver immediately began a drive to nullify the compact . Cancellation was provided for in the contract between the Atomic Energy Commission and the Dixon-Yates combination , known as the Mississippi Valley Generating Company . The agreement , however , would require the Government to reimburse Dixon-Yates for costs incurred , with interest up to the time that $40,000,000 had been spent . If more money had been spent , the contract required three years ' notice before cancellation would be permitted . If the contract is not canceled the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $9,052,000 and an annual charge for power of $9,688,000 . The agreement , however , set a ceiling of $600,000 on the amount of c inual profit that the company could make on its deal with the Government . The Dixon-Yates combination put up 55.500,000 as its part in the building of the plant and planned to raise most of the balance of the cost of the multimillion-dollar project through financing agreements with fiscal institutions .                     