@@716509

txt The Democrats ? including Adlai E. Stevenson  --  are readily admitting that they 're up against a tough proposition this fall . They are up against the feeling among a large number of voters that " everything 's all right with Ike in the White House . " In short , the Democrats know they are battling a " complacency against change , " a disinclination to worry too much about big issues , a feeling that the country is in good hands with President Eisenhower around . That 's why Mr. Stevenson , Democratic presidential nominee in 1952 , at his Harrisburg , Pa. speech on Sept. 8 , said pretty forcefully : i " We 're going to talk issues this fall , whether the Republicans , want to or not . " Shrewd Slogan The Republican campaign this autumn is based on " peace , progress , and prosperity . " It is a shrewd and effective slogan , barring a boost in International tension or a new dip in the employment graphs . It wraps up in a few words the reassurance that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Eisenhower . I But the Democrats hold that there are very urgent problems which need tackling and require discussion ; issues like the Communist aggression in Asia , the failure of EDC , persistent spotty unemployment at home , the so-called public power " giveaway , " and the farm program . Naturally , they will assert that the Democrats can do a better job solving these problems than the Republicans have done in their two-year try in Washington . Local Issues But how to dramatize the issues ? How to get the discussion off the ground in this year of assured complacency ? How to persuade the people that it is really " time for a change " in the control of Congress ? Of course , there are plenty of local issues which will decide the mid-term congressional balloting . But this dramatization and " arousing " is a big Democratic problem , and the party is tackling it with a will . " A great disservice will be done this nation , " Mr. Stevenson insisted at Harrisburg , ' ' by the attempt to wrap up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems which demand the clear thinking , the sober discussion , and the prayers of every American man and woman . " And Mr. Stevenson went ahead with his agile phraseology , his alert thinking , and his grasp of issues , in a valiant attempt to dramatize basic issues , as the Democrats set them , and put the electorate into a cogitation mnrtri Quarrel at Wheel ' The Harrisburg speech was a typical Stevensonian effort to make the issues living and per-suasive : On foreign policy ? " A bunch of bickering helmsmen quarrel at the wheel " ; On prosperity ? " The Republicans appear oblivious to the fact that . . ? a full and prosperous economy demands not only jobs for our millions of unemployed but more jobs for the million new job-seekers coming along every year . " But combating " normalcy " is n't easy . On the Republican side , campaigners will be hammering home the theme that the nation is in good hands , while praising the accomplishments of the 83d Congress and the Eisenhower legislative program . It is a theme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after years of crisis  --  World War II and the Korea war , Soviet threats and atomic threats  --  is assumed to call for peace and quiet and reassurance . The GOP plan is being professional and ably executed with ample funds for radio and television time , and with campaign chests unprecedently large for a midterm election . It is significant that Secretary of State John Foster Dulles and Secretary of Defense Charles E. Wilson are not expected to make many campaign speeches . This is because the Republican high command would prefer to keep foreign policy and military matters out of the campaign  --  there 's no " normalcy " in these matters . Another reason is that President Eisenhower is eager to build a bipartisan foreign policy . Also , the Republican National Committee knows the GOP record is not too impressive on either foreign policy or its " massive retaliation " military strategy , which did n't work in Indochina . Besides the claim that ' ' all 's well , with Ike in the White House . " the Republicans start ? , ith other assets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ autumn . If the GOP loses the House , the damage in prestige will not be irreparable because this is the normal course of off-year events . But the Senate needs to be held if Republican prestige is to remain high . Fortunately for the GOP , only 13 Republican-held Senate seats are being contested , while 21 Democratic-held seats are at stake . And of the really doubtful seats , as of this writing , eight are held by Democrats and only six by Republicans . All of which helps to explain why Vice-President Richard M. Nixon warned GOP leaders at their recent Cincinnati session that they had better guard against overconfidence.                     