@@716456

txt Republican and Democratic leaders in New Jersey expressed serious concern today over the extent to which the McCarthy issue has become a divisive factor within their respective parties . It has engendered the present drive within the Republican party to defeat Clifford P. Case , the party 's nominee for United States Senator , or supplant him with a pro-McCarthy conservative . The rebellion got under way last month shortly after Mr. Case delivered an attack on Senator Joseph R. McCarthy . Since then , it has gained momentum and has attracted a number ( If diehard supporters of the late Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio . Mr. Case 's attack on the Wisconsin Republican , one top party leader said today , may have lost him as many as 30,000 votes in Bergen County alone . Another described it as a " reckless " statement . So serious is the threat to Mr. Case 's chances , party leaders say , it was the primary topic of conversation at a White House luncheon yesterday . Rebellion Reportedly Discussed The diners , who included President Eisenhower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Everett M. Dirksen of Illinois and both Senators from New Jersey , reportedly discussed means of putting down the rebellion as rapidly as possible . The Jersey Senators are H. Alexander Smith and Robert C. Hendrickson . Party leaders hailed today the decision of Senator Dirksen to deliver a number of speeches in Jersey in behalf of Mr. Case . They readily admitted that his known pro-McCarthy sentiment might aid greatly in returning recalcitrant party members to the fold . Mr. Case - is reported also to have assured party officials that he will tone down his future criticism of Senator McCarthy . Thus far , the anti-Case movement has been confined to North Jersey , particularly Bergen , Passaic , Morris and Hunterdon Counties . It is a grass roots movement and , as yet , no top party leader has publicly allied himself with it . Meanwhile , the Democrats have become painfully aware of the pro-McCarthy sentiment within their own ranks and , for the most part , have sought to handle the issue cautiously . However , the failure of Representative Hirrison A. Williams Jr . to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of William G. Dowd as Union County Democratic Chairman . Representative Williams has ' delivered a number of anti-McCarthy addresses against the wishes of Mr. Dowd . The latter feels that these speeches afene can result in the defeat of Mr. Williams in the Sixth Congressional District , which embraces Union County . It was Mr. Dowd who directed Mr. Williams ' campaign last year , when the Representative became the first of his party ever to win such a race since the formation of the district in 1931 . He was elected to fill the unexpired term of Mr. Case , who had retired from the post . Mr. Williams is now seeking election to a full term , but Mr. Dowd has made it clear that he will not direct his campaign . His only comment is that he is retiring from politics to devote more time to private affairs and does not want to " be burdened " with the present campaign . Mr. Dowd was one of several top Democratic leaders who last year induced Robert B. Meyner to enter the race for Governor . He has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a lack of patronage . In this respect , he notes that Milton Conford , personal counsel to the Governor ; Joseph Walker , State Athletic Commissioner , and James B. Kirk , deputy attorney general , all are residents of Union County . Representative Williams ' campaign will be directed by Patrick of Elizabeth . James Kinneally of Rahway , vice chairman of the county committee , probably will succeed Mr. Dowd . Meanwhile , Representative Charles R. Howell , Mr. Case 's Democratic opponent , has avoided an outright condemnation of Senator McCarthy . His mild criticism has been heralded by pro-McCarthy elements within the party . These elements are found primarily in Hudson , Mercer , Middlesex and Union counties . Minimizing their own dilemma , the Democrats have sought to make capital of the dissension within the Republican ranks . Commenting on the White House luncheon , Mr. Howell declared here today : " If fried chicken were served I wonder if it had enough wings to accommodate the various branches of the party represented . I hope the presence of Dirksen and his promise to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffer , from indigestion . ' Governor Meyner has been most outspoken in his criticism of Senator McCarthy . But , party leaders emphasize , he is not a candidate for office this year . Mr. Case , for his part , has long been a leader in the liberal wing of the Republican party and his voting record in Congress has been a source of much complaint by conservatives within the party . Despite this , nearly all of that group were willing to back him until he delivered his attack on Mx . McCarthy . The latest opposition to Mr. Case developed today . It was initiated by James Selvage of Flemington , leader of pro-Taft Republicans in Hunterdon County .                     