@@720908

txt In a tradition 338 years old , Americans gave thanks yesterday for peace and bounty in the land . Thanksgiving Day , the nation 's great family festival , was observed across ' the country in a manner now rich with custom . It was a day of magnificent turkey dinners , parades to delight children , football games , family , reunions and solemn prayers of thankfulness . Overseas , too , in all parts of the world where Americans now live , the day meant-an observance of the nostalgic tradition that had its beginnings in a feast of thanks given by the Pilgrims in the Plymouth colony . In Yokusuka , Japan , a Navy man in a Pilgrim costume led , a turkey around the field between the halves of a holiday football game . Dinners by Helicopter In West Germany , the members of an armored cavalry regiment posted on hills that look across the borders of East Germany and Czechoslovakia had their Thanksgiving Day dinners flown to them by helicopter . Over the country , highway deaths marred the holiday somewhat . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 131 since 6 P. M. In Washington , President El- , senhower 's Thanksgiving wish was for divine help to provide the strength to advance toward the fulfillment of the best aspi-I rations of mankind . He sent a special message to the fiftieth anniversary service of the Pan American Mass , celebrated - at St. Patrick 's Roman Catholic Church by Archbishop Patrick O'Boyle . " By God 's grace , we shall , build a world in which all peoples may come to enjoy the fruits of spiritual and material well being , " the President said . The President sat down in mid-afternoon before a thirtyfive-pound Maryland turkey . Sharing the table were his wife , his son , his daughter-in-law and his four grandchildren , Break With Tradition There was one break with tradition . The President did not attend church services . Instead , he worked on the speeches he will make on his trip to Europe , Asia and Africa , which begins next week . Thanksgiving Day , 1959 , may be known as the holiday of the great cranberry controversy . It began on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of Health , Education and Welfare , warned that a weed-killer believed to have caused cancer in rats had contaminated a part : of the nation 's cranberry supplies . With cranberries a part of the traditional Thanksgiving menu , , the warning stirred a broad dispute . While growers defended their product , tests were pressed land a good deal of the crop was freed in time for the holiday . Among those serving cranberries yesterday was Mrs. Flemming . " I happen to love cranberries , " she explained . But whether the was had w cranberries as a White House , secret . Much of the Pilgrim Thanksgiving menu has been discarded . ) Their  --  feast in 1621 featured wood pigeons , partridges , venison ( provided by ninety friendly Indians ) , fish , clams , oysters and wild turkeys stuffed with , CondnnOdonPage15 , Column 4 U. S. GIVES THANKS IN 1621 TRADITION // beechnuts . The wild turkeys , which weighed about six pounds , were a good deal more stringy than the plump birds eaten yesterday . It was a bright , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wind out of the west . Along with the turkey there was the annual Macy parade , which this year featured a space man seventy feet high . There were 1,300,000 persons along the line of march for traditionally one of the city 's liveliest parades . It also was televised nationally . Two ragamuffin parades in the city preserved at least a semblance of a tradition now dying . Five hundred youngsters , paraded in Manhattan and 1,000 in the Bronx . They were in costume with burnt cork on their faces and elaborate smears of lipstick on their lips . While the weather in the city yesterday was clear , if a trifle windy and chilly , the holiday weather across the country was not so pleasant . Snow , sleet and rain harassed almost half the nation . The snow spread from the Dakotas , southern Minnesota and Iowa through the southern Great Lakes region into central Illinois , Indiana and central New York State . It was a halffoot deep in the area of Old Forge  --  good news for skiing enthusiasts . Thanksgiving is also a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which to give thanks . Former Senator Herbert H. Lehman and Mrs. Lehman followed a forty-year custom by providing 950 turkey dinners at , the four branches of the Home for Aged and Infirm Hebrews . The Volunteers of America served 2,000 turkey dinners at the Bowery Tabernacle , 65 East Houston Street . The Department of Welfare provided 3,000 roast chicken dinners at its shelter at 8 East Third Street . The Salvation Army Cafeteria at 536 West Forty-eighth Street served 1,500 turkey din- ' ners . At the Divine Providence Shelter at 225 East Forty-fifth Street 100 homeless men received sandwiches . " That means that most of the men who usually come here have gotten Thanksgiving turkey dinners elsewhere , " one of the nuns said . " We would rather see them get turkey dinners in place of our little sandwiches . " At Sing Sing Prison , Ossining , N. Y. , 1,780 inmates had a roast turkey dinner , with grape jam substituting for cranberries.                     