@@716244

txt A businessmen 's action group to keep dust from settling on important but unsolved municipal problems in Boston has been formed and will be announced formally in the near future . Membership in this organization ? as yet unnamed ? will be limited to a select group of the city 's financial , business , and industrial leaders . Among them will be bankers , department store managers , and real-tors . " We will not interest ourselves with every issue confronting the Mayor , the city council , or the school committee . but will concentrate on a few of the more vital , knotty , and sometimes hard to understand problems , " one of the instigators of the group explained today . Present plans of the organization are to establish a committee that will command - attention through the prestige of its membership . The group thus will differ in this respect from the New Boston Committee which depends mainly on support of a large membership and its vote-getting ability to enforce recommendations . No Political Action Another significant difference is that the businessmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to urging greater efficiency in manageand sugin the one of the principals , has been asked . " Such a charge might be made , but it will be evident by our actions that that is not the case , " answered Mr. Lund . " There is no danger whatsoever that this will be a tool of any one group . We have every reason to believe that we can depend on the cooperation of all the Boston papers and civic groups . We all are interested in the same thing , namely a lower tax rate , " emphasized Mr. Lund . Since the membership list is not complete at this date , Mr. Lund asked that it not be published . Many of the signed-up members are Republicans , but they do not feel that party affiliations will affect to any degree their stands on major issues . New Group Commended The new group does not intend to get into political battles , but it is aware of political consicleratiOns . A majority of the group is satisfied that progress has been made in Boston under the guidance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prospects of a successor for the present Mayor when he leaves office . John Brigante , director of the NBC , said , " We commend any effort to shed light on Boston 's problems . especially when a constructive solution is offered along with criticism . " Joseph S. Slavet , executive secretary of the research bureau , commented : ? " This organization will have an important role to play in Boston in working for action ( 11 , the reports being prepared far the Citizens ' Committee on Mtinicipal Finances by the staff of the research bureau and the staff of the Boston Finance Commission to assure 012 ci+v that such reports do not become research antiquities . "                     