@@717595

txt Letters to The Times A. PHILIP RANDOLPHLOUIS P. LOCHNER , N.G.EVERTT U. CROSBY.A SOUTHERNER.MATTHEW Letters to The Times For Posters in Subways To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORKVIMES : People riding in subways are always craning their necks out of the windows to see what station they are approaching . The Transit Authority has been asked to put posters in the cars listing the stations at which the trains stop . Instead of doing that the Transit Authority ? is going to experiment with a machine  --  put in a fee and you will get the information . Why pay more than the fifteen-cent fare to szet the ' Information ? MATTHEW EPSTEIN . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I have learned that there is a bill in the House of Representatives , H. R. 5649 , to amend Section 2254 of Title 28 of the United States Code with reference to habeas corpus applications . The amendment would provide in substance that only those Federal constitutional questions could be entertained by Federal judges which ( 1 ) had not been previously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2 ) which had been given no fair and adequate opportunity to be raised and determined , and also ( 3 ) which could not thereafter be raised and determined in the state court in some order or judgment which could be reviewed by certiorari in the Supreme Court . I learn that the Committee on the Judiciary on July 18 in House Report No. 1200 reported favorably on H .. R. 5649 without amendment and recommended that the bill be passed . Crippling Conditions It seems very unfortunate that more public attention has not been focused upon this proposal to place such crippling restrictions and conditions upon the grant or issuance of the writ of habeas corpus as ? to render it unavailable and use:fess as a remedy except in very exceptional circumstances . It would put especially wage earners and Negro citizens in situations where it would be difficult for them to vindicate their Federal constitutional rights and to secure their personal liberty . The Federal law now provides that the writ of habeas corpus shall be available as a means of granting to any prisoner in custody freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the United States have been violated . The writ of habeas co ; : pus is the individual 's means of protecting himself from loss*of his liberty as a result of local prejudices , passions or unpopularity because of political , social or economic views . Our Constitution provided the governmental structure for a nation of millions of people . The keystone of that Constitution is the provision in Article VI that the Constitution , laws and treaties of the United States shall be the supreme law of the land , anything in the Constitution or laws of any state to the contrary notwithstanding . The writ of habeas corpus is the legal means in the local United States district and circuit courts by which the Federal Constitution and laws are made the supreme law of the land and also by which the individual 's Federal constitutional rights are protected against violation by state authorities . Immunities Seen Destroyed The right to have the writ of habeas corpus issued is a privilege and immunity of United States citizenship under the Fourteenth Amendment and has long been so recognized by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the courts of justice in the several states . The proposed restrictions on the issuance of the writ would destroy these privileges and immunities guaranteed by the Constitution . The Constitution provides that the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended unless when in cases oirebellion or invasion the public safety may require it . The above provision is a limitation upon the Congress . It would seem plain to a layman , at least , that the writ of habeas corpus : itself may not be so restricted , limited or circumscribed in its issuance that in effect it will be denied when the Federal constitutional rights of a citizen have been violated . Implicit in the language of the Federal Constitution that the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended is the plain implication that the issuance of the writ itself shall not be denied by the Congress or so hampered , restricted , narrowed or circumscribed by legislative conditions as to amount , to denial . The writ of habeas corpus is a poor man 's remedy . A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . New York , Jan. 3 , 1956 . Part Played by Club Clarified To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : A story on page 7 of your edition of Jan. 5 deals with an interview given by a Senor Rafael Herrera , publisher of a Dominican Republic newspaper . It is described as having taken place in the Overseas Club , 35 East Thirty-ninth Street . The impression is understandably conveyed to the average reader that Senor Herrera spoke under the auspices of the Overseas Press Club . The club as such had nothing to do with it . It so chances that the club has several social rooms which are rented on occasion to outside organizations . LOUIS P. LOCHNER . President , Overseas Press Club of America , Inc . New York , Jan. 5 , 1956 . Parking Problems on Icy Days TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Whenever bad weather makes driving hazardous our Police Commissioner by way of radio and television  --  appeals to motorists not to drive , not to use their cars , if not absolutely necessary . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parking , compelled motorists to move their cars , to use and drive them , on the To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW ' Ironic TIMES : The majority of people prefer peace . But in practice it is in the hands of the rulers and leaders , except that in a democracy the leaders are restrained as to timing . But even there they can bring about what they wish . In a totalitarian state the people do not count . At present there is in progress as a fact this world 's greatest war ? call it Soviet communism vs . Christianity ( meaning by the latter the mass of people wishing individual freedom in all things temporal and spiritual ) . Soviet communism has steadily grown in power and extent of adherents . It has been mistakenly expected to disintegrate due to internal dissentions . Meanwhile it grows bigger and stronger . The one world created by scientists in the past twenty-five years and more is constantly bringing all people into two great camps . And the physical force of the United States and the U. S. S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possession of nuclear weapons . Nuclear Power It is the United States ' possession of advanced nuclear power that prevents the overrunning by Russia of Europe , the Middle East and England . The one and only means of preventing such a war is by our continuing such power , ready for split-second use . Obviously the Soviets , who with infinite patience are advancing world domination without injuring themselves , are actively working to have the United States decrease or do away with its power . They will appear also to do so in the name of peace . But the Soviets are devoid of all honor and truth , and despise and deride our Christianity as well as , all religions . Beyond power of description is the brutal , atheistic , wholesale murders , deportations and slave labor . The peace advocates play into their hands . So the peace movement is continued . It apiSeals to pleasure-loving and materialistic people ; to the honest but beguiled religionists who ignore the realism of this issue in favor of prayer ; to the do-gooders who substitute their benevolent acts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how to avoid the military draft . And now many politicians , conspicuously at the moment here and in France , are sounding off in selfish controversy , regardless of vital issues . Peace , of the kind that is prated and dreamed about , is out . Only our nuclear force for split-second use is the factor . Every Christian , every believer in the freedom of man , must put aside everything that interferes and never allow this visionary type of peace to menace Christianity and freedom . EVERETT U. CROSBY . Nantucket Island , Mass. , Jan. 2 , 1956 . Voting Percentage in Virginia To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial of Jan. 11 on the Virginia referendum did not take into account the implications in the rather small number of Virginians who cast their ballots . The vote , two to one favoring circumvention of the Supreme Court decision on segregation , is not necessarily representative of the majority of Virginians ' feelings . Although the opinions of the large numbers who did not vote can not be measured accurately , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposed to desegregation they would have used the opportunity for saying so . A SOUTHERNER . New York , Jan. 12 , 1956 . Limiting Habeas Corpus Pending Law Opposed as Threat to Rights of Individual . very same morning described so eloquently by our police as being dangerous , hazardous to driving . Does - not the Police Commissioner see how irresponsible his warnings are ? Could n't he add to his warnings the promise , that on those days his men wo n't attach tickets to cars parked on the wrong side of the street ? Only then will the motorist believe that the police are really interested in avoiding accidents . N. G. New York , Jan. 9 , 1956 . Peace Talk Criticized Movement Said to Serve Purpose of Soviet Plans for Aggression                     