@@714028

txt Anyone reading in yesterday 's issue of this newspaper the Madrid dispatch of Warren H. Phillips , must realize that Spain bears a relation to the ? security of Western Europe which can not be much longer ignored . Through the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and otherwise , we have , accepted and are acting on the principle that the safety of the Western European nations against aggression is a vital interest of .. , ur own . Geographically , if not for other reasons also , Spain is one of the keys to the strength of the western world as it faces predatory Communism . But the relation of Spain to the remainder of the West is no simple matter . Rather , it is a whole congeries of tough problems . Mr. Phillips makes it clear that Generalissimo Franco will join the concert of western powers as an active partner only at a price  --  and not a low one . He will assuredly use the argument that we ourselves have used to justify to our own people the Marshall Plan and our contribution of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that economic strength and the capacity for self-defense are closely interwoven ; that Europe has the men and we have the arms and the two must be brought together . Here we must beware of making the unconscious but false assumption that we can buy worth-while allies for the indefinite future . Alliances depenc for their value on lasting common interests . but these in turn depend moreon geography than on identical political ideals . There is as much reason for including Spain in the western defense pact as socialist , Britain , near-socialist France or Communist Yugoslavia . For ourselves , we no more want Franco 's fascism than we want Stalin 's Communism . But there is this radical difference between the two dictators , that the former 's politics is strictly for home consumption and not for export , whereas the political faith of the Soviets is relentlessly forced upon other peoples where force can be exerted and is advanced elsewhere by stealth and deception . Mr. Phillips remarks that Britain and France have kept Spain out of the western defense group ; he reports that a bilateral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Madrid diplomatic circles as the only possible way to take Spain into the fold at this time . We believe that British and French opposition to the inclusion of Spain is shortsighted , if it is based on nothing more solid than dislike of Franco 's internal fascism . That is no sufficient reason for leaving a wide open chink in the West 's defensive armor . But both the Administration and Congress should consider long and carefully the price Franco asks for closing it .                     