@@714658

txt Boston : Opposition Voiced at Special Hearing Opposition to a proposed graduated income tax for Massachusetts has been voiced by a special session of the Legislative Commission on Taxation . Page 16 . Motorists in New England ' do not face early restrictions on gasoline despite a government order " freezing " some gasoline stocks , according to officials of oil firms here . Related story on Page 6 . Europe : U.S. Aid to Europe Hits Million Tons Military aid to Europe from the United States reached the million-ton mark May 9 when the freighter American Skipper unloaded amid brief ceremonies at Cherbourg , France . British unemployment has climbed to a new high of 467,871 , highest since the fuel shortages in the winter of 1947 . Textile workers , hard hit by slowing sales in recent months , accounted for about one-third of this figure . National : Ike 's GOP Votes Traced Four ' Years General Eisenhower 's Republican voting record goes back at least , four years , it was disclosed in Dallas , Texas . His Texas campaign headquarters refutes what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been a Republican until this year . A naval court of inquiry summoned 14 more survivors of the sunken destroyer-minesweeper Hobson to testify whether they agree with a statement that their skipper swerved his ship into the path of the aircraft carrier Wasp . Canada : Aviation Gas Deliveries Restricted 411 viat ion gasoline deliveries are to be cut to 65 per cent of March volume by Shell Oil of Canada as a result of the oil strike in the United States . The move is intended to conserve supplies in the event of a prolonged strike . Washington : Highest Court Set for Steel Case On the steel front , industry , government , and the CIO Steelworkers Union were to file briefs with the Supreme Court in connection with arguments before  --  the court on legality of President Truman 's seizure of the steel industry . Arguments are scheduled for May 12 . The government 's wholesale price index rose for the first time in six weeks during the week ended May 6 . An advance of one-tenth of 1 per cent was announced by the Bureau of Labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past three weeks to raise government hopes that this year 's harvest of food and fiber.crops may set a record after all . A month ago prospects were ? not good .                     