@@716924

txt Foreign Secretary Sir Anthony Eden has dropped a now bombshell into the debate on whether to ban further testing of the H-bomb , by announcing that experiments on this bomb can now be carried out without a major explosion , detectable at a distance . There was an elementary simplicity about the phrase he used to describe this changed situation . He told a silent and rather awestruck House of Commons . " We do not need a bang to do some of the things we previously did need a bang for . " If confirmed , this upsets a previously supposed safeguard . It has been presumed that a least one advantage of the H-bomb era was that each side of the Iron Curtain knew what the other side was doing in the way of nuclear experiments , because seismic tremors can be recorded at a distance and the upper air can be watched for radioactive clouds . Sir Anthony told the Commons that this knowledge had formerly offered hope of a useful check for purposes of achieving world control of nuclear armament . " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do a great deal of this ( experimenting ) without a bang . . . . Unfortunately , an explosion is not now the final expression of what is going on . You can not exclude the possibility of experiments being carried out now without explosions . That did not apply some two or three years ago . I am afraid it does aonlv now . Skepticism Voiced - coat . t can say publicly is that this very thought has been very much in our minds . I am afraid the advance of science has dimmed our hopes . " First available expert reaction in the United States was one of keen interest but skepticism . It was apparent that if some new method of triggering off small and controlled thermonuclear test explosions had been found , this fact was not widely known even in technical circles which usually Weep track of such things . Sir Anthony was asked whether the new tests " poisoned " the atmosphere , presumably referring to the controversy over genetic effects of thermonuclear test explosions which had entered into the debate earlier . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Sir Anthony threw his bombshell into the final minutes of a Commons debate on whether or not the H-bomb menace made imperative an immediate top-level meeting between the Big Three nuclear powers ? the United States , the Soviet Union , and Great Britain . The Laborite opposition in the Commons tabled a motion demanding immediate Big Three talks and censuring Prime Minister Sir Winston Churchill for failing to try to arrange such talks . Censure Move Fails Sir Winston and his Conservative colleagues rejected this policy on grounds that ratification of the Paris agreements , entailing rearming of Western Germany , must come before toplevel talks in order that the western powers have the strength of unity behind them . The Laborite vote of censure on the government failed and the Commons supported Sir Winston by 298 votes to 268 . Laborites also wanted a cessation of nuclearexperiments be , fore they " damage the genetic background ' of the human race . " Among Laborites questioned in this poll , 55 per cent were against Britain 's making the H-bomb and only 38 per cent for it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Attlee had impressed the Commons March 14 with his plea for an urgent international study and report on the aftereffects of nuclear explosions . He called for an authoritative statement by natural scientists drawn from both sides of the Iron Curtain . He said he thought such a statement could convince people everywhere of the peril threaten- I ing the world . Mr. . Attlee contended that East-West cooperation in some such joint study and report might prove a good new starting point for some international agreement on nuclear-Veapons . He referred to what he called the " easily ascertainable " knowledge by one side of what experimental explosions were being set off by the other side . It was this point which Sir Anthony took up in the concluding phase of the debate . He agreed that a year or two ago it was thought there was some hope of an agreement to ban thermonuclear tests . This agreement would presumably have been adhered to because the explosions would have been detectable . It then might have been possible to build up greater confidence about control and limitation of nuclear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Weighed But Sir Anthony said , " I am afraid that is not a line we can now follow with great results because it is possible to do a great deal of this ( thermonuclear weapon experiments ) without a bang . " Considerable speculation is going on here in London as to exactly what the Foreign Secretary means . He kept these particular remarks for the final moments of a debate scheduled to end by the clock , and therefore there could not be much elucidation by question and answer . Official quarters in London are saying next to nothing . Some just do n't know . Others may know something but just ca n't say . An armament expert to whom I talked said , " It looks as if the Foreign Secretary may be merely referring to the stage reached with production of conventional ammunition . You can test it with a sort of dummy explosion . You make it go peep instead of bang . " But there are other knowledgeable folk here who shake their heads knowingly and say , " Nuclear experiments are going underground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Winston had rejected Mr. Attlee 's demand for a top-level meeting regardless of whether the Paris agreements were ratified or not . But he added , " I still believe that vast and fearsome as the human scene has become , personal contacts of the right people in the right place at the right time may yet have a potent and valuable part'to play in the cause of peace which is in our hearts . "                     