@@714482

txt Pressure is increasing on Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower to come home and campaign . The pressure comes from Eisenhower top leaders who are made " uncomfortable by increasing optimism in the Taft camp , symbolized by such estimates of Taft supporters as carried in The Christian Science Monitor Feb. 19 that it might be " Taft on the first ballot . " Eisenhower leaders are not prepared to express any diminution in enthusiasm , but privately they comment that it may be " now or never . " Difficulty in the situation is the formal statement by General Eisenhower , Jan. 7 , in which ? he said , in part : " Under no circumstances will I ask relief , from this assignment ( commander of North Atlantic Treaty Organization forces in Europe ) in order to seek nomination for political office , and I shall not participate in the preconvention activities of others who may have such an intention with respect to me . " Taft Forces Active Taft forces have so arranged it tharthe capture of only 4 of New Hampshire 's 14 delegates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a major victory and blow to Eisenhower . They have set their ostensible hopes low and have argued that the territory is favorable to General Eisenhower . Senator Robert A. Taft ( R ) of Ohio Willgo to Vermont this week to campaign on the periphery of New Hampshire . Big efforts by the Taft organization are going on in New Hampshire quietly . Eisenhower forces picked New Hampshire as the first great test of strength and need an overwhelming victory to . support claims of Eisenhower invincibility . Focus on Gen. Douglas A. receives increasing attention in the Republican convention battle . Over his protest , friends have entered a slate of candidates for him in New Hampshire , Minnesota , Pennsylvania ; and Oklahoma. ? The general has protested vainly but has not gone to the length ? as he could in Minnesota ? of signing an affidavit that he would not accept the nomination if offered . He will make speeches shortly in Mississippi and Arkansas and . later in Michigan . Taft forces want him to make a big speech at the Chicago GOP convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and General , Senator Taft praiSing him as " America 's greatest soldier " whom he will consult if elected President . General , on his side , tells visitors Senator Taft comes closest to his own views . He reportedly puts General Eisenhower , former aide in the Philippines , well down the list .                     