@@713294

txt Letters to The Times SOEDARPO SASTROSATOMO , RALPH W. BUGLI , BELLA MELVINNORMAN THOMAS.ROBERT MOSS , pg . 24 Letters to The Times Need for Fire-Fighting Equipment Java Domination Denied Role of Island in Building of Indonesian Nation Explained To THE EDITOR OF THE NEVI YORK TIMES : In reference to your editorial of Oct. 9 permit me to reply : The Indonesian Government , from its highest Cabinet officials to its office clerks , are a cross-section of the Indonesian people themselves . There are Government leaders from Sumatra , Java , Borneo , the Celebes , Madura , the South Moluccas and the other regions of Indonesia . That the world has leard too much about Java 's role in the struggle to build the Indonesian nation is easy to understand , for Java is Indonesia 's most populated and most economically developed island , It is in Java that most foreign press correspondents work . It was in Java where the heaviest fighting for independence from the Netherlands took place . However , to infer from these facts that Java dominates Indonesia is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much news emanates from New York . It would be of some interest to learn that a " substantial part of the people of the Amboina group of islands " are not in revolt against the Republic . Reports reaching Jakarta have told of terror by the former Netherlands-Indonesian troops in Ambon . In landing on other islands of the South Moluccas where the rebels attempted to create disorders the Indonesian armed forces were welcomed by the local population and given assistanbe by them in driving out those who were attempting to disrupt the peaceful development of the country . General Election That this peaceful development has been successful is proved by the transfer of sovereignty on Dec. 27 . Further , a general election ? in every island and village of Indonesia  --  will be conducted within the next few months to elect a constituent assembly which will name a Government and vote the laws for Indonesia for a period of four years . Were there any insidious Java domination , such a general election could never be held . Also , it should be recognized that all political parties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many differing points of view . This , too , could not be possible if the canard concerning Javanese domination were true . The Dutch proposal to have Indonesia continue as a federated structure was as impractical for Indonesia as the Articles of Confederation were impractical for the United States during its formative years . Not only did a federal state meet the displeasure of a majority of the Indonesian people ? as expressed through votes in the various state legislatures and at giant mass meetings throughout the islands  --  but it also tended to create the burden of a heavy bureaucracy that might have seriously hampered the economic , and political growth of the country . To make an international issue out of the events in Ambon is to distort the entire picture . Out of a nation of more than 77 million people , Ambon has a population of approximately 50,000 . Out of a nation that stretches a distance similar to that from New York to Los Angeles , Ambon has a total land area of 761 kilometers . Out of the total population of Ambon only a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tie With Rebels It would be interesting to study the ties between certain Dutch military personnel and the Ambonese rebels . First , Dr. Soumokil , the leader of the rebellion , was involved in the disturbances in Macassar . Despite announcement by the Indonesian Government that he would be arrested , Dutch military aircraft flew him from Macassar to Ambon . There , Dutch Colonel Schotborgh participated in ceremonies lowering the Dutch flag and raising the flag of the rebels . It is significant also that Captain Paul " Turk " Westerling , who attempted to start difficulties in Java and who was involved in the notorious massacre at Macassar in 1941 , when Dutch troops murdered 40,000 Indonesians because they favored the Republic , escaped from Indonesia on a Dutch military plane . There may be something to the Dutch statement that ties exist between the rebels on Ambon and Holland . However , we feel that these ties deserve close examination . From recent events it would seem that these ties might be detrimental to the growth of Indonesian - Netherlands friendship . SOEDARPO SASTROSATOMO , Press Attach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1950 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial of Sept. 28 on " Fire Prevention " was helpful in focusing attention on a problem of growing concern . One viewpoint , however , invites rebuttal . You suggest that in the event of air raids on the city , " even with all this new apparatus , success in handling the populace following bombing will depend more on the heroism and knowhow of the individual firemen than on the tools with which they are equipped . " This position overlooks two points . First , that prompt control of many small fires on the perimeter of the bombed area will be possible only if large numbers of civilians are both trained and equipped for emergency fire-fighting . Second , that the effectiveness of professional firemen is related directly to the amount and type of equipment they have and the amount of training they have undergone with it . A great proportion of the damage at Nagasaki and Hiroshima was caused by fires following the blast . This type of damage can be minimized if , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equipment are available in all populous areas . The great heroism of our firemen speaks for itself . It may be folly , however , to encourage dependence on that quality alone when both professional and " amateur " firemen ' can be so much more effective when they have the proper fire-fighting tools  --  and enough of them . RALPH W. BUGLI , Secretary , Fire Protection Institute . New York , Oct. 4 , 1950 . Delay in School Repairs Lack of Action Charged in Modernizing Program for Old Buildings To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The current investigation of malpractices in the Bureau of Repairs and Maintenance of the Board of Education opens the question of what has been happening to the whole modernization program of our school buildings . Our experience in Public School 165 , Manhattan ( a fifty-two-year-old building ) , would certainly point to malpractice by the entire Department of Building Maintenance , headed at present by George Pigott . This school building houses children in rooms the Board of Health has declared to be inadequately lighted . A modernization project @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of World War II . In June , 1946 , specifications for this project were prepared by the Board of Education 's Bureau of Construction . In October , 1946 , the Superintendent of School Building Design and Construction said : " We are now working on plans . " In 1947 the Board of Education approved the program of requirements . In 1948 Mr. Hynds , then Superintendent of Plant Operation and Maintenance , wrote us : " This work is planned for the coming summer vacation . " From January to May , 1950 , we were unable to get a specific answer from the Board of Education ' as to the exact starting date . In May the parents were told that work would start in the " latter part of September . " But in October we are now informed that the plans and blueprints are not yet drawn . The City of New York , although employing engineers , architects , etc. , on a yearly salary , could not get its blueprints drawn and specifications worked out between 1946 and October , 1950 . While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of board employes to break down plans of this sort into possible contracts of $199.99 or just gross inefficiency , we certainly agree that the investigation must go further than it has . BELLA MELVIN , President , Parents Association , F. S. 165 . New York , Oct. 9 , 1950 . Drafting of Women To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : On Page 13 of your issue of Oct. 9 you published a short article under the heading " Draft of Women Backed , " with a Washington U. P. dateline . The story relates an American Forum of the Air discussion between Judge Sarah T. Hughes and myself . Judge Hughes is fairly quoted , but my sole argument is dismissed by my statement that the time might come when a draft of everybody might be necessary . This is such a completely misleading condensation of my argument that , in justice to myself and your readers , I wish to make a correction . I admitted that it is conceivable in a total war that everybody might have to be drafted . I argued that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more likely without giving us any security against atom bombs . I pointed out that we could lose through military force , but also by the corruption of democracy . I , a Socialist , believe that the state can and should do things in the economic sphere which it does not do without danger to liberty . But no state indefinitely , short of absolute emergency , can be given blanket power to conscript both men and womea without cultivating that totalitarianism which we oppose . This is supported by the history of conscription and by its logic . NORMAN THOMAS . New York , Oct. 9 , 1950 . Jobs for Paraplegics To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Congratulations on your excellent editorial of Oct. 2 , " Employ the Handicapped . " Permit us to reiterate your statement that " sympathy is n't the point . " We do n't want sympathy ? we want jobs , jobs we are perfectly capable of performing . Your readers should be aware of our organization , the Eastern Paralyzed Veterans Association , 99 Park Avenue , New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinguished ones ' mentioned in your editorial our members run the gamut/ from lawyers to disk jockeys . The organization consists exclusively of paraplegic veterans . We have available considerable talent and a variety of skills . We invite inquiries . ROBERT MOSS , Executive Secretary . New York , Oct. 4 , 1950.                     