@@715679

txt Mid-August is usually regarded as a time of relaxation , of vacations , of escape from the world of affairs , of the quiet doldrums of lazy dog days . In contrast to that conception we have just gone through one of the most fateful weeks in the post-war period . From a news point of view this has been literally a tremendous week . From the point of view of the citizen it may at some later time be looked back upon as something of a turning point in our recent history . The two most important stories are in some ways complementary . They are the confirmation of the explosion of a hydrogen-fusion device in the Soviet Union . and the opening of the United Nations session on Korea . These are two different facets of what is sometimes called a cold war and is actually a struggle on our part and that of our allies in the free world to defend our freedom without a further resort to arms . There was an element of inevitability about the Soviets ' development of the hydrogen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have taken thoughtful persons entirely by surprise . What it does , however , is to point up the fact that we are in something of a gigantic power stalemate that will require continued vigilance mid continued sacrifice on our part if the uneasy peace is to be kept . The United Nations session on Korea is rapidly showing aspects of the same power stalemate . The fantastic proposal of Mr. ' Vishinsky as to the composition of the political conference is illustrative of the gap that exists between the free world and the Communist empire . We are obviously far removed from a meeting of minds and the talk of any quick or easy composition of differences through the willingness to compromise is merely the invitation to the already proved disasters of an attitude of " appeasement " toward an adversary of the character of the Kremlin . Indeed , the only rational explanation of Mr. Vishinsky 's grotesquerie is that he was putting forward an obviously completely inacceptable proposal so that he might withdraw from it with the air of having made a concession and then demanding one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " peace offensive " technique as presenting as evidence of good behavior the temporary easement of Communist bad behavior that was inexcusable in the first place . While this conflict was sharpening there were explosions in the Middle East and the Mediterranean world . There were revolutions in Iran and Morocco in which supposedly impregnably strong figures were overthrown . It is still too soon fully to evaluate the change in the Sultanate in Morocco , since the effects will depend in part upon the reaction of other sectors in the Moslem world . In Iran , certainly , the fall of Mossadegh and the return of I the Shah from his brief exile represent at the very least the swing back to constitutional government . That much is certainly to the good . In addition , the blow to the Tudeh ( Communist ) party with which Mossadegh had been flirting brings Iran into closer touch with the West . These developments are all indicative et a high degree of world tension . It is good , therefore , that oil one highly critical front the tension has been eased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for settling the dispute over Kashmir through a plebiscite to be conducted next year . The Indo-Pakistan impasse was at the explosive point when Prime Minister Mohammed Ali went- to New Delhi early last week and the quickness with which progress was , made was a vital factor in improving the situation . As the week drew to a close there seemed to be also some considerable improvement in France when the crippling strikes seemed to be easing off and the back-to-work movement started . France , dealing not only with her relationship to the European community but also with such grave issues as the unrest in Morocco and the deadly war in Indo-China , needs all her strength . She can not afford domestic strife and the strikes could hardly have come at a worse time . The sboner they can be settled , the better can France come to grips with the program that her Government has outlined , both at home and abroad . These are some of the events that have been echoing around the world . They are hardly a picture of . a world in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ferment , of struggle , of crisis . This is a time when we need wisdom , courage , understanding and patience .                     