@@714368

txt The two military subcommittees discussing an exchange of , prisonera and the conditions for an armistice in the Korean war recessed this afternoon in their tents at Panmunjom with no progress made in negotiations as the " trial " truce period expired . . Both groups ended the work rot the day before 3 P. M. , leaving the once hopeful deadline for a truce to die of its own weight . Both scheduled further meetings for 11 A. M. tomorrow , however . Meanwhile Washington expected the truce talks to continue , With no crisis arising over the expiration of the thirty-day deadline . After today , - the agreement that the battle line as it existed in November shall be the cease-fire line if an armistice is signed will have run out . Both sides will be entitled to ? hold  --  until final settlement of the Korean question ? whatever territory can be seized from the other in combat . The second committee discusstrig the future exchange of war prisoners was still deadlocked over the question of authenticity of the lists submitted by both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than 700 United States soldiers ? captured by the Chinese and North Koreans had died in captivity , " escaped " or had been " released , " though not to return to the Allied lines . Breakdown on Prisoners The Communists ' letter gave the following breakdown of the pris-oners : q Five hundred and seventy-one Americans were dead . They had been killed by artillery fire or air attacks as they were being escorted to prisoner . stockades , or had succumbed to disease , An additional 152 " escaped " under circumstances not described and three had been " released . " q Up to yesterday the fate of the remaining 332 was unknown and under " continuing investigation . " As the committees recessed- this afternoon Army spokesman Brig . Sten . William P. Nuckols announced that neither side had made any reference to an extension of the , // " trial " period ? originally conceived by Washington as a means of speeding the talks . Conversations and hostilities after tonight , therefore , will be back at the basis on which they began last July @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on possible future details of an armistice . The weary conferees faced the certainty that they would be compelled in the future to return from Points 3 and 4 of the agenda to Point 2 ? determination of a new line across the peninsula . Today 's ' negotiations again centered around the Communist refusal to accept any ban on their " right " to construct airfields at will in North Korea during the cessation of hostilities and the United Nations refusal to accept a verbal promise . Chinese Gen. Hsieh Fang gave a " solemn assurance " orally that the enemy would not use the airfields for military purposes , but again turned down a United Nations suggestion that he put " something specific " in writing . Disclosure Called Shocking The prisoner revelation , including an additional list of names , was handed to Rear Admiral Ruthven E. Libby , senior United Nations representative on the committee discussing the exchange of prisoners , in a letter from North Korean Maj. Gen. Lee Sang Cho . This explanation was made in answer to an Allied protest that 1,058 United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Communist publications or other sources , were not on the roster that the Chinese and North Korean delegation handed over at the truce conferences last week . General Lee 's revelation of casualties among the United States prisoners brought an immediate denunciation from the Allied corndead or unaccounted for , might well serve as corroboration for I earlier reports that American ; prisoners had been massacred after capture by the Communists . The presentation of the new list brought to more than 4,000 the number of Americans who had been , to one-degree or another , accounted for by the Communists out of more than 11,000 officially reported as missing in action  --  the new 1,058 plus the 3,198 on the original tabulation . But , besides leaving the whereabouts of many thousands still unexplained , it appeared to raise the casualty rate among prisoners to somewhere in the neighborhood of 25 per cent . General Nuckols told correspondents last night that none of the 1,058 had been reported as alive . " None of those reported to have escaped have been able to make their way to friendly lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The same was true of the three men reported as " released " ? though previously prisoners turned back near the front by the Chinese often had been escorted almost to the Allied positions by their captors and shown how to make their way to the Allied units . The list , it was announced , identified sixty-six of 110 United Nations prisoners whose names had been given to the International Red Cross in the early days of the war before the Communists dropped the Iron Curtain around the captives . Of these all but one was reported to have " escaped " and the sixty-sixth was dead . No answer was forthcoming yesterday to Admiral Libby 's inquiries regarding an . additional group of twenty-five Americans and twenty Britons believed to be prisoners , submitted by Admiral Libby on Christmas Eve . These were also identified by , various sources as having been at one time or another prisoners of the Communists but did not appear on the first roster . Where the revelation about the fate of the prisoners left the armistice conferences was a matter of considerable speculation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , pressed to state if the long deadlocked talks now could be considered in a " precarious " , state , declined to agree to that characterization . The briefing officer said , however , that the United Nations attitude regarding prisoners was " firm . " The Allied delegation , since the subcommittee sessions began , declined to commit itself to a discussion of details of a prisoner exchange or the principle of " all for all " or " man for man " trade until full , accurate information was available regarding what the exchange might mean numerically . General Lee 's message yesterday again raised the question on alleged discrepancies in the United Nations prisoner roster and of the South Koreans originally interned in prisoner of war camps but later screened , out or segregated or released . Enemy Challenges U. N. Roster General Lee submitted a tabulation of 44,205 names which allegedly appeared among those made available to the International Red Cross by the United Nations but not on the roster of more than 132,000 turned over to the delegation by the Allied command . At the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men in United Nations camps who , according to their captors , up to now had refused to identify themselves or for some reason had given wrong identifications . General Lee also attempted to rebut the assertion of the South Korean government that many thousands of Korean Republicans had disappeared after capture , as based on an estimate of 70,000 men taken as against only 7,142 listed by the Communists as in their stockades . Such a computation , General Lee said , was " completely " untenable . Committee Still Deadlocked The second subcommittee discussing conditions and enforce ment of an armistice remained in deadlock yesterday with the Communists now , refusing to discuss the construction of airfields in North Korea during a cease-fire , a ban on which they have insisted would be interference with their internal affairs . Chinese General Hsieh Fang told the Allies flatly that " we are not here to negotiate the question of air facilities . The subject of airfields is not a question for this conference . " His remarks prompted a tart rejoinder by Maj. Gen. Howard M. Turner . " You @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us ; you take the position of a victor dictating to the vanquished , " he said . " I think you realize better than we do how far from such a position you actually are . The United Nations command is willing to negotiate in the sense that two undefeated forces are ' represented at this table . The United Nations command has no intention of being the recipient of dictated terms . "                     