@@717285

txt A leading scientist said today Russia has shot experimental rockets bearing live animals more than 300 miles into space . It plans to replace the rockets in the near future with artificial satellites of t h e earth . Space Scientist A. G. Kan penko told the Moscow Pravda that data collected from the rockets was too fragmentary because they were only in space a few seconds . More permanent observations from artificial satellites would be preferable , he declared . Karpenko then gave the most complete picture of.soviet space research ever published . here . He said satellites , to circle the earth from pole to pole at a height of hem 125 to 1,250 miles would be launched ' in the near future . Will Take Movies Karpenko is scientific secretary of the Russian commission on interplanetary communication . Westerners here were surprised that such an important scientific a r.t fele would be published in the obscure Moscow Pravda , a paper devoted chiefly to Moscow and suburbs , not the Communist party organ Pravda . Karpenko said artificial satellites would take slow motion movies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ionosphere , which affects shortwave broadcasting , study ultraviolet and x-ray irradiation of the sun and stars , and study cosmic rays . These are the same aims of the American satellite program , altho the United States announcement did not mention movies of the sun . Reach 310 Miles " Space rocket ; guided by radio from the earth have already reached a height of 310 miles , " Karpenko said . " Sensitive instruments automatically recorded pressure and temperature and determined the composition of the air . " Even certain animals have ' been sent up to this height in special cabins . From the earth , observation was carried out on their condition and behavior in such unusual conditions . " U. S. Has Done It New York , Aug. 14 UP ) ? American researchers have announced experiments in which small animals were shot into space in rockets . The animals later were reiovered by parachute .                     