@@719361

txt So far as is known here it is the first time a Cabinet official has called in reporters to say he was not quitting . He would fight even harder for his policies , he declared . Senator Jenner 's Mr. Benson 's stay , newsworthy . Mr. Benson 's difficult role has been to try to reduce farm surpluses and huge support subsidies . to farmers while at the same time keeping the politically important Midwest Corn-Hog Belt under control . It was the " green revolt " of this area in 1948 that reelected President Truman . Mr. Benson told questioning reporters that he had called his press conference without " clearance " from President Eisenhower or Sherman Adams and that he had not told the Cabinet meeting the day before what he intended to do . He reaffirmed that he has Mr. Eisenhower 's support for his program . Asked about Vice-President Richard M. Nixon , he declared that he has " every evidence of the support of the Vice-President . " Political Liability - There have been reports that the politically knowledgeable Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go , not because he has failed to do his best in a thankless task , but because Mr. Benson 's association with that task has made him a political liability which a new man would not be . Washington has been full of rumors that Mr. Nixon might succeed President Eisenhower if the latter 's health gave way . The unusual Benson announcement came immediately after Mr. Eisenhower 's resilient recovery . Senator Jenner 's announcement caused surprise of a different sort . He is the fifth senator to announce that he will not run again next year . A sixth is known to be hesitating . . Up for election in their six-year terms is the " class of 1952 . " The Republicans swept in with the Eisenhower landslide , the Democrats , many from southern states , in spite of it . Eve on White House Other senators who have decided not to run are H. Alexander Smith ( R ) of New Jersey and Edward Martin ( R ) of Pennsylvania ? both 78 ; Frederick G. Payne ( R ) of Maine . and William @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator John J. Williams ( R ) of Delaware , has expressed disappointment over his senatorial service and may not make the reelection fight . Senator Knowland , of course , is not stepping aside to end a political career but to seek preferment as Governor of California with an eye on the White House . No Democrat has yet announced he would retire . It is a political rule of thumb that political " outs " ( in this case Democrats ) make gains at the midterm election  --  a rule that has governed every recent test save 1934 when the New Deal tide was still running hard . This rule may have some effect on GOP withdrawals . The presidential year of 1960 is another matter . Sputnik Seen Issue Senator Jenner was one of the trio of GOP senators of the far right . The other two were Joseph R. McCarthy of Wisconsin and Herman Welker of Idaho . Senator Welker was defeated , Senator McCarthy passed on and Senator Jenner is quitting voluntarily . Indiana has long been a center for right-wing Republicanism as against the Eisenhower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republicans and 12 Democrats come up next year . Five of the 12 Democratic seats arc in the-South and-seemfairly safe . Numerically the GOP is more exposed than its rival in the fight ahead . As for the issue in 1958 , it probably will be sputnik . It seems certain , says columnist Walter Lippmann , that " a great party struggle on the issues of the country 's response to the Soviet challenge " lies ahead .                     