@@715378

txt The White Hou ' . e announces that President ' Eisenhower 's speech in Washington tomorrow will be a major discussion of current efforts to end the Korean vac and " the chance for peace for all peoples of the world in 1953 . " As congressional sources pushed for earlier relaxation of rent con-trots , Defense Mobilizer Arthur S. Flemming said ceilings should be continued to Sept. 30. 1953 , in all areas under control , and to April 30 , 1954 , in " critical defense areas . " Lt. Gen. George H. Decker told senators that ammunition production for the Army was " at a virtual standstill " between the end of World War II in August , 1945. and the outbreak of the Korean war in June , 1950 . This , plus the tact that it requires from 18 months to two years to get production lines moving , were chief causes of ammunition shortages ill Korea , he said . Charles Chaplin has voluntarily given up his status as a resident alien  --  a move which means the actor does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department announced . National : Strike Called Off at A-Bomb Plant A walkout of 2,500 workers at Sandia Base , sprawling atomic center , Albuquerque , N.M. , was called off when Sandia Corporation and union representatives reached an interim agreement . A federal grand jury in St. Louis was ordered to investigate the recent reorganization of the Internal Revenue Bureau . The jury was directed to look into reports that officials of the tax bureau who " were responsible for hindering and delaying " the work of the previous grand jury have been promoted . Boston : Navy Denies Closing of Rope Plant There is no thought of closing down the Boston rope manufacturing plant , Rear Admiral Homer of Navy Bureau of Ships , said in Washington , reports . Proposals for a 5 per cent tax on rents , a $5 head tax , and an excise tax on motorboats and aircraft were among about 40 tax measures rejected by the Massachusetts Legislative Committee on Taxation . Page 21 American Woolen Company announced indefinite extension of a contract with the United Textile Workers of America , AFL , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to permit continued wage negotiations . Far East : Japan-South Korea Air Differences Police riot cars ringed the Japanese Cabinet building in Tokyo as officials began negotiations to settle differences between Japan and its former subject territory of South Korea . Europe : British Aircraft to Fly to Moscow itussia nas agreed to let a British plane fly to Moscow to bring home six Britons and an Irishman recently released by the North Korean Government , London sources said . United States author Stefan Heym has deserted to East Germany and has sent his Army Bronze Star Medal to President Eisenhower , the East German news agency reported . Britain has presented the George Medal to United States airman Reis Leming for saving 27 Britons in the February flood disaster .                     