@@716415

txt Spanish arms manufacturers were reported today to have signed contracts with the Egyptian Government calling for the delivery of light weapons and munitions estimated to be worth $3,50%,000 . A Spanish plant , the Esperanza of Marquina , twenty miles east of this city , has been operating on two ten-hour shifts since early this year to fill what was said to be an order placed by Egypt for several hundred 81-mm. and 120-mm. mortars and more than 200,000 shells . The state arsenal at Oviedo was understood to have completed an order for 900 Alfa machine guns . When this correspondent visited Marquina , he saw the members of an Egyptian military commission that is ' checking on the production of the weapons and the shells . The commission is headed by an army ordnance colonel who is assisted by nine other officers . The 81-mm. mortars , which weigh 139 pounds , and the machine guns were described as " ideal for hit-and-run attacks " similar to those that have been made against British troops in the Suez Canal zone . Britain Expressed Concern Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Foreign Affairs her deep concern over the sales of arms to Egypt . London is understood to have been informed that the weapons are to be used by Egyptian Nationlists , who are held responsible for killing and wounding British soldiers in the Canal area . Another cause for British concern was that the strength of the , Egyptian Army would inevitably decrease British bargaining power in the present negotiations for a solution of the Suez Canal question . The United States State Department was understood to have made similar representations through diplomatic channels to Spain , without , however , specific reference to the Egyptian deal . The United States view was said to be that the sale of arms to any country except those close to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization might conflict with the letter and spirit of the United States-Spanish agreement signed last September . Madrid 's attention was reported to have been drawn to the fact that both Governments in signing the agreement had pledged themselves " to foster international peace and security , to promote understanding and goodwill and to maintain world peace . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spain was an exporter of small firearms and that , if that avenue of trade were closed , she // would lose badly needed foreign exchange . One point stressed was that the export of arms was handled by the " commercial division " of the Ministry of Defense , which acted independently of the civilian branches Of the . Spanish Government . It is understood that the United States Defense Department took up the matter with the Spanish General Staff through Maj. Gen. August W. Kissner of the United States Air Force , head of the joint Unite States Military Advisory Group . , General Kissner is supervising the implementation of the military agreement . Spain Submitted List After the signing of the agreement , Spanish military authorities submitted to the United State ? Military Advisory Group a list of the weapons and munitions Spain wished to obtain under the $126,000,000 appropriated by the United States Congress for military aid during the 1954 fiscal year . In the list , Spain was reported to have included a request for 81-mm , mortar shells . Brig . Gen. Earl C. Bergquist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Military Assistance Defense Program , was said to have rejected the Spanish request on the ground that the United States would not supply military items that Spain herself was manufacturing for export . The arms contracts with Egypt were signed last September in Switzerland , the weapons to be delivered within eighteen month , it was said . Rexim , a Geneva trading company , was - described as the intermediary . It is believed the preliminary contacts between Rexim and Spain were made by Otto Skorzeny , ? the German officer who rescued Mussolini after the Italian dictator was arrested in 1943 . Herr Skorzeny , who lives in Spain , was eased out of the deal by Rexim . According to the terms of the contract , Egypt was to pay for the arms partly in dollars and partly in raw material . A shipment of Egyptian cotton was reported to have arrived in Barcelona some time ago .                     