@@716122

txt A new series of atomic tests is now under way at the proving ground in the Marshall Islands . Chart at right shows the area of total destruction for various types of bombs . The Hiroshima bomb had an explosive force equivalent to 20,000 tons of TNT . The present operational A-bomb is estimated to have a force of about 100,000 tons . The experimental hydrogen device exploded Nov. 1 , 1952 , at Eniwetok destroyed everything within a three-mile radius , according to Chairman W. Sterling Cole of the Joint Congressional Committee on Atomic Energy . Scientists generally agree that an H-bomb with a force of 20,000,000 tons of TNT is feasible . Such a bomb would have a 10-mile radius of destruction . ( Fiscal years in billions of dollars ) 1443 1949 1950 1951- 1952 1953 1941-1946 1947 TOTAL The United States detonated ? list week its forty-sixth nuclear device and prepared to test in the next couple of weeks its first op ; erating model of a hydrogen bomb . The start of the spring series Of atomic and thermonuclear ( hydrogen ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ atolls opens still another chapter in the terrible drama of the atomic age  --  a chapter posing strategic , political ; industrial , national and international problem &; The new tests emphasize the mounting momentum of the atomic arms race . The United States has detonated  --  including the two bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Naga- , saki during the war  --  a. total of forty-six devices , of which two might be described as thermonuclear prototypes of the misnamed hydrogen bomb . The Russians are known to have detonated five nuclear devices , perhaps more , one of them thermonuclear , The British have tested three such devices . Our own stockpile of finished nuclear weapons is probably numbered in a sizable four figures . The Russians ' is probably numbered in three figures  --  a small but growing three figures . The British stockpile N just starting but the Uhited Kingdom alreagy has a few finished atomic weapons . No other nations are known to have finished weapons but many have atomic laboratories and some are producing small amounts of fissionable materiaL Wide Range of Weapons The atomic armories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one type of weapon . The United States has a whole family of weapons , which range from the " citybuster " hydrogen type , to be tested in prototype form shortly , to the 280 mm. atomic shell for battlefield use . The hydrogen device which was detonated in the Pacific in November , 1952 , released energy equivalent to the detonation of considerably more than 5,000,000 tons of TNT . The 280 mm. shell , a good antibattalion , or anti-regimental weapon , releases energy equivalent to perhaps 10,000 to 12,000 tons of TNT . In between we have finished atomic weapons of many types and of greatly varying power for all sorts of purposes . Our first operable hydrogen bomb  --  as distinct from a test device  --  which will be tried out in the near future in mid-Pacific , will be dropped from a plane . It will open  --  militarily  --  the " hydrogen age . " The Russians also have more than one type of nuclear weapon ? though how many different types they possess we do not know . It is reasonable to assume @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one type ? perhaps equivalent in destructive power to some 50,000 tons of TNT ( two and a half times as powerful as the war-time bombs ) . But it is also certain that their armory is being broadened and diversified and in time , if not now , it will include many different varieties of weapons . Soviet 's Prospects It is probable that Soviet Russia does not yet have a thermonuclear or hydrogen weapon which can be carried in a plane 's bomb bay , but she will soon have one . More than six months ago Russia detonated her first thermonuclear device . The test was of a device of tremendous power and our air samplings of the radioactivity in the atmosphere , plus other data , indicated that the Communists had probably followed a new and original path in their thermonuclear ? development . All this demonstrates clearly that the atomic arms race is increasing its tempo and that we stand now , on the eve of the hydrogen age , at the threshold of a new order of magnitude of destructiveness . In theory , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only by the weight-lifting capability of the aircraft or other carrier . The devastation of an entire city of 300 square miles by one bomb will be possible . Moreover , we can no longer cling to the illusion that hydrogen weapons would be inordinately - expensive and limited by the scarcity of fissionable material . As developed , hydrogen weapons have become three-stage bombs , which employ only small amounts of the expensive tritium and utilize sizable amounts of lithium or other light elements . Pressure for Solution Thiis.the heavy problems that have grown out of the atomic age  --  or more properly out of man 's stunted growth in spiritual and social values  --  are pressing more than ever for some solution as the threat of devastation increases . The current " atomic problems " facing Congress and the President are in three main fieldspolitico-military or strategic ; international limitation or control ; and legal , or revision of the Atomic Energy Act . The " New Look " in our military policy and what it means to the future as the hydrogen age opens .. is one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dulles ' primary dependence upon massive retaliatory power as a weapon of diplomacy and the military cornerstone of our foreign policy has troubled some legislators ? and some in the Pentagon , though for differing reasons . Some feel that if air power and our nuclear weapons are to be ' the main threat we are not spending enough on aircraft to give us the " Sunday punch " needed . Others feel that we may be in danger of putting too much ' dependence in the future on arms of massive destruction , which do not meet the needs of an Indo-China , a Trieste , a Korea  --  and that we must maintain strength in the so-called " local defenses " to which Mr. Dulles assigned a secondary position . Subsidiary but important items in this politico-strategic problem are United States continental defense including civilian defense ; and the problem of secrecy . Congress is still lukewarm to civil defense expenditures ; this is an election year , and there are still arguments about how much  --  and how  --  moneys for continental defense should be expended . Problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the kind of I deterrent diplomacy Mr. Dulles has outlined ; if we want our atomic might to deter an enemy from attack , we ought to give him a pretty good idea of how strong we are , instead of hiding lour strength even from ourselves . The major question in the politico-military field , however , is where a strategy based primarily upon all - out atomic warfare would lead us . Many feel that such a strategy is a political negation and that the unlimited devastation such a war would mean could result in no victory , only a more unsettled peace . The international atomic problem is the old and vexing one of control . The President 's " peaceful pool " plan , which suggested contributions of small amounts of fissionable material from the atomic powers to a common agency to be controlled and utilized for peaceful purposes , has been discussed by Mr. Dulles and Russian representatives . and the discussions are continuing . But it seems unlikely that any except procedural meetings on this subject will occur before the Geneva conference on April 26 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Congress to the idea . And even if the plan succeeds , ' it is recognized that it is only a psychological step , not a substantive one , toward the far more difficult problem of control of atomic weapons  --  a problem that has been made even more difficult by the strategic emphasis placed on nuclear weapons by our " New Look " policies . Revision of Laws The third major problem , revision of the present atomic energy laws , also has aroused argument and debate in Washington  --  in Congress , in the Pentagon and in the Atomic Energy Commission itself . Revision of the law is needed if our allies abroad are to be given sufficient atomic data to enable them to fight with us effectively in the new tactics of the atomic age . Revision is also necessary if the Government is to ' share with private industry the development of atomic energy for ' peaceful purposes . But there are so many opponents to letting down the bars of secrecy and the implications of the proposed legal revisions may be so far-reaching that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , despite the dawn of the hydrogen age , no magic formula has been found in Washington , or abroad . to reconcile the hearts of men . The basic and divisive problems of the atomic age find Washington , and the world , arrayed in two opposing camps .                     