@@712575

txt Letters to The Times J.M. TRONCOSO.PAUL E. EDERHEIMER.HORACE C. WHITEMAN . pg . 11 Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your recent editorial headed " Sugar Cartel " shows a clear understanding of the provisions of the Sugar Act of 1948 as far as it creates " one of the tightest and most monopolistic cartels to be found anywhere in the world . " However , the editorial deals only with the domestic aspect of this sugar cartel . Its international repercussions are perhaps even more shocking . The Sugar Act of 1948 assigned to Cuba an import quota of over 98 per cent of all foreign ... sugar ( Philippine sugar excluded ) , using as a yardstick Cuban exports to the United States in the early Thirties . They , in turn , were rendered possible only by the previous American tariff discrimination in favor of Cuba . . The quota system creates necessarily a premium for those sugars which are admitted to the United States market . The mechanics of a restricted supply in the states by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ premium for sugar available there . The quota system creates , in addition , an indirect subsidy of at least equal magnitude . The high and decisive fixed costs of sugar production are wholly , or for the greater part , already covered by the guaranteed deliveries to the American market . Thus , the cost of additional production for the " free " world market outside the United States becomes essentially lower than it would be in the absence of the quota system . Cuba 's Price Policy The world market price for sugar , which , thanks to the effects of the American sugar policy , is determined by the amount of Cuban supplies available to this market , was 1.10 cents per pound in the representative years 1935-38 on the average , while the corresponding American price for Cuban sugar was 2.41 cents . This Cuban price policy was the major cause of the depression in the non-Cuban cane-sugar industry in the Thirties . Deprived of the United States market , non-Cuban growers were forced to sell at low Cuban prices on the " free " world market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a remedy for this basic ailment of the " free " world sugar market . On the contrary , it forced the other sugar-exporting countries to sanction the discriminatory sugar-quota system of the United States . The Dominican Republic , the secondranking exporter of sugar in Latin America , has been stripped by the United States sugar Toney of the possibility of making full use of its natural resources , because such use calls for unhampered entry into the most important market for its foremost export product . There can be no doubt that this is a policy of discrimination against the Dominican people . Besides , the United States sugar policy is enforcing a completely unsound pattern of trade on the Dominican Republic . It is compelled to sell its sugar to the remote soft-currency area and to buy its manufactured goods in hard dollars from the United States . In 1948 the Dominican Republic bought 78.2 per cent of its imports from the United States , but sold to the United States only 37.7 per cent of its exports . Even if the American argument that sugarimport quotas are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " is accepted at its face value the application of these quotas in the Sugar Act of 1948 is inconsistent and incompatible with the proclaimed aims of American foreign economic policy stated by President Truman recently . Serious Restriction The United States Trade Agreements Act authorized the President to conclude trade agreements with foreign countries and in return for reduction of their barriers against United States goods to reduce tariffs and other import restrictions on goods from abroad . But the Sugar Act of 1948 , being an autonomous law of the United States which imposes import quotas outside of the tariff laws , is not subject to the discretionary powers granted to the Chief Executive . This means that - a sugar country negotiating a commercial treaty with the United States is seriously restricted in its bargaining power . The fias step in liquidating this discrimination in foreign trade is to make the import quotas of the Sugar Act of 1948 subject to the discretionary powers entrusted to the President under the United States Trade Agreements Act and to restore in this way at least the equilibrium of bargaining power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ republics . J. M. TRONCOSO . Ciudad Trujillo , Dominican Republic , Dec. 28 , 1949 . Role of the Navy TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In his final article for THE TWEE General Arnold inadvertently stated the Navy 's case . The General tells how the full potentialities of an air force were not used during the First World War because they were merely suspected , not known . By the same token , the aircraft carrier , never used in combat prior to the last war , showed the first glimmering of its full potentialities in the final stages of that war . The fact that an enemy has or has not a fleet is no longer important . Task Force Fiftyeight proved that by the role it played after the Japanese fleet . had been destroyed . The Navy , then , carried the war to Japan proper . Depriving the Navy of ships and funds at the moment of fruition is a severe blow to the morale of loyal naval officers and to our national defense . The atom bomb has not revolutionized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Maginot Line . The aircraft carrier used in a carrier task force has revolutionized warfare . Carrier-based planes enabled us to win every island stepping-stone on the way to Japan . England was the base from which we launched the air arm that insured a successful invasion of the Continent . If , in a future war , that base should be untenable for any one of a number of reasons , we again will rely on carrierbased planes . They will carry out tactical bombing missions and furnish fighter support to protect our invading troops from enemy sea and air attacks . PAUL E. EDERHEIMER , New York , Jan. 5 , 1950 . Jerusalem 's Holy Places Internationalization of the Enclave Is Defended for Shrines ' Protection To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : On Jan. 2 you published a letter from Elie Eliacher , member of the Israeli Parliament , defending the refusal of his country to abide by its commitment to conform with the decision of the United Nations to internationalize Jerusalem and its envirbns , and to establish a control over the holy places @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ descriptive phrase ( " the internationalization of Jerusalem " ) used in the opening paragraph of Mr. Eliacher 's letter ; the omission of any precise reference to the holy places ; the accent on " security " accompanied by certain unproved implications , all tend to suggest , to the uninformed , that the whole affair , from its inception , was a politically inspired movement to regulate a civil entity for purely utilitarian purposes . Preserving Holy Places Of course , peace was a prerequisite , but the primary objective of the United Nations , in stipulating the internationalization of the enclave of Jerusalem , was to preserve and make accessible the shrines intimately associated with the life of our Lord on this earth ? places sacred to every believer in the divinity of Christ . Not only did the United Nations provide for a trusteeship over the enclave but extended a measure of control over the holy places situated beyond the new boundaries of the city . Because the Eliacher communication appears to ignore the rights of Christians , and especially since the emphasis placed upon " security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obscure the important matters , it is necessary to understand the nature of the commitments made , and  --  the reasons for exacting them . It was not the " security " of the Jewish residents of Jerusalem which prompted the Government of Israel to transfer the capital to Jerusalem . This move was designed to defeat the mandate of the United Nations and was made in violation of Israel 's solemn obligations . It was an act of contumacy by the regime , and it is not to be easily explained away by a false plea ? of " security . " Furthermore , what part did this insolence play in promoting talk among the Arabs of a " second round " ? In addition to the Jews , the religious interests of hundreds of millions of others are vitally connected with Palestine . They , too , have an inalienable voice in any decisions affecting the holy places . With reference to the charges of past violence on the part of the Arabs , the Franciscan Fathers , custodians of the holy places for the last six hundred years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by soldiers of Israel . The British military could refresh some short memories . The files of THE TIMES are not barren of any mention of the Stern gang . For over nineteen centuries Christendom has recognized the unique character of Palestine and never has ceased to manifest its devotion to the preservation of its shrines . Strange indeed is any suggestion that it needed this representative of Israel in the year 1948 to awaken us to the necessity for protecting the city of Jerusalem , Leadership Questioned Appealing , for support of his theme , to the recent votes in the United Nations by the delegations of Canada , Great Britain and the United States , resembles the artifice which tries to establish the inherent worth of a measure by the reputation of its proponents . These repeated attempts to vitiate the former action of the United Nations have the earmarks of being ill-advised impulses . It is the quality of this leadership , and the errors in its judgments , that are at fault . Irrespective of the ultimate results of the actions of this minority in the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to themselves the power to impair or abandon this inheritance . The mere effort was an unseemly exhibition . Force and violence are not the answers to the problem , and it is unthink- t able that we engage in endless debate while access is denied to the holy places and other injuries remain unredressed . A. peaceful solution can be found by men of good-will . HORACE C. WHITEMAN . Sharon Hill , Pa. , Jan. 3 , 1950 . Restraints in Sugar Trade Unfavorable Position of Caribbean Producers Pointed Out                     