@@715417

txt Allied truce negotiators in Korea have answered with a flat " no " the Communist demand that war prisoners who refuse to go home voluntarily be transferred from Korea to a neutral nation . Lt. Gen. William K. Harrison , United Nations spokesman , declared it would be impractical to move thousands of Chinese Communitst and North Korean prisoners overseas . He asserted that many prisoners would destroy themstives rather than submit to removal from Korea . He then criticized the Communists for refusing to commit themselves on Pakistan as the neutral state after the enemy spokesman 's only comment was , " This action is worth welcoming . " Smoke Screen ' Charged te He moreover accused the Communists of trying to secure forced repatriation of all prisoners " regardless of whether those prisoners will go back of their own will . " General Harrison added , the opinion that the enemy is trying to " draw ' us off ? on side issues " and using " smoke-screen " tactics at Panmunjom . He summed up the nine days of negotiation since April 26 by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communists really desire an armistice . " This view of cease-fire prospects seemed to observers here to provide little grounds for the optimism expressed in the British House of Commons by Prime Minister Sir Winston Churchill , who indicated that agreement on prisoner disposition is near . Also of interest here was Laborite Aneurin Bevan 's proposal to take the talks out of United States military hands and place them in civilian hands . This proposal is understood to have been made also in the Communist press recently . Political Issues Stalk General Harrison already has stated to reporters that he feels there are many men in the . world better qualified than he to ' negotiatewith the Communists . The Allied position ' from the outset , however , had Iran that the armistice conference is a purely military affair designed to halt the fighting  --  and that the political and diplomatic aspects will be taken up at the subsequent peace conference . Neverthless , there is growing awareness here in high-ranking circles that many sweeping political and diplomatic issues are directly involved in the truce talks . The whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordinary handing over of captured personnel of both sides . From the beginning , the Allied command has held that no prisoner shall be forced to go home against his will  --  and that has raised a series of nonmilitary leomplications that has delayed attainment of a Korean armistice for at least one full year . Murphy Move Cited Associated Press Lt. Gen. William K. Harrison new post as undersecretary for United Nations affairs . Meanwhile , there are indications that the Communists may desire that the armistice talks continue for a long time  --  or be . come so complicated the silk* will agree to refer the whole issue to the United Nations . For a long time their armies in Korea have been deployed in a strong defensive pattern , with large army groups to back up the front and others in reserve in the peninsula 's center in position to move to either coast to oppose any ' Allied invasion attempt . Reds Raise Deep Issue ; They give ' the impression of being willing to continue the current military deadlock Indefinitely . At Panmunjom , moreover , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deep an . alysis and long study . During the May 5 session they asked for Allied clarificaticn of three questions concerning the handling of unrepatriated prisoners : 1 . What steps would the UN take to remove the military control of the detaining side ? 2 .. How would the UN at the same time enable the neutral nation to take control al the prisoners ? 3 . How would the UN main . tain order and tranquillity in ' the prison camps ? ? These questions - are - pertinent not betch4-thii'belligerenti have agreed on a- neutral state and whether or not the prisoners shall be removed from Korea . Until then they are regarded as academic ? " side issues , " as General Harrison termed them . Alternatives Weighed His answer was : " We believe such matters can ceadily and effectively be solved in such a manner that custody can be exercised efficiently and with due fairness to the ' indi. vidual prisoners concerned . " Above all else , it now seems certain that something will have to be done to convince the Corn . munists once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and fruitlessly in Korea . The simplest but not the most satisfactory solution would be to recess the talks again . Another unwelcome alternative would be to prepare for a major , costly offensive . Aside from that , introduction of civilian negotiators into the armistice conference might : be tried , some circles believe -- although that almost certainly would lead to considerable expansion of the scope of the talks .                     