@@718068

txt ments committee . added these sparks to enlivened preconvention activities in Chicago : It gave a further boost to the front-runner Adlai E. Stevenson whom Governor Clement described as the " greatest candidate ever to be denied the presidency of the United States , " at the recent Governors ' Conference at Atlantic City . It will give 36-year-old Governor Clement the opportunity he had been hoping for to display his speaking ability before the convention and the nation as a means of promoting his candidacy for the vice-presidential nomination , favored by former President Harry S. Truman . It will give prominent representation to a border state at the convention , considered extremely important by party leaders who hope to prevent a split between the North and South on civil rights which could wreck the party 's chances for victory in - November . The choice of Governor Clement as keynoter made , according to Democratic National Chairman Paul M. Butler , from a list of 17 Democratic keynoter possibilities , was the " steamingest " news to bubble out of the political cauldron in this convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Oklahoma , John F. Kehnedy of Massachusetts , Gov . Edmund S. Muskie of Maine , and Senator Hubert Humphrey of Minnesota . GOP Opens Farm HO Other pre-convention activities included : 1 . Opening of a Harrimanfor-President convention headquarters at the Conrad Hilton Hotel by Loyd Benefield of Oklahoma , national campaign director ; Mrs. India Edwards , coordinator ; Frank E. , Midwest director , and W. Neale Roach , assistant director . Mr , challenged Mr. Stevenson 's claim to more than 500 delegates on the first ballot . Science Monitor He estimated that the former Illinois Governor has possibly 350 to 400 delegates . He acknowledged that Mr. Stevenson was the leading candidate but said that Gov . Averell Harriman ( 1 ) ) of New York had more than 200 delegates and confidently forecast that he would be nominated by the fifth convention ballot . 2 . Setting up a farm headquarters for the Republican National Committee by Dan Thornton , former Governor of Colorado , at 105 W. Madison Street . Its purpose , according to Mr. Thornton , will be to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farmers and ranchers to help " give the farmers the facts " about the Eisenhower-Benson farm program . Its representatives will act as rural county counterparts of big city precinct captains , It will emphasize the need for farmer freedom allowed under the GOP program as opposed to regimentation under the Democrats , according to Mr. Thornton . Most Gifted Speaker ' 3 . ' The arrival of Mr. Truman , met by Mr. Stevenson at the Midway Airport . to talk to top Democratic leaders and to address a fund-raising luncheon in behalf of a library to house his mementos in Independence , Mo . It took no seer to sense the potential implications being read into the selection of Governor Clement as convention keynoter . It was enough to read Mr. Stevenson 's comment that he was " very glad " to hear that the committee had chosen Governor Clement whom he praised as a " most gifted speaker . " Be added , " I am sure he will be an eloquent and forceful spokesman for the Democratic Party . " Then to read that Governor Harriman had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Governor Clement . However , both Senator Estes Kefauver ( D ) of Tennessee and Senator Stuart Symington ( D ) of Missouri . also in the nomination running , were quick to commend the choice of the Tennessee Governor . Considering Governor Clement as a keynote speaker is one thing , of course , and considering him as a vice-presidential candidate is quite another , even for the Stevenson camp . He has the advantage of being extremely articulate . He is a Methodist and a close friend of Billy Graham , the evangelist , and often quotes the Bible with great fervor in his publi c speeches . ; Outspoken for TVA ells oratory reaches its highest pitch in supporting the Tennessee Valley Authority . He criticizes the Eisenhower administration 's flexible farm program but has not specified his exact stand on a price support program . His position on desegregation in a border state has been moderate ; however , he has spurned prosegregationists who urged that he call a special session of the Legislature to enact legislation to protect segregation in the public schools . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stevenson camp is looking for someone of more mature years than Governor Clement as a running mate for its candidate . It is felt by key Stevenson advisers that the : election of Governor Clement as the Democratic vicepresidential candidate would weaken the Democrats ' charge of " immaturity " against Vice-President Richard M. Nixon as a running mate for President Eisenhower . However , if Governor Clement ! makes his usual dramatic impression on the delegates he may ! force a decision in his behalf . And , of course , a friendly word from Mr. Truman at a crucial moment would carry weight .                     