@@714103

txt The senate voted the state department 's Voice of America " program 85 million dollars for the coming year , tonight , after a debate in which the program was bitterly de'mum-pd . The senate appropriations committee had recommended that the " Voice " be cut 22 million dollars below the amount the house had previously voted it , but the senate ignored the committee and restored all the 22 million . The vote was 52 to 16 . Thirtyfour Democrats and 18 Republicans voted for the raise , while five Democrats and 11 Republicans voted against it . ' Douglas Backs Full Amount Sen. Douglas D. , Ill. , who set out yesterday to cut more than 41 million dollars from the billion dollar state , justice and commerce appropriations bill , in which the " Voice " funds were included , voted for the full 85. million . Sen. Dirksen R. , Ill. , who told the senate today that the " Voice " has portrayed Abraham Lincoln as a disciple of Karl Marx , voted against the raise . Sen. Benton D. , Conn. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it had demanded , 115 million dollars , but withdrew his proposal without letting it come to a vote . The " Voice " broadcasts American propaganda to foreign lands and supplies- them with movies , books and magazines represented as portraying American life , but which critics have said are often hostile to American institutions and favorable to communism . Reads Lincoln Broadcast Dirksen read the senate a broadcast made on Lincoln 's birthday which he said left the inference that Lincoln was a follower of Marx . " Do they have to bring in Karl Marx ? " Dirksen shouted . He demanded that the " Voice " represent the American point of view , and proposed that in the future it be made independent of the state department . Sen. Ferguson R. , Mich. said the " Voice " was showing movies of American bathing beauties when he was in New Delhi , India , where women are veiled and pictures of undraped women are objectionable . The American movies were free , he ' said , while the Russians were doing a big box office business on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Maps Liaison Division Sen. Nixon ER. , Cal. led an un- I successful fight to abolish the state department 's $250,000 a year " public liaison " division , which he said is engaged solely in " selling " the state department 's foreign policy to Americans . " The American people , " Nixon said , " should n't have to pay for propagandizing themselves . " Late tonight the senate passed the appropriation bill with increases that brought the total for the three agencies to $1,038,392 , - 263. after Douglas ' economy move , were lost . In an unsuccessful effort to trim 2 million dollars from a 7 million dollar appropriation for new embassies in foreign countries , Douglas said American diplomats are buying palaces with the taxpayers ' money , and said their theme is : " I dreamt I dwelt in marble halls . "                     