@@719548

txt Boston 's inadequate snow-removal program and its lack of genuine enforcement of parking regulations have built up since last Sunday 's blizzard what many persons are declaring is a " civilian emergency . " These deficiencies of city policy show up strikingly in the tangled traffic " mess " that is currently the lot of motorists and surface transit commuters going back and forth to work . Another startling fact that is beginning to infiltrate into the rail commuter 's thinking is the realization that diesel-powered trains apparently are almost as vulnerable as his own automobile in extremely cold weather . This factor , coupled with very thinly spread maintenance , equipment and personnel on the roads , makes operations not only marginal but very sketchy , especially when they are hampered or delayed by the current storm conditions . Cars Stall Traffic The tangled traffic picture is largely induced by thousands of auto commuters , who frtistrated by rail and rapid transit delays , lance again resume use of their cars to and from work . Boston , to state it mildly , is totally unprepared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its prsent coOlition . In fact , in the neighboring city of Cambridge , Police Chief Richard J. Lineham ordered a " get tough " policy against illegal parking , especially if it hinders snow removal operations or causes traffic jams . He said that some 100 cars were towed from snow clogged streets yesterday . Police cruising cars also went through Cambridge streets warning motorists to reatiove their automobiles . As the rail commuter services approached normal , automobile commuters ignored pleas by Boston police to stay out of ci ! bi streets . The result  --  bumperto-bumper driving with consequent arrival at home or at work long after the usual time . Most automobile commuters report that Greater Boston road travel is almost back to normal . But as drivers approach the first city traffic lights and intersections the pace slows and then bogs down all the way into the city . Slow Bus Ride This reporter 's bus , for instance , left the Park Square terminal at 4 p.m. yesterday on time . Thirty minutes later we had reached Kenmore Square . A half hour later we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later we arrived in Watertown Square . Two and one-quarter hours after leaving Boston we got to our own community on the Boston Post Road , normally a 45-minute trip . This story can be duplicated , of course , by a hundred similar Ones . The bad going is mostly in Boston 's outlying areas rather than downtown . Beacon Street and Commonwealth Avenue , for instance , are reduced to virtually one-lane traffic in many sections in the Back Bay and Brighton areas . Delays here are caused mostly by cars still buried in snowdrifts , plus the space between them and the plowed area and automobiles parked in the open section . Many Problems Un many occasions DUSCS aria street cars actually have had to push automobiles with cold motors and low batteries to get them started and to keep the single-lane highway open . Side streets , particularly in Boston suburbs , ' are virtually impassable in some cases or are weaving tracks around snow-buried automobiles made by milk , bakery , fuel and service trucks . On the railroads , however , both suburban and long-distance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Boston &; Albany , for instance , is operating its New England States express to Chicago and its Interstate Express to Buffalo , N.Y. , Toronto . and Detroit .                     