@@718193

txt Letters to The Times PHILIP W. SWARTZ.JOHN ANDREWS KING Jr.RICHARD BADLIAN.CYNTHIA V. INGRAHAM . Letters to The Times Treatment of Older People Changes in the Social Security Law Queried as Limiting Usefulness TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The recent amendments to the Social Security Act providing for earlier retirement for women at age 62 and for benefits for those who are permanently disabled is an illustration of a mixture of beneficial and questionable legislation . Certainly few who know the extent of chronic and total disability would argue against a stipend for this unfortunate segment of our population , and it was a fitting climax of a distinguished career in service for such a measure to be sponsored and fully supported by Senator George . The section providing for earlier retirement for women , although of benefit to many , is on the whole an example of a kind of iniquitous and incomplete legislation which should not continue without challenge . Women now compose nearly 30 per cent of the total labor force . They are no longer as inconsequential to the economy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assumed . The statement made by the National Federation of Business and Professional Women 's Clubs opposing the lowering of retirement age to 62 for women that " a difference in the age of eligibility for retirement of men and women negates the principle of equality for women , both in law and in custom , and would wipe out many of the gains which employed women have been able to win in performance of jobs on merit , " can be supplemented by an observation . Life Expectancy of Men If any group should be offered ( not compelled ) the opportunity for retirement at an earlier age , the differential in life expectancy be ! tween men ( 67.4 years ) and women ( 73.6 years ) would make it evident that man , with his much shorter expectancy ( and the differential continuing to grow in Western culture ) , should be offered the opportunity to retire at 62 as well . At this age he can look forward to only 14.9 years more of life , while women can expect 17.9 years . At 65 man can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further intensified by the marriage mores , since United States men marry women three or four years younger . Essentially this means that the family unit becomes unbalanced in the later years still further . Yet the most serious defect is that legislation of this type helps to precipitate and expand compulsory retirement practices solely on the basis of age . What is actually happening is that we are keeping people alive longer than at any other period but at the same time consigning them to a longer period of uselessness and unhappiness . It is becoming more and more difficult for people even past the age of 45 to secure new positions . In a November , 1954 , survey by all State Employment Security Agencies it was found that there were 816,000 workers over 45 in the active file , constituting 28.8 per cent of all workers in the active file , but only 17 per cent of the placements made by employment offices in November , 1954 , involved workers over 45 . In 1900 a male worker aged 60 could expect to live about fourteen more years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which would be in retirement . In 1950 he could expect to live fifteen more years , nine at work and six in retirement . In 1975 , according to present trends , he can expect to live seventeen more years , eight at work and nine in retirement . The Social Security Act , because it was an emergency and necessary piece of legislation in 1935 , when it was not possible to.provide adequate preparation for both industry and labor , more than any other single factor has contributed to the establishment of age 65 as a compulsory period for retirement . Since 1935 many ' companies that had flexible and more individualistic policies have joined the trend toward compulsory and automatic retirement . Because the greatest number of pension systems and costs are posited on this base , it is well known that such costs are listed by many employers as the most important reason for not hiring older workers . Overcoming Prejudice Many reasons which had some justifiability for nonemployment of older workers in the past have little support now , as widespread application of modern engineering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jobs more suitable for older men and women . What we need to overcome the prejudices that exist in this area are incentives and inducements , probably in the form of tax advantages rather than a continuing and unending expansion of social security , nonproductiveness , compulsory retirement and accompanying evils as the unilateral api6roach and answer . I do not say this because I am too afraid of the spiraling costs that are accompanying the new social legislation , because we will have spiraling income too , so that the mention of $1 billion a year in payments in 1950 and estimates of $15 billion a year in 1980 should not be hurled in a vacuum when we expend untold billions for smoking , gambling and alcohol as a matter of choice . Any country that can expend so much on such practices can , through choice , expend billions for human protection and security . We have overlooked the truism that man at no time and particularly during his later years receives satisfaction from living by bread alone . Usefulness , challenge , recognition , love and expression are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at times , but even to a greater degree than during the active working ages , A good part of the last half of the twentieth century will be known as the epoch of the older person . History 's evaluation of this period will be marked not alone by how we supply pensions and marginal economic support bilt on the role and status we give to ourselves and others during the later years . PHILIP W. SWARTZ . Cincinnati , Ohio , Sept. 7 , 1956 . Nenni 's Role Appraised Record Believed to Show Opposition to Aims of Communists To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It seems to me that the article " A Shifting Politician  --  Pietro Nenni " in The Times of Sept. 7 somewhat oversimplified the case and overstated Pietro Nenni 's historical position as " a loyal ally " of the Communists for the most of the last thirty years . Nenni first emerged as an effective Socialist leader when he led a successful movement in 1923 to prevent the left wing of the Italian Socialists from merging into the Italian Socialist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ split  --  once in January , 1921 , by the formation of the Italian Communist . party and again in October , 1922 , by a division into Right and Left parties , not dissimilar from the Sa  --  agat and Nenni parties of today . His first important act of leadership as a Socialist was thus in direct opposition to the desires of the Comintern , In 1930 Nenni was prominent in bringing about a merger of the two Italian Socialist parties in exile . Since the Comintern aL this time regarded the right wing Socialists as " Social Fascists , " Nenni 's leadership in this was hardly the act of a loyal ally of the Communists , and in fact Nenni was sharply criticized at the Thirteenth Plenum of the Comintern in 1933 for contributing to the " fascization of the social democracy . " Then in 1935 the Italian Socialists made the first unity-of-action pact with the Italian Communists , Nenni was a leader in this , but it must be recalled that during this period Saragat also supported this policy , At the time of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy , although it must be admitted that he overcame them more quickly than many other Italian Socialists . Nevertheless , he is criticized for this hesitation in the semi-official history of the Italian Communist party . So far as the war and the postwar periods are concerned , it must be recalled that the Communists were extraordinarily effective in the Italian underground and at the end of the war , perhaps because of luck , they controlled the overwhelming majority of the trade-union movement in Italy . It might therefore be suggested that , far from shifting , Nenni has consistently worked for the best interests of a strong and independent Italian Socialist party and that the times have shifted around him . JOHN ANDREWS KING Jr . Cambridge , Mass. , Sept. 9 , 1956 . Stevenson Aims Approved To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : You are blind to the philosophy and personality of Adlai Stevenson in imputing political opportunism in his expressing hope for the termination of the draft at the earliest possible time . In this , and bi his views about desegregation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not dictating a minute bill of specifications ( as he could not ) but simply alerting the public to the major problems that must be re-examined and acted upon by our lawmakers . It is the best service a candidate for public office can render the citizens -- awakening them to the major problems confronting the country . RICHARD BADLIAN . Boston , Sept. 15 , 1956 . Our Policy on Recognition Should Be Based on Serving Out/ Best Interests , It Is Sa14 To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In his column of Sept. 1 C. L. Sulzberger in concluding raises a question of tremendous importance and great intrigue to modern America . Mr. Sulzberger asks : " What i5 the principle that governs our policy of diplomatic recognition , and is there such a policy ? " As a former student of international relations would like to try to answer this challenging question . The failure to . come up with an answer would certainly be a source of embarrassment for us all ; but , fortunately , there is very definitely an answer , and perhaps the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it appears to be so obvious and seems too simple . Today there is but one overriding principle that governs the policy of American recognition of foreign Governments , and that is , does recognition , or refusal of recognition , serve the best interests of the United States of America Our present policy of recognition must be based on a principle that is in step not with the America of one hundred years ago , or even ten years ago , but with the America of today . Changed Principles The United States of 1956 is not the United Slates of a Franklin Pierce or a Woodrow Wilson or a . Herbert Hoover , and the principles that guide the conduct of our foreign policy have changed accordingly . Merely because we extended diplomatic recognition to the Soviet Government of Russia several years ago serves as no justification for according similar recognition to the Communist Government of China at this time . America is no longer just another member of the community of nations ; it is a great power and the recognized leader of the free world . Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy must be committed with a thorough realization of the terrific impact it will have on the other nations of the world and the ex ? ample  --  good or bad  --  it will set , The United States simply can not afford to recognize the Government of Communist China without first taking into consideration the effect that it would have on the Chinese people , both inside and outside of Communist China ; on those who today continue to resist the spread of communism in Asia ; and on the entire continent itself , which houses over one-third of the world 's population . In mentioning communism in connection with Asia I do not refer to just an ideology or a form of government , but to a kind of aggressive imperialism that is being directed upon the Asian continent from Moscow and Peiping . Resistance of People Would it be fair to the Chinese people to abandon them in the midst of their courageous struggle against Communist imperialism ? Would it be just to saddle 600,000,000 Chinese to a bleak future of indefinite Communist tyranny ? Would it be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asia who still continue to stanchly resist Communist aggression ? It is with these factors in mind that we must seriously debate the extension of diplomatic recognition to specifically the Chinese Communist regime , and more broadly to any similar form or type of government . These vital factors all point to the one broad principle which must guide our policy of diplomatic recognition , and which most cer ? tainly is historically logical  --  does recognition serve the best interests of the United States and the free world ? MICHAEL D. EUTTERMA N. Lawrence , N. Y. , Sept. 6 , 1956 . Gradual Integration Queried To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : To your correspondent who recently had some words to say in favor of gradual desegregation of the schools , one grade at a time , beginning with the kindergarten , I would like to pose a question . Recently moved here from Virginia , I would immediately admit the attractiveness of a plan allowing for a gentle and gradual impression of their duty upon a recalcitrant white population . It would seem to allow them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in fact , the plan is based on the theory that it will take a whole generation to accomplish a. peaceful change in the schools , starting now with the youngest children . My question is this : While we wait for a generation of white children to be gently led by the hand into assumption of the basic responsibilities of our democracy , what happens to the Negro children of second grade status and older who are in school now ? The Supreme Court decision came after evidence was presented that the very fact of segregation imposed an intolerable burden upon the developing personality of the Negro child , If . segregation constitutes a violation of basic human rights , it violates the rights of Sammy Brown , Negro , age 8 , as much as the rights of his younger brother , Teddy , age 6 , ready and eligible to attend an integrated first grade . Is not the suggestion for gradual desegregation of the schools like the order of the judge who told the miscreant that he must gradually stop beating his wife and six children ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1958.                     