@@719867

txt The conflict over the Middle East , which ran the risk of being a shooting war , has now entered the realm of diplomacy . President Eisenhower has accepted the idea of a summit meeting . As he indicated in his letter to Premier Khrushchev yesterday , this would take place within the United Nations Security Council . The British were eager for it and , indeed , seem to have persuaded Mr. Eisenhower to change his mind . Soviet Premier Khrushchev did not bargain on being invited into the United Nations building in New York , but a summit meeting was his original idea , and he said he would go anywhere , and the sooner the better . Here is his chance . He may even have the presence of Prime Minister Nehru of India , who can be invited as a party in. interest , though without a vote in the Council . All the others suggested by the Soviet Premier can be there as Council members . He would have to debate with a fairly certain majority against him , but since Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accept anything . This was amply proved by the way Soviet Delegate Sobolev has used the veto in the Middle East debates . The Russian vote against the Japanese resolution yesterday was the second veto in a week . Whichever way the negotigtions for a summit meeting come out , one thing is clear and gratifying . At least , for the time being , the crisis in the Middle East has taken the form of arguments , letters , messages and speeches . When the United States Marines first went into Lebanon last week there was a risk of a hot war . It looks much better now . No one wanted that kind of trouble , least of all ourselves and the British . Moreover , the display of military strength and determination by the Americans and British was calculated to induce caution on the part of Nasser 's United Arab Republic and Russia . Then there was the fact that the United States and Britain quickly ' announced they would limit their intervention and had no intention of invading Iraq . Both countries made it clear that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sovereignty and independence of Lebanon and Jordan . The resulting debates in the Security Council have proved fruitless , but at least provided a safety valve and a means of gaining time . Almost imperceptibly the world has been led from what might or might not have been the brink of war to these arguments and negotiations . The United States and Britain agreed to compromise on the Japanese resolution for an unarmed expansion of the U. N. observer team . The Russians were arrogantly uncompromising in the Security Council , but the Khrushchev proposal for a summit meeting , although expressed in vindictive and insulting terms , was at least not a warlike move . There will be more hope in the Soviet Union 's peaceful intentions if Premier Khrushchev now accepts the bid to a Security Council summit meeting , and if Russia proves less inflexible when or if the debate moves into the General Assembly .                     