@@713168

txt By a vote of 383 to 12 , the House of Representatives today gave President Truman sweeping authority to put the home front on a readyfor-war footing . The economic mobilization bill , which faces the test of a Senate vote , gives the President broad discretion to invoke price , wage and rationing controls , to expand defense production , to allocate and requisition and to curb various forms of credit . Even before the House voted , however , Mr. Truman told his weekly news conference that the time was not yet in sight when price and wage controls needed to be put into effect . The President had not sought this authority , saying regulation of this type was not necessary at this time . He acceded to it for stand-by use only in : the face of widespread public demand , crystallized by Bernard M. Baruch 's call two weeks ago for all-out mobilization . Senate Debate Started Debate in the Senate on an almost identical bill was getting under way as the House acted . The only votes against the House bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the one American Labor member .. Before the bill was passed , the House pared down the President 's power to restrict real estate credit , while a provision granting him authority to regulate commodity market speculation was eliminated . Both decisions were close , and in each case , a coalition strongly supported by Republicans and Southern Democrats decided the issue . Representative Jesse P. Wolcott of Michigan , ranking Republican on the House Banking and Currency Committee , sponsored the amendment to permit the President to limit credit only on new real estate construction . It carried , 202 to 188 , with 140 Republicans and sixty-two Democrats for the restriction . In opposition were 176 Democrats , eleven Republicans and one American Laborite . The proposal barring regulation of margin requirements on commodity exchanges was offered by Representative Harold D. Cooley , Democrat of North Carolina , chairman of the Committee on Agriculture . It was adopted , 198 to 194 , with 120 Republicans and seventyeight Democrats supporting it . Opposed were 164 Democrats , twentynine Republicans and the Laborite . Three Ohio Republican votes , originally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the course of the balloting , assuring passage . These votes were by Representatives Frances P. Bolton , J. Harry and Alvin F. Weichel . Administration forces scored a victory by restoring to the bill a // section broadening the definition of credit that might be regulated . The vote was 223 to 173 . The consensus later was that their success was without meaning . Other changes , made by the Wolcott amendment , seemed clearly to limit application of restrictions to real estate and consumer credit . Administration forces had hoped to use the broadened definition , a sort of catch-all , to regulate commodity market operations , for example , if such specific authority were stricken from the bill . Mr. Wolcott 's amendment seemed to bar'such a backdoor approach . Bill 's Provisions Set Forth The bill , as it cleared the House , gives the President authority to do the following things : 1 . Assign priorities for defense work , require acceptance and performance of defense contracts and allocate materials and facilities to meet such needs . 2 . Requisition equipment and supplies urgently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual owner may challenge in the courts if he deems it insufficient . 3 . Make loans up to $2,000,000,000 and such guarantees as are necessary to expand productive capacity and supply and to build stockpiles of critical materials . 4 , Apply price , wage and rationing controls when he deems them necessary to stop inflation , with full discretion left to try voluntary or selective controls before I resorting to blanket regulation . 15 . Use existing agencies of Government to administer those controls until complete regulation is applied , when he shall create an over-all administrative agency , similar to the Office of Price Administration of World War II . 6 . Enforce stabilization regulations by injunctive action , by prosecution ( penalties run to a year in jail and $10,000 fine ) or by suit for treble damages , plus $10,000. 7 . Regulate consumer and real estate credit as a safeguard against inflation , the realty curbs to apply only to new construction . Waive anti-trust laws under certain circumscribed conditions in the interest of defense production . Apart from the major amendments , there were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ben F. Jenson , Republican of Iowa , barring employment of subversive persons in administration of the mobilization program . Another by Representative Abraham J. Multer , Democrat of New York , called for periodic surveys by the Federal Trade Commission of anti-trust waivers . Cooley Plan Causes Clash The heaviest debate centered on the Cooley amendment barring regulation of the commodity markets . Mr. Cooley denied gamblers ran these markets . He said that if they were " cesspools of crime , we should lock them up , not regulate them . " Republicans and Democrats from farm areas argued that legitimate hedging operations were necessary to assure a decent price for farm products , and that there was no way in which a legitimate hedge could be distinguished from a speculation . Presenting the opposite point of view , Representative A. S. Mike Monroney , Democrat of Oklahoma , said : " It makes Congress look a little funny if it regulates every small business and every laborer 's pay and then exempts the one thing the country thinks is the sparkplug of inflation . " Representative Frank Buchanan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in wooltops , lard and certain other products had increased sensationally . In reply , Representative Clifford R , Hope , Republican of Kansas , said that the price of commodities dealt in on the exchanges had not gone up as much as other products . At his press conference President Truman made it clear that he planned to use existing agencies as much as possible in administering the new program . He said that he had been spending the last five years improving the administrative set-up of the Federal Government , using reorganization plans and other means.I We have an excellent and efficient set-up in the Government , he asserted , and there is no reason in the world why it ca n't meet any emergency . Asked if he would use some existing agency , such as the Interstate Commerce Commission , to control transportation in the event that became necessary , the President said that he certainly would . He was asked if that meant there would be " no revival of 0 . P. A. " Mr. Truman replied that his questioner could take it to mean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President to set up an organization similar to the Office of Price Administration to handle price and wage controls if they are applied generally . The President may resort to voluntary controls or selective regulation , if he sees fit under the bill . If he uses the selective approach , he must institute blanket controls , covering both prices and wages , once a substantial part of the economy is affected . At this stage , he must set up also a new 0 P A. Taft Attacks Senate Bill In the opening stages of debate in the Senate , Senator Robert A. Taft , Republican of Ohio , bitterly attacked virtually every phase of the bill reported by the Banking and Currency Committee . He said that Congress would be " completely abdicating its authority and its duty " if it gave the President power to invoke pricewage-rationing controls . He added that he believed Congress should vote such authority on a basis in which it could be used only if Congress passed a concurrent resolution . Other powers designed for the President , he said , , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ohioan argued that the $2,000,000,000 provided in the bill for direct loans to spur defense production was the equivalent of " giving the President the money to go into any business he wants to . " Mr. Taft clashed with Senator Burnet R. Maybank , Democrat of South Carolina , Banking Committee chairman , who , in defending the bill , asserted : " If I though it was only a Korean incident , I would n't be here asking for these controls . "                     