@@713746

txt Letters to The Times Student Deferment Supported Stabilized College Enrollment , Higher Skill for Services Envisaged To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I can not agree with your recent editorial proposing radical modifications in the proposed plan of deferring college students by grades or by a nationwide examination . The plan , though by no means " perfect , " is the best proposal yet made to continue the flow of manpower into colleges and preserve our educational institutions from a crushing lack of students . At the same time through allowances for continued education , young men of greater technical competence and ability will be provided for the armed services . What many opponents of the deferment plan overlook is the fact that in the end no one is being deferred from the armed services . Following the additional education given to those who are deferred , all students would still be subject to induction . However , the program does provide that they shall have secured more training in their own fields in that interval , and they will then be able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts than if they had not been deferred . I would call your attention to another great iniquity which this plan remedies , nrid which had existed in previous plans . This plan is not limited to students with majors in the scientific or technical fields , or who are aiming for a professional career . It is quite obvious that these students can make a contribution to our security efforts when finished with their training . The new plan allows for the education of students with majors in the social sciences and liberal arts . Will anyone be so foolish as to state that this nation faces no problems in these fields , or in areas where graduates of these subjects can not make a contribution as well ? Will segregation and inequalities in economic standards  --  items which lower the nation 's resistance to aggression ? be solved by technical and science students ? Hardly . But these problems , too , must be met before the nation will be completely strong . They can not be met if we refuse to train our young people in these fields @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To those who oppose the plan because of the fact that it works hardships on those who are qualified for college , and can not attend for other reasons , mainly financial , I would only reply that my idea of democracy is not to bring everyone down to a lowel level , but instead to raise all up to the highest level . We need desperately a program of federal scholarships and federal aid to education to raise the educational and technical competence of American youth . For every student who attends our colleges , another student equally qualified is unable to go purely because of lack of finances . Talk of an " aristocracy of brains " is insignificant when compared with the " aristocracy of wealth " which we have now in our educational system . Do n't eliminate the deferment system . Instead supplement it with a program to put more qualified young people into our colleges . In the long run the nation can not help but benefit by such a program . KENNETH R. KURTZ , Regional President , United States Student Association . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stability in the Far East To THE EI ) ITOtt OF THE NEW YORK TINIER : Editorials in THE TIMES , " E. C. A. of the Future " ( March 24 ) and " Point Four in Action " ( March 25 ) , clearly tell the story of how economic aid to countries of underdevelopment constitute an investment in international political stability . After reading Barbara Ward 's " Recipe for a Victory in the Far East " in THE TIMES of March 25 , one is impressed by the Communist formula for gaining power in Asia through the tactical though fraudulently motivated dish of land reform she serves to the peasant , and by the fact that the system of land tenure in Asia , blocking self-efforts of the peasant , can be a thorn in the side of technical progress which the democratic Powers are trying to extend through E. C. A. and Point Four program 's . There is some encouragement for us in the resolution adopted by the 1950 U. N. Assembly directing the Secretary General and the U. N. Food and Agricultural Organization to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Assembly . That the F. A. 0 . has gone on record to give land reform a major place in its work for the coming year indicates its sense of time urgency on this issue . It is a toss-up between Communist tactics in the Far East as it plays the role of the peasant savior , and the U. N. agencies ' efforts to extend a true program of peasant land ownership . The outcome may determine the correlation of economic stability and political stability in the Far East . ANNA M. GRASS . New York , April 1 , 1951 . Progress Toward Democratic Ideal To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your correspondent Carl Dahlgren writes a kind letter , " Bearing Arms as Test of Loyalty , " that needs to be read sympathetically . Many have dealt with this subject , only to concede , as did Kirkup in his " History of Socialism , " that the causes of the bearing of arms as yet " are too deeply rooted in human nature and in the present stage of social development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the motives and conditions of life . " Certainly there would be no need of force anywhere were the ideas of " the liberty of the teacher , the equality of the thought , and the democratic life of union " respected by mankind everywhere . But that is the goal that has not yet been reached in our world of actuality . That we are not as ready as we should be to admit the extent and the magnitude of the human problems with which real-life democracy must deal goes far in accounting for our slow progress toward the ideal . It is precisely by the light that may be thrown upon these problems by studies in anthropology , scientific sociology and history that the pace toward it may be accelerated . To gjve an idea of what is involved , we may mention ' that the very things that have kept peoples together have kept them apart from others . To maintain their way of life on the edges of the forest , some fought to prevent the destruction of the woods . To preserve their homes and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sea . So some submitted willingly to law and some preferred its avoidance as far as possible . This may give in outline the hard struggle of civilization from the beginning , and which still goes on with the groups of the world , differing in physique , dialect and morals , and at odds in the interpretation of the people 's right and the law 's necessity . It is a fact that we can not embrace other ideas than our own , yet we dare not doubt that where the intelligence is active , right gains . Perhaps every people loving freedom will find that love historic with them . Yet not only the past but everyday life is shaping the future . The work goes on for a better humanity . The world-wide democracy may develop eventually " region by region . " GEORGE H. GLADWELL . New York , April 1 , 1951 . Fluorine 's Effects Discussed Danger to Teeth Seen in Its Constant Use in Drinking Water TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In a recent article , " Fluorine for Teeth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be added in the future to municipal water supplies if city officials and lay groups deem it desirable and a corresponding recommendation was given officially . It should be pointed out that even experiments conducted over several years like the one carried out with fluorinated water in Newburgh give no absolute guarantee against chronic fluorine intoxication in the long run . Fluorosis is a well-established toxicological entity , characterized by increased fragility of bones due to their atrophy , and , interestingly enough , by enamel defects in the teeth , exposing them to early decay ? i. e. , producing the very opposite effect to that which fluorine addition to drinking water is to achieve . Many years ago the pharmacologist Schulz formulated a rule known as the Schulz rule , according to which small and large doses of the identical substance may have ' an opposite effect , but that it depends on the individual reaction whether a dose is to be considered small . The fluorine effect on teeth , preventing tooth decay in small doses and producing it in larger doses , is a typical example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , does not take into account the second part of the rule  --  that individual susceptibility decides whether a dose is small or large . If it is pointed out that the dosage employed in fluorination of drinking water is too small to produce toxic results , as shown in the recent Newburgh experiment , it leaves out the factor of individual susceptibility , which may make its appearance after many years , as is the case in the development of allergies . I have seen cases of hyperthyroid disturbances in disposed individuals following the indiscriminate use of " harmless " iodized table salt . Fluorine , which belongs in the same chemical group as iodine , is a highly active substance with prolonged action . The damaging effect of the chronic daily intake of fluorine in the water may make its appearance only after some years . Much more careful consideration should be given to toxicological longrange problems before the drinking water supply , which constitutes the most ' common part of our nutrition , is artificially changed . WILLIAM GUTMAN , M. D. New York , April 2 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NEW YORK TIMES : The demonstration of nationalistic feeling for another country by Americans during the recent St. Patrick 's Day celebrations was a very striking example of democracy at work . Is a man any less of an American because he loves the heritage from which he springs ? Of course not . In a democracy we can view these manifestations of nationalism without fear of disloyalty on the part of the demonstrators . Why not have a similar demonstration for peoples of other nationalities ? on a nation-wide basis  --  for similar dates of importance in their heritage ? What greater proof could we give to the people of the world that we are the democracy that we profess to be than to celebrate some great event of importance and symbolic significance to various peoples ? Recognition of the great heritage from which spring the peoples that make up this great country of ours would go a long way toward smoothing the many fears and doubts that people throughout the world still have of our good intentions . To my mind it would do . more good , both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world , than all the Voice of America broadcasts made to deaf ears in a year . DOUGLAS T. BARKER . Cranford , N. J. , April- 1 , 1951 . Further reproduction prohibited without permission .                     