@@719771

txt With all sides apparently anxious to avoid a showdown that could plunge France into civil war , Premier Pflimlin is moving on two fronts to strengthen the French Government , to reassert its authority over the rebellious dissidents in Algeria and to avert an authoritarian regime under General de Gaulle . He is trying to rush through constitutional amendments designed to pro -- vide governmental stability and prevent the constant Cabinet crises which have now led to a crisis of the French state . He is also sending his newly appointed Chief of Staff of the armed forces , General Lorillot , to Algiers to confer with General Salan , military dictator of Algeria , and hold him  --  or if necessary restore ' him  --  to " republican legality . " The main constitutional amendments would provide that before the National Assembly can indulge in its favorite game of overthrowing successive Cabinets it would have to name a new Premier and agree on a new governmental program which might be implemented by decree . This would make it impossible for a heterogeneous group of opposition elements , unable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government , to topple that Government . By providing for a new Premier to take office immediately , it would eliminate the prolonged Cabinet crises that paralyze the Government . In essence , these amendments represent an adaptation of the present German system , which also provides that before Parliament can overthrow a Chancellor it must elect a new Chancellor . This system seems to be the best cure yet invented for the ills of parliamentary coalition regimes , such as prevail in France and other multiparty countries . It is significant that while like amendments were turned down in a French National Assembly committee only recently , they now have the overwhelming support of political leaders who , under the impact of the present crisis , have finally recognized the truism of our Declaration of Independence that a proclamation of unalienable rights is not enough , and that " to secure these rights , Governments are instituted among Men . " Premier Pflimlin , however , is la ; boring under the shadow of General de Gaulle , who waits for the collapse of the present regime while the dissidents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In these circumstances the Premier is engaged in a race for time , and since it may take weeks or even months to make the proposed constitutional amendments effective the question remains whether time is on his side . There is doubt in both France and abroad that it is , and this very doubt helps the dissidents to undermine his regime . The apparently independent role of the Frency Army generals in Algeria in the new outcropping of border incidents in both Tunisia and Morocco contributes to the same end , even though the Paris Government feels constrained to continue backing them . The Premier 's best chance lies , perhaps , in the increasing revelation of differences in the Gaullist ranks . Thus the Algerian colonists and the dissident generals expect General de Gaulle to lead them to victory . But the victory they have in mind is military vfttory over the Algerian Moslem rebels , while Gaullist Jacques Soustelle talks of complete integration of Frenchmen and Moslems on a basis of equality which the French colonist 's are not yet ready to accept . And General de @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including Algeria , linked to France , a project which wins him acclaim from both Algerian Moslems and Tunisian President Bourguiba . It would be the supreme irony of the whole Gaullist movement if it were based on a misunderstanding of what the general stands for in respect to the key issue of the present crisis Which he is supposed to resolve .                     