@@714021

txt Generalissimo Francisco Franco has appointed a new cabinet in a bid for American dollars and closer ties with the non-Communist West . Highly placed sources said also that the new cabinet , which is strongly monarchist , would place a King on Spain 's throne . The throne has been vacant since Alfonso XIII abdicated and fled in 1931 . Restoration of the monarchy is expected to come only after long and delicate negotiations . The United Press and Reuters correspondents in , Madrid were less certain that the cabinet changes pointed toward a restoration of the monarchy . Franco Keeps Key Posts General Franco himself remains as Chief of State and President of the government . The shake-up came shortly after the visit to Spain by eight American senators , representing the Foreign Relations Committee , and of Admiral Forrest Sherman , United States Chief of Naval Operations , who reportedly reached a basic agreement with General Franco on American use of Spanish naval and air bases . President Truman told his news conference July 19 that the United States has somewhat warmed its policy toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have announced their opposition to closer United States ties with Spain , even though limited to military fields . In addition to the return of the monarchy , other changes expected to make the regime more acceptable to western public opinion and pave the way for United States loans include : 1 . Greater freedom of the press , with liberty to criticize everything except the Roman Catholic Church , General Franco , and the fundamental laws of the realm . Cortes ' Power to Grow ? 2 . Greater participation by the Cortes ( Parliament ) in state affairs . At present the Cortes is little more than a rubber stamp . Its rules probably will be amended to give it more power to criticize the government . 3 . A general amnesty for political prisoners who are now free on " conditional " liberty . Spain 's desperate economic situation looms large behind General Franco 's new policy . The country has been wallowing in the economic doldrums for many years . The people are finding it more and more difficult to make a living . The highway and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in urgent need of repair . Industry needs replacements and raw materials to keep busy . The armed forces have only antiquated equipment and not enough of that . Veers Closer to U.S. American diplomatic representatives in Madrid and General Franco 's representative in Washington have long been telling him that American aid fttr depressed Spain would come only after he made some concessions toward liberalizing the regime . The generalissimo summoned his old cabinet immediately after conferring with the eight senators July 13 . He told the ministers they were being fired so he could appoint a new group to orient Spain 's policy ciciser to the United States . The Roman Catholic Church , concerned over mounting unrest among Spain 's poverty stricken masses , also has been pressing for reforms and had warned the government that it had " responsibil. ! ities toward the . people . " Before the monarchy is returned , Spain must reconcile the rival claims of ' the . Bourbon pretender , Don Juan , presently living in exile in Lisbon , Portugal , and supperters of his son , 13-year-old Juan Carlos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            