@@713622

txt New and stricter curbs on building loans for nonresidential construction , effective today , and instituted as a new step toward arresting inflation , were viewed with much misgiving by New England contractors . Unless the matter is straightened out at once , they said , many contractors will he out of work in 60 days , which will result in many losses of jobs for workers as well . New amendments to Regulation X were issued here today by Joseph A. Erickson , president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston , giving details as passed by the bank 's board of governors . Broader Scope The new amendments , while making no substantial changes in the Order M-4 regulations  --  it issued last fall , and restricting new construction to buildings used for defense purposes  --  have been broadened considerably . In-chided now , in general , are many additional types of structures used for nonresidential purposes . " We want to go all out for defense , " said Allan E. Gifford , executive secretary of the Associated General Contractors , in commenting on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indications , difficulties will be encountered until July , when the so-called controlled materials plan , or CMT , used in World War II , is scheduled to go into operation . " Already , about $40,000,000 worth of work os being held up here , " Mr. Gifford continued , and he cited seven jurisdictional union disputes on five large construction projects in eastern Massachusetts . These , he pointed out , were caused basically by growing unemployment and greater competition for jobs . Heavy Curtailment " The original M-4 order knocked off between $75,000,000 and $100.000,000 of good construction , " Mr. Gifford added . " Now the new order requires a man who is going to build a $1,000,000 building to put up $500,000 in cash . That will knock off about 50 per cent of what little business the contractors have left , " he predicted . AccOrding to the statement issued by the federal reserve bank , " the revised credit restrictions limit maximum loans on such structures as office buildings , warehouses , stores , banks , hotels , theaters , and others for nonresidential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the property ? value ' being defined as the bona fide sale price in the case of a sale . " In respect to any other extension of credit , " the bank adds , " ' value ' will be the appraised value as determined in good faith by the lender extending credit . Maturities are limited to 25 years , and amortization is required . " Major additions and improvements to a nonresidential property , including any enlargement , reconstruction , alteration , or repair of an existing structure , are also covered by the amended regulation , if the cost of the major addition or improvements exceeds 15 per cent of the appraised value of the nonresidential structure . " Washington Some substantial price rollbacks are definitely in prospect , says Price Stabilizer Michael V. DiSalle . He does not promise that they will turn the tide of inflation but he does insist they will afford some relief along the line . Price ceilings are being developed rapidly and eventually will cover all items , just as they did under the old Office of Price Administration , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that control can he must depend substantially on other things  --  on how much production is increased by that time , how much taxes are upped , and how strictly credit is controlled . Prices Still Rise Meanwhile , prices are still rising , even though some relief is far closer than it was two months ago when Mr. DiSalle arrived on the Washington scene to find that he was starting from scratch , with one desk and . no staff . Today the Office of Price Stabilization has more than 1.000 employees , has opened 55 offices across the country , four in the territories . and will open 20 more on Feb. 19 . There have been many sighs over the fact that prices are expected to rise another 5 per cent before they can be stopped , but Mr. DiSalle points out that in the first year of wartime price control they rose 7.1 per cent . In fact , the cost of living rose continually throughout the war . Between 1942 and 1943 it edged up 1.9 per cent . Between 1944 and 1945 it rose 2.9 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was 4.8 per cent . Control Forecast Mr. DiSalle is not sure that he can " do that well " because prices today are a good deal higher than they were when OPA took over and inflation has had more of a start , but he is confident that by midsummer it will be under control . The prospective " markup " by which retailers will be allowed to adjust prices is not a profit margin markup . It is , rather , a " cost markup " by which merchants may make adjustments for wholesale price increases yet to be passed along to the retail level . Price control , as the stabilizer sees it , is only one part of the stabilization program , and " perhaps a minor part , " he admits . But anyone who gets the impression from Mr. DiSalle 's deceptively easygoing air that he does n't mean business was never more wrong . Imperturbable , good-humored , the rotund price stabilizer has a nimble wit too . There is little doubt here that he is equal to the tremendously difficult task . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his equilibrium in the midst of confusion , but to make progress . And that is what he is doing . Complicated Task lArhile whipping together a staff , he has at the same time had to - develop a program  --  one which will apply to 3.000,000 businesses , both retail and wholesale , a task fraught with complications , troublesome inequities , and con- Murphy Gets Bid By the Associated Press Washington Michael V. DiSalle has asked Thomas F. Murphy , New York Police Commissioner , to take charge of price-control enforcement for the next 60 days , an OPS spokesman said . The spokesman had no information as to whether Mr. Murphy , if he took the temporary assignment , would return to his post as police commissioner at the end of the two months .                     