@@713123

txt Decentralization of much of Boston 's fire-fighting and public-works equipment outside the city , as a civil defense measure , is being seriously considered . It is reported from reliable quarters that John F. Stokes , State Director of Civil Defense . is planning to recommend such decentralization as a vital step to protect Boston in the event of atomic warfare . Although civil defense chiefs do not predict opening of World War III and the dropping of atomic bombs on Boston , they are laying plans to combat any such possibilities . It is underAood that civil defense chiefs are concerned over the concentration of fire-fighting and public - works equipment within Boston . Other Centers Involved Of course , Boston 's fire-fighting apparatus , in particular , is distributed throughout the city in various fire stations . But it is felt that an atomic bomb or two might wipe out , or make unusable , much of this equipment at a time when every piece of apparatus and every hose would he needed to fight major conflagrations . The plan would involve moving much of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to other major population centers in Massachusetts . such as Worcester , Springfield , Fall River , and New Bedford , it is reported . In another global conflict it is felt that such cities would be major targets . So civil defense heads want to plan everything possible to minimize possible damage and to keep intact the means of combating fires and other disaster possibilities . At the same time , they want to move in such a way as to avoid arousing public fears . Unpaid Personnel Of course , the decentralization plans would require considerable work to put into operation . Plans for complete coordination to tie in the fire departments of outlying sectors would be necessary . Means of alerting quickly those decentralized units would be required . Every means of protecting Boston and the other large population centers in the event of nonwar-caused conflagrations would be important . Such plans would be put into effect well in advance of any anticipated emergency . Meanwhile , Governor Dever has disclosed that the state civil defense setup would be manned largely by unpaid personnel . The state organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a paid executive assistant , and some clerical help on salary . Otherwise , there will be few persons in the organization collecting pay . The governor stated : " I do n't envision any such organization as existed during the last war , when headquafters occupied a whole floor on Tremont Street , at a cost of ** annually . " Governor Dever has indicated the first year cost of the new organization will be S250,000 , It is known that Mr. Stokes favors a small department , manned almost entirely by unpaid personnel , as the most effective means of operating the state defense setup . Now , the director 's job is mainly to coordinate civil-defense work in local communities . In this con nection , he already has set in motion the necessary machinery . He is selecting key personnel for an advisory council . This council , it is reported , will be appointed either by Governor Dever or Mr. Stokes . The council would advise the director on plant protection and other problems , and would include key men from important industrial organizations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up nine regions , with a director heading each region . These directors will coordinate the local defense efforts of the cities and towns in their own regions . At the moment , Mr. Stokes is working in a small suite of offices on the fourth floor of the State House . As yet , these offices are almost entirely unfurnished and practically devoid of personnel . However , it is expected that the state organization will be built up steadily . Mr. Stokes is to present his personnel needs to the governor later this week . After that , organization work will be speeded . Pending actual appropriation of funds for the state civil defense setup in the supplementary budget . Mr. Stokes has been allotted $15,000 from the governor 's emergency fund to get his office started . The supplementary budget is one of the final measures to be voted by the Legislature before prorogation . Prorogation may come late this week or next . ?                     