@@715902

txt It is easy to be deeply sympathetic toward the emotions of those who feel that there is something hideously wrong in trading , on any terms , with an avowed and implacable enemy such as Red China . At the same time , it is possible to be convinced that Senator McCarthy , in asking for a telegraphic bombardment of the President , has approached the problem at the wrong time and in the wrong way , and that he has urged an entirely wrong course of action in dealing with it . Our Government has not taken a soft course toward Red China , in the matter of trade . We have ' declared and imposed a full embargo on all strategic materials and have taken the lead in having such an embargo endorsed by the United Nations . As a nation , we have gone further and have actually cut all trade to an almost imperceptible n ) inimum . The only criterion for any such non-strategic trade has been that it shall be to our advantage . Some other United Nations Members have not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Materials embargb have given an elastic definition to such materials and have been engaged in exploring the possibility of restoring or expanding trade with the China mainland at the earliest opportunity . What Senator McCarthy has proposed , and has urged others to endorse to the President , is that the United States use the full force of its economic weight to coerce any such nations into abandoning that idea . In other words , the proposal is that we club our allies into agreement with our dictated policy even if they disagree with it . We are fully convinced that the importance of Red China 's trade has been greatly exaggerated ? mistakenly in some cases and deliberately in others  --  and that the hopes for its great future are largely illusory . So long as the Red regime is in power China 's trade will be considered and regulated in Peiping with only one idea , Peiping 's own advantage . Nevertheless , we can not for one moment concur in the idea that the United States should make its assistance to its friends and allies conditional upon what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China so long as their actions remain within the framework of the United Nations position . We believe that the dealings among friends should be on the basis of persuasion , not compulsion . We believe , moreover , that it is more important to preserve unity and good will in the free world than it is to cut off any particular segment of trade with the slave world At a time such as this , when the best efforts of our leaders are being expended in trying , through persuasion , to preserve this unity and good will , the suggestion that it be destroyed is more than untimely , it is mischievous . The telegram barrage has not helped the United States , has not helped its allies , has not helped its President , has not helped the Republican party , and , we are positive , will not have helped the junior Senator from Wisconsin .                     