@@717425

txt A long-sought atomic particle that nature has until now hidden from man has been created artificially in mail 's most powerful " atom-machine " at the University of California . Announcement of the achievement , opening a new era in man 's quest to understand his universe and the elements of which it is constituted , was made jointly yesterday at the university 's radiation laboratory at Berkeley and by the Atomic Energy Commission at Washington . The A. E. C. said that it was too early yet to evaluate the discovery . However , the commission added , a big step forward had been made in man 's efforts to control his physical environment . The new particle is known as anti-proton , or the negative proton . Its existence has been postulated for nearly a quarter century as the missing link of the atomic world , the counterpart of the proton , one of the two fundamental building blocks of the nuclei of all atoms . All the fundamental atomic particles so far discovered or created have been found to , exist in three varieties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the proton , heart of the hydrogen atom and one of the two constituents of the nuclei of all atoms , has never been found to carry a negativb electrical charge . The negative proton had become , because of its elusiveness , a " nuclear ghost " that haunted the world 's physicists for a generation . Its appearance at last in man 's most powerful atomic " crucible , " in which matter is created of energy , has restored the faith of science in the basic symmetry of nature , every element in it . being balanced by a " mirror image , " positive being balanced by its negative . Thus the tiny electron , revolving in orbits around the atomic nuclei in the , manner of planets around the sun , comes in two varieties , those carrying a basic unit of negative electricity and those carrying an exactly equal unit of positive electricity , known as the positron . For reasons as yet unknown this part of the universe consists of negative electrons and positive protons , the proton having a mein nearly 2,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , scientists point out , that in another part of the universe the exact reverse is true , the atoms there being made of positive electrons revolving around a nucleus of negative protons . ? Atom-Machine 's Role The negative proton was created in a multi-billion-volt atommachine known as the bevatron , in which atomic bullets are speeded up to the enormous energies of billions of volts and then hurled against other atoms as targets . In the course of such a collision , the energy of flying atomic bullets is converted into matter . In the California experiments the atomic bullets consisted of protons , the positively charged nuclei of hydrogen atoms . These were made to travel in a circular path in the doughnut-shaped giant machine until their energy had reached 62 billion electron volts , the highest ever achieved by man . These 6.2 billion-volt protons Were hurled against the nuclei of atoms of copper , which consist of twenty-nine protons and thirty-four to thirty-six neutrons . When the 6.2 billion-volt proton crashes into one of the neutrons in the copper atom 's nucleus about two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This newly created matter comes out in the form of a pair , a positive proton and its negative " mirror image , " the antiproton . If left together the two annihilate each other within a tenth of a miiiiointh of a second , being transformed once again into radiation of an energy of two billion volts . However , the California physicists have built a cunning maze through Which only the negative proton can pass in less than a tenth of a millionth of a second . When in a vacuum , negative protons were found to be quite stable , lending support to the hypothesis that they may exist in a part of the universe in which there are no positive protons . Physicist on ' Team ' Creation of the negative proton " was achieved by a team of radiation - laboratory physicists including Drs . Owen Chamberlain ; Emilia Segre , Clyde Wiegan , d and Thomas Ypsliantis , with the help of Herbert Steiner and the cooperation of Dr. Edward J. Lofgren , physicist in charge of the bevatron . Dr. Ernest O. Lawrence , director @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for his invention of the cyclotron , described the creation of the negative proton as " a major fundamental achievement in physics . " He added that it was not possible now to evaluate it fully . The discovery of the anti-proton , Dr. Lawrence said , may be a " milestone on the road to a whole new realm of discoveries in high energy physics in the days and years ahead . " There is no known " practical " application of the anti-proton , it was said , though it may lead to fundamental knowledge that would in turn offer man new controls over nature . The A. E. C. , which provided $9,500,000 for the building of the bevatron , declared in a statement issued in Washington yesterday that the anti-proton discovery was a major development that " may inaugurate a new era of nuclear physics . " Dr. Willard F. Libby , acting chairman of the corrimission , in a separate statement congratulated the scientific team on behalf of the A. E. C. Dr. Libby 's Statement " This accomplishment , " Dr. Libby said , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American people , has put emphasis on fundamental research in nuclear physics and other scientific fields , and financed costly equipment such as the bevatron for use in such research . " The discovery of the antiproton will open the way toward fuller understanding of the basic nuclear processes , which are fundamental to the entire atomic energy program . " Though there is no immediate practical application for this discovery it is important . All of the applications of atomic energy rest upon the findings of fundamental research . No one can predict at this moment the implications which the discovery of the anti-proton may have for future research and development " However , we do know that every step forward in understanding the basic constituents of matter is valuable in man 's effort to control and use his physical environment . " The anti-proton , if it could be created in large quantities , would be the most destructive force in nature , for actually the anti-proton is anti-matter , annihilating any matter in its vicinity . Luckily , anti-protons can be produced only in minute amounts at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creation of the anti-proton also opens the possibility for the artifice% creation of the " mirrorimage " of the neutron , namely , the anti-neutron , which have properties opposite to that of the neutron , such as magnetic moment for example . The antineutron , if brought together with a neutron , would also bring about mutual annihilation , as is the case with electrons and protons and their " mirror-images. "                     