@@718034

txt A moral and political crisis of the first magnitude is obviously engulfing the Communist parties of the free world . In this country , Britain , France , Italy and elsewhere , publication of Nikita S. Khrushchev 's attack on Stalin has had an unprecedented impact . From the highest leader of world communism , Communists the world over have now been told , in effect , that what the " bourgeois " press said about Stalin for a quarter of a century was the unvarnished truth , and what the Communist press said about him was completely false . Instead of being the greatest , kindest and wisest man in history , Stalin was a murderer , a sadist and a paranoid . The Communist shock has been particularly great because of the peculiarly distorted self-picture many Communists have had of themselves . Sincere ones among them have believed they were striving for the highest ideals of humanity . They have believed also that they had a unique weapon , the key to history , in the " scientific socialism " of Marx , which enabled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present but precisely to forecast the future . Now they have learned that for a quarter of a century and more they were subservient to a homicidal maniac . They are learning , too , that they have been political illiterates who were duped because they refused to see what Was plainly before their eyes . For such leaders as Togliatti , Thorez and others the problem now presented is particularly acute . Unlike Khrushchev , they can not claim that they lived under Stalin 's terror and feared for their lives if they spoke . out . On the contrary , they lived in free societies , where the truth was abundantly available , and yet they led the chorus of deification for the monster . It is against this background that the present indignation and questioning of free world Communist leaders must be judged . Each is apparently trying to save his own position and to preserve both his power and his movement . It is for this purpose that they call on Khrushchev to explain his own and his colleagues ' role in Stalin 's crimes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explanation " of what happened . While Stalin lived these same leaders made a mockery of their own Marxism by groveling before Stalin and paying no attention to the economic and political realities of the Soviet Union . When , two decades ago , Trotsky offered them a Marxist explanation in terms of the bureaucratic perversion of . the . Soviet Union into a new differentiated , class state , these leaders paid no attention . Today they want a " Marxist explanation , " as though the reality were not plain to any person with common sense , let alone a knowledge of dialectical materialism . The danger , of course , is that the Communist leaders and their parties may be able to rescue themselves from the obvious political and moral bankruptcy in which they " now find themselves . By pretending to turn on Stalin and Khrushchev , they may convince some that ' they are no longer tools of Moscow . Their present breast-beating and cries of indignation may , in facOurn out to be- nothing more than a maneuver designed to further the present united front @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used also under Stalin two decades ago , and is a standard weapon in the Stalinist armory . The fact is that Stalin was as much a product as a creator of the Soviet system . Once one embraces the doctrine of dictatorship , once one believes one knows the " inevitable " path of history and has the right to destroy all who hold ; contrary views , the kind of corruption that was Stalinism becomes inevitable . As Secretary Dulles said Thursday , the Soviet system has now proved that " it is a system of inevitable abuses which provides no dependable means for the correction of those abuses . " Not until Communists have understood that full democracy and right of dissent are essentials for any tolerable human society can it be said that they have learned the real lesson of the infamous Stalin era . For us of the free world the task is now to use the Khrushchev revelations as a weapon with which to deatroy the prestige and influence of the Communist movement and to divert the legitimate social protest which it has captured in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not want his speech printed because " We should not give ammunition to the enemy . " Now that the free world has this ammunition , we must use it , and use it well .                     