@@718642

txt Dave Beck , much - traveled president of the much-investigated International Brotherhood of Teamsters , returned to the United States from Europe yesterday . The head of the country 's biggest union came back with the ' same sort of secrecy that had attended his departure thirtynine days before . He slipped into New York unannounced from Zurich , Switzerland , and flew off to his home in Seattle before reporters were aware he was back within reach of Senate subpoena servers . Mr. Beck arrived in Seattle late last night . He said that he expected to go to Washington " very soon . " He also said that he did not think he would wait for the subpoena from the . Senate committee . Newsmen Are Barred Earlier , when- his plane put down at Chicago for a fortyminutes stop-over , he had refused to debark or to allow reporters to come aboard . A photographer who managed to get on the plane had a hard time . A burly man presumably Fred Tobin , Mr. Beck 's executive assistant ? blocked the photographer as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Beck dived into a vacant seat and covered his head with his coat . He wore sunglasses , apparently to hinder identification , the camera man reported . In Washington Senator John L. McClellan , chairman of the Select Committee on Labor and Management Practices , which has been investigating possible racketeering jnfluence in the giant truck union , said he as- smiled Mr. Beck would get . in touch with the committee . No Time Limit Set The Arkansas Democrat did not indicate how long his group would wait for Mr. Beck to respond to its month-old demand that he turn over his persona financial records for the last seven years . However , from other sources , it was learned that the committee already had prepared a subpoena for service on Mr. Beck if he did not communicate with it in a few days . The Senators want to question Mr. Beck about the reported use of union funds to build his palatial home on Lake Washington . He later sold the home to the union for $163,000 , with the stipulation that he was to occupy it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also approved purchase of Mr. Beck 's furniture , but John F. English , the organization 's secretary-treasurer , balked , at signing the check . Some union officials reported that the furniture bill had come to more than $75,000 , but Mr. Beck has put the figure at $30,000 . The Teamster chief also faces interrogation on alleged links lietween top-ranking truck Unionists in the Northwest and gamblers seeking a monopoly wee , vice ? in the Portland area . Mr. Beck had been scneduled to appear before the Senate in , eiestigators : Jan. 18 , but he bugged off on the ground of illrress . Three days later he arrived in Miami Beach to preside Dyer a meeting of his own executive board and to attend the niidwinter session of the Executive Council of the American Federation of Labor and CongTess of Industrial Organizations . : He vanished midway through the council session . That was after be had cast the sole dis-h senting vote on a resolution calling for the ouster of union officials who invoked ther constitutional privilege against self-incrimination in Government inquiries into corruption . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the Americana Hotel , a fellow unionist reported seeing him in Nassau in the British West Indies . From there he flew to London , with the explanation that he wanted to make a first-hand study of Hungarian refugee problems and attend to other labor business . Mitchell Shortens Trip While Mr. Beck was abroad , his itinerary was shortened by the Secretary of Labor , James P. Mitchell . Mr. Beck had made public the itinerary to explain why he could not come back right away to face the Senate committee . Mr. Mitchell , however , withdrew an earlier designation of the Teamster head as a United States delegate to an international labor conference in Hamburg , Germany , March 11 to 23 . The cancellaaon of Mr. Beck 's assignment was announced a week ago , but there was no immediate sign then that it would convince the union leader it was time to encU his wanderings . On Friday , Einar 0 . Mohn , administrative vice president of the Teamsters , notified the Washington staff to keep forwarding Mr. Beck 's mail to Europe : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tobin that he was returning . The assistant made arrangements through the Washington office of Northwest Orient Airlines to book two seats on a plane leaving New York International . Airport at Idlewild , Queens , for Seattle at 11:45 A. M. yesterday . Mr. Tobin made one reservation in his own name and one in the name of D. David . Mr. Beck boarded a Swissair plane in Zurich at 9:30 P.M. Saturday ( 4:30 P. M. New York time ) . It brought him to Idlewild at 8:40 A. M. yesterday . He slipped through public health , immigration and customs routines , met Mr. Tobin and took off for Seattle before word of his return had reached newspaper offices . Shouts ' No Comment ' SEATTLE , Wash. , March 10 ? Mr. Beck began shouting " no comment " almost before the first question was tossed to him here as he walked , in dark overcoat and gray fedora , down the plane ramp . However , he said he would make himself available to the press tomorrow . He set no time or place . Newsmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in cheek to stem the flow of questions . Employers Face Inquiry WASHINGTON , March 10 ( UP ) 1 ? The Senate committee investigating rackets expects to bring some employers into the picture when it takes up four cases involving unions in the New York area , a spokesman said today . Robert F. Kennedy , committee counsel , said that staff investigators had been collecting mate , rial on the New York labor situation for hearings later . I Some union officials have complained that the committee , set up to investigate labor-management practices , has spent all of its time so far looking into charges involving Teamster Union leaders on the West Coast . Mr. Kennedy said the hearings on New York would include reports of collusion between union officials and employers and contractors . The committee expects to wind up its b hearines in Teamster actiVities in Portland , Ore. , this week . After a ten-day recess , the group plans to turn its inquiry to activities of the Teamsters and other unions in Scranton , Pa . The New York investigation probably will follow this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York situation ? to be held in Washington ? would cover these topics : Collusion between union officials and employers in garbage collection . Collusion between contractors and officers of certain building trades unions , especially the Carpenters and the Operating EnIgineers , in the Long Island area . Activities of the Teamsters Union , Allied Industrial Workers and the Chemical Workers Union in New York .                     