@@717381

txt Plans to tear down the historic Pullman building at the southwest corner of Michigan ay . and Adams st. and replace it with a 20 story , 121/2 million dollar office building sheeted with gold colored aluminum were announced yesterday . Negotiations to purchase the site and present nine story building are under way between Pullman-Standard Car Manufacturing company , owner of the property , and ' sponsors of the proposed new building . Represents New Yorkers A purchase agreement has been reached , contingent on completion ' of financing arrangements , said Arthur Collins , president of Collins Tuttle &; Co. , New York City realty firm . Collins Tuttie represents a group of New Yorkers who would own the new structure . P. Pullman spokesman said the building plan is the latest in a series of proposals to replace the Pullman structure , one of the oldest on Michigan ay . Under the plan Pullman-Standard would lease about 35,000 square feet of space in the new building . Robert H. McCormick Jr. , Chicago representative of Collins Tuttle &; Co. , said three or four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Band of Windows Building plans designed by William Lescaze , New York architect , call for the upper 18 floors to be encased in gold anodized aluminum and the lower floors with shining black granite . There would be continuous bands of windows on all four sides . Air conditioning and high speed electronically controled elevators are planned , spokesmen for the sponsors said at a press conference in the Hilton hotel . With service facilities situated in the center of each floor , corridor areas will be held to a minimum . Sumner Sollitt company , Chicago , is to be general contractor . Wo n't Leave Corner The spokesman for Pullman , Inc. , parent firm of Pullman-Standard , said the company has no intention of leaving either Chicago or the corner it has occupied for 71 years . " This corner is the traditional headquarters of the Pull rn a n organization , " he said . " Pre are fond of it . But the building is getting old . We realize the need for a modern building . " If the Collins Tuttle proposal is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get another plan , he said . The Pullman building was erected at a cost of a million dollars , before the day of steel skeleton construction . Its brick and granite walls are several feet thick . S. S. Beman was the architect . Famous Ex-Tenants Originally three floors were occupied by Pullman 's Palace Car company , forerunner of Pullman-Standard . The rest of the space was for residential apartments . Tenants have included Florenz Ziegfeld Jr. , founder of the Ziegfeld Follies , and Samuel Insull , utility magnate . The Albion restaurant , named for the eastern New York home town of George M. Pullman , founder of the company , occupied the top floor . Later it was called the Tip Top inn . It closed in 1931 . Pullman-Standard 's executive and general offices take up three floors of the building and offices of other firms the remainder . 