@@713292

txt Letters to The Times RICHARD H. WELS.PRATAP MADHANI.STEPHEN LEFKOFF.KELLY KASH.ESTHER JOHNSTON.MAX ... pg . 32 14tters to The Times The Judiciary and Politics Legislation Is Asked to Increase Confidence in Our Courts To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Supreme Court Justice Ferdinand Pecora 's announcement of his imminent resignation from the bench to conduct his campaign for the Mayoralty focuses attention on an anomalous situation in our law . Those who recall that five years ago another judge ran for the office of Mayor without being required to resign his judicial office , and that just a year ago still another judge became the candidate of a major party for the office of President of the City Council without leaving the bench , will be curious as to . why it is necessary for Justice Pecora to leave the bench under circumstances similar to those in which two of his colleagues were permitted to retain their judicial office during their campaigns for political office and after their defeat . The Canons of Judicial Ethics , which were originally adopted by the New York State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holding a judicial office shall become an active candidate either at a party primary or at a general election for any office other than a judicial office . They further provide that if a judge should decide to become a candidate for an office not judicial he should resign in order that it can not be said that he is using the power or prestige of his judicial position to promote his own candidacy or the success of his party . This is surely sound doctrine , designed to preserve the independence and integrity of the judiciary , which has been well described by Alexander Hamilton in The Federalist as " the citadel of the public justice and the public security . " The Canons of Judicial Ethics , however , although of considerable moral suasion as the embodiment of the principles and ideals of the legal profession , do not have the force of law and are not enforceable except by conscience . And there is , as in. many other things , a. considerable lag between the principles evolved by a profession and the law itself . Thus , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to judges running for political office is Article 6 , Section 19 , of our State Constitution , which provides that " the judges of the Court of Appeals and the justices of the Supreme Court shall not hold any other public office or trust , except that they shall be eligible to serve as members of a constitutional convention . All votes for any such judges or justices for any other than a judicial office or as a member of a constitutional convention , given by the Legislature or the people , shall be void . " In recent years bills have been introduced at Albany to eliminate this lag , and to make these provisions of law applicable to all judges . Such bills should be enacted because , by taking the judiciary out of politics , they increase public confidence in the integrity and independence of our courts . And it is that public confidence that any citizen will receive a fair and impartial trial in our courts and will have justice done him there that differentiates our way of life from that behind the Iron Curtain . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the legislative leaders . It should be placed high on the agenda at the next session of the Legislature , and in the course of this campaign candidates for the Governorship and the Legislature should speak out and tell the Deonle where they stand on it . RICHARD H. WELS . New York , Oct. 6 , 1950 . India 's Neutrality To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It is disappointing to discover once again in your . editorial the old note about India 's neutrality , which had happily disappeared during the days of the Korean crisis . If by " neutrality " you mean neutrality in injustice , India 's action in the Korean issue amply shows that you are wrong . If , however , by " neutrality " you mean abstention from participation in power blocs , there is no reason why India should not be neutral . Whatever your own view about alliances , the fact remains that there have been alliances since the dawn of history and that there have been wars also all along . If national security was all that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been wise for her to seek shelter under the shadow of safety . By now , however , it should have been clear that what India wants is a world peace based on a voluntary cooperation through the organization of the United Nations . As a nation that has fought for her freedom under the moral leadership of Mahatma Gandhi it would not be presumptuous to say that India also knows the positive content of Peace . PRATAP MADHANr . New York , Oct. 7 , 1950 . Funds for Education To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In the report of the education committee of the Chamber of Commerce printed in THE TIMES of Sept. 25 , New York is said to have ? " led all forty-eight states in average pupil expenditures in 1949 , investing $312 for every child in the school . " There is no ground for the complacency reflected in this article . What would be more significant than the total figure as given would be the breakdown of this figure into amounts spent for books , teachers ' salaries , teaching materials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the child . A comparison based on a breakdown like this would give a more realistic picture of educational conditions in this state . In a large city like New York operational costs and plant replacements often take a larger share of the pupil-dollar than in smaller communities . The article achieves nothing for education in this state when it says that apparently a prosperous state like New York does not need to devote a higher percentage of income to education . Is the writer unaware of the disheartening struggle of parents and teachers in the public schools of New York City to get more appropriations for education ? Are we to remain complaisant in the face of far too many overcrowdee classrooms and forced dual job-holding among teachers who have had to resort unwillingly to the cessation of all extracurricular activities in order to get an adequate salary increase to meet the rising cost of living ? Surely this is no time for complacency but for the arousing of all concerned to bring pressure on our city and state governments to remedy the situation by granting the appropriations now being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our children and increased salaries for teachers . STEPHEN LEFKOFP . New York , Oct. 1 , 1950 . Conducting Foreign Affairs Forbearance Urged as Step Toward Peaceful Solution To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It was said by the British statesman Edmund Burke that " magnanimity in politics is not seldom the truest wisdom . " And to this might be added , in this day of ill-tempered speech and caustic criticism of opposing peoples , that othergreat virtue , a twin virtue ? forbearance . With a " cold war " that originated with talk really between erstwhile friendly nations , allies in two world wars  --  why not at least make a serious effort , and continue such effort , to end this war with talk ? In expressing this desire it is realized that there have been and continue to be great obstacles in our attempts at friendly relations with Russia , and that the leaders of that people are engaged in attempts to spread the ideology of communism , and its influence , to all parts of the world . But it must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dealt with , is a great power . Since we must deal with this people either before or at the end of an armed conflict , why not exhaust now , at this critical time , all means of negotiations , all a tenues that might lead to peace , forgetting much that has been said by both sides and using acceptable methods of diplomacy and-the great , virtue of forbearance . Why not bring in the true workings of diplomacy , its healing processes , its elemental patience , and use these in our relations with various problems affecting the peace in areas of the world where conflicts are either at hand or in prospect ? Why not now , not at some indeterminate time in ? the future , recognize the present Government in charge of the mainland of China , call it the Communist China Government , or what not , rather than dally with the utter improbability , the impossibility , of ever re-establishing the so-called Nationalist Government , now with only a tenuous foothold on diminutive Formosa ? Why decline now to do something that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the traditional friendship of the Chinese people ? And who has any serious apprehension that the 400,000,000 people of China will ever come under the actual control of , Russia or of any other country ? Prime Minister Nehru tendered his good offices of mediation , and these should have been , and should now be , accepted . Lastly , let us hope for more moderation of expression and less caustic criticism of Russia and its leaders from those in authority in Washington , at Lake Success , at meetings and gatherings such as given recently to the United Nations delegates , and in turn expect more forthrightness and less captiousness from the renresentativea of Russia . KELLY KASH . Lexington . Ky. , Sept. 28 , 1950 . Entry to Library Branches To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Harold A. Littledale 's letter relative to easy entrance for the disabled to the new branch of the Public Library has come to my attention . I am happy to report that entrances flush with the sidewalk will be arranged for the new Donnell Building on West Fifty-third @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we are planning the entrances come flush with the sidewalk wherever it can be arranged . EST HER , TO NSTO ST , Chief of Circulation Department , New York Public Library . New York , Oct. 6 , 1950 . Those Musical Horns To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Werner Feilchenfeld , in a letter to the editor , printed in THE NEW YORIC TIMES of Oct. 4 , suggests a possibly practical signal for emergency cars . But , alas , what about the musical accuracy of his proposition ? The tune D ? H ? D ? G ( or D ? G ? D ? H ) is not in D major , as Mr. Feilchenfeld says , but it is the chord of G major . Please ask your Musical Department , lest a musician who expects D major ignores the G major signal and stumbles into the emergency car . MAX LION . New York , Oct. 4 , 1950.                     