@@718404

txt Letters to The Times Human Rights Safeguards Acts of Inhumanity by Soviet and Egypt Are Charged To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : One clear fact emerges from the conflicts in the Near East and Hungary  --  namely , the disrespect for human values . Whatever the justification of the application of force in one of the theaters of conflict might be ( and I tend to believe that in Hungary there was no justification at all ) , we could agree on one ineradicable premise : basic human rights protecting the individual , bystander or participant are violated . That is true regarding the courageous Hungarian people who are embroiled in a continuous struggle for their liberty and pursuit of happiness . The same applies to the alien and Jewish population of Egypt . Those of us who for years have prodded the responsible statesmen to create safeguards against any possible repetition of the gruesome happerings under the Hitler regime against the civilian population in a given area of conflict must be disheartened to learn of deportations of Hungarian youth and of Egyptian Jews @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the latter , if we can believe the words of an Egyptian spokesman , into the Sinai Desert . That all these acts of inhumanity perpetrated by the Kremlin , its puppet in Budapest and its related dictator ' in Cairo violate the very principles of the United Nations , to whom the same powers turn on other aspects of the prevailing controversy , is only proof beyond the shadow of a doubt that these two dictatorships use democratic concepts only ( as Hitler did abundantly ) when it serves their selfish purposes . Principles Violated Maltreatment of Hungarians by Russia and the Egyptian dictatorship action against aliens ( British , French citizens ) , stateless and Egyptian Jews , violate the Nuremberg principles outlawing crimes against humanity . The General Assembly of the United Nations ( inchiding ? Egypt ) committed itself to these principles . Furthermore , important sections of the Human Rights Declaration of 1948 are violated . It may be argued that the Human Rights Declaration is only an expression of intention , not yet a firm obligation . But this can not be said of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Time of War which the Soviet Union as well as Egypt signed and ratified . The preamble of this new Geneva Convention , taking into consideration the experiences of the Hitler period , prohibits very clearly the taking of hostages . Soviet Russia and Egypt both violated this solemn pronouncement and legal commitment . There is no doubt that the Geneva Convention of 1949 covers the whole population regardless of citizenship , since Article II clearly states that the provisions " cover the whole of the population of the countries in conflict irrespective of race , nationality , religion , political opinions or any other distinctions based on similar criteria , and are intended to attenuate the sufferings by war . " In the case of Hungary it can not he denied that a warlike conflict exists , with which the United Nations , unfortunately , was unable to deal in the proper manner . Ins trinnent ' s Scope The Convention to Protect Civilians in Time of War is an all-embracing instrument , which leaves their violators small loopholes indeed . There is , for instance , according to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who at a given moment , and in whatever manner , find themselves in the case of a conflict or occupation in the hands of a power of which they are not nationals . " ' That covers the relationship of the Hungarian people to the occupying forces , and in the case of Egypt , the other violator of human rights , to all aliens , including stateless persons , and , according to Article II , also to Egyptian Jews , against whom Nasser sees fit to take vengeance on account of a conflict of his country with Israel . The preamble of the Geneva Convention commits the contracting powers " to respect the principles of human rights which constitute the safeguard of civilization . " The Russian and Egyptian dictatorships have both grossly violated these principles by expulsion , by deportation , by taking hostages . It is our duty not only to raise our voice , but demand the action of the civilized world against this new dictatorial brutality , which we had hoped to he a matter of the past . KURT R. GROSSMANN , Kew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commodity that will burn If exposed to fire and draft long enough . To label sisal " flammable " and to create the impression that it is susceptible to burning or exploding as , say , benzine or gasoline , shows ignorance of the nature of the fiber . Especially is this so in the case of baled sisal , which in its highly compressed state would probably no more than char if a torch were applied to it . The . precautions one should take with bailed sisal on a waterfront pier should be no different.than the prudence exercised with a library of books . Certainly both will burn if , exposed to fire long enough , but to call them flammable in the sense that a spark would ignite them or that they would explode is preposterous . SINION LIPP &; Secretary , Hard Fibres Association . New York , Dec. 7 , 1956 . To Join Baghdad Powers Formal Adherence of United State ' , to Pact Considered Right Policy To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Last week in a leading article you posed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alliance " of the United States with the Baghdad Pact powers would help mattes and suggested that this merited , study and judgment . The inference to be drawn from recent events in the Middle East and from the important affirmation of the United States Government of collective action in those vital regions for common ends is not " whether " but " when " the alliance should be formalized . Let me adduce some of the cogent reasons to justify the contention that it should be done now . The Baghdad Pact , or METO , an instrument of common policy and defense within the Charter of the United Nations , embracing the alliance with the Western World of the four Moslem countries  --  Iran , Turkey , Iraq and Pakistan , with a total population of 130 million  --  has established stability and tranquillity in a vast area of the Middle East , ano has filled a dangerous vacuum .. From this stability has emerged regional peace ; this in turn has con- ; tributed , in no small measure , to tile peace of the world . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by their voices and votes in. the United Nations , but by their wise deliberations and action in Teheran and Baghdad , manifested their dedicai tion to the Charter . Aims of METO METO has served the immediate needs as well as long-term planning of the four Middle Eastern countries , and by concerted action and vigi. lance is trying to uproot subversion and infiltration , misdirection of nationalism to unhealthy channels , incitement to lawlessness and dis . order , accentuation of internal troubles , exploitation of group grievances , distraction of public attention from social reforms and last but not least the malicious representatithi of the Western World as a menace . to world peace . It has acted as a deterrent to till spread of communism which threatens not only the whole of the Middle East , but schemes to turn the flanks of NATO and SEATO . It would be fatal to concentrate on slamming the Southeast Asian and ' Western European doors , if the Perso-Turkish door is left unlatchr:4 and the windows unlocked . The Middle East is the greatest ? . single strategic-economic factor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy of Western Europe would perish . By the same token , were the resources of the Middle East isolated from the markets of the West , the vital . rehabilitation and social reform schemes for which the peoples of , the Middle East have patiently wait : , ed for centuries would gradually meet with calamitous recession anci eventually come to grief . The United States , striving for world peace , is desirous to see the Middle East stable , tranquil and prosperous , friendly to the West and proof against the various forms of subversion and the sleight-of-hand of Crimunist penetration . All these conditions render METO a , natural pivot for United States policy . Because of these enduring interests the formal adherence of the United States to the Baghdad Pact would he the right policy , adopted for the right cause , applied by the right method , within the context of the time . The pernicious propaganda that . the magic wand of United States friendship and alliance with the Near and Middle East is merely broken reed must not be allowed to gain ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Iranian Information Center . New York , Dec. 4 , 1956.                     