@@712693

txt Some North Western commuters took a ride yesterday on a new self-propelled rail diesel passenger car . Most of them liked it just fine . Many said they thought the North Western railway would get a lot more customers if it had more such cars . The car made two . round trips out of North Western station . The first was to Kenosha and back . On the return trip the car got pretty crowded as it picked up riders in the north shore suburbs . There were 185 persons with seats for only 90 wheh the car reached the station . Fast , Comfortable Ride On the other trip , to West Chicago , however , there were plenty of seats for everyone both ways . They got a fast ride , a comfortable one , and they hit the stations exactly on schedule  --  something of a rarity , some commuters seemed to think . The new car , manufactured by The Budd company , builders of streamlined trains , is sealed  --  no dust , no smoke , no cinders . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ structure weighs only 21,000 pounds . Because it is light it accelerates rapidly , ? from a standing start to 70 miles an hour in less than three minutes . New Type Brakes Used . The brakes are a new type disk design with velvety smooth action so gentle that even standers could keep their balance without a struggle as the car slowed for a station . ' If necessary the engineer could stop the car traveling 78 miles an hour in 1,250 feet . The fast stops and starts made it necessary for H. T. Hitchcock , general road foreman of engineers , who took the controls on the West Chicago run , to waste a little time at each station so he could keep the schedule . John W. Leedle , a retired attorney who has been commuting from West Chicago to the loop for 30 years , echoed the opinion of most riders when he said it was the best ride he ever had on a commuter train and just about as good as he could expect on a main line streamliner . Car Lacks Capacity L. B. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the car was good , but it would n't have capacity to handle rush hour loads . It might be useful for off-peak commuter and branch line service , he said , but the real solution to the commuter 's problem still remains to be found . The car will remain in experimental service here the rest of this week . North Westerr officials said they may buy three of them if the tests yield favorable results . The cars can be coupled together Ito form trains .                     