@@714211

txt WASHINGTON , Oct. ** National Production Authority ruled tentatively today that the automobile industry could turn ) ut 950,000 cars in the first three months of next year  --  a reduc'tion of 13.7 per cent from present production but an increase over the 800,000 units  --  and 27.3% cut  --  originally allotted . Automobile production in the current final quarter of 1951 is limited to about 1,100,000 , which is approximately 60 per cent of the level prevailing before the outbreak of the Korean war . The curtailments are achieved through cutting allotments of steel to the automobile manufacturers . The new action represents an increase of 15.8 per cent over the original allocation . In other aspects of the metal control program today : 1 . Representatives of the iron and steel industry , meeting with defense production leaders , urged " more realism " in the Government 's appraisal of steel requirements and warned that possible work stoppages while new union contracts were being negotiated next year could cost the nation " millions of tons of steel . " 2 . The National Production Authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were generally adequate to meet the needs of the 50,000,000 passenger cars and trucks now on the road . 3 . The National Education Association issued a strong protest against curtailment of school construction because of the lack of steel priorities for such projects . The action in permitting the building of 150,000 more automobiles than originally planned followed heavy pressure from both the United Automobile Workers , C. I. 0. , and from major manufacturers of passenger cars . The producers had complained that the supply of alloy steel allotted to them was sufficient to make more cars than the 200,000-unit slash provided . The auto workers union also had sent a telegram to President // Truman asking for an increase in the permitted number of units on the ground that Detroit already was listed among the twenty-two cities suffering from " substantial " unemployment . ' At the same time , industry representatives headed by Benjamin F. Fairless , head of the United States Steel Corporation , were conferring with Charles E. Wilson , director of the Office of Defense Mobilization , and Manly Fleischmann , Defense Production Administrator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ December had outstripped price advances made at that time and urged that future adjustments in selling prices reflect fully all elements of cost , including goods and services purchased by steel companies , as well as any wage and salary rises . On the question of work stoppages , the group told the defense production leaders that " one of the clouds on the production horizon in 1952 is involved in the year-end negotiations with the United Steelworkers of America , C. I. 0. , when labor contracts with substantially all major steel producers will be opened . " " Any prolonged work stoppage would cost the nation millions of tons of steel , " the group said , " far more than can be secured in 1952 by getting additional scrap , better raw materials and production from new facilities and improved processes combined . " Therefore it is of the utmost importance that Government , management and labor exert their best efforts to prevent work stoppages and slowdowns and assure full utilization of the industry 's present and future capacity . Intelligent handling of this matter by all concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Steel Leaders in Bitter Mood The steel men complained bitterly that what they called unrealistic demands accepted by the Defense Production Administration and the National Production Authority and later whittled down to conform to actual production possibilities served to put the steel industry in a bad light . " It is the opinion of this group that the fourth quarter stated requirement of approximately 29 , - 000,000 tons of carbon steel is completely beyond the ability of the economy to consume , fabricate or utilize , " the committee said . " The extent of inflation in the present stated requirement is such that a truly great accomplishment by the American steel industry for the defense mobilization program is today unjustly represented to the public as a failure . " The committee announced that the steel industry would name a small group of specialists to come to Washington to work with the Defense Production Administration Dn practical aspects of steel proiuction and allocation . They urged examining the status of construction projects to prevent the delivery of steel in advance of actual requirements of either military or civilian needs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controlledmaterials plan , under which the National Prdouction Authority-has governed the distribution of steel , copper and aluminum since July 1 , urged that the controls be dropped so far as steel was concerned . Spokesmen said such controls were unnecessary , Plea for Allocation of Scrap Mr. Wilson , head of the defense mobilizatibn effort , was urged by the committee to designate some one official whose responsibility would be to see that scrap metal in the hands of Government agencies and of private industry flowed to steel mills where it was vitally needed if production was to be expanded . The National Production Authority said today that representatives of the replacement parts industry reported yesterday that their big problem at the moment was to find mills and foundries able to accept the authorized allotments of controlled materials . Industry spokesmen estimated that up to 30 per cent of the allotments issued by the , agency to parts manufacturers for the fourth quarter had not yet " found a home " with the steel mills . The mills report uniformly that their fourthquarter order boards are already filled , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee of the National Education Association said in its statement that 731 school construction projects had been halted , and that 800 new projects could not be started in this quarter because of the lack of steel priorities . The statement wag timed in advance of the regular announcement of steel priorities for schools for the first quarter of next year . The tentative steel allocation by the National Production Authority to schools for the first three months of 1952 is , 81,00Q tons , . as compared with 104,000 tons for the present quarter . C .. Lloyd Miller , president of the association , called this - policy " extremely short-sighted . " The executive committee 's statement reviewed the long-standing school shortage , then said that the increased birth rate alone would bring more- than 5,000,000 additional children into the schools eight years from now for which 200,000 new class rooms would have to be constructed .                     