@@714495

txt CHURCHILL ASSERTS HE HELD TO PLEDGES OF LABOR ON KOREA Cites Secret Attlee - Morrison Commitments Vowing Action in ' Event of Wider War CENSURE MOVE DEFEATED House Turns Down Opposition Motion by 318 to 285 After Bitter Policy Debate By RAYMOND DANIELL Special to Tax NEW Yop .. x Tuts.s . LONDON , Feb. ** Minister Churchill asserted in the House of Commons today that in promising that Britain 's reaction to any breach of a truce in Korea would be " prompt , resohite and effective , " he was merely giving voice in public to secret commitments made to the United States by former Prime Minister Clement Attlee and Herbert Morrison , former Foreign Secretary , during the life of the Labor Government . Thus did he seek to confound his critics who had accused him of speaking with one voice before Congress and another before the House of Commons . He charged that the resolution censuring him for not making clear to the United States Britain 's abhorrence of the idea of war with China was merely a petty maneuver in the struggle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the more moderate followers of Mr. Attlee and Mr. Morrison , with the trade unions behind them . The Labor party motion , by censuring Mr. Churchill and implicitly praising Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden , may have been designed in part with the idea of driving a wedge between these two Conservative party leaders . It was defeated by a margin of 33 . The vote was 318 to 285 . Outcome Never in Doubt On this occasion the outcome never was in doubt and what was said on both sides of the House was of greater moment than the final tally . The theme of the Prime Minister 's retort to those who charged that he gave away too much and obtained too little on his recent visit to Washington was basically ' that the Labor party , under its ' present leadership , could not stand apart from existing commitments about China regardless of how much its Left-Wing dissidents might disapprove of them and wish they never had been made . The debate showed that Mr. // Churchill still retained his old supremacy as a parliamentarian and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Morrison and Mr. Attlee ' stunned the Opposition and stung ' it into charges that he had transgressed constitutional propriety and established a doubtful precedent . That he had disconcerted the party leaders , who sponsored the motion censuring him for implying that Britain was prepared to go further than Labor 's Left-Wing approves in retaliating against Communist China , was obvious from the reaction among the members of the Opposition . Now the Opposition will have to fight it out among themselves to decide which group among them  --  those who held power and exercised responsibility , or those who chose the role of critics of that policy  --  shall predominate in the party councils . Mr. Churchill 's words to the House today may well have been as disappointing to an American audience as they were reassuring to the British . Nevertheless , he managed to show ? that while , he might have spoken with different emphasis on different sides of the Atlantic be was not speaking with two voices . His statements in Washington and in London on Britain 's Far Eastern policy , he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Labor Government and , in some respects , he said , it might be asserted that " we did not commit ourselves even as far as they had done . " He was just as opposed as he ever had been , Mr. Churchill said , to any action that would involve Britain or her Allies in a war with China . From this stand , he said , he never had departed " in any way , either publicly or privately . " Nevertheless , he asserted , as long ago as last May Mr. Morrison had assured the United States that if the United Nations forces in Korea were subjected to ? heavy bombing from bases in China the British Government " would associate themselves with action not confined to Korea . " Quotes Morrison Pledge Furthermore , Mr. Churchill continued , last September , when the Labor party still ruled Britain , Mr. Morrison , with Mr. Attlee 's approval , agreed that if the Korean truce talks broke down and largescale fighting was resumed , " certain action should be taken of a more limited character . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not at that time insist upon prior consultation . When Mr. Churchill made these revelations Aneurin Bevan and other Left-Wing members of the Opposition demanded that Mr. Churchill lay the documents from which he was quoting before the House . The Prime Minister said that he was not quoting but summarizing and the Deputy Speaker ruled that he was under no obligation to present the documents to the House . Obviously , the documents would provide Mr. Bevan and his followers with valuable ammunition in their current efforts to seize the party leadership . Even the reference to them by the Prime Minister moved Mr. Morrison to a wrathful expression of indignation . It was " unusual and doubtful in taste and constitutional propriety , " he said , " to delve into the papers of a predecessor " in office . It was very clear from Mr. Churchill 's words that , wishful thinking in the United%States to the contrary , Mr. Churchill has not moved his country one inch closer to American policy in the Far East than his predecessors of the Labor Government . : We adhere to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Korean conflict and the relations between Great Britain and China , " he said . " It is not true to say that I in any way- departed from this position . There is no truth in the suggestion that any private arrangements were made or an3 change of policy - agreed to , forma or informal , actual or implied , b3 me ? or the Foreign Secretary . The resumption of the debate or foreign policy , interrupted last Feb. 6 by the death of King George VI , was the occasion for verba fireworks in the House of Corn ? mons . It marked th , e resumption of bitter party strife and the open . ing of a new phase in the struggle between the moderate and the extreme radicals in the Labor party for the leadership , now shared by Mr. Attlee and Mr. Morrison . It might be that the Conservatives would not sorrow much if Mr. Bevan succeeded Mr. Attlee as party leader for , alien as his ideas are to them , there are many who believe that socialism with Mr. Bevan as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supporters . In moving the Opposition motion of censure against the Prime Minister , Mr. Morrison accused John Foster Dulles , foreign policy adviser to the State Department , of violating an agreement made with him at the time of the Japanese treaty negotiations last summer to let Japan decide for herself what her future relations with China should be after regaining full sovereignty . Despite this agreement , Mr. Morrison said , it was apparent that before the treaty was ratified United States pressure was brought to bear on the Japanese Government " to commit themselves in advance to recognition of Chiang Kai-shek 's Administration . A great deal was said by the Opposition , especially Mr. Bevan , about recent statements by such American officers as Mr. Dulles in support of carrying the war to China and undermining the regime of Mao Tze-tung . Mr. Bevan said that Mr. Dulles and others like him had translated the resistance to aggression in Korea to a war against communism , as such , and he demanded to know whether Mr. Churchill regarded that aim as part of Britain 's policy too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Churchill replied . Nevertheless Mr. Bevan went on that behind the guise of the United Nations an ideological war was being waged with weapons against the Soviet Union . and he voiced a warning to " our American friends Ithat not one British soldier , sailor or airman will risk his life behind a policy of that kind . " His words aroused loud cheers from . the Labor benches . It was unthinkable , Mr. Bevan said , that the Chinese Government would accept a truce in Korea while it was being told that the United States was actively promoting the resumption of civil war on the Chinese mainland .                     