@@718471

txt To THE EDITOR OF THENEW YORK TIMES : In an editorial on Jan. 7 The New York Times commented on the disposition of holders of " E " savings bonds to cash them or fail to buy them in adequate quantities . Undoubtedly many are influenced by the fact that bonds purchased at the height of the war are worth only two-thirds as much in purchasing power today as in 1914 . Had these savers purchased common stock they would have on the average experienced a gain of about 260 per cent ( inclusive of higher yields on stocks ) . Hence their position in current dollars deteriorated by more than 60 per cent relative to the fortunate purchasers of common stocks . What is surprising is their tenacity and patriotism in holding on to these bonds . The question may be raised whether purchasers of " E " bonds have been treated fairly . Indeed , in 1952 the Government increased the yield from 2.9 to 3 per cent . But this was little compensation for the continued rise of prices . The higher-yielding securities on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Is the small investor getting a fair deal ? I would say no , even admitting , as The Times suggests , that anti-inflation policy is helping him . He should get more than the 3.44 per cent yielded by the 1972 marketable bonds on his ten-year nonmarketable bond . SEYMOUR E. HARRIS . Cambridge , Mass. , Jan. 8 , 1957 . Cypriote Underground Aid Denied To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TLUES : There have been reports in your newspaper and elsewhere that E. 0 . K. A. , the militant Cypriote underground organization , was ' armed and financed by Greece . " These charges , however , have in no way been substantiated , and even the explanatory memorandum submitted by the United Kingdom in support of their accusations is singularly and significantly lacking in evidence of any kind . Is it not , therefore , treading on somewhat slippery ground ? to endorse such unproved allegations ? And would it not have been wiser to suspend final judgment until the United Nations had a chance to discuss the whole problem and to decide on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the British charge , which is going to be fully elucidated in the forthcoming debate before the General Assembly , not only have the Greek Government in no way abetted violence in Cyprus , but they have always most scrupulously abstained from any such practice . Of course , the Greek Government have sponsored the appeal of the Cypriotes to the U. N. , which is entirely in keeping with the Charter , and which could otherwise not have come un for discussion at all . GEORGE V. MELAS , Ambassador of Greece . Washington , Jan. 5 , 1957 . Planning for the Future To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : What we need today is not only a new political party with a somewhat different platform , but rather an entirely new basic program of living ? something as fresh and radical as the system established by our Declaration of Independence and our original Constitution . We need a broad , new , practical program to work for  --  something to which we , likewise , can pledge " our lives , our fortunes and our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " against " this and that  --  to improvise policy when something unexpected happens  --  nor to drift along , accepting a choice of evils . Instead we should have a comprehensive practical program covering all phases of our modern life . We should vision and paint the picture of a modern Promised Land , and find the men and women to lead us there . The world , outside of communism , has come to realize the importance and the necessity of the appe.mtion of basic Christian principles to our home lives , and to all our social , political , economic and international affairs . Today we are unanimously in favor of brotherly love , tolerance , decency and charity . So what can we do about it ? How can we set up our daily living , our home , business , community , national and international affairs in keeping with our basic spiritual desires ? Our current definition of Utopia is vague and our machinery for getting there outworn and outmoded . Who can guide us ? Perhaps planning a new world and a new way of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so let 's enlist a group , to construct it for us . Let 's arrange a symposium to formulate the world we want . Let 's gather a group of experts in each of a dozen different fields  --  religion , politics , economics , education , arts and culture , etc . The first step toward a better world to live in is a specific definition of all we want it to be . Next , a practical program to achieve it , with specific objectives we can subscribe to and fight for . HAROLD D. MENKeet . Upperville , Va. , Jan. 5 , 1957 . To Maintain a U. N. Force United States Contribution on Basis of Defense Budget Proposed The icritcr of the following letter is director of the Cooperative League . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORE:TIMES : We are delighted that the United Nations has moved forward with the creation of a special police force for use in the crisis situation in the Middle East . We strongly urge that this be made a permanent force . May we suggest a tangible formula @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creation of an adequate force on a permanent basis . States would recommend to other nations that they make similar contributions based on the size of their existing defense forces . Reduction in Defense Budget Such a contribution on the part of the United States would reduce our defense budget by only 1 per cent , leaving 99 per cent of the expenditures in our own defense budge et . The creation of an effective United Nations police force would relieve tensions and cut the need for our own defense operations by , at least 1 per cent , probably more . During the Middle East crisis the United Nations agreed that the forces making up the United Nations police force should come from the smaller nations so that there would be no danger of control of the police force by an overstaffing by the major powers . If this policy is continued , and it might well be , the larger nations should make financial contributions which would make it possible to pay the costs of such a police force . We feel sure that a contribution of this kind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support from other ' Countries and that the psychological effect of such a move would he very great indeed . If the United States contribution of 1 per cent of its defense budget meets with satisfactory response , the United States could increase its contribution to 2 per cent the following year , and increase it gradually over the next few years , decreasing the size of our own defense hnriffet by an eaual amount . WALLACE J. CAMPBELL , Washington , Jan. 8 , 1957 . Middle East Definition Asked TO THE EDITOR OF THENEW YORK TIMES : Your distinguished newspaper could render a public service by calling for some clarifying definition of the term Middle East . Forty years ago it was understood to sig ? nify the region of Persia and Afghanistan : the great area lying bed tween Ottoman Mesopotamia and India . From the Caspian and the plains of Turkestan it spreads south to the Persian Gulf and Arabian Sea . A dispatch from Washington in The Times of Jan. 8 states that President Eisenhowe : ' s special aid program for the Middle East may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration contains no definition of the Middle East , but merely proposes that the President be authorized " to cooperate with and assist any nation or group of nations in the gen ? eral area of the Middle East . " If the Middle East is an elastic term , how much more so does it become when the words " general area " are added . Surely the Congress and the public ought to know the names of the countries to which the proposed benefactions are to be directed . Ross J. S. HOFFMAN .                     