@@714524

txt Voters of New Hampshire tomorrow will mark ballots in the nation 's first Presidential preference primary of the 1952 Campaign , They will vote not only for candidates for delegates . to the national conventions ; . but ; . , also to expremi , their*Sisiencie for candidates-seeking the Presidential nomination of their parties . By far the most optimistic of all the camps of Presidential possibilities on the eve of the test was that of Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio . His state campaign manager , F. B. ( Ted ) Johnston , predicted that the Senator would win the Republican Presidential poll by 5,000 votesa and that he would take six of the fourteen delegates . Mr. Taft has said that he would be happy with four . The nation was looking eagerly ' to this New England state that is small in electoral vote and convention influence for a clue as to the possible outcome of the 1952 Presidential races . Supporters of General of the Army Dwight DT Eisenhower , staging an eleventh-hour attack on Mr. Taft 's voting record on foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough of his head start to have an edge in the preferential . They also expected the prominence of their delegate candidates to give them a wider margin in the balloting for delegates . They declined to make definite estimates . Emmet J. Kelley , Democratic National Committeeman , expressed confidence that President Truman would win 70 per cent of the preferential vote and all twelve of the delegates . Backers of Senator Estes Kefauver of Tennessee were making no bold predictions about his chances , Ibut they felt that his personal appearances and the failure of Mr. Truman to campaign in the state gave them a good chance of embarrassing the President in the popularity test . " Will Not Identify " We " Harold E. Stassen , former Governor of Minnesota and now on leave as president of the University of Pennsylvania , told a press conference in Concord today that in succeeding primaries " we " would continue the strategy of bringing up Mr. Taft 's voting record on foreign policy . Mr. Stassen , who hopes to place himself in a position where he might become a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican national convention in Chicago July 7 , mentioned the primaries in Minnesota , March 18 ; Wisconsin April 1 , and Illinois April 8 . Although he declined to identify whom he meant by " we , " Mr. Stassen 's remarks were interpreted as meaning that he , at least tacitly , had joined with the Eisenhower forces in a stop-Taft movement . He did not deny this . Four years ago , Mr. Stassen won two of the state 's then six delegates when he campaigned against Gov . Thomas E. Dewey of New York . Mr. Dewey did not enter the state . This time Mr. Stassen seeks only preferential votes . No delegate candidates are committed to him . On the other hand , General of the Army Douglas , who declined to enter the preferential phase , has a full slate of delegates , listed as favorable to his nomination on the Republican ballot . Under the law , he could refuse to run in the preferential , but he had no choice in the delegate contest so long as the candidates did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ required his written permission . General Eisenhower , Mr. Taft , Mr. Stassen and William R. Schneider , a St. Louis lawyer , are listed in the Republican preferential test . Mr. Taft also has a full slate of delegates listed as favorable to him . Write-in Drive Pushed Backers of General have undertaken , through newspaper advertisements and by radio , to start a late campaign to induce voters to write in his name in the preferential test . Blank space is provided for a write-in vote . In addition , another late move- , ment sought write-in votes for Senator Styles Bridges of New Hampshire as Republican nominee for Vice P.resident . No names were entered officially on either party 's list for that office although there are blanks on the ballot . Both Mr. Truman and Mr. Kefauver seek preferential votes as well as delegates . Although the President once dismissed the New Hai pshire primary as " eyewash , " , twenty-two delegate candidates are listed as favorable to his nomination . Twelve are to be chosen . Actually , six of Mr. Kefauver 's twelve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be listed on the ballot in the delegate contest . Former Postmaster-General James A. Farley will be represented by seven delegate candidates . Single delegates each are listed as favorable to Gov . Adlai E. Stevenson of Illinois and to Mayor Josaphat T. Benoit of Manchester . As -a result of these listings , the ballots this year will be New Hampshire 's most complicated . The Republican candidates for delegates at large total thirtythree , of whom ten are to be chosen . Those running as favorable to a candidate will have that information listed in small type beneath their names . Thirty-four Democrats are listed in the contest for eight places as delegates at large . At the national convention , these eight each will have one-half vote . Each of the ' four district delegates will have full votes . The fourteen Republican delegates to be chosen will have full votes . While the delegates ' names were rotated on each 5,000 ballots , the candidates in the preferential poll were not rotated and were listed alphabetically . Mr. Taft and supporters of Mr. Truman protested the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaigning . the - snit failed to shine until today , when it peeped through the clouds in the early afternoein The weather bureau at Concord said the outlook for tomorrow was cloudy with rain , and with temperatures in the upper 30 's . Although main highways through the state are bare of snow , it is piled from two to twelve feet at the sides . Rain or snow would add greatly to travel hazards . For the voters in the state 's 223 towns , tomorrow also is town meeting day , when they will assemble to elect municipal officers , to adopt budgets and argue about municipal affairs . Of the twelve cities , only Berlin will hold a concurrent municipal election .                     