@@718119

txt Letters to The Times De Gaulle and the Left Record of Resistance to Communists ' Demands Recalled The writer of the following letter is Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame . He is the author of " A Study of Proportional Representation . " considers itself merely as tax collector for the state . Its foundation , at this time , is very unreal . It is my opinion that it seriously fails in the prevention of future damage and crime , precautionary powers which should be written into a reorganized structure of this most important licensing body FRANK GERSHAW . New York , Aug. 6 , 1956 , TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Cyrus L. Sulzberger , in his series entitled " The Age of Giants Is Over , " writes with his customary brilliance . He commits , however , a grave injustice when he says that General de Gaulle " * * awarded high - governmental positions* to Communists before deciding all too late that they must be banned from politics as Soviet collaborators . " Actually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , in November , 1945 , he resisted successfully the Communists ' demand for one or more of the key positions in the Cabinet then to be formed . It is due to this fact that the Communists , although then France 's largest political party , never secured control of the French Army , or of the Ministry of the Interior ( in charge of the police ) , or of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs . De Gaulle did cooperate with the Communists during the Resistance period , but not of his own volition . Roosevelt and Churchill suspected him , perhaps not unnaturally , of undemocratic tendencies . They brought pressure to hear on him demanding that he work with France 's old political parties . De Gaulle yielded ; his emissary in occupied France , Jean Moulin , was instructed to establish the necessary contacts . Influence Used The Communists , long accustomed to working underground , had become , of course , the strongest opposition force in occupied France ; under such circumstances they secured a disproportionate influence . They used it , in particular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political rejuvenation in the constitutional field . The major ' Resistance groups agreed that the defective institutions of the Third Republic had much to do with the latter 's instability : Young Michael 12tbre , now one of the most brilliant members of the Council of the Republic , was the author of the best known of several drafts of a new constitution . It was to have plugged the two ma- , jor holes in the dikes of the Third Republic : the Executive was to have an untrammeled right of parliamentary dissolution , and the system of voting providing for a second ballot without any restriction as to candidates was to be replaced by the plurality system . Debrd 's draft was accepted by the other Resistance ' groups but , all of a sudden , in early 1944 , vetoed by the Communists . The latter then developed what became their bluetprint for governments this side of the " Iron Curtain " : a " government by assembly " which minimized the opportunities for Executive leadership . It was supplemented by proportional representation , certain to maximize the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , to divide their opponents against one another . No Democratic Blueprints To THE EDITOR or THE Nsw YORK Tuns : The Eighty-fourth Congress adhered to an eighty-year-old tradition when it adjourned recently without enacting a single civil rights measure . Yet it did reflect to some extent the change in the civil rights climate brought about by the Supreme Court 's anti-segregation decisions of 1954 and 1955 . For the first time since 1950 a civil rights bill was brought to the floor for a vote . Action was forced also on the controversial proposal to add an anti-segregation provision to the pending bill for Federal aid for public school construction . Unfortunately , both votes came on the eve of adjournment , a year and a half after the opening of the Eightyfourth Congress and only a month before the impending political conventions . It was plain to all that the political implications of the votes far outweighed the legislative . The Southern bloc is the only one that came out of this Congress with any credit . They displayed sincerity , determination and skill . Above all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , little skill and no determination . It is apparent that they are still suffering under the delusion that they can keep the Democratic party together by compromise when , in fact , they achieve only surrender . Legislative Program The performance of the Republican leadership was deeply disturbing . One could respect , while disagreeing with , President Eisenhower 's apparently sincere belief that the civil rights problem can not be handled by legislation , particularly when his Administration made genuine though limited progress by Executive action . One can not respect an administration which , with four years to present a legislative program on civil rights , waits until April of the fourth year , knowing that no bill introduced at that late date has any chance of overcoming the filibuster and other Congressional procedural barriers . The Congressional phase of the political maneuvers on civil rights has now ended , The next phase will be played out at the national conventions . There , as in Congress , the civil rights struggle will be shaped by the inescapable fact that ten million Americans have been given a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jim Crow . The civil rights platform planks of both parties will , of course , give broad benedictions to the abstract concept of equality ; they will advocate at least a few legislative items . The strength of the civil rights forces in each party , however , will be measured by the firmness with which the platforms call for prompt carrying out of the Supreme Court 's decision . JOSEPH B , ROBISON , Staff Counsel , American Jewish Congress . New York , Aug. 9 , 1956 . Voting on Civil Rights Failure of Congress to Enact Anr , Measure Is Noted Roosevelt and Churchill were not to blame when they wanted to make sure that post-liberation France would be democratic . They were to blame for being without any idea as to what democracy meant in the concrete terms of constitutional government . The Communists had their plans of disruption ready ; there were no blueprints of democratic reconstruction to counter them . When Washington and London pushed de Gaulle toward collaboration with the old political parties they unwittingly provided the impetus for a Communist ' victory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fully , but which our policy-makers of that time ? as was made plain to those of us who tried to raise a voice of warning ? regarded as insignificant . Actually , a speech delivered on May 4 by Allen W. Dulles at the University of Pennsylvania Law Review dinner on " The Communist Attack on Parliamentary Government , " represents the first case of a leading Western official drawing attention to the importance of the sadly neglected subject of constitutional government in the cold war . That topic needs to be developed ; the lessons to be derived from it should become a major ingredient of the foreign policy conducted by the countries of the free world . FERDINAND A. HERMENS . South Bend , Ind. , Aug. 7 , 1956 . To Impfove Drivers ' Licenses To THE EDITOR OF THE Dim YORK TIMES : The time has come for a major overhaul of the method by which ownership and driving licenses are issued by New York State . Are there any precautions taken now to see to it that these licenses are issued in a foolproof manner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the years . A photograph of the applicant is required on a chauffeur 's license to drive . Why should n't the same be required on art operator 's license ? In fact , the state should require a duplicate picture for its own files ( the pictures are obtained cheaply enough ) . The right to own or drive a car is filled with enough responsibility to warrant the taking of fingerprints . There is too much damage to life and property , too much crime in which cars are involved to tolerate the antiquated methods by which licenses are now issued . As a matter of fact , the Motor Vehicle Bureau Student Exchange Program To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Aug. 1 marked the tenth anniversary of the signing of the Fulbright Act , one decade since the beginning of the largest international educational exchange program in our history . Since its inception over 5,500 American students have studied abroad under its auspices . It has provided travel funds for over 8,000 foreign students seeking advanced study in the United States . The Institute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the American graduate students going abroad on Fulbright funds and has assumed supervisory and other responsibilities for foreign students coming here on this program . From our experience we can state that the Fulbright Act is one of the most profitable investments ever authorized by the United States Congress , and has promoted greater people-to-people understanding ? in addition to contributing to the knowledge and skills of individual participants . KENNETH HOLLAND , President , Institute of International Education . New York , Aug. 2 , 1956.                     