@@718233

txt CAIRO ACTS TO CUT TRADE WITH WEST Virtual Boycott and Turning Toward East Are Reaction to Economic Squeeze , Special to The New York Times . CAIRO , Sept. ** declared today a policy of virtual trade boycott against the West and in favor of business with the East . The declaration was viewed 3s , a defensive one forced upon Egypt by the economic squeeze the West had imposed on her as a result of the Suez Canal crisis . Tonight , the Arab League 's Political Committee , meeting here , unanimously adopted resolutions supporting Egypt in the ! Suez crisis . It charged that any Western attempt to create a ' users ' association to run canal traffic was a violation of the United Nations Charter and a threat to world peace . The freezing of Egyptian sterling accounts in Britain and of other accounts in France and the restrictions on all but current dollar accounts in the United States have made it almost impossible for Egypt to buy anything for more than a month from her traditional Western markets . The Government of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to get around this economic squeeze . Although the Egyptians have found some new channels through some of their Arab allies , the chief result has been to drive Cairo deeper and deeper into dependence upon trade with the Soviet bloc . However , strong pressure is being applied to President Nas // ser by the Asians , especially the Indians , and by some Arab leaders to avoid . any rash action . Announcing the new policy on trade , Dr. Mohammed Abu Nous- , seir , Minister of Commerce , said Egypt ' would " restrict or ban " imports from countries that were " unfriendly " to Egypt . He added ? that Egypt , on the other hand , had recently issued import licenses for goods valued I at about ? 2,600,000 Egyptian ( about $7,500,000 ) " within the framework of Egypt 's new Por- ' eign-trade policy . " He did not say where these new purchases were made , However , reports in recent weeks have indicated that the bulk of trade contracts , mainly in industrial goods , has been made with Communist-bloc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Was announced yesterday that Egypt ' planned to reject tenders by Western contractors for new development projects " even if they . are the most.suitable ones . " The announcement said contracts for such projects would go in-. stead ' to " friendly " countries , Authorities cited specifically a proposed water-filtration plant in the north Cairo area and a sewage-disposal plant south of the city . No contractors from the United States apparently were involved . The newspaper Al . Ahram said the Czechoslovak and Soviet Embassies had offered to bring in the necessary equipment for Egypt 's development projects . Mission to Czechoslovakia Top members of the Egyptian National Production Council have left for Czechoslovakia , presumably in search of other capital goods ? needed to carry out the country 's industrialization program . In another development , the nine-nation Political Committee of the Arab League adjourned today . The Foreign Ministers and top diplomats of Egypt , Syria , Lebanon , Jordan , Iraq , Saudi Arabia , Yemen , Libya and the Sudan had held their second meeting since Aug. 12 to express Arab solidarity behind Egypt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the original meeting , they had adopted a resolution declaring that any attack on Egypt would be considered an attack on all other Arab states . At tonight 's meeting , a communiqu ? said , ? members agreed that the Suez crisis concerned all Arab states . Also today , the Egyptian For eign Office called in the envoys of all countries joining the Wettem Big Three tomorrow irthe second London conference on the Suez crisis . The purpose of the call was to make clear to the Governments of these countries Egypt 's emphatic rejection of the proposed canal users ' association . President Nasser talked privately with the Charg ? d'Affaires of the Pakistani Embassy , Dr. Vigar Hamdani . He gave the Pakistani envoy a letter to his Government . Its contents were not disclosed . It was noted , however , that in official statements and in the press , Egypt had shown con- , siderable bitterness about Pakistan 's support of the original Western proposal for setting up international control of the Suez ' Canal . . ? Another important meeting today was between V. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sabry , President Nasser 's chief political adviser . Mr. Krishna Menon arrived yesterday and held two long meetings with President Nasser . It was reported he had urged the Egyptian leader to adhere to a moderate stand . Nasser Reported Hopeful PRAGUE , Czechoslovakia , Sept. 18 ( Reuters ) ? President Nasser said in Cairo today that he considered it still possible to achieve " a ' workable solution " of the Suez Canal problem , the Czechoslovak news agency Ceteka reported .                     