@@714538

txt 1,400 Police Today Guard Truman , In City to Address 3,300 Students - Elaborate plans have been made to protect President Truman when he conies here today to address 3,300 student editors at a luncheon ' meeting in the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel . Fourteen hundred policemen and an unannounced number of Secret Service agents have been assigned to guard the President during the five hours he is expected to be in the city . Yesterday Mr. Truman flew from his winter vacation spot at Key West to Washington , where he was to spend the night . *If the weather continues good this morning he will fly here and he is expected at La Guardia Airport about 11 A. M. A motorcade wills take him to the Waldorf , where he will be escorted to a suite high in the Tower Apartments on the Fiftieth Street side between Park and Lexington Avenues . He is due at the hotel at 11:30 A. M. At noon he will be escorted to the Pillamont suite on the fourth floor , where he will meet the other guests who will sit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the final event of the twenty-eighth annual con ' vention of the Columbia Scholastic Press Association . This is an organization of editors and advisers of student publications issued by schools from the elementary to the junior college level . The young editors range from 8 to 20 years old . They come from more than thirty states and several foreign Countries . At 12:15 P. M. Mr. Truman will go to the Jansen suite , also on the fourth floor , where he will meet winners of the association 's annual awards . After this he will descend to the third floor by private elevator and will enter the grand ballroom at 12:55 P. M. The gathering he will address will be so large that only part of it can be accommodated in the grand ballroom and its two tiers of balconies . The rest will be seated in five adjoining rooms , where they will hear the President over a public address system . The meeting is said to be the largest gathering of editors in the world . Talk to Be Extemporaneous Luncheon will be served from 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opened by Joseph M. Murphy , director of the association and a member of the administra- , tive staff of Columbia University , ' sponsor of the association . The President will speak from 2:30 to 2:45 P. M. According to his press secretary , Joseph Short , the speech will be an extemporaneous talk on citizenship , but may not be limited to that subject . After finishing his speech , Mr. Truman will return to his suite in the Towers before leaving the hotel about 3.30 P. M. for La Guardia Airport . He is expected to take off by plane about 4 o'clock to return to Key West for another two weeks of vacation . Supervision of Security During the President 's visit here Police Commissioner George P. Monaghan and Chief Inspector Conrad Rothengast will personally direct the police assigned to La Guardia Airport , the Waldorf and the intervening streets . A. E. Whitaker , special agent in charge of the Secret Service office here , will be in charge of security at the airport and at the hotel . The police detail includes 1,000 foot patrolmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on seventy-five motor- ' cycles , according to Acting Capt . William Laurence of Police Headquarters . At La Guardia Airport , the marine terminal , where the President 's plane will land , will be closed and all movements of other planes and ground vehicles at that end of the field will be suspended between 10 and 11:30 A. M. and between 3 and 4:30 P. M. Special credentials have been issued for personnel at the airport and for press representatives assigned to cover the field and the hotel during the President 's visit . Departure From Key West When Mr. Truman boarded his plane at Key West just before noon yesterday , he impressed reporters as being less affable than usual . They did not try to get his reaction to his defeat by Senator Estes Kefauver of Tennesse in the New Hampshire Democratic primaries . The President was accompanied from Key West by Mr. Short , his press secretary ; Matthew J. Connelly , another secretary ; Donald Dawson , administrative assistant ; Charles S. Murphy , special counsel , and Rear Admiral Sidney Souers , consultant on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President flew to Washington in three hours and thirty-four minutes . When reporters asked about his plans he replied he was going to Blair House " to visit with my wife . " The only Cabinet member to meet him at the airport was Secretary of the Treasury John W. Snyder , who shook hands and rode with him to Blair House without stopping at the executive offices in the White House . The President was to spend the night at Blair House with his wife and his piling 89-year-old mother-in-law , Mrs. David W. Wallace .                     