@@713428

txt Thus , in a two-year period , the hourly-rated employes of the board have received a total annual increase of $900 to meet a rising cost of living , whereas the clerical and administrative emgiven $250 for the plows have been Ad same purpose . GEORGE W. HALL . Long Island City , N. Y. , Dec . T , 1950 . Federalizing ? Medicine Health Plan Envisaged as Inviting Malingering , Political Abuses To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I have practiced medicine for a longer time than Dr. Theodore Sanders , whose letter in THE TIMES of Nov. 23 criticized the opposition , to health insurance , and I can remind him that vastly greater numbers of families go into debt for automobiles than for medical expenses . A difference hi mental attitude and sense of values is being inculcated . The people are so eager to rush into debt for television sets and other luxuries that the Government must place restraints on credit buying , but they are being taught that investment in or sacrifices for health are an outrageous imposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broad justification of the term " hopelessly " in debt . There are provisions for charity cases and catastrophic illness . In general , the prevailing rates of pay provide for necessities , including medical care , and the American public is not hopelessly burdened by a medical bill approximately equal to its candy or theatre bill . Also , the best doctors habitually reduce fees in cases of hardship , and the doctor is likely to be the one who waits longest for payment , without interest or security . Yet he is the only one attacked and threatened with socialization . Furthermore , there is a misleading lumping together of medical fees and other costs  --  namely , those for ancillary services which have grown so enormously because of the continually increasing demand for them . Hospital Fees Assuming that an acutely ill patient requires three special nurses each twenty-four hours , and allowing reasonably for hospital accommodations , medicines and other incidentals , the total of about $50 a day is beyond average means . Less-intensive care during chronic illness becomes similarly overwhelming . Moreover , these charges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the allowances which doctors make for hardship , and they are the costs for which people may go " hopelessly " in debt . Nursing and other salaries and all the heavy upkeep of a modern hospital can not be reduced . Anybody who refuses to credit doctors with ' a humanitarian desire to ease this burden must at least perceive the poorer chance of collecting medical fees when others have taken all the money . There can be no question of the sincerity of the great mass of members of the American Medical Association who believe that the problem of unforeseen crushing costs upon individuals can best ' be solved by insurnce on a business basis , or of Dr. Sanders ' splinter group , who advocate a governmental system . And before the irretrievable sinking of our medical profession in the political mud it would be prudent to test governmental provision for the business part , the most onerous part of sickness expense  --  namely , hospitalization and nursing . Let some small district be chosen and provided with about five times the present quota of nurses and hospital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vacation with pay , any tired housewife who would enjoy a rest , with breakfast and perhaps other meals in bed , can exaggerate or invent illness to obtain this " free " boon , especially when the heavy payments in taxes or payroll deductions make them determined to get their money 's worth . If any doctor can find time to expose malingering he will get no thanks but only ill will , plus a frequent reversal of his judgment by a politician . System in England This is not imagination . This is the system which packs English hospitalF. so that dangerously ill persons can not find admission ; which overworks the doctors so that they can not diagnose or treat properly . It is the system which is bankrupting Australia . A slight foretaste of what politicians will do here is given in Washington , where they include luxurious medical care at an Army or Navy hospital as a perquisite on a par with free haircuts and restaurant meals , without any basis in law . Believers in socialism should go the whole way , as in England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , coal , steel , transportation and other gross industries than to take over the intimate relations between doctor and patient . If this specious campaign for Government entry into every home in the nation should succeed , every business man can be sure that his business will inevitably follow into the mortmain , because the enormous growth of bureaucratic power and costs will leave no other alternative . FREDERICK M. ALLEN , M. D. New York , Dec. 8 , 1950 . Transportation Department Salaries To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In the editorial captioned " The City 's No. 1 Problem , " appearing in your issue of Dec. 6 , you state : " On July 1 the employes of the Board of Transportation received a pay increase and improved working conditions under a two-year memorandum of understanding . " Unfortunately , the statement is not entirely true . There are approximately 2,500 clerical and administrative employes employed by the Board of Transportation . On July 1 , 1948 , when the hourlyrated employes of the board were given an increase amounting to $600 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ? In July of this year , when the hour ; Aggression in Our Time Application of Theory of Power to Defense of West Questioned To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : A recent letter appeared in THE NEW YORK TIMES written by Leopold Kohr , on the theory of aggression regarding the defense of INestern Europe . Professor Kohr believes that at least as a partial solution to the defense problem the French should reject the " national " theory  --  where aggressiveness is linked to the tradition and inherited characteristics of a nation in place of a theory of power  --  where the power of a nation alone determines whether or not it is aggressive . It is claimed that in this way France would understand that Germany is not inherently an aggressor , and therefore would allow the rearming of Germany for defense Of the West . The theory of power means , in other words , that only when a nation is strong enough does she become an aggressor , and when strength is lacking she is peace-loving . No one can easily dispute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but its application by Professor Rohr as a solution for Western defense is to the exclusion of other factors which play an important role . Professor Kohr overlooks absolutist ideology as a motivating force in twentieth-century war . Previously , nations were not driven to war through blind hatreds arising out of thorough indoctrination . Fascism and nazism in the Second World War ( and now communism ) are weapons which can have more power than an army . Today , doctrine is more powerful than ever before . The French fear the lingering of fanatical ideas in the German people . The German people are not inheritors of aggressiveness , I agree . But it does not follow that their fanatical ideology disappears once they lose in the struggle for power . Germany can be peaceloving diplomatically after being shorn , of power , but this does not mean that once armed she would turn her guns away from France . The French are aware of Professor Kohr 's suggested theory and understand that German power means aggression , perhaps in their direction . Certainly there is little possibility of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control . But Germany asserts that she will fight only if she is made practically independent . It is dubious whether Professor Kohr 's explanation to the Germans that we know they are ordinary people and not lovers of war would win Germany to the concept of defending Western democracy . Much more is needed . French statesmen are well acquainted with geopolitical theories . But application of political laws in everyday policy is worthless when other men continue to act irrationally . If the French statesmen were to lessen the importance of " figures " relating to past Franco-Germanic wars and consent to the strengthening of Germany , they might possibly be confronted with a massive loss of spirit on the home front which might prove fatal . This writer does not maintain that he has a better solution . It is simply that the present situation can not be explained away by substituting one theory for another and by addressing a few well-reasoned statements to the Germans . Much more is involved , as I have already indicated : Latent nazism , which we have reason to believe still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natural wealth , German bitterness with defeat , and many other factors . ROBERT DELEON . New York , Dec. 8 , 1950 . Photos of Communists Criticized To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I must voice my protest against your policy of showing Vishinsky and Malik as " such fine genial personalities " in the photographs you choose to use for your paper . You have not shown the same care in photos of our President . Whose side are you really on ? If on the side of the United States why do you aid the Soviet by such flattering propaganda ? For heaven 's sake choose the least flattering among their news photos or you will not be able to estimate the converts you may be the cause of making  --  for such fine men surely can not be so entirely wrong ! Save your love of beauty for Mr. Truman and our allies . ANN CALLAGHANLqng Beach , L. I. , Dec. 1 , 1950 . Charges of Appeasement TO ? THE EDIToH OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Of course , nobody wishes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but this is no excuse for those vociferous Americans who are branding as " appeasement " every proposal with which they disagree . In so doing they are imitating Moscow in substituting epithet for argument . Worse than this , they are helping Moscow by seeking to cut off the ratidnal thought and reasonable debate essential to guide our democracy in a crisis . ROBERT W. BYERLY . New York , Dec. 7 , 1950.                     