@@720634

txt If It Should Be a Long Strike The nation-wide steel strike , the sixth of its kind since World War II , entered its fourth week on . Wednesday with no evidence of an early end to the deadlock . It was common knowledge , of course , that the old contract between the industry and the steel workers ' union was due to expire on June 30 . The expiration date was subsequently put off an additional two weeks at the request of the President . That this would be an occasion for another shutdown of production by the major producers , moreover , was accepted as a strong possibility if not a probability by those familiar with the record of this strike-ridden industry . Users of steel acting on this assumption therefore started building up inventories early this year in anticipation of its July 1 deadline . According to the official figures of the American Steel Warehouse Association such stocks amounted to 3,700,000 tons the day the strike took effect in mid-July . This figure , which represents a tying-up of $750,000,000 , is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered by types of steel these inventories are in most cases well balanced with respect to potential demand . What this means in terms of the impact of the strike is that if the latter is of comparatively short duration it should be confined largely to the industry itself and its satellite activities such as the trains , trucks and barges that haul ore and steel products and the miners who dig coal used in the making of steel . It seems to be widely agreed that the effect will be confined to this area unless the strike should pass the sixty-day mark ( about five weeks from now ) and that it would have to run fairly close to ninety days before it would threaten a national crisis . Should the shutdown approach this longer duration its result could be extremely serious for the economy . This is particularly true in the present case because of the vulnerability of the economy by virtue of two special factors . The first of these is the fact that at the time the strike was called we were just emerging from the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy had regained all the ground lost in the 1957-58 period of contraction and was setting new all-time highs in such key areas as industrial production and employment . Widespread cutbacks in production and employment could , many fear , by breaking the continuity of this rise , conceivably break the back of the present incipient boom . The second is more of a long-term factor . Some persons are apprehensive about a trend of events that had been in progress for several months previous to the recent steel walkout and which they feel could become more widespread and more permanent as a consequence of the strike . This has been the recent invasion of the American market for steel by foreign producers accompanied by a falling off of American exports . Exports of steel-mill production for the first five months of 1959 totaled 850,000 tons , down 37 per cent from a year earlier . At the same time the imports rose by 224 per cent to a figure of 1,500,000 tons . This runs counter to all historical experience . A country 's buying habits are slow to change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restored . The danger that the strike poses is that it could have the effect of stimulating these changes in buying habits  --  to the lasting detriment of the industry and of those who depend upon it .                     