@@714904

txt LUXEMBOURG , Sept. 10 ? The first major move to end the legacy of bitterness between Germany and the Jews was consummated today when agreements were signed committing the Bonn Republic to pay $822,000,000 in compensation for Nazi anti-semitic deeds and to improve the machinery for restitution to individuals . That the Hitler-created heritage of hate can not be quickly dispelled evident vident in the stiff and selfconscious atmosphere as Chancellor Konrad Adenauer , Foreign Minister Moshe . Sharett of Israel and Dr. Nahum Goldmann , chairman of the presidium of twentyfour world Jewish organizations , penned their signatures to the series of accords . Scarcely a word was spoken as the German and Jewish representatives faced each other across a long table in Luxembourg 's City Hall in their first officially amicable ceremony in almost two decades . There was no public handshaking . Afterward , the three leaders withdrew to a small room for a private conversation during which Dr. Adenauer was underStood to have expressed his satisfaction at this German act of moral retribution . The formal Jewish attitude was voiced by Mr : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not mean " a healing of the wounds created by - the fearful Nazi massacres " they were of far reaching importance for Israel 's economy and had moral significance for the world as a precedent for voluntary reparation for the " spoilation of property . " " It is a momentous departure because the pledge was undertaken not under duress but hi obedience to a code of moral responsibility , " Mr. Sharett said . There was an evident anxiety // on all sides to have , the ceremony go off without a ? hitch . Some embarrassment was caused when Prof. Walter Hallstein , West German Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs , produced for the Jewish signatories the gold pen that had been used for the Allied Contractual Agreement with West Germany only for them to discover that it had run dry . The tension produced some strange results . In a ceremony within modest bounds  --  presumably to minimize reaction within both countries  --  only news agency correspondents were allowed to be present . They were summoned by prearranged 7 A. M. telephone calls to a secret @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the European coal and steel high authority and were then taken in automobiles to an unannounced destination , which was City Hall . It was an ending as bizarre as the beginning of the negotiations six months ago when , as is now acknowledged , a deliberate attempt was ? made to give the impression that the talks were to be held in Brussels whereas they were actually scheduled for a suburb of The Hague , the Netherlands . At a press conference today German and Israeli spokesmen gave " reasons of security " as the motivation for the precaution . Effect of Agreements The documents signed at 8:05 A. M. were a German ? treaty with Israel and two protocols with the Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany , representing the non-Israeli organizations . The treaty beard official red seals which the protocols lack because they are not engagements with a sovereign state . The effect of these documents , *hose texts were not immediately made public , is as follows : West Germany will provide 3,450,000,000 Deutsche marks ( $822,000,000 ) worth of goods and services to Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israel to cover the major share of the cost of absorbipg Nazicreated refugees and 480,000,000 marks are earmarked for the nonIsraeli organizations as a token payment for heirless and unclaimed Jewish assets in Germany , to be used for relief and rehabilitation of persecuted Jews now scattered throughout the world . Payments will begin after ratification by the German Bundestag ( Parliament ) and the Israeli Government . Parliamentary ratification is not required in Israel . Between then and March , 1954 , 400 , - 000,000 marks will be paid . Thereafter , payment will be at a rate of 310,000.000 marks annually which can be reduced to 250,000,000 marks if Bonn considers this necessary because of the economic situation . Thus the debt would be liquidated in twelve to fourteen years . May Seek U. S. Loan In addition , West Germany will seek a loan  --  presumably in the United States  --  for the specific purpose of paying off the final two installments in Cash rather than goods . If successful , this would shorten the timetable by two years . Israel will be able to select goods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have access to commodities in other European countries where the Bonn Republic has a trade surplus . Emphasis is placed on materials such as steel , machinery and equipment that will assist in the integration of refugees in Israel . The ' . schedules of commodities have already been set Or the initial . two-year period . Qne item is that ' West Germany will . pay for Israeli imports of about 1,3 ( 10,000 tons of oil from Britain . Arbitration procedures are pro.vided to settle unresolved disputes over such matters as defining a " catastrophe " that would justify the ' suspension of payments and the determination when quantities of goods would have - to be increased to offset rising ; prices or possible currency devaluation . In case of a failure to agree on arbiters , the International Court of Justice at The Hague would name an impartial umpire . A mixed Israeli-German commission.will supervise the implementation of the agreement and Israel will send a mission to West Germany to arrange the purchases and deliveries . The mission , expected to be headed by Dr. F. E. Shinnar ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rights and immunities usually accorded diplomats . irlowever , Israeli sources said it . was not likely that diplomatic - relations would be opened with the Bonn Republic for some time to come . Legislation to Be Improved The protocols , signed with the Claims Conference cover the 450 , - 000,000 mark payment and a commitment to enact within ten years specified improvements and an expansion of existing legislation for the restitution and indemnifieation of individual Jewish claimants . This accord is meant to clarify and supplement obligations already undertaken in the Contractual Agreement . West Germany agree4 among other things to expand restitution rights to cover , persons who do not meet current residence and time limit requirements . Priority will be given to persons more than 60 years of age , the needy , the ill and incapacitated . In an exchange of letters accompanying the Israeli agreement , Israel agrees to negotiate a settlement of the claim of the Templer Society , a religious group , and other Germans . whose property was seized during World War II by the ' British administration in what is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the German debt to Israel . Implementation Pact Signed The Government of Israel and the Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany signed an agreement here at 9 A. M. , yesterday , regulating the arrangements for the implementation of the agreements signed by West Germany with the State of Israel and the Conference . The agreement was signed at the Israeli Consulate , 11 East Seventieth Street , by Ambassador Abba S. Eban and Jacob Blaustein president of the American Jewish Committee ; Frank ' Goldman , president of . B'nai B'rith ; Dr. Israel Goldstein , president of , the American Jewish Congress , and Adolph Held , ' president ' of the Jewish Labor Committee , on behalf of the Conference Presidium . The New York - agreement was signed simultaneously with the , agreements signed in Luxembourg ' between West ' Germany and Israel and the . Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany . In affixing its , signature to the agreement with Israel , the Conference made the following statement on behalf of the presidium : " The signing of the agreements today in Luxembourg and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the joint effort of Israel and the Conference to obtain Germany 's recognition of its obligation to discharge Jewis material claims against Germany . Both the Government of Israeland the Jewish organizations throughout the world had long and jointly labored to rebuild the shattered lives of multitudes of Hitler 's victims and today 's agreement is in the United States , expressed " deepest satisfaction " at the agreement , and stated that " material means are often a way to express an attitude of mind and spirit . " The German Parliament has already expressed its horror of the ' crimes of.Hitler and his associates against the Jews , he noted , and he pledged . that " We can and must see to it that they never happen again . " Three hundred thousand Jewish victims of Nazi persecution will benefit from the agreements just concluded between the Conference on Material Claims Against Germany and the Bonn Government , Moses A. Leavitt , chief negotiator ' for the confgrence , declared yesterday on his arrival at New York International Airport , Idlewild , Queens , from Amsterdam . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the West German Bundestag next month .                     