@@713332

txt Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower disclosed yesterday plans for a longterm Columbia University project to be known as " The American Assembly , " which he described as " the most important step I have taken as president of Columbia University . " The assembly is the result of an idea he had had long before he accepted the presidency of Columbia in 1948 , the General told a news conference at the university . It will take the form of a program of continuing conferences to bring together representatives of business , labor , the professions , political parties and government . Its purpose is to throw impartial light on the major problems that confront the nation . This can best be accomplished , according to General Eisenhower 's plan , by calling in members of the university 's scholastic staff to provide the-historical and philosophic background of current problems that will be discussed ' at assembly sessions . Then , men with practical experience in fields under consideration will proceed with the discussion in an attempt to arrive at a workable solution , if one actually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the General said , " that this should result in an invaluable combination of theory with experience , a combination , for conference purposes at least , . which as far as I know is available nowhere else on a large scale . " The university " today has a most tremendous chance to be useful , not only in advancing the frontiers of knowledge but in taking actual current problems and working out ? practical solutions . The American Assembly will provide this new type of service to the public in a field in which such a service . now is vitally needed . " The assembly will be administered by the Columbia Graduate School of Business under Dean Philip Young . Sessions will be held in the Arden House estate of E. Roland and W. , Averell Harriman on the west side of the Hudson River at Harriman , N. Y. The estate , recently accepted as a gift by Columbia trustees , will be known as the " Harriman Campus " of Columbia . Dean Young said the first American assembly conference would start on April 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present . The topic has not been selected . The plan is to hold eight conferences a year , each lasting three to five days . In explaining the assembly idea General Eisenhower said he long had felt that people were uncertain as to the future of America . " We are troubled with vague uncertainties and worries , " he commented , " without really knowing what our problems and our worries are really about . " The conferences will attempt to pin down some of our problems and perhaps to suggest what can be done to alleviate them . We Americans are faced with a terrible tension today . There is no escaping it . " Never before in our history have we had to stop to examine our own status and then announce what we are going to do in the futurq . To reassure threatened peoples the world over we must do this now . We need new points of departure , new methods of consideration , to accomplish what we must do . " For example , consider the question of deciding how large our armed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at an intelligent answer to this question ? We do not know . Perhaps our assembly conferences can give an indication on which action can be based . We will try . A Place to Get Together " Or if we must decide soon how much Federal aid to give to education , whether or not to hold Formosa , what policies to a4opt toward Chiang Kai-shek or lVIarshal Tito , the same uncertainty applies . We need a place where expert and divergent opinions -- opinions based on theory and on experience  --  can get together . I believe the American Assembly of Columbia University will help fulfill that need . " General Eisenhower conceded , in answer to a question , that there were difficulties in arriving at a decision by the conference method when divergent interests were represented . A part of the accomplishments of the Columbia conference series may be in working out a mechanism by which such conference groups could proceed smoothly to an " honest " conclusion , he said . " I am certain that the new assembly will serve to emphasize a belief I have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that in practice democracy is somewhat like a religion . It is based on moral and ethical values . The practice of democracy , like religion , demands individual sacrifices . " This is nowhere more clearly indicated than it is in reconciling divergent views in order to accomplish a common purpose . And if we discuss a ' hard ' question at the                     