@@717476

txt FORMER PIER AIDE SCORES HARRIMAN Lane Says Governor ' Never ' Backed Unit and Played Politics on By JACQUES NEVARD Samuel M. Lane charged yesterday that the chances of " decent longshoremen to shake the mob off their backs " may have been dealt a " fatal " blow . This he attributed to Governor Harriman 's request for the resignation of Lieut . Gen. George P. Hays as this state 's Waterfront Commissioner . Going far beyond anything said since the incident by officials still connected with the ' New York-New Jersey agency , the former executive director and general counsel of the Water ' front Commission assailed Gov- , governor Harriman for " never " having supported the bi-state body . Mr. Lane returned to his private law practice in September after fifteen months with the commission . In a speech before the New York Young Republican Club , Mr. Lane drew sharply contrasting pictures of the attitudes toward the agency of Governor Harriman and Gov . Robert B. Meyner of New Jersey , both Democrats . He declared : " I say to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bob Meyner , and they can hang them in shame for Averell Harriman . " Lays Politics to Lane Last night Governor Harriman charged Mr. Lane with playing politics . When informed of Mr. Lane 's remarks , the Governor first said he preferred not to get1 into a discussion . But when he ' found out that the criticism had ' been made in a speech before a Republican club , Mr. Harriman said : " He Mr. Lane is obviously playing disgraceful politics with one of the ? most vital situations to our port city and the people of this area . You can say that politics are something I am going to get out of the waterfront situation . " The word " out " was accented . Mr. Lane said that although he was an " outsider " when Governor Harriman asked for the resignation of General Hays ten days ago and then named to the post John P. , his campaign manager in last year 's election , the move implied that for the first time political considerations had entered into the selection of personnel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fanner positions with the commission had remained unfilled because the two men nominated for the jobs by General Hays and // Joseph Weintraub , the New Jersey Commissioner , were " anathema " to the International Longshoremen 's Association . The two men were William P. 1Sirignano , who had the commissioner 's support for the. - post of executive director , and Irving Slonim , for general- counsel . It was General Hays ' continued backing of these two men in the face of Governor Harriman 's opposition that led to his resignation . Declaring that the men were " perfectly qualified " for the posts , Mr. Lane said that the continued vacancies " can only mean that Governor Harriman will not tolerate the appointment of those two or any others except those of his own selection . " He contended that formerly there were no political considerations in the commission , which wanted to know only if a staff member was able and wanted'an opportunity to ten- , der public service . " Now those considerations appear not to be the sole criteria , ' he asserted . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he lacked confidence ? . in Mr. , adding , " I do n't know him . " Mr. 's assumption of office has been held up by an agreement between the two Governors until a new executive director acceptable to% both Mr. and Mr. Weintraub can be selected . Mr. ? Lane said he feared the point had been reached where ) " efforts will be made to get on the staff men will are not as interested as the present staff , is in doing the good , job whi.c.11 can bed one if handled right . " Mr. Lane spoke at Oscar 's Delmonico Restaurant , : 36 Beaver , Street . He said that when he went to see Mr. Harriman with General Hays last January , he , got the impression that the Governor was interested in the work of the commisison , that he would , support it and that he regretted only that its powers were not more adequate . The agency was established two years ago by the Legislatures of New York and New Jersey after Congressional and New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ union was dominated by criminals and racketeers , . " My hope that he would support the commission fins never been realized , " Mr. Lane declared . " He has never given an indication he would support the , commission . " What we needed more thaner anything else from Ciovernor , Harriman in January was . statement that he stood behind Samuel DI . Lane the commisison . I understand he was going to make such a statement . He did not . " What we had instead was a constant parade of I. L. A. leaders to Albany , where they were received . " In August , Mr. Lane continued , Mr. Harriman 's counsel , former Justice Daniel Gutman , told him he had the Governor 's " prior approval " to suggest the creation of a buffer committee between the commission and the union . Mr. Lane said he told Mr .. Gutman that such a proposal was " unthinkable " and that if it were put into effect it would be like a " liaison committee between the District Attorney and the bookmakers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fortuitous , " he declared , because the next week the union struck against the commission and Mr. Harriman could not retreat from his stand . He contrasted Mr. Harriman 's attitude with that of Governor Meyner by saying that the New Jersey chief executive supports the agency " notwithstanding the harm this does him in Hudson County , where he needs support . " Mr. Lane also expressed his complete confidence in Mr. Weintraub . But , referring to Governor Harriman 's dropping of General Hays , he asserted : " Anything that weakens the commission , as the forced resignations of General Hays may have done , could have a fatal effect upon the chances of decent longshoremen to shake the I. L. A. mob off their backs at the next opportunity to vote in a collective bargaining election . "                     