@@717167

txt And now Foreign Minister Molotov , too , has called upon the United Nations to play a more important part in efforts to cement peace and pledged Soviet Russia to do all it can to support the world organization in this effort . Yesterday Mr. Molotov proposed ail end of the cold war , an easing of international tension and " peaceful coexistence and peaceful cooperation " among nations . This declaration , which finds support in the recent Soviet peace gestures and concessions that have made a new big power conference at top levels possible , will be welcomed as far as it goes . The question that must be asked and answered is , how far does it go , and what kind of peace does the Kremlin have in mind ? Premier Bulganin , on Thursday , pledged Soviet Russia to make every effort to implement the " noble aims " of the United Nations Charter , which proclaims the rights and liberties of nations and individuals and the duty to resist aggression . Mr. Molotov , who participated personally and directly in all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a- somewhat different note yesterday . What he proposed was a peace of " tranquillity , " which would in effect comprise the peace of subjugation that the Soviets have imposed on onethird of the human race . With such a peace in view , he reaffirmed the familiar Soviet program that is designed to split the free world and disarm it . This program. , as summarized again by Mr. Molotov , calls for the dissolution of the free world alliances in Europe , the Near and Middle East and the Far East as " military blocs " engendering the danger of atomic war , but leaves the Communist bloc intact . It calls again for the withdrawal of all foreign troops from Germany , except for local police forces , as a step toward its neutralization , and for the dismantling of all military bases on foreign territories  --  the Soviet bases on foreign soil being , of course , manned by satellite troops . It calls also for ousting Nationalist China from the United Nations and replacing it at once with Communist China , irrespective of the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an aggressor . Finally , the Soviet program calls for a world disarmament conference to be held within a year to implement the Soviet proposals on that problem . These proposals , despite some recent concessions , still provide for the immediate renunciation of atomic weapons , except in defense against aggression ? if approved by the Security Council , in which the Soviets have a veto  --  and for the ultimate prohibition of such weapons , without effective control . The end result of that program would be that the isolated or neutralized free nations would be exposed to the continued pressure of the cohesive Communist bloc and , if necessary , to the massive manpower of Eurasia and atomic weapons manufactured surreptitiously in the vast recesses behind the Iron Curtain . This program can not serve either the United Nations or the cause of peace . It seems appropriate , therefore , that Mr. Molotov has dropped his plan to submit to the San Francisco meeting a " peace resolution " which would have to be read in the light of his program , and thereby left the door @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gen ? eral Romulo of the Philippines . It is to be hoped that this declaration , which is being drafted by Chairman van Kieffens , will give expression to the kind of peace ? that is called for by the United Nations Charter . For , in the words of General Romulo , only such a peace can " build a golden gate to a better . . future . "                     