@@712603

txt The odds are against Mayor William O'Dwyer 's proposal for state legalization of gambling on sporting events . Response varies from a generally cool reception in the Legislature to hot criticism from church groups . This is not to say he does n't have supporters . In fact , two bills have been introduced in Albany to legalize off-track betting ? and establishment of lotteries . But political observers do n't give the bills much chance of passage , , . New Jersey Episode New York is not the only community which has been engaged in a squabble over legalization , or adequate control , of gambling . New Jersey had an election-time spat over the subject last fall . Roman Catholic groups unsuccessfully attempted to bring about the Ildefeat for reelection of Gov . Alfred E. Driscoll for his failure to permit legalization of bingo . , In addition , Chicago and Peoria , Ill. , Louisville , Ky. , Buffalo and I Syracuse , N.Y. , to mention a few other cities , have been storm centers over attempted legalization of gambling and alleged lax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nevada license commercialized gambling  --  although many other states permit it through lax enforcement of laws . In addition nearly one-half of all states , including New York , license operation of pari-mutuel betting at race tracks . The Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in America quickly denounced Mayor O'Dwyer 's proposal to legalize gambling . ' The council still stands on anti-gambling statements made in 1934 and 1935 . Stand Reaffirmed " The Federal Council of Churches reaffirms its vigorous opposition to gambling which we regard as an insidious menace to personal character and morality , " the church body declared 16 years ago . " By encouraging the idea of getting something for nothing , of getting a financial return without rendering any service , gambling tends to undermine the basic ideals of public welfare . " At that time the council was " both amazed and humiliated " to learn that a bill had been introduced in Congress for a legalized national lottery as a means for raising public revenue . A year later the council again voiced its opposition to a bill to legalize lotteries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its constituents " to oppose in appropriate ways the legalizing of lotteries for any and all purposes both in the Congress and in she legislatures of the several states . " " This is an evil which needs restraint rather than promotion , " it declared . While not adding anything to these statements at this time , the council undoubtedly will take further action should the gambling proposal gain strength . Council officials do not think they will make much headway . Dr. Robert W. Searle , ' executive secretary of the Human Relations Commission of the Protestant Council of the City of New York , also does not think the Legislature will respond to the mayor 's suggestion . Preys to Weakness Dr. Searle commented on the mayor 's claim that legalization would eliminate criminals from control of gambling and save enormous sums of taxpayers ' money spent on supression of gambling . " A few years ago we had a series of scandals involving basketball and football in New York City , " he said . " It is na ? ve of Mr. O'Dwyer to suggest that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' criminal elements ' will be removed from gambling . " The very extension of the business would increase the desires of a parasitical group to tamper with participants , to rig games and contests , and further to victimize human weakness which creates the social disease of gambling , " If all the laws are to be re -- pealed simply because they are difficult to enforce and because enforcement is expensive , the result will be tragic . " Present laws against gambling probably could not be removed without an amendment to the state constitution , which requires the approval of two successive Legislatures and then a statewide referendum . This would take at least two years . One form of gambling , now illegal , which has had some ' support in Albany is off-track betting . This would legalize the " horserooms . " Last year a bill to set up a commission to study legalization of such gambling was vetoed by Gov . Thomas E. Dewey without comment . From this it is inferred he will oppose changes in antigambling laws , O'Dwyer Proposal In his proposal , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide revenue for the state , free municipal taxpayers from the burden of enforcing gambling Jaws , and eliminate criminal elements in gambling . He suggested including horse racing , ? basketball , baseball , football , boxing , and ice hockey among the games on which gambling would be permitted . He specifically ruled out , pinball and slot machines , roulette , and card rooms and left it up to the Legislature to determine whether there would be legalized lotteries . A proposal similar to that of Mr. O'Dwyer was made by the Brooklyn grand jury which investigated gambling in 1947 .. Like the liquor trade , the mayor said , gambling always will be an " invitation " to the criminal element as long as it remains underground . A long time ago New York had a discouraging experience with legalized gambling . Before 1812 , lotteries were legal , It was found that more and more pools were started and then , because residents outside the state played in the New York lottery , other states passed Similar laws . At that point the prizes were bid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set up until they finally collapsed because they failed to pay for themselves . It is unlikely at present that New York will go back to this system .                     