@@714801

txt CHICAGO , July 1S  --  Vice President Alben W. Barkley arrived in Chicago today in a gathering Barkley-for-President movement of genuine proportions that was being strongly pressed by old and powerful Democratic ' politicians . They pictured him as the most likely nominee of the Democratic National Convention , which opens here Monday , if the reluctant Gov , Adlai E. Stevenson of Illinois should not be the choice . Some ' disinterested observers were inclined to agree . Mr. Barkley 's forces plainly were rounding up much secondchoice strength for him . His first act was to put himself all the way on the side of the Truman Fair Deal while announcing that he would be most happy to have the ' President 's support . Some Barkley associates in the ! meantime were passing about ' the suggestion that the Vice President , whose Kentuckian borderstate tradition bridges the North and South , was a " possibility " who could carry the Fair Deal . Democratic North without greatly offending the more conservative South . Minimizes Age as Handicap The Barkley people and the Vice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ age-74 years . Mr. Barkley instantly set out to try to abolish , or reduce that handicap . First of all , on his arrival here he walked jauntily to the tune of " My Old Kentucky Home , " sung by wellwishers , for seven blocks , or about half a mile , from the Illinois Central Railway station to his headquarters in the Conrad Hilton Hotel . He came here from his home in Paducah , Ky . Then , in a press conference , he said he was " proud " of his age , his health , his strength " and the work I have done and can do . " He mentioned a list of eminent men whose service had been famous after 70 , and added : " I am just 74 . What do you think I am going to do the rest of my life ? " Mr. Barkley 's support was coming from old Congressional friends who were working primarily in the big , and often controlling , state delegations . For example , former Senator Scott W. Lucas of Illinois was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his own Illinois delegation Sunday that Governor Stevenson make it plan as to whether he " would go " ? meaning , accept the Presidential nomination and permit action in his behalf to obtain it . Mr. Lucas was Democratic leader . of the Senate until his defeat for re-election in 1950 by the Republican Everett M. Dirksen . Reports of seeming authenticity were being heard that some fifty votes from the Illinois delegation would go for the Vice President in the event the effort to draft Governor Stevenson should break down . Army Group Meets Train There were even reports that backers of some of the front-runners for the nomination , including Averell Harriman and Senator Estes Kefauver of Tennessee , were planning " Stop Barkley " campaigns , however premature such exertions might look . Jacob Arvey , the Illinois Democratic leader , met the incoming Barkley train as he had been on hand to greet other Presidential aspirants . This time , however , Mr. Arvey had with him a larger group of lieutenants than had been noted in his previous excursions of greeting . Mr. Arvey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ daughter , Jane Hadley , in the walk up Michigan Avenue . Mr. Barkley , as all other candidates had done , unhesitantly predicted his own nomination . He said to reporters , on the walk to the hotel from the station , that in the old days he often had taken that stroll " when I did n't have the price of a taxicab . " " Of course , " he added , " that was back during a Republican Administration . " No Secret About Age At the press conference the Vice President obviously was ready for the first question dealing with his age , which a reporter put in this way : " It is being said that if you were a little younger the nomination would be yours practically by acclamation . Do you care to comment on that ? " " Everybody else has been ; why should n't I ? " Mr. Barkley replied , continuing : " I am 74 years old . There has never been any secret about it . I had nothing to do with the date of my birth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I would not change it ' by a single day . " Then , standing under the white beams of the television lights he went on : " Gladstone was Prime Minister of Great Britain at 86 . Cato was studying Greek at 80 . Chaucer , when he wrote ' The Canterbury Tales , ' was nearly 70 . Oliver Wendell Holmes was 91 when he retired from the Supreme Court . I am just 74 . What do you expect me to do the rest of my life ? " Mr. Barkley made it clear that he stood not only for the " strong " civil rights plank ( anti-race discrimination ) that President Triman had inferentially demanded , but that he was in sympathy with the efforts of the all-out civil rights advocates here to have the platform come out for a means of curbing Senate filibusters . A Liberal All His Life He recalled with emphasis that as presiding officer of the Senate he had tried by a parliamentary ruling to reduce the power of the filibuster  --  a time-killing tactic to prevent a vote  --  and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , too , that he had voted against the Taft-Hartley Labor Act . Asked whether he would , if elected President , " carry out the Fair Deal all the way , " he re-sponded : " I have been a liberal all my life . I was a liberal before the Administration of Woodrow Wilson . Wilson called it the New Freedom , as Theodore Roosevelt called it the Square Deal . As a Senator and as majority leader of the Senate I supported the New Deal of Franklin Roosevelt . " I have supported the Fair Deal of Harry S. Truman . My record is clear and I stand on that record . "                     