@@716260

txt Sharp attacks on the Administration 's foreign policy put new strains on bipartisanship today ' as the Senate faced the Indo-China crisis with troubled debate . ' Senator Estes Kefauver , Democrat of Tennessee , asserted that from the " irresponsibility " of the Republicans in the 1952 campaign " the vultures have now come home to roost . " " Echoes of such phrases as ' Mr. Truman 's war , ' in reference to the war in Korea , helped to make this nation ineffective in dealing with the threat of Communist aggression in IndoChina , " he declared . " They make it doubtful whether in our time , in cases of limited aggression , the forces of the nation of the free world can be again united in active opposition to it . " Senator Wayne Morse , Independent of Oregon , charged John Foster Dulles , the Secretary of State , with a series of " tragiA blunders " that had alienated this country 's allies and " lost us Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru of India . " Referring directly to President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Joint Chiefs of Staff , Mr. Morse added : " I think the Secretary of State // had better face the fact that the overwhelming majority of the American people , once they have the facts , will not go along with an Eisenhower - Dulles - Radford , program that will take us into ' all-out war . " Senators Alexander Wiley of Wisconsin and H. Alexander Smith of New Jersey , the senior ' ( Republican foreign policy spokesmen of the Senate , came to the defense of the Administration and sought generally to calm they scene . Senator Wiley , the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , ) appealed to the Senate to resist " the frustrations and irritations of the moment . " Senator George A. Smathers , Democrat of Florida , had just accused Britain and France of refusing to support this country at ) the Geneva conference on the Far , East . Change in Aid Plan Backed This , Mr. Smathers asserted , indicated that these " ancient , honorable but now tired and worn Allies of the Old World " were-no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist aggression . " He called for a reversal of the entire present foreign aid program to make Latin America the main beneficiary and thus to put the emphasis on Allies in this hemisphere rather than in Europe . " In all candor , " he said , " we must admit that our long and stubbornly held hope for uniting the Western world as the free world may well be beyond recall . " The agonizing reappraisal must be accompanied by an admission that we have unwisely spent  --  perhaps foolishly wasted ? some of the billions that have been used for foreign assistance . " For we seem to be losing our Allies fast , rather than binding them more closely to our side . Our historic and dearly held Allies seem to have become less constant , more fickle in their allegiance and friendship . " Mr. Smathers took a line precisely opposite to that of most of the Democrats , whose principal complaint has been that the Eisenhower Administration was showing too little interest in the Western Allies . Replying , Senator Wiley actually cast a series @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who have been the chief critics of the Allies . Easy to Find Fault ' " The time when the going is roughest , " he said , " is the time when we need our Allies the most . " I hope we will not succumb to the temptation to throw in the sponge before the fight is over . The Communists won a military victory at Dienbienphu the fallen French fortress in Indochina . I hope we will not make them a present of an even bigger political victory . " It is so very easy to find fault with our Allies at times like this And for that reason it is so desperately important that we resist the temptation to indulge in bickering and petty squabbling . Nothing can please the Communists more than the breaking up of the free world alliance which we have been at such pains to build . " Senator Smith deplored all talk of Allied disunity . He asserted that President Eisenhower and Secretary Dulles were in fact entitled to " the highest possible tributes for the real accomplishments they have achieved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Outside the Senate , speaking to a convention here of the National Association of Plumbing Contractors , Senator Harry F. Byrd , Democrat of Virginia , declared that United States military intervention in Indo-China would be " for the protection in some part of the French Government's.colonial policy . " A " high military official " recently had told the Senate Armed Services Committee , Mr. Byrd reported , that the Indo-China war was " 40 pd . cent military and 60 per cent political , " the political aspect ipvolving " resentment against the rFrettch colonial polH icy . " Senator Kefauver , in his strong attack on the Administration , asserted that United States leadership of the free world was " now at the lowest point " since the be-1 ginning of World War H. He charged the Geneva conference had been " a failure " largely because the ' Senate had sent Mr. Dulles there " irith his hands tied behind ' his back . " United States leaders , Mr. Kefauver said , had been " misinformed and confused " about the position in Indo-China and had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Tennessee Democrat contended the President was allowing a " Government by commitee " through the National Security Council and should discover " the futility and the danger of merely presiding over his responsibilities . " " The most consistent and effective support " for the President 's foreign policies , where they had been wise , the Senator contended , had come from the Democrats . But , he added , the Democratic party and its leaders had " been reviled . " Senator Kefauver also insisted there was a need for " a fully national foreign policy " in the formation of which the Democrats should be consulted .                     