@@720624

txt Managers of Massachusetts Investors Trust , one of the nation 's largest mutual funds , have been basing part of their stock buying plans on the expectation the steel strike would not last over eight weeks . " If the strike goes beyond Labor Day . a lot of us will have to change our views . " William B. Moses , Jr .. a trustee of the 31.5 billion fund , said . Two other trustees , John L. Cooper and George K. Whitney . agreed . If the strike does not last beyond then . there will be an even further improvement in the nation 's business over the next five months , they expect The fund added to its holdings of five steel stocks in the second quarter this year , expecting the very high April-June volume in that industry to offset strike-caused third quarter declines . They look for steel 's third quarter operations to be " good . " Their present investment study also is being affected by an " assumption " that new 1960 , auto models will be favorably accepted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many industries , like steel , rubber and glass , next year Nevertheless , they feel many stocks , including auto issues , are " high " and the need for selectivity is strong . While the fund managers label their present outlook on the market " optimistic , or at least not pessimistic. ? ' they a-re cautious because of three elements . Stocks in the portfolios they manage as of June 30 were selling in the market at 20.2 times earnings . compared with 19.2 times a year before . And the yields of these issues dropped to 2 f ; ' , from 3.6% the year before . These are average figures they have calculated based on the stocks in both the M I.T . portfolio and Massachusetts Investors Growth Stock Fund , Inc. , another mutual fund in which they share management " Foreign competition is something else to watch . " says Mr. Cooper , recently returned from a tour of four European countries A third matter that bears watching net year uould be " politics : aspects " If a New Dealer were elected , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be limited and there could he an inflationary runaway . These trustees have mixed feelings on the present attractiveness of petioleum stocks . al- I though the fund has more stock of this rate- I gory , 17 7- ; - of its assets on June 30. than any I other kind " Their yields are favorable and it 's not surprising they have come to life , " says Mr Moses . " But is their recovery tern'porary or is it fundamentally soutr " The trustees said they believe it is passible earnings of many oil concerns in the third and fourth quarters could be less than in the like periods last year . The fund s chiefs term chemical stocks still on the " high side . " although their short-term outlook is " very good . " The chemical industry , they contend . in the last few years has become more cyclical because of greatly expand . ed capacity and increased competition from the petroleum and rubber industries These fund managers do not favor industries . like textiles , which hate " short cycle phases " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highly improved earnings in that industry in the first half . The Trust has been buying additional shares of railroad stock this year , based on earnings as well as prospects . But they are being highly selective , picking rails in the Southeast or ones which have long . " continental " runs . Other key points they are looking at are those rails doing something about cost control , those making use of their right-of-ways in non-railroad enterprises and those with new managements or potential savings from mergers . They are continuing to hold utilities , not because they expect them to do much marketwise. but rather for their defensive qualities Mr. Whitney said the yields from utilities are at an unfavorable ratio now in comparison with long-term Government issues . M.I T holds 21 different utility issues all selected on the basis of growth in the area they serve as well III a " favorable regulatory climate so a reasonable rate of return can be earned . "                     