@@718552

txt Letters to The Times Turkey 's Claims Disputed Strategic Value of Cyprus Examined , Population Figures Questioned The writer of the following letter is a member of the Greek Parliament and of the Greek delegation to the eleventh session of the U. N. General Assembly . To THEEDITOR OF THENew York TIMES : In your issue of Feb. 12 Nihat Evim outlined the Turkish position on Cyprus . The first Turkish concern regards the Turks living in Cyprus . Mr. Evim gives the number of 120,000 for Turks inhabiting Cyprus . Furthermore , he gives another number , 300,000 , for Turkish Cypriotes allegedly living in Turkey . The first figure is greatly exaggerated , while the second is quite fantastic . The last British census in Cyprus in 1946 set the ' number of Greeks at 369,500 ; the Turks at 80,500 . Although according to British statistics the rate of increase of the Greek population is much higher than that of the Turks in Cyprus , nevertheless Mr. Evim gives to the Turkish Cypriotes an increase of 50 per cent in ten years , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in stating their number to be only 380,000 , According to official statistics , the population of Cyprus today is 428,000 Greeks and 92,000 Turks . Annexation by Britain As to the Turkish Cypriotes living in Turkey the only true fact is the following : When Turkey recognized that both legally and practically she had lost all rights over and in Cyprus by the island 's annexation by Great Britain in 1914 , she reserved through Article 21 of the Treaty of Lausanne the right of Turks in Cyprus to emigrate to Turkey , that right being valid for one year , but later extended to two years . Turkey had done a lot in that direction by offering Cypriote Turks gratis land and cattle in Turkey . Only 6,000 Turks accepted this offer and emigrated to Turkey between 1923 and 1925 . When Turkey conquered Cyprus in 1571 not a single Turk lived on the island . Since then a email number took residence in Cyprus , constituting always a smAski minority . According to a Turkish census taken by order of Governor Talaat Effendi in 1841 the Turks in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ census in 1881 the Turks in Cyprus were only 45,000 . It is a well known fact that the Turks are not in the habit of emigrating , whereas the Greeks emigrate in great numbers . Before the Turkish occupation of Cyprus , and this must always he borne in mind , Cyprus was prospering , ' with a population of over a million Greeks . We understand the interests of Turkey in the Turkish minority in Cyprus . But the Greeks have repeatedly stated that they are ready to give any safeguards required to the Turkish minority , even through the United Nations . Considerations of Geography Turkey 's second concern with regard to Cyprus is , as Mr. Evim puts it , the - geographical location of Cyprus . His statement that Cyprus is to Turkey what Long Island is to New York is misleading . He would be nearer the truth if he had said that Cyprus is as near to Turkey as Cuba is to Florida . While Cyprus is forty-five miles away from the nearest Turkish coast , other Greek islands , such as Chios , Samos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Turkey . With the modern means of H-bombs , supersonic speed , etc. , it is futile to speak in terms of miles and distances . In particular as regards Turkey 's security it is to be noted that Greece is a friend and ally of Turkey , that Cyprus itself is of no strategic value , as Field Marshal Auchinleck stated lately , and that if Turkey 's fear of attack by Communists is realized it will certainly come directly from Russia , which has a common frontier with Turkey . It is encouraging to note that for the first time we hear from a Turkish spokesman that the liberal provisions of the United Nations Charter should be preserved and that the principle of self-determination be respected . We express the hope that this principle will be accepted by the Turks , as it has already been accepted legally and logically by all , and not to use it as a means of supporting the idea of partition of Cyprus . Acceptance of the idea of partition would result in basic changes in the whole map of the world . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scattered all over the island and in no part , however small , do they constitute a majority , partition is practically impossible and unjust in principle , with unavoidable grave consequences . And last we must not forget that the Cyprus question primarily concerns the Cypriotes themselves , who are demanding their freedom in accordance with the principles and purnnses of the United Nations Charter . SAVVAS LOIZIDES . New York , Feb. 12 , 1957 . Protesting Saud 's Edict on Jews To THE EDITOR OF Tim NEw YORK TLICIES Mayor Wagner 's refusal to welcome Saud has aroused widespread criticism , the main points - of which are that we should all cooperate when the President decides that an official visit by , a head of state is in our national interest , and that these visits should not be discouraged just because the governments concerned have policies which are objectionable . In the case of Saud 's visit there IS a special consideration which would not apply to visits by such other leaders as Tito  --  or even Cnou Enlad , should he be invited over in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ millions of Americans to visit his country because they are Jews , even when they are serving in the American armed forces . Our President and State Department have found it expedient to put up with such dictation as to how our armed forces are to assign their personnel . But this happens to represent a direct humiliation to s large number of New Yorkers . It ought not to be expected of them , acting through their Mayor , to show official courtesy to a ruler who interferes with their right to equal treatment with other Ameri. cans . Mayor Wagner had no choice but to act as he did . DAVID E. HAFT , M. D. Rochester , N. Y. , Feb. 7 , 1957 . Union Stand on ' Fifth ' Expulsion of Officials Pleading Self-Incrimination Criticized To THE EDITOR OF THE NSW YORE:TESES r In your editorial of Jan. 30 coin , menting upon the A. F. L.-C . I. 0.4 decision to expel officials of its unions who invoke the Fifth Amend . ment during Government investiga ? tidhs you . state : " The federation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that this policy does not  --  and indeed it should not -- limit the constitutional right of any individual to ' take the Fifth . ' All it says is that anyone who does so should not continue to represent his union . " I fail So see the logic of your emu-. ment . It is particularly puzzling coming from a newspaper which traditionally has championed the cause of due process of law . The reasoning in your editorial is reminiscent of a philosophy you so recently opposed in connection with Government security cases , According to that philosophy , since Government employment is a privilege , not a right , an employe should be . fired as a security risk whether or not the charges against him are proved : Yet here we have a case where no question of Government security or loyalty is involved . Thus it should be easier , if anything , to uphold the important principles upon which the Fifth Amendment is based . Dismissal Reversed Less than a year ago the Supreme Court in the Slochower case passed on this same basic issue . Slochower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ College solely because he had invoked the Fifth Amendment under questioning by a Congressional committee . The Supreme Court held that his summary dismissal violated due process of law . As the Supreme Court stated in the Slochower case , " the privilege against self-incrimination would be reduced to a hollow mockery if its exercise could be taken as equivalent either to a confession of guilt or a conclusive presumption of perjury . " If , as James P. Carey has suggested , the A. F. L.-C . I. 0 . makes its own investigation of a case following a union official 's use of the Fifth- Amendment , it might thee properly decide that legitimate grounds existed for expelling the official in question . However , this is a very different thing from automatically expelling every official who avails himself of his constitutional privilege against self-incrimination . To say , as you do , that the constitutional right has not been limited when an official is automatically expelled for the mere act of invoking the amendment is illogical . It is as if a company were to say its employes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as soon as one a them did he would be fired . COLGATE S. PRENTICE . Alexandria , Va. , Feb. 1 , 1957 . To Advertise Polio Shots To THE EDITOR OF THY . NEW YORK TIMES : Would n't it be a good idea if our New York City Health Department , which , along with other health agencies in the country , is trying to erad. icate polio by having all people , below the age of 40 inoculated with the Salk vaccine , did something more to publicize its campaign 7 , Does n't the importance of this mat ? ter call for numerous signs in sub . way trains and buses , spot announcements on radio and television , perhaps newspaper notices ? And is n't this the time to start ? CHARLES GARRETT , Secretary , The City Club of New York . New York , Feb. 9 , 1957.                     