@@713861

txt While the Foreign Office was urgently considering the threatened loss of the British oil concession in Iran , airborne troops were being held available and in a state of readiness in Britain today . All official spokesmen were extremely reticent and cautious in their comments about the troops . It could be learned only that the parachute units recalled to their barracks at Aldershot had not yet been ordered to go anywhere  --  to Iran or any other place . Apparently the Government had decided to take precautions for the protection of British lives and property if there should be an attempt to take possession of the British oil installations by force and violence . It had not been decided , however , whether such precautions were needed or intervention would be expedient and wise . Rumors Started Last Week Rumors of military action to safeguard the oil operation , and especially the lives of about 2,500 British subjects in Iran , started last week . The Economist , weekly publication , ieported that Foreign Catretaiy Herbert Morrison , with the approval of the Cabinet , had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resist by force any effort to take over the AngloIranian Oil Company , an act that the British Government would consider illegal . " " The British Government has carefully weighed all the possible consequences of the use of British troops , which include Communist disturbances in Teheran and Soviet troop movements on the northern frontier , " The Economist said . As a matter of fact , the wording of the British note was still under discussion today ; it was not known to contain any mention of military action . The note probably will be sent tomorrow or Wednesday . Mr. Morrison 's Whitson holiday on the Isle of Wight was interrupted by consultations about the note . He canceled a visit to the Festival of British exhibition ship Campania and talked frequently With the Foreign Office by telephone . British diplomats also were keeping closely in touch with United States authorities . While the Foreign Office was unusually busy for a holiday , units of the Sixteenth Independent Parachute Brigade Group , one of the few Army outfits in Britain available for action in unexpected circumstances , were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A War Office spokesman said that the brigade , a self-contained , highly mobile force of three parachute battalions with airborne , artillery , medical and other auxiliary detachments , was " under routine warning to bring itself to a state of readiness . " The spokesman added : " This does not necessarily mean that it is going anywhere and it is not under orders to do so . " Foreign Office is Silent The headquarters of the British Army 's Southern Command announced that the brigade was being held available at short notice but was not under orders to proceed to any specific destination . It was reported that the group was preparting to move in case it should be ordered to do so . To all inquiries about the possibility that the troops might be sent out of the country the Foreign Office spokesman answered : - " No comment . " Until now it has been the stated belief of British officialdom that military measures would not be necessary and that military intervention might worsen the situation in Iran and provoke the Soviet Union , Iran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treaty between the Soviet Union and Iran , the Soviet Union has the right to send troops into Iran if the latter 's territory was being used as a base by forces with aggressive designs on the Soviet Union . Moscow frequently has called attention to that treaty in a menacing way but has never invoked it except in 1941 , when Iran was jointly occupied by British and Soviet forces to forestall the Germans . Iranians Warn Company TEHERAN , Iran , May 14 ( UP ) ? Iranian officials warned the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company today to hand over its facilities to Iran peacefully or " this will mean the beginning of the Third World War . " The warning came from members of the eleven-man Parliamentary Oil Committee , charged with carrying out Iran 's oil nationalization law , which met for the first time today . Hossein Makki , newly-elected committee secretary , said after the meeting : " If the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company does not hand over its installations to Iran , the burden of responsibility for disturbing world peace will rest with them . This will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ * * We shall take all measures at our disposal in order to reclaim our rights . " Meanwhile United States Ambassador Henry F. Grady said tonight that he had suggested to the Iranian Government that it delay nationalization of the oil company until a mixed commission reported on the issue . Mr. Grady said he " suggested " to Premier Mohammed Mossadegh during a recent talk that Iran avoid " any precipitous action " in taking over the $585,000,000 British-controlled firm .                     