@@718521

txt Three policemen were injured and at least eight persons arrested today in violent demonstrations . at Barcelona University . The demonstrations were believed to have been held in connection with a city-wide boycott of public bus , street car and subway systems , called to protest higher fares . Gen. Felipe Acedo , Civil Governor of Barcelona , issued two statements in which he charged that students of the city 's university had demonstrated and had uttered shouts of a " subversive nature . " " The demonstrators were dispersed , " he announced " and some arrests were made . " Earlier in the day , the Governor charged that a group of " students and unidentified persons " had gathered at the doors of the University and had thrown stones and pieces of brick at passing automobiles and street cars . In the course of these disturbances , a police inspector and two policemen were injured he said . Eight persons , some of them with stones in their possession , were arrested . Reports tonight from Barcelona , which has a population of more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ streets and that the situation was calm . The Governor said that while the boycott of the street cars had been effective , the subways and bus services reported " little reduction " in normal traffic . Heavy rain at the day 's end led many inhabitants to ignore the boycott and to use both the street cars and the subway to reach their homes , reports said . The boycott began as a citywide gesture of protest against the fare increase , which was authorized by the Spanish Government just before Christmas . The rise was not put into effect until today . Fares on both the street cars and the subway were raised from 60 to 80 centimes ( 11/:2 to 2 cents ) during the day and to a peseta ( about 21:2 cents ) at night and on Sundays and holidays , regardless of the distance traveled . The bus fares were raised from 1.05 pesetas to 1.50 for shorter distances and from 1.75 pesetas to 2 pesetas for longer journeys . These latest increases in cost of living are not in themselves of major importance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of annoyance at a time when many thousands of poorly paid Spaniards are already struggling in Barcelona ? as elsewhere in Spain  --  against increasing inflation . And public transport in Spain is not the nation 's pride . The effect of the new increases will fall hardest on the hundreds of thousands of clerical and commercial employes who make tip a large part of Barcelona 's population . Such employes normally use the public transportation four times daily since they go home for lunch . So a local journalist will be forced to pay 20 cents daily for transport out of an average daily wage of $1.68 . The last increase in fare on Barcelona 's public transport in 1951 also sparked a city-wide boycott and disturbances . The city authorities finally compromised after a week by eliminating part of the increase .                     