@@720151

txt CAIRO , Jan. ** Communists in Iraq now are challenging God and Mohammed as well as Gamal Abdel Nasser . Reports today from Baghdad were that they attempted yesterday to disrupt Friday 's prayers in the mosquesnd had p begun to circulate pamphlets entitled " God in the Dock " that mock religion and advocate atheism . In attacking religion as well as Arab nationalism , the Communists are believed here to have overreached themselves . They might have had a chance against President Nasser of the United Arab Republic alone . But in attacking the deep-rooted faith in Allah of the Arabs , the Communists are leveling a lance against the centuries . Just why the Communists in the Middle East chose this time to make an apparent drive for power is somewhat baffling , It is conceded that they were doing very well by remaining quiet . The area was flooded with trade delegations from Communist countries offering arms , planes and machinery on easy terms . There was goodwill for the Communists everywhere . Then they challenged the Arab nationalists in the recently formed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full control and openly threw down the gauntlet to President Nasser in Damascus , capital of the United Arab Republic 's Syrian province . The best belief is that they ( the local leaders or Moscow ) // saw in the Government in Baghdad their best chance of penetration and of setting up an actual bridgehead in the Middle East . The issue now has been clearly joined . The odds would seem to be against the Communists . Only in Iraq have they made any ' real gains . And their only firm , foothold there appears to bej among the city toughs of Baghdad and perhaps among some Kurdish tribesmen in the north , to whom Arab nationalism is only a word , not a religion . President Nasser has moved ruthlessly to exorcise the Communists from his own country. , Hundreds have been jailed herel , and in Syria in recent weeks . Three printing plants in Cairo financed from the " oviet and Communist Chinese Embassies that were flooding the Middle East with literature have been closed . Every Arab visitor to the Republican Palace is warned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is urged to stamp them out . In the only all-Arab gatherings of recent weeks where the Communists have attempted to make a stand , they have found a solid front against them . President Nasser it finding some unexpected adherents in leading the battle against Arab communism . Recent travelers from Damascus say many business men there who were almost in revolt against him are applauding his anti-Communist drive . They fear the Communists more than they do CairoThe Communists in Baghdad have made important inroads on the government of Premier Abdul Karim el-Kassem and appear as of now , to be tolerated by him if not embraced . There was a report here in the weekly magazine Akbar elY -1 today , that the No. 1 Arab Communist , Khalid Bakdash. who challenged President Nasser in Dama : us but caped arrest , now was in Baghdad . He had been reported variously as still in hiding in Syria , operating from a mountain headquarters in Lebanon and havr-z , fled to Prague . The Communists are believed also still to be strong in Lebanon , where they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following . Their printing plants in Beirut are said to be working overtime now that the three plants in Cairo have been closed . Beirut is a gocd operating headquarters . Censorship has been lifted . There is no currency control and access by air or by road to other Arab capitals is easy . Elsewhere in the Middle East the Communists are not believed to he an important factor except perhaps in Jordan . The imported Communists ? Russians , Czechs , East Germans ? certainly have the ear of the Imam of Yemen and are furnishing him with arms and building him a harbor at Hodeida and roads . But there is no local Communist movement , observers say . In the Sudan the Premier . Lieut . Gen. Ibrahim Abboud. has taken a stubborn attitude toward the local Communists . He had not been in power two weeks before he had rounded up the more obvious ones and closed their newspapers .                     