@@718362

txt Ten thousand Hungarian workers demonstrated Nov. 15 in front of the Parliament Building in Budapest in protest against the deportation of Hungarians by the Soviets , according to reports reaching here . By the Associated Press Vienna The Soviet Union 's puppet Premier of . Hungary , Janos Kadar , has rejected neutrality as a future policy for the nation and refused any negotiations with former Premier Imre Nagy as long as he remains in the asylum of the Yugoslav Embassy in Budapest . Mr. Kadar set the policy of his regime in a statement to a workers delegation , broadcast by Budapest radio , which showed clearly that he has no intention of walking out of the Soviet-dominated Warsaw Pact or giving up the close ties with Moscow which set off the three-week revolution . Ready to Accept Aid The Hungarian delegation to the United Nations has announced the Hungarian representatives would be willing to meet Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjold in Rome to discuss aid offered by the UN . A Hungarian spokesman said the message had already been given to Mr. Hammarskjold , who arrived in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ East crisis . The message to Mr. Hammerskjold " ' was from ' the Acting Foreign . Minister , Istvan Sebes . Mr .. Hammarskjold has suggested that he personally go to Budapest to see about setting up UN aid in , that revolt-torn city . The delegation specifically said the message received did not contain an-:answer to this suggestion . Part  --  Free Vote Promised In a desperate attempt to end the general strike which has tied up the revolt-shattered nation , Mr. Kadar 's regime announced a mass purge of former top Communists and the Premier expressed approval of limited " free " elections " at a later date . " Budapest radio said Mr. Kadar told the workers ' delegation , however , that the only parties which would be allowed to participate in elections would be those which " stand for socialist principles and serve the inter , ests of the workers . " Mr. Kadar claimed he had reached an agreement with So viet military authorities in Hungary that " no one may be deported " and declared the government would " hold no one resnonsible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Report Contradicted This contradicted a Budapest radio broadcast Nov. 14 which admitted that the Soviet Army is deporting . Hungarians to the east in sealed railway cars in a desperate effort to stamp out revolutionary elements . The radio , told of the deportations in explaining why the general strike had not ended . Mr. Kadar declared Nov. 15 that only persons arrested during commission of " acts of terror " and crimes would be prosecuted . The puppet Premier reiterated his previous stand that negotiations for the withdrawal of the Soviet forces from Hungary can be opened only after order and peace have been restored . The rebel guns were silent in Budapest Nov. 15 ' following the end of armed resistance at the big plants on Csepel Island , In the ' Danube just south of the capital . But the workers there , after downing their guns , joined in the nationwide general strike . Nagy Return Demanded Undaunted by the Soviet tanks . and troops lining the roads to Csepel , the workers there held a mass meeting demanding the ouster of the Kadar government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being ousted by the Soviets on Nov. .. 4 had promised free elections and negotiations for the withdrawal of Soviet troops . Ern5 Gerd , Premier and former Communist Party first secretary , and Andras Hegedues headed the list of those purged by the new regime . Budapest radio said they had been barred " forever " from any public and party activity and advised to resume their former jobs in private life . ' Reuters announces from Belgrade that President Tito in a speech published there said the Soviet leaders had promised him they would withdraw their troops from Hungary as soon as quiet was restored . Meanwhile , in Belgrade a member of the central committee of the Yugoslav Communist Party has denied that Titoism was responsible for the anti-Communist Hungarian revolt . Veljko VlahovIc , writing in the party newspaper Borba , assailed " leading circles of some Communist Parties " for trying to trace the uprising to Titoism.                     