@@719408

txt The Pacific ocean is getting warmer , but scientists do n't know why . In a report to the California marine research committee , scientists of five agencies said today that ocean temperatures this year were higher than at any time in recent history . In some areas , surface temperatures were as much as 5.5 degrees above the 1949.1956 average . The change seems to be Pacific-wide , the report said , pointing out that Hawaii had its first recorded hurricane , and that the ice went out at Point Barrow at the earliest time in history . Quarter Deep At the resort town of La Jolla , Cal. , sea temperatures reached the highest averages during the summer in the last 28 years , and similar changes were recorded all tip the coast . The warming extended to a depth of a quarter of a mile , at least off California . One scientist said that over the 200,000 square miles of the California current region this ' represented the equivalent inl energy of 560 billion barrels of fuel , about half the world 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much sun 's heat as was received to attribute the change to that source alone , " the report said . Fish Range Northward The warmer water allowed southern fish to move much farther north . Dolphin were ' caught as far north as the California-Oregon border , the report said , and white sea bass were taken off the Columbia river . California sport fishermen had their biggest catches in a decade . Almost 30 times as many 1957 year  --  class sardines appeared in live bait catches as in the previous high year , and the spawning reached at least as far north as Monterey bay in northern ' California . Yellow-tail and bonita tuna , usually found largely in wa ? ters farther south , have , been taken in great numbers off all southern California sport fishing ports . What does it all mean ? The scientists say they do n't know but they 're fairly certain the high temperatures were not the result of a wave of southern water swept northward . " Rather , " says the report , " it appears that warm water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ehtitled " 1957 : The Year of Warm Water and Southern Fish , " was prepared by officials of the California Academy of Sciences , the California department of fish and game , the Hopkins marine station of Stanford university , the United States fish and wildlife service , and the Scripps Institution of Oceanography .                     