@@719882

txt The Kennedy-Ives labor reform bill may never become law , but reports of its death seemed premature today . The bill has become such an inflammatory political issue that chances for a vote on it in the House of Representatives have risen measurably . The Senate passed the bill on June 17 . It is now in the House Education and Labor Committee , which is not disposed to release it voluntarily , cWainly not in its present form . However , under certain circumstances , the Speaker of the House may recognize a member : for a motion to suspend the Irules and pass the bill . This course is definitely under consideration . The odds g.re against passage , because a twothirds vote is required by this route . Roll-all is Goal However , the objective of some Democrats now is to get a roll-call vote , win or lose . The purpose is to take the issue out of the campaign , or , as they say , " put the monkey on the other fellow 's back . " In the last few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's office . One point they all agree on is that the Texan has been surprised , if not dismayed , by the intense interest aroused since he referred the bill to committee a week ago , after having held it for forty days . Another point is- that the Speaker was angered by the comments of the Secretary of , Labor , James P. Mitchell , who needled " certain Congressional ' leaders " for giving up on the labor bill . Representative George , South Dakota 's only1 Democrat in Congress , was one of Mr. Rayburn 's visitors petitioning for the suspension course . He said the Speaker was " taking it under very serious consideration . " Kennedy Sees Chance Senator John F. Kennedy , Democrat of Massachusetts and co-sponsor of the bill with Senator Irving M. Ives , Republican of New York , said : " I hear there is better than a 50-50 chance of getting a vote . " Since the Democratic party has the majority in the House and the Senate , it is vulnerable in the political campaign to accusations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are getting a , foretaste of such a campaign . Many of them are of a mind to strike back now . One of those : seeking a recorded vote said with obvious sarcasm : " Let Mitchell produce the votes . " Some Democratic candidates // are quite sensitive to the charge of evading labor union reform ; others not at all . There are enough of the former to have snatched the labor bill back from certain burial in committee . These include , besides Mr. , Representative Stewart Udall of Arizona and most Of the Californians , particularly Clair Engle , who is running for the Senate seat now held by William F. Knowland , Republican leader . Mr. Knowland , running for Governor , has made labor reform a major issue in California . . A. secondary labor bill is booked for House consideration on Wednesday . This is a oneitem measure that would require annual reports from all Welfare and pension funds . Talk of pushing parts of the Kennedy-Ives bill as amendments to the welfare and pension bill has been quelled by the rule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Under that rule , according to House authorities , a point of order on germaneness would bar amendments drawn from the Kennedy-Ives bill . Test Monday Is Doubted The last " regular " day for suspension of the rules will be Monday , assuming adjournment by Aug. 16 . Speaker Rayburn is unwilling to make a Kennedy-Ives suspension move on such short notice , believing genuinely that a surprise parliamentary attack is beneath a gentleman of the House . Members say , however , that the rules of the House permit suspension on the last six days of the session . The trouble is that the final day of the session is seldom formally deteihnined until that day arrives . A resolution of adjouvment is then offered and adopted . In these circumstances Mr. Rayburn was reported considering an approach to the Republican leadership for an agreement on a suspension vote . Conceivably that might come on the last day of the session . May Obscure Issue One of the complications of - such a vote is that it obscures the issue . Members can say with sincerity that this is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on parliamentary procedure of a sort that is seldom invoked on major legislation . The procedure permits of only one motion and one vote , with no amendments . The vote that suspends the rules ? requiring two-thirds of those voting  --  also passes the bill . The bill is designed to impose minimum democratic standards on unions and put their financial operations under government and public scrutiny . The labor relations spending of employers also would be subject to public examination . Organized employers object to this and also to certain TaftHartley amendment in the bill favorable to labor . Leaders Divided Labor leaders , even the respectable ones , are divided . The American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations had officially taken the position that the bill was badly in need of improvement after Senate tinkering , but that the good in it outweighed the bad . Within the federation , opposition to the bill has come primarily from some railroad unions that would be covered by the legislation . The Steel Workers Union also has been cool to it . Outside the federation , principal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Other groups opposing the bill in its present form are the Chamber of Commerce of the United States , the National Association of Manufacturers , and the American Retail Federation , all of which are urging amendments . Published reports that the federation had withdrawn active support of the bill were countered unofficially yesterday by the statement that the cessation of activity in the bill 's behalf did not indicate a change of policy but only a belief that the bill was dead and further lobbying was useless .                     