@@717244

txt The first session of the Democratic Eighty-fourth Congress adjourned early today . The House of Representatives quit at 11:36 o'clock last night . The Senate stayed on until 12:05 A. M. The session ended in the basically amicable relationship with President Eisenhower in which it had begun last Jan. 5 . At the close , however , there were the beginnings of traditional partisan marshalings in both parties against the oncoming second session that will open next January in an ' election year . The Senate had been delayed beyond the House by a speech by Senator Wayne Morse , Democrat of Oregon . Mr. Morse shortly before midnight had offered to put the rest of his address unread into the record . It was held , however , that since bath chambers yesterday had adopted resolutions of adjournment effective before the end of that day the Senate adjournment must come by the stroke of midnight in any event . It actually came a few minutes later . In these circumstances Senator Morse continued with his speech , but the presiding officer , Vice President Richard M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a close . Final Issue Resolved The final great issue of the session was resolved yesterday in the adoption by the Senate and House of Representatives of a compromise housing bill . However , it was not wholly ' satisfactory to President Eisenhower , As that barrier fell , others that fell with it were : CFinal action was taken to extend the Defense Production Act , by which the Government is able to control scarce strategic materials . Tin bill then went to the White Hout. , : = . The substance of the matter had not been in controversy , but a collateral issue had caused great disputation . It involved restrictions on the Government 's use of dollar-ayear men or " WOOS , " meaning business advisers serving " without compensation . " The ultimate agreement would ask that these men list corporations in which they had financial interest . ilSugar-state Senators abandoned their determination to bring up at this session a measure to give American growers larger quotas of the domestic market . They had to fall back in the face of determined latent resistance that would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , especially set up to assist enterprises in this category , was continued in another bill dispatched to the White House for Presidential signature . CBoth houses passed a compromise $92,000,000 bill to pay the way of the legislative establishment . There had been a great wrangle earlier over some of its housekeeping provisions . CApproved also was a bill to make $30,000,000 worth of polio vaccine available to the states by Feb. 15 . Serenity Marked SeWon The session was in its outward aspects serene and illustrative of a working coalition between a Republican White House and a Democratic Capitol . It had , however , great and even historic moments . Its life saw the decline of the influence , of the Republican extreme right wing , which had fought President Eisenhower 's nomination at Chicago in 1952 , to its lowest point in many years . At the end a single Republican right-wing Senator , Joseph R. McCarty of Wisconsin , remained openly in rebellion against the new Presidential policy of negotiated coexistence with world communism . That policy had been first proposed in public by the Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' George of Georgia . Mr. George ! held the Democrats together on ! foreign policy positions to a de- ; gree of unanimity not known inj many years . The President simultaneously ! moved closer and closer to that ' wing of his party that brought about his nomination . It had pre- , viously been greatly outnum- ! bered and greatly overshadowed in influence by the orthodox Re-I publicans . The latter group at the same ! time diminished as one after another of its numbers moved over into the Eisenhower faction . McCarthy Sway Vanes Senator McCarthy 's personal and factional influence dropped all through the session as one after another old associate left him , either to seek accommodation with the now dominant Eisenhower group or to stand silently alone . The controlling Democrats , in the meantime , for the most part followed what the now ailing Senate Democratic leader , Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas . called a policy of ' ' responsible opposition . " Only rarely was President Eisenhower challenged headlong . particularly in the Senate , and on these rare occasions he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Speaker Sam Rayburn of Texas basically went along with the modified opposition tactics of his friend and prot ? g ? , Senator Johnson . From time to time , however , Mr. Rayburn , a more combative man and a more partisan man than his junior , struck out on his own ? hard , limited forays against the Administration . Session Summarized The net of the session in national political terms seemed to many observers to come to this : cThere was a perceptible rise in the practical influence of the President in the Republican party . gThere was an accompanying rise in the power of the old , " original Eisenhower ' ' members of Congress and a corresponding decline in the influence of the . non-Eisenhower Old Guard wing of the party . cThe Democrats had established a curiously mixed record . They had undoubtedly kept their promise to avoid . at least generally , mere partisan harassment of the President . They had won some partisan victories but their voting record was essentially one of support ' for a Republican President . The controlling centerists in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the " responsibility " of the Democratic opposition would be rewarded at the polls in next year 's Presiden- , tial and Congressional elections . ' The Democratic left , less pleased and less sanguine , were not prepared to challenge the basis of the party 's leadership . On the whole they praised that ' , leadership . Nevertheless , they were concerned that the party in their view had dgeloped no clearly distinguishable national record in opposition , on such questions , for example , as labor , farm subsidies and civil rights . Left for another day . moreover , was action on items sought alike by the Eisenhower Administration and the Democratic liberals . Administration proposals put aside in this session included Federal aid to school construction , Federal reinsurance of private health plans and liberalization of this country 's immigration policies .                     