@@712756

txt cpecial to THE NEW YORK Tours BERLIN , March ** units of the " people 's police " of Eastern Germany are being outfitted with new uniforms similar in color and cut to those of the Soviet Army and are expected to emerge as a " people 's army " of the Eastern Communist Republic this spring . Transformation of 45,000 members of this paramilitary organization into an admitted army is expected before the Communist youth of Eastern Germany , half a million or more strong , assemble in Berlin the , last week-end in May . This rally , in which it was learned the young soldiers of the new army would play a leading part as leaders of " political action groups , " will be the touchstone of Russian ambitions in Germany this year . It is expected that this demonstration will be followed by an " all . German " meeting of the so-called , National Front this summer , by intensive propaganda in Eastern and Western Germany and finally by elections in October throughout the Eastern zone . The objective of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ establish Eastern Germany , including Berlin , as a tightly controlled Soviet satellite on the lines of Bulgaria , with no political opposition to the Communist party such as now is represented by the weakened Christian Democratic Union . Once this has been accomplished , these Western sources predict , ' Eastern Germany will make its maximum effort to effect unification with the Western Federal Re ! public with the hope of winning control of a united nation for the Communist party . Nevertheless it is felt strongly that the United States and its Western Allies have a number of opportunities this year to frustrate the Russian plans by creating situations of fact in Berlin and Western ' Germany . But the immediate danger , Western sources assert , is here in Berlin ; if anything else is to follow , a new battle for Berlin must be won . According to United States and // British observers here , the first prerequisite of such a result is a more general understanding of the seriousness of the threat that hangs over the Western sectors of Berlin and of the connection between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western Europe in 1950 . The overt danger is that May 27 , 28 and 29 more than 500,000 members of the Free German Youth , which is sponsored by the Russians and the Socialist Unity Communist party , will descend upon Berlin to invade and overrun the western sectors . This program is said to include attacks on Democratic centers like the Schoeneberg Rathaus , headquarters of the West Berlin Government , and riots around United States , British and French installations . The Russians and German Communists expect that these demonstrations will attract the people of Western Berlin , away from support ' of the municipal government headed by Dr. Ernst Reuter and toward a coalition government in a united city that will enable the Communists to win control of all of greater Berlin . Implicit in the Communist plan is the danger that prolonged street fighting may break out between the Communist youths who are to be stiffened with young members of the " people 's police " and Western sector policemen and soldiers of the three Western Allied Nations . Opportunity to West Cited It is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that the West can wring a considerable political victory out of this sombre picture . This victory can be won first , if the Western powers and the Germans both of Western Berlin and the Western Republic launch and maintain a full-fledged propaganda campaign in Eastern Germany and second , if the Western powers explicitly state their intention to maintain order with troops in the Western sectors of the city , the observers say . Berlin offers the West a unique opportunity for anti-Communist propaganda . It is behind the Iron Curtain and newspapers and a radio station . are available to strengthen the waning anti-communism not only of the people of Eastern Germany but of Czechoslovakia and Poland as well . It is suggested that this propaganda machinery novy should be directed against the women of the Eastern zone , warning them not to allow their sons to be sent to Berlin to fight for Russian imperialism in the city 's streets against . their own countrymen and soldiers of the West . This propaganda campaign , it is asserted , should be supported by repeated and detailed statements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security of the three Western sectors , especially in relation to the number of reinforcements to the West plans to . send to the air . Official United States statements about the high morale and hopeful outlook of Western Berliners , based upon reports in the Information Services Division of the United States High Commissioner 's office , should be balanced against the findings of other United States sources in the ? city . One suah source declared that " there is no sign of panic but there are plenty of indications of fear " and that " too many people are talking about leaving the city for a ' vacation ' during the period , of the - Whitsun week-end . " This source says the remainder betray " hopelessness " over their economic conditions and an understandable desire to try anything , political or economic , that will put them to work . The political leaders of Western Berlin are optimistic over the outcome of the projected May-demonstrations , but in the opinion of United States and . British sources optimism at the top is not enough . They believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their economic plight , feel that to some measure their personal problem , which is the Berlin problem , political and economic , has been shoved into the background by the Western powers . The Western authorities feel this situation should be corrected . " These people are the best allies we have in Germany , both in our struggle to defeat communism and in our struggle to achieve a truly democratic Germany , " one high United States official said . " We must sustain their faith in us by deeds as well as words . " The West sector policemen who I will bear the first brunt of any Communist activity in May are being trained to meet their new responsibilities . The force is better than it was a year ago in training and equipment .                     