@@713595

txt The Federal Reserve System was conceived thirty-seven years ago in the Administration of Woodrow Wilson as an American adaptation of the traditional central bank . Above everything else the idea of independence was stressed by - the framers of the Federal Reserve Act . The System must be able to act in the interest of economic stability , even though its policies at any given time might run counter to the prevailing interests of the banking community or the stock market , on the one side , or the Treasury , with its natural " easy money " bias , as the country 's No. 1 borrower , on the other . As time went on , Congress acted to strengthen further the original protections provided against the undue influence on Federal Reserve policy of such vested interests . During the Thirties , Congress revised the law in such a way as to shift the balance of power to the Board in Washington . But Congress showed that it was equally conscious of the danger that the Board might fall under the political domination of the Administration in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . With this in mind , it amended the law and eliminated the provision in the original act which had made the Secretary of the Treasury an ex officio membef of the Board . Stripped of technical details , the function of the Federal Reserve is to maintain stability of the money supply , which is the basic force behind inflation and deflation . It seeks to do this by putting a brake on credit wheh supply is excessive and by releasing the brake ( and even using the accelerator ) when the problem is one of excessive credit contraction , or deflation . This means that it must be prepared to move freely in the direction of " tightening " money or " easing " money as the situation may demand . Prior to the Second World War the Reserve had been employing an easy money policy for several years because of the depressed state of the national economy . When the Treasury found itself faced with the task of financing deficits in amounts of unprecedented magnitude , the Reserve deferred to the latter 's convenience and continued its easy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during and after the war which , whether necessary or not , was incalculable . With the war and demobilization over , the Reserve has maintained that the time had come for the Treasury to stand on its own feet . It should , said the Board , sell securities bearing interest rates that were related to market conditions , rather Man be dependent upon the Reserve to step in and take the surplus off the market . There are two reasons behind this position of the Reserve , reasons which are unassailable , in our opinion , if the Reserve is to maintain its usefulness to the economy , a usefulness which was never more obvious . One is that , released from its commitment to support the Government market , regardless of whether interest rates on Government securities are realistic or not , it can resume its original , and much more important , responsibility of combating inflation ( or deflation , as the case may be ) . The other is that to support the Government security market it must buy Government bonds , and for every million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bank reserves , and for every million of such reserves the commercial banks can expand their credit by six millions ! This is the central issue between the Reserve and-the Treasury  --  the issue of whether the convenience of the Treasury or the general interest of the nation is to be paramount in determining money policy . Closely tied to this issue is the question whether policy in this respect is to be determined by Presidential intervention , or whether it is to be determined by Congress , which created the Federal Reserve System and to which the System is alone directly answerable  