@@714383

txt This week the power strategists of the Kremlin were plainly beginning to uncover and develop their new post-Korean war oper- . atmns , although it still was too early to be sure where the emphasis would be placed . On the one hand , Prime Minister . Joseph Stalin sent a surprise New Year 's message to the Japanese people which looked very much like a first move in major use of blandishments , instead of threats , on that country in an effort to wean it away from its present close association with the United States . Along with this went a continuation of the Kremlin 's campaign to drum up European interest in a proposed East-West trade conference to be held in Moscow in the spring . If one were to assess Kremlin intentions only on the basis of these two moves . it would seem that the politburo was embarking on an attempt to break up the western coalition by offering commercial inducements . to America 's major allies in both Europe and Asia . Slight Comfort - Such a strategy would be welcome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mean a substitution of competition in raw-material prices for a competition in the production of bullets . A cold Nvar fought with cotton prices would be less immediately destructive and dangerous to the peace than a cold war fought with hot bullets in border wars . However . western strategists find slight comfort in this prospect . There is no doubt that a serious Russian policy of trying to reopen East-West trade could play havoc with the North Atlantic Alliance and with the collective security system which Washington is trying to put together in the : Pacific . America 's European allies are all suffering economically from the postwar blockage of East-West trade . Their dependence on American economic aid is primarily the result of this blockage . Were the bairiers removed anti were European - manufactured products again to flow eastward freely in return for eastern raw materials , it is probable that Western Europe could swiftly regain its independence from American economic aid . Economists generally agree that such a trade resumption could do more to solve Britain 's economic problems than any one other thing . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem which is solvable most easily . in theory , by resumption of its prewar trade with China . Therefore Moscow possesses powerful bait in the form of its potential ability to offer the prospect of a revival of track with America 's present allies . If Moscow actually were ready to offer cheap raw materials in a real reopening of trade channels , it could exert a magnetic attraction on American allies which could play hob with the whole pattern of alliances built with such labor during the past five years . But there is no certainty that . this will be the next pattern 01 Russian strategy . for this week Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Y. Vishinsky at Paris renewed his ferrying Chinese Nationalist troops from Formosa to Burma for an alleged attack on the bordering Chinese province of Yunnan . This charge looks ominously like a Russian propaganda preparation for the opening of a new Cominform military operation in southeast . Asia to follow swiftly on the heels of a Korean truce . Such a move would nullify the trade offensive . But it would pose a military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Korean operation has been . The difficulty lies in the fact that of all causes espoused by western cold war leaders . the support of French resistance in Indo-China is least popular everywhere except in France itself . Ripe for ' Volunteer ' Blow The United States has had considerable difficulty inducing its Allies to join in the Korean war . It would have greater difficulty ? mobilizing a common front for another border war in IndoChina . There would even be great difficulty in obtaining general support in American public opinion . Indo-China is a country remote from most of the western world . French policy there never has enjoyed wholehearted approval in Washington , London , New Delhi , or any other western capital . The present military balance between French forces and their native allies on the one side and local Communists with Chinese advisers and equipment on the other is precarious . The Peking regime enjoys a real urospect of being able to win a military victory by merely using so-called Chinese " volunteers . " And if Chinese intervention were kept even speciously within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general support in the United Nations either for treating Russia as the real aggressor or even for major retaliation against Com- , ; 1-1isf . China itself . Therefore as western strategists survey the prospects of either a Russian trade offensive or the un- , leashing of another Korean-type Communist operation in Indo-China . they find either prospect equally distressing . Dual Strategy Stressed                     