@@719612

txt The Soviet Union disclosed today that active negotiations were under way among the major powers concerning the preparation of a summit conference . This information was contained in a statement of the Soviet Foreign Ministry on the disarmament problem . A Foreign Ministry spokesman later repeated that talks were under way but would not say where or who was taking part . Later Nikita S. Khrushchev , Soviet Communist party chief , urged in an address that the Western powers meet the Soviet Union halfway in settling differences to forestall a war he said could be set off by the " slightest thing . " Discussions in Moscow It is known that the matter of a top-level meeting has been taken up between Soviet representatives and Western officials in Washington , Paris and probably in London . It has also been discussed informally here by Western diplomats and Soviet officials . It was believed that procedural matters were now occupying the attention of the big powers . One question is whether there should be a gathering of foreign ministers before a summit meeting and what they would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to limit their discussions to the working out of the agenda for a top-level meeting and determine where and when it would be held and who would take part . The Western powers are insisting that a preliminary conference should be able to consider substantive questions to learn whether there was any substantial hope for agreement by the Government chiefs . New Ideas ' Projected It appears that this difference has not yet been settled , although a Foreign Ministry spokesman here said " new ideas " had been or would be advanced during the unpublicized talks that are now taking place . The purpose of the statement ' given to the foreign press by tile Soviet Government was to criticize efforts to carry on discussions of disarmament problems through the United Nations Disarmament Commission . The Soviet Union repeated that its earlier refusal to take part in those discussions still stood . The Government also attacked plans to submit the disarmament question for consideration by the United Nations Security Council . Moscow said it refused to take part in such discussions because the Security Council and the proposed Disarmament Commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If there was to be any talk of disarmament at the United Nations , the statement said , it should be by the kind of commission the Soviet proposed last fall , one on which all countries belonging to the United Nations would be represented . The Foreign Ministry said it was clear that the United Nations would be able to make no progress on disarmament . It said plans to convene the commission or to put the matter up to the Security Council were designed only to make it appear that Soviet reluctance to take part in the talks was the sole obstacle to the agreement . The Soviet statement said that a summit meeting should discuss disarmament and that only such a gathering of top leaders could really open the way to a solution . It said talk of holding a Disarmament Commission meeting was being used to divert attention from the summit meeting . It said these steps would " only help those who not interested in improving the international situation " and who opposed the summit meeting . " At the present time , " the statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among the principal interested parties concerning concrete questions connected with the organization of such a meeting . " Warning on Intervention In his address at the Lenin Sports Palace , Mr : Khrushchev demanded that the United States drop its idea of discussing the situation in Eastern Europe at a top-level meeting . This , he said , was an " unheard of violation of the elementary standards of relations among countries " and interference in their internal affairs . He warned that the Soviet Union would intervene promptly if there were any attempt to alter by force the system prevailing in any of the Communist states of Europe . The party First Secretary 's remarks were greeted by tumultuous applause from a crowd of about 14,000 persons . They were in Moscow to hear Mr. Khrushchev wind up the nation-wide election campaign . Sunday an estimated 99.98 per cent of the Soviet 's eligible voters will go to the polls to give their approval to 1,364 nominees for 1,364 seats in the Supreme Soviet , the country 's Parliament . Mr. Khrushchev is a-Council date for a seat in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speech , ostensibly directed to the voters in his district , was broadcast throughout the Soviet Union . It was a bard-hitting speech . Mr. Khrusirchev laid down the lines of the - country 's foreign policy and outlined the vast progress he said had been made by the Soviet in recent years . He promised the people even more startling progress  --  more food , better homes and improved working conditions .                     