@@718463

txt Egypt will refuse to negotiate with Britain and France for a settlement of the Suez Canal question , but will deal directly with the United Nations . A source or tile nignest authority said tonight that the Government no longer felt bourid by the agreement it had made with Dag Hammarskjold , Secretary General of the United Nations , early in October to negotiate directly with Britain and France . In explaining this statement of policy , Lieut . Col. Abdel Kader Hatem , Egyptian Information Director , said the Government still would adhere to the six principles adopted by the United Nations General Assembly as a basis for negotiating a Suez Canal settlement . Those principles provide the following : 1 . Free transit through the canal without discrimination . 2 . Respect for Egypt 's sovereignty . 3 . Insulation of the canal from the politics of , ai y country . 4 . The fixing of tolls and charges by agreement between Egypt - and the canal users , 5 . Allotment of a fair portion of the dues to dovelo:pment of the canal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disputes and unresolved affairs between Egypt and the Universal Suez Canal Company , which was nationalized by President Gallia . ' Abdel Nasser 's regime last July 26 . Despite tonight 's policy statement there was no indication that talks on a final settlement of the Suez Canal dispute were in the offing . A prerequisite to such talks was that the work get started on clearing the canal of all the obstructions that have blocked traffic through the waterway since the beginning of the attacks on . Egypt by Britain , France and Israel . Meanwhile V. K. Krishna Menon , India 's Minister Without Portfolio , is scheduled to arrive here by air from London where he has been sitting in on discussions between his Prime Minister , Jawaharlal Nehru , and British officials . It is considered certain that he has been briefed on the results of Mr. Nehru 's talks in Washington with President Eisenhower . The United States is understood to be hopeful of getting President Nasser to adopt a conciliatory policy that would lead to the quickest possible settlement of the major Middle East problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain and France on the Canal issue the source said : " We could not forget what happened when the two Western nations attacked Egypt . We would not enter into direct negotiations with those who attacked us , especially after having broken off relations with them . " It was the first major policy statement emanating from the Cairo Government since President Nasser left the capital for " rest and contemplation " almost two weeks ago . During that period , except for negotiations at lower levels , there has been a feeling here that things were in a state of suspension . President Nasser returned to work today after his vacation at a rest house on the Red Sea . London Lacks Confirmation special to The New York Times . LONDON , Dec. 26 ? A Foreign Office spokesman said tonight that he could not confirm a news report from Cairo that the Egyptian Government would no longer consider negotiating a Suez Canal settlement with Britain and France . The spokesman said that since Egypt had broken off diplomatic relations with Britain and France any further negotiations would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Advantage Special to The New York Times . The reported refusal by Egypt to negotiate with Britain and France on the Suez Canal was seen here as bolstering the British and French case . There was no official comment on the report . But , if confirmed , the Egyptian attitude , it was felt here , would give substance to the contention by London and Paris that the Egyptian President : , Gamal Abdel Nasser , can not be dealt with because of his bad faith . It is felt that after having been alone in the United Nations in defending their military intervention in Egypt , both Britain and France could now contend more effectively than before that , because of Egyptian intransigence , such intervention was not unreasonable . There is a tendency here to s sit tight for the moment and wait for Washington , deemed greatly responsible for the unsettled situation , to initiate diplomatic action . The greatest importance is placed upon a speedy opening of the canal , a move that was stressed during talks between Secretary of State Dulles and French Foreign Minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                 