@@718945

txt DULLES CALLS AIM END ' OF RED RULE Says He Seeks a Peaceful Liberation of Peoples in Red China and Soviet The transcript of Dulles news conference is on Page 4 , By JAMES RESTON Special to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , July 2 ? Secretary of State Dulles said today he believed in and was working for the eventual peaceful liberation of the Soviet and Chinese peoples . Though others might be willing to adjust to the idea that international communism was here to stay , the Secretary of State said at his news conference that he was not . On the contrary , he proclaimed a kind of personal declaration of independence for the peoples now living under communism , asserting his faith that freedom and not tyrannical communism was the wave of the future . No Timetable Is Set " I do n't put any dates on these things , " Mr. Dulles said , " I do n't say what is going to happen in one year , five years , ten years , but I am confident that the trend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Certainly it 's an assumption that I think must be made by anybody who believes in the American tradition . " , Mr. Dulles developed this theme with more vigor and spirit than he has used on any subject in recent months . He is known to be disturbed by recent evidence that some legislators , businessmen and , allies think the time has come to acquiesce in the permanence of the Chinese Communist regime , and he has now set himself the task of opposing this trend officially . He quoted Abraham Lincoln as having said that the American Declaration of Independence meant liberty not alone for the American people but the hope of liberty for all men . And he left no doubt that , so far as he was concerned , he was going to stand on that principle no matter what others did . Points Made by Dulles The Secretary also declared : CCommunist China need not be a party to a world-wide disarmament treaty , but that treaty would be negotiated in such a way that , if Communist China violated it , the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the treaty . tiThe recent statements by officials of Communist China promising more freedom to the Chinese people were merely a means of identifying and trapping those who disagreed with the Communist regime . 11The Eisenhower Administration did not want to get more deeply involved in the French Algerian crisis despite some agitation in the Senate for United States intervention . gRecent United States grants . f $30,000,000 to Jordan might be followed by more aid , but that did not mean that the United // States was taking over and replacing the former British subsidy of $36,000,000 a year to that tiny kingdom . 9The United States intends to keep control of Okinawa as long as necessary to " serve interests of peace and security in the area . " 91The Secretary still is studying whether to allow some newsmen passports to visit Communist China " as a special matter . " The prospects for an international conference on the reunification of Korea are not good ; the United States will agree to a conference only after free elections are permitted in North Korea . Today 's conference was notable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dulles ' attitude toward the future of China policy than anything else . A debate of some consequence has been going on here on this subject within both the Executive and Legislative branches of the Government . Some legislators , for example , Senator J. William Fulbright , Democrat of Arkansas , have urged the Administration to recognize the Peiping regime as the legitimate Government of China . Some United States businessmen , noting that Britain and other countries had refused to follow the United States embargo on trade with Communist China , have been asking their Congressmen why the United States should refrain from trade with Red China . Even within the Executive branch of the Government , some officials have been contending that the way to detach Communist China from Moscow was not to stand aloof from it but to trade with it as the United States is trading with Poland and thus give Red ' China an alternative to doing all its business with the Soviet Union . All this came to a head in a recent Presidential news conference when President Eisenhower said he was not as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintain one trade policy with Moscow and a more rigid embargo on trade with Peiping . Action Taken by Dulles At this point , Secretary Dulles , with the strong urging of Walter S. Robertson , assistant Secretary of State , began moving to block this trend toward what seemed to be a more lenient attitude toward Peiping , or at least , toward those who , such as the British and Japanese , were determined to do business with Communist China . Last week , with the approval of the President , Mr. Dulles went to San Francisco and there emphasized before a convention of the Lions International that the United States had no intention of accommodating itself to the Chinese Communist regime , He was received enthusiastically , and he returned to the same role today . His manner was that of a man who seemed to be less concerned about the issues of the moment and more concerned about the long historical view of his policy toward the Chinese Communists . He seemed to be saying that , though others might adjust to and accept Peiping into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if necessary , was going to judge and direct China policy from the viewpoint of what he thought was morally right . The premise of those who are prepared to adjust ' to the power and position of the Peiping regime is that , whether the United States likes it or not , that regime is a fact and must either be fought or accepted . Mr. Dulles himself took that position in his book , " War or Peace , " written in 1950 . At that time , he wrote : " If the Communist Government of China in fact proves its ability to govern China without serious domestic resistance , then it ? too , should be admitted to the United Nations . " " Communist Governments today dominate more , than 30 per cent of the population of the world , " his book went on . " We may not like that fact ; indeed , we do not like it at all . But if we want to have a world organization , then it should be representative of the world as it is . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his comments today were in striking contrast with the policy he seemed to favor then . He did not rule out recognition of the Peiping regime for all time , nor did he oppose recognition because of Peiping 's support of international communism , but he emphasized in the most direct way his opposition to recognition so long as Peiping followed the path of aggression , mistreated Americans , and did not live up to its international obligations . More than that , he rejected the idea that there was a basic difference between the ideology of Moscow and Peiping . " As far as we can judge , the nations which are within the Sino-Soviet bloc are all dominated by what can fairly be called International Communism , " he said . " Now one does see to detect at times differences between the Chinese ideology and the Soviet ideology , and President Tito of Yugoslavia indicated he thought there was a differnce and that - the Chinese ideology was tending more to a nationalistic form . However , I would not think that our estimate conformed to President Tito @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the refusal of some allies to accept his view of the Chinese regime in Peiping lessened the effect of what he was trying to do , but he observed that though others had recognized the Peiping regime five or six years ago , he did n't think this had meant much , since very little diplomatic intercourse had followed the policy of recognition , What was new today was merely his reemphasis of the idea that morality should be the basis of policy toward Communist ' China , and that if the United States held to this view , the natural longings of men everywhere for freedom would gradually force the Communists to modify their system . Did this mean that Mr. Dulles thought the grandchildren of the Russian and Chinese Communists would eventually live under a free system , he was asked . On the assumption that they went on having children , the answer was yes , he replied .                     