@@713837

txt Let 's look at the record . On Nov. 9 , 1950 , the United Nations was officially informed by its commander in the field of massive Chinese Communist intervention in Korea . This information was subsequently documented in detail . On Dec. 14 , 1950 , the United Nations authorized the creation of a three-man cease-fire committee , with representatives of Iran , India and Canada , to approach the Chinese Communists with truce proposals . On Dec. 23 , 1950 , the Chinese Communists flatly rejected the cease-fire proposals made by the committee . On Jan. 3 of this year that truce committee reported its failure to the United Nations . On Jan. 13 the United Nations General Assembly voted , 50 to 7 , for a " peace plan " for the Far East . This called for an immediate cease-fire , to be followed by a general conference on major outstanding issues , including the disposition of Formosa and the admission of Communist China to the United Nations . On Jan. 17 the Peiping regime formally rejected the ' peace plan " of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States introduced a resolution in the General Assembly naming the Chinese Communists as aggressors in Korea . On Jan. 30 the Political and Security Committee of the United Nations , by a vote of 44 to 7 , with 9 abstentions , adopted the resolution naming Peiping an aggressor . On Feb. 1 the General Assembly adopted this resolution by the same vote . Today is May 7 . What has happened in the meantime ? United Nations action has been put in the hands of two quite different committees . One was authorized to explore , with Peiping , the grounds for a Korean truce . The other , the Committee on Additional Measures , was to take up the matter of possible sanctions . It has just received a United States proposal for an embargo on shipments of military materials to Communist China . The proposal has had anything but warm support . The cease-fire committee has drawn a complete blank . The Security Council of the United Nations , in which a case such as this properly inheres , is not apprised of it . The reason is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union would paralyze it in any case . The General Assembly is in recess . The Little Assembly , created to handle this type of problem , is silent . An unofficial AsianA.rab " peace bloc " has held a few meetings and confessed its impotence , Meanwhile General has brought to the attention of the Senate committee a report from the United States consul general in Hong Kong that states , according to his testimony , that in two weeks in February and one week in March of this year there went forward through that port to Communist China strategic materials from various countries in the amount of approximately 40,000,000 United States loners . Pressed to name some of these materials in later testimony , General , quoting from the consular report , detailed a group of chemicals , ? lectric and other instruments , radio parts , machinery , heavy minerals , medicines , a large variety of metals , labomtory equipment , and , above all , rubper and petroleum . This is not a field for partisan dispute . This is a point at which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involved . Eith the resolution of Feb. 1 means som thing or it does n't . If Communi China is an aggressor , as the Unit Nations has said it is , the victim of t aggression is not merely Korea but t United Nations itself . Members of t United Nations surely can not , wi clear conscience and straight face , p weapons in the hands of the aggress that has been named and condemn and that is actively engaged , at th very moment , in killing nationals those selfsame members . The way of dealing with aggressh has been devious enough . There ha , been extraordinary delays and painf evasions . On this issue there is no e : cuse for compromise . No one in h senses can urge that the way to de with aggression is to arm it .                     