@@713208

txt Warning the British people that new Communist attacks miolit come soon against Tibet and Iran , Winston ' Churchill , Opposition leader , declared tonight that in his judgment , " the real peril is in Europe . " A weak Europe an &; a Britain divided over socialism increase the danger to the West , he declared . His speech was a plea to this nation and others to use to the best advantage whatever " breathing space " was left to stave off the " horror " of a Communist war of conquest . Mr. Churchill spoke on the radio for twenty minutes from his country home at Westerham in Kent . It was one of periodic political broadcasts that the British Broadcasting Corporation allots to each political party , and for that reason Mr. Churchill spoke both as an elder statesman and as a party leader . His warning to the Western World , therefore , was mixed with mordant criticism of Britain 's Labor Government and some of Prime Minister Attlee 's Ministers for pursuing what he considered a purblind , uncertain and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Opposition leader 's chief grievance against the Prime Minister now is that he has refused the joint request of himself and Clement Davies , Liberal leader , to recall Parliament before Sept. 12 . At their last meeting at 10 Downing Street , Mr. Attlee and Mr. Churchill exchanged heated // words and it is reported that Mr. Churchill called the head of Britain 's Labor Government a wouldbe dictator . In tonight 's speech , Mr. Churchill used parliamentary language but he did refer to " a lengthy and none too pleasant discussion " at which Mr. Attlee " arbitrarily refused our request for an earlier recall . " He added : " I do not think it is a wise or right course for a Prime Minister , in a minority of nearly two million votes at the last election and with a majority of only one in the House of Commons at the last crucial division , to treat with so little consideration the views of those political opponents who offer to suport him on all the things that matter most and on whose help he is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " It is a bad thing that His Majesty 's Prime Minister should show himself so sullenly resolved to lead only half the nation . " Mr. Attlee is expected to reply to IvL . Churchill 's criticism of himself and his Government early next month in a Labor pasty broadcast . But it was announced last night before Mr. Churchill spoke that the Prime Minister would address the nation by radio next Wednesday on the Government 's plans for strengthening the armed forces . Cause of Annoyance The reason for Mr. Churchill 's annoyance at the refusal of the Prime Minister to recall Parliament sooner is that he thinks the Government owes the people of Britain an explanation as to why six days after Parliament adjourned it was announced that it had been decided to treble a new ? 100,000,000 plan for strengthening defense . - Mr. Churchill 's view is that the country ought to be told what caused this drastic revision upward between July 26 and Aug. 2 and that Parliament should be con-sulted on a program " requiring farreaching changes in our whole national industry and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a month " to make up their minds " to send a force to Korea in response to the United Nations appeal and referred to " graver cases of lack of prevision. of hesitancy and changes of plan " that , he said , were more suitable to a secret session of the House than a general broadcast . He did attack the sale of fet fight ? erg to Egypt and Argentina when Britain was short of them for I7er reserves and he attacked the continued sale of machine tools to Russia and the presence of Soviet " inspectors " inside workshops where production of a secret nature is zoinz on . He called on Mr. Atlee to halt the sale of machine tools , Diesel engines and the like , to Russia and her satellites . Mr. Churchill was referring to work being done in factories to the order of the Soviet Union . Orders are placed by the Soviet Union under the British-Russian trade agreement of 1948 and in return Britain receives grain and other commodities . In these circumstances , a spokesman of the Ministry of Supply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observe how their orders were being ful1 filled . However , he added that it was easy to conceal from the inspectors things they ought not to see . As another example of the Government 's lack of foresight , Mr. Churchill referred to its reaction to his suggestion of five months ago that consideration be given to enlisting German aid for the defense of Western Europe . Then , his suggestion had been described by Mr. Attlee as " irresponsible , " he said , but " now his Government are making plans with the representatives of America and Europe for doing this very thing . " Sardonically , Mr. Churchill add-ed : " Perhaps it is better to be irresponsible and right than to be responsible and wrong . " Welcomes Strasbourg Evidence The opposition leader welcomed the evidence from Strasbourg that the French and Germans , in the face of the common peril from the East , were willing to set aside their age-old . hostility , but he ' warned that the creation of a Russian-sponsored German army in the Eastern zone under the guise of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Korea . He repeated his earlier assertion that Western Europe was outnumbered from six to eight to one by the Russian armies and was spared the horrors of conquest and occupation solely by the ' United States ' predominance in stocks of atomic bombs . It was no wonder that the Communists sought to ban the bomb 's use in the name of peace for then they would have Europe " naked and at their mercy , " he said . Mr. Churchill also regretted that his suggestion of last February that the democracies make one more effort at reaching an agreement with Premier Stalin had fallen on barren soil but he declared that in his view the only way to deal with the Russians was to attain superior strength and then act with " reason and fairness . " If the British people felt that their present government was incapable of leading them through the crisis , they should replace it , he concluded .                     