@@713897

txt A cut in metals for passenger cars in the quarter beginning July 1 , will limit production to about 1,200,000 units . This is a 37 per cent cut from the big third quarter of 1950 , 29 per cent below the fourth quarter , and 25 per cent below the first quarter of this year . Production in the current quarter will be about 1,400,000 cars . Courtney Johnson , director of the National Production Authority 's Motor Vehicle Division , said the industry would come close to producing 5,400,000 passenger cars this year , compared with the 1950 record of 6,500,000 cars . That estimate indicates that production in the fourth quarter will continue at a relatively high rate . Today 's production authority order is not a direct control on the number of cars . Producers may use their share of materials in lighter-model cars , if they wish , and thereby produce more units . Up to now the Government has limited auto production by fixed percentage limits on steel , copper and aluminum . In the current quarter , use limitations were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 65 per cent on aluminum . The steel rate was 80 per cent in April and May and 78 1/3 per cent in June , Different Formula Employed Today 's order uses a different formula . It is designed to preserve the competitive position of each company in the industry as far as possible . The order itself lists the relative standing of the makers as of January , 1950 . Under the formula , each company will take its percentage standing in the industry and multiply it by 1,200,000 . This figure , multiplied by average car usage of steel , copper and aluminum , in January , 1950 , will be the quantity of each material an automobile manufacturer is authorized to use in the third quarter of 1951 . Not more than 40 per cent of the total for the quarter may be used in any one month . The percentage standing of the manufacturers : General Motors .41.35 , Chrysler 21.65 , Ford 21.35 , Studebaker 4.25 , Nash 3.30 , Hudson 2.95 , Packard 2.15 , KaiserFrazer 1.55 , Willys-Overland 1 , Crosley 0.35 , Checker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case of undue hardship . Because the order lists each automobile manufacturer with his specific percentage standing , hardship adjustments for one company would cause some revision of the other companies ' percentage standings . Any substitution of materials made before June 1 of this year must be continued . That means a maker using steel pistons , instead of aluminum , must continue to do so . Another order requires sulphur suppliers to ship sulphur only when authorized by the National Production Authority , and limits sulphur users to 100 per cent of last year 's rate of consumption . The use restriction becomes effective immediately . The authorization to suppliers will begin July 1 . Although buyers are not required to get the production agency 's authorization to purchase sulphur , they have to make monthly reports on their uses of it and their inventories . Sulphur and sulphuric acid are used in virtually all essential industries . Consumption has risen so fast in recent years that it has been estimated that this year 's demand would exceed the supply by 1,000,000 tons . Total 1951 output is estimated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sulphur is almost entirely dependent on deposits in the Gulf Coast region . Production there , now at a record high , can not be increased , the production authority reported . There are other sources of sulphuric acid , but a substantial production increase in this field will require a considerable period and will not be able to relieve the present shortage at any time soon . Cut Due in Cheaper Models DETROIT , June 2 ( UP ) ? Cheaper models of the more popular cars probably will be hit hardest by the Government 's new metal controls if car makers continue to find buyers for their de luxe jobs . At the same time , the order means thousands more auto workers may find themselves out of jobs until defense work actually gets to the assembly line stage . Under the limits set for steel , aluminum and copper , manufacturers are expected to concentrate on models with the widest profit margin . As one auto executive put it : " We 're in business to make money . With our metals , limited we 're going to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the public stops wanting them . " Limited production means smaller work forces . Henry Ford 2d announced his company would lay off 14,000 within . sixty days . General Motors employment is down about 10 per cent from last year 's peak . Other makers have cut the same amount or more . In indicating their plans , industry executives pointed out that smaller unit production reduces unit profit on cheap cars , where the margin is small anyway . With the margin greater on more expensive lines manufacturers can be expected to push these the hardest . The big three makers  --  General Motors , Chrysler and Ford  --  still are having little trouble selling their cars despite severe credit restrictions . And the rule rather than the exception in ' the Ford-Chevrolet-Plymouth class is to de luxe models rather than the cheapest two-door coupe .                     