@@718475

txt ; KRESS OPENS SESSION TODAY ; ' LEADERS PICKED Rayburn , Johnson , Knowland and Martin Are Assured ot Holding Their Posts DEMOCRATS BAR ' PURGES ' House Caucus Fails to Take Action Against Powell for Bolting to President By C. P. TRUSSELL Special to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , Jan. 2 ? Democrats and Republicans in the House of Representatives began today picking their captains for the Eighty-fifth Congress , which convenes at noon tomorrow . Senators of both parties will do the same tomorrow morning . The command levels for the . J new Congress will look like those of the Eighty-fourth . The line-up changes will result chiefly from retirements or election casualties . It is assured that Representative Sam Rayburn , Democrat of Texas , again will be the Speaker of the House . Representative Joseph W. Martin Jr. , Republican of Massachusetts , is equally assured of the post of House minority leader . ? Johnson to Be Leader On the Senate side , even in advance of tomorrow 's caucuses , Senator Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas will again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his counterpart for the Senate Republican minority . It is also expected that Senator Carl Hayden , Democrat of Arizona , will become President pro tempore of the Senate . There had been threats that the Democrats ' caucus in the House would produce a fight on the question of whether two Democrats should be disciplined for their actions during the election campaign . Representative Adam Clayton Powell Jr. , Democrat of Manhattan , supported President Eisenhower against Adlai E. Stevenson , the Democratic candidate. , Hays Concurs in Move Representative Wayne 14 Hays , Democrat of Ohio , served notice after the election that he might demand that the Democratic caucus discipline . Mr : Powell for this bolting of the Stevenson ticket . But the , question did not come up today as the Democratic caucus went through its ritual of harmony . Nor was anything said about Representative John Bell Williams of Mississippi , who ? cast his lot with the Civil Rights party when asked to vote for Mr. Stevenson . Speaker Rayburn said after the Democratic caucus that " purges " had not been on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' s appeared to concur . " The leadership did not want the question of discipline raised , " he said , " so I deferred . " So it appeared that neither . Powell nor Mr. Williams would ' lose present committee assignthents.or seniority on committees . Mr. Rayburn , said after the Democratic Caucus that not a single controversial matter had been introduced . " We never intended to purge anybody , " he explained . " Things had been settled all the time if he Representative ' Powell had n't talked as much . " The House Democrats again appointed the Democratic members of the Ways and Means Committee to serve as the group that will make appointments to the committees , fill vacancies and take whatever advantage it can of a slightly increased Democratic majority . The Republicans named a Committee on Committee , picked on regional lines , to do a similar job . They also named a Policy Committee , headed by Mr. Martin , drawn from all states that have Republicans in Congress . Democrats Elect Price Representative Melvin ? Price of Illinois was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress . He succeeds Representative John J. Rooney of Brooklyn . The Senate , meanwhile , was presenting an organizational problem . Forty-nine Democrats and forty - seven Republicans were elected in November . This was the same line-up as the Eighty-fourth Congress . Two Senators-elect planned to remain in their state posts until after the Senate was b orounized . One was a Republican , Jacob K. Javits , now Attorney General of New York . The other was Frank J. Lausche , Governor of Ohio . Mr. Javits appears determined to stay at his post until Jan. 9 , when a Republican Legislature can name his successor . Governor Lausche had been determined to stay on until Jan. 14 , when his successor could be named by a Democratic Governor . Today Governor Lausche decided to come to Washington in time for the organizational votilia- , leaving his post in the hands of his Lieutenant Governor . This ordinarily would mean one more vote for the Democrats . But there were reports that Governor Lausche might vote for Republican control of the Senate . He had indicated in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the control of the Senate . There was speculation also as to whether Mr. Javits would come to Washington take his Senate oath . If Mr. Javits and Governor Lausche voted for Republican control , a tie vote would result . Vice President Richard M. Nixon , as president of the Senate , then could break it in favor of the G. 0 . P. If Mr.'Javits ' vote was not cast , the Democrats could squeeze through even though Mr. Lausche voted Republican . With the Democrats running both houses , it will mark the first time in .108 years that a political party different from that of a newly elected President will be in control . The Issues In Congress The caucuses today did not deal with the issues to go before the new Congress . But they were in the background . They in-cluded : Cl The President 's proposals to resist any Communist aggression in the Middle East . cThe civil rights program in c , volvin the present movement by liberals in Congress to break rules of the Senate that permit filibusters . Revision of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who are ' fleeing from Communist oppression . JNew drives for reductions on taxes that will be made but likely will be defeated . ' Expenditures for national defense . cFarm policy , involving price supports . qHousing , involving the Administration 's tight-money policies . Powell Claims ' Victory ' WASHINGTON , Jan. 2 ( s ) ? Representative Powell claimed a " victory " over his Democratic critics . At a news conference after the caucus , he said he believed no action had been taken at the House caucus because a group of Negro clergymen had called on Speaker Rayburn and other Democratic leaders urging that Mr. Powell be given his regular committee assignments and other seniority perquisites . Mr. Martin said the Democrats " did n't dare " take any action against Mr. Powell . " What could they do to Powell that they would n't have to do to Williams ? " Mr. Martin asked . Mr. Powell , at his news conference , said he was " toying with the idea " of introducing legislation to cut off any Federal school aid funds from school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                