@@714255

txt Co Serve Abroad TOWARD ELKINTON.MAGNUS BJORNDAL.VIOLET ALLEYN STOREY.JAMES T. SHOTWELLWILLIAM g . RIO Role of Jouhaux Cited Tribute Paid to Labor for Soda Justice of Nobel Prize Maser The writer of the following legtero historian and educator , it President Emeritus of the Carnegie Madeira**. for International Peace . ro Serve Abroad Irogram to Gain Recruits for . International Tasks Outlined To THE EDITOR or THE NEw YORK Taunt ' Comment upon the award of the Nobel Peace Prize to Leon JOUISSUiffil veteran leader of organised labor - In France , has naturally and props/ placed emphasis upon his courageow and statesmanlike effort to build non-Communist labor movement designed to counter the Communist trend which had developed in the Confdders ? tion Gdnerale du Travail , of which he had been the leader for so many years . Without in any way discounting this valuable service to the cause of peace , it should be noted that M. Jouhaue own comment on the award placed the accent on another contribution which also has history behind it .. He made reference to the recognition by the Nobel committee of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attained when it rests upon social justice . " This phrase is a quotation from the Pry . amble to the Constitution of the International Labor Organization , Part XIII of the Treaty of Versailles . M. Jouhaux played an important part in the negotiations of the Labor Commission of the Paris Peace Conference which created the I. L. O. But this was only the culmination of his activities during the war , which partly paralleled and partly went beyond the proposals of Samuel Gompers and the leaders of the American Federation of Labor , as early as . 1916 , calling for a world labor congress at the same time and place as the Peace Conference . During the war M. Jouhaux was . aotively engaged in the discussion a peace aims , and in April , 1916 , he called a meeting in Paris of the representatives of the British , ? ? French , Belgian and Italian trade unions . The result of thisAs a conference of the General Federation ' of Trade Unions restricted to the trade unionists who were opposed to radical socialism , which was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For this meeting . M. Jouhaux prepared an elaborate report , the earliest evidence of initiative taken by organized labol ' in the movement for international labor legislation . The text of this document has been reproduced in Volume II of the " Origins of International Labor Organization , " published by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace . . The history of this initiative is significant in view of the present situation of labor in France . The pioneering effort of 1916 was the work of only a minority in , the labor movement , but in succeeding years its challenge bas ? been accepted and embodied in the one organization associated with the League of Nations which was destined to survive the second World War with increased recognition of its capacity and measures for social justice throughout the world  --  the International Labor Organization . For his contribution to this great work M. Jouhaux has been fittingly awarded the Nobel Peace Prize , JAMES T. SHOTWELL : New York , Nov. 8 , 1951 . The writer of the following letter is ixeoutive director of the Carl Sch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE New YORK TIMES : The article written for THE . NEW YORK TIMES by James Reston and pub'shed in your Sunday edition of Nov. 4 under the heading " Recruiting Pushed by Foreign Service " raises a most interesting problem which should be of great concern to every American . Inasmuch as I have had an unusual opportunity of meeting foreign service representatives abroad , when in the service of the American Friends Service Committee , I responded heartily to James Reston 's account . There are certain serious Rroblems that face every career man in our foreign service . The most affecting is the lack of career tradition in our country , which extends barely beyond certain professions , such as medicine and law . It is essential that we mature a background for our country 's devoted servants . This will take time , because we are still close to the frontier experience . As our nation moves into the role of serious international undertakings we must fashion the pattern of constant support and respect for those in civil service . As Mr. Reston remarked , McCarthyism is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young men who should enter into this branch of our nation 's service . In order to avoid the raids on the State Department 's personnel and consequent character assassination , I hope Congress can devise a process whereby one person in the State Department will be responsible to a Congressional inquiry . This may have to be the duty of the Secretary of State . This simple device would eliminate the worry that now corrodes the usefulness ? of able persons who obviously can not function at their appointed tasks if they have to defend themselves constantly against criticism , whether within or outside of Congress . The third need is clear  --  namely , the recruitment of the ablest young men in our universities and colleges . It must be undertaken by scouts who are equival , ent to the industrial scouts who constantly visit university and college campuses . Another need is evident . If men are to be drafted into the State Department 's service , these men must be considered as performing a service to our country equivalent to the soldier and thereby enjoy ? release @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of state a long way toward the goal which we should reach as soon as it is humanly possible . Otherwise we shall not be able to deal with the problems that face our nation as the British Empire dissolves , Socialist forces in our country assume new powers , and as the people of the United States begin to understand the meaning of destiny . HOWARD ELKINTON . Philadelphia , Nov. 7 , 1951 . Books and Solitude To THE EDITOR OP THE NEW You : TIMES : In THE TIMES of Nov. 4 there is a lesson in education which deserves a great deal of attention . A young man from the mountains , who had never seen the inside of a school , made the Army test with a score of 93 , while high school graduates average 35 and outstanding young ? college men seldom get over 72 , This would seem to indicate that our modern theories of education are all wrong . To obtain a real education one must evidently have solitude and books , that 's all . The Bible tells us of great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were they perhaps so wise and great because of their better education ? MAGNUs B.ToRNDAL . Weehawken , N. J. , Nov. 5 , 1951 . PRAYER God of All Nations , in this faithwrought place , That still must grow in grandeur and in grace , May those who pass now pause to pray : Let not small differences divide today These Nations . Let the truly great Issues unite them  --  masters of their fate . " VIOLET ALLEYN STOREY . Southern Coalitions To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW Yonx Timm In the years following the War between the States many Southern leaders realized that they were Democrats in name only  --  only because there was no other party to which they could belong . Actually they had more in common with the conservative , business interests of the North than they , had with the Democratic party of the South . They were in fact Whigs , thoUgh the party had ceased to exist . Similarly , Republicans had . discovered that their economic interests were parallel  --  hence the two groups drifted together to form an alliance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the nominee of their own party . Seeking to get passage of the Texas and Pacific Railroad subsidy bill , the railroad lobby , headed by Tom Scott of the Pennsylvania Railroad , labored indefatigably to convince the Southern Democrats that their true interests lay in uniting with the Republican reformers . Thus radical rascality could be eliminated by the redeemers of the South . The reformers would get the Presidency and the redeemers would recapture control of their own state governments . It is interesting to note that deep and inexorable forces undermined this Whiggish coalition . This unity , born in an attempt to overthrow the carpet. , baggers , withered before the waves of agrarian radicalism which inundated the Conservative leaders . The South , allied with the agrarian West , demanded railroad regulation , not subsidies  --  free silver , not sound money ? destruction of , not creation of , monopolies . This effectively destroyed Hayes ' hopes for reviving the Republican party in the South . Today there seem to be indications of a renewal of the alliance between Southern Conservatives and Republican interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ swallow the word " Republican , " the Dixiecrat move ment might have swelled into large , proportions , with unfortunate results for Mr. Truman in 1948 . It remains to be seen whether aa alliance with the Republican party in 1952 will destroy the " solidity " of the South . Weighed against the advantages resulting from such ' a unity , the South must consider the loss of memberships on important Congressional committees earned by virtue of senior . ity . WILLIAM s . Low . New York , Nov. 7 , 1951.                     