@@716621

txt WASHINGTON , Oct , 26 ? The'l White House confirmed today that President Eisenhower " would like to " make an eleventh-hour ) aerial tour of six to eight states in an effort to get out a big Republican vote for the next Congress . No final decision has been taken by the President , but he is considering a proposal advanced by the Republican National Committee that he devote Friday and Saturday to intensive campaign efforts , Just how much the President I can do in two days still has not been settled , but party strategists are talking of a tour that would take him to these key states : MICHIGAN ? A Detroit speech to help Senator Homer Ferguson , chairman of the Senate Republican Policy Committee , who , is being hard pressed by Patrick J. , Democrat . KENTUCKY ? A Louisville talk to try to save the Senate seat of Senator John Sherman Cooper , Republican , who reportedly is trailing Alben W. Barkley , the former Vice President and longtime Democratic Senator from this state . ILLINOIS ? No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a speech on behalf of Joseph T , Meek , Republican , who reportedly is behind in an effort to capture the seat of Senator Paul H. Douglas , Democrat . IOWA ? A Waterloo speech possible in an effort to unseat Senator Guy M. Gillette , Democrat , who reportedly has a narrow , edge over his Republican opponent , Representative Thomas E. Martin , MINNESOTA ? A Minneapolis speech is under study in an effort to produce a last-minute surge of votes behind Val Bjornson , Republican State Treasurer , who has an uphill fight against Senator Hubert H , Humphrey , Democrat , OHIO ? No city has been selected , but there may be a speech here for Representative George H. Bender , Republican , who teportedly has a narrow lead over Senator Thomas A. Burke , Democrat . MASSACHUSETTS ? A helping hand would be ' extended in Boston for Senator Leverett Saltonstall , Republican , who is being closely pressed by Foster Furcolo , Democratic State Treasurer land former Congressman . DELAWARE ? A Wilmington appearance is sought in behalf of Representative Herbert B @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Allan Frear , Democrat , by a slight margin , The indications were that all except the evening appearances would be airport stops , with crowds waiting to hear the President . This would save travel time in automobile caravans from airports to cities and back again , The President used this method of campaigning to some extent during his 1952 electioneering effort and drew fairly large crowds at each stop . The President has scheduled his first news conference Since Aug , 17 for 10:30 A , M. tomorrow and it is possible he may announce a final decision at that time on whether he can make the projected stumping effort . General Eisenhower held no news conferences during his // eight-week Colorado Work-play vacation , and was away from Washington campaigning in . New York and Connecticut last week . James C. Hagerty , the ' White House Press Secretary , said that the proposed final campaign tour was put up to the President at a staff meeting this morning . He said the President had made It clear ? that he would like to speak to the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see that , everybody got out and voted on Election Day . " Any determination on whether he makes any such proposed swing will have to wait a day or two , " Mr , Hagerty said , The President is scheduled . to receive Dr , Konrad Adenauer , Chancellor of the West German Federal Republic , on Thursday , and to make a major political speech on TV and radio from 9:30 to 10 that night under the auspices of the Citizens for Eisenhower Congressional Committee . He has another big TV speech set for Monday , night , also from Washington .. In discussing the proposed trip with newsmen , Mr. Hagerty was reminded that the President earlier this year had said he would not barnstorm for individual candidates . Mr , Hagerty replied that the " proposed trip would be a tour to get out the vote . " There have been persistent reports from number of states that Republican candidates were putting heavy pressure on the White House to get the President to make a pePsonal appeal in their behalf . This was said to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressed , and in Delaware , where Republican leaders frankly declared that it would take a personal bid by the President to rally Republicans . to the support of Representative Warburton , In Delaware , the incumbent Senator Freer has a conservative voting record that has led party Workers to believe he would get a ? large number of Republican votes unless the President could persuade them that party control of the . Senate was absolutely ' vital to the success of his Administration .                     