@@716520

txt Mayor Wagner indirectly served notice yesterday on the Transit Authority that the city proposes to see to it that New Yorkers receive " the best type " of rapid transit ? service , even though operation of the transit system is under control of the authority and not the city . In a letter to the City Planning Commission , Mr. Wagner noted pointedly that every transit improvement , including the acquisition of property , extension of rapid transit lines and purchase of new cars , is paid for by the city , not the Transit Authority . Under its responsibility , the city therefore will " assist in every way possible " to bring about improvements in rapid transit service , the Mayor pledged . Mayor Wagner directed that first priority in the allocation of 1955 capital funds go to education . After education , preference is to go , in order , to transit , pollution control and the fight against juvenile delinquency , he said . The Mayor 's letter was the third statutory instruction received by the City Planning Commission in its preparation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Previously Lhe commission had heard from Controller Lawrence E. Gerosa and Budget Director Abraham D. Beame . Basing his estimates on the , findings of the Controller and Budget Director , Mayor Wagner directed that the amount to be spent for publicimprovements next year within public improvements city 's constitutienal debt limit not exceed 8200.000,000 in new funds . To this , the Mayor said , may be added whatever balance remains of the 189,700,000 in 1954 capital allocations not appropriated or earmarked up to last July 1 . Also available for 1955 , the Mayor asserted , will be funds outside the debt limit , largely unused balances earmarked for water supply , - transit , hospital and educational purposes . Mayor Wagner indicated that a decision was near cep whether the city should continue to generate its own power for operation of the rapid transit system or sell its plants and buy elec- , I ricity from the Consolidated , Edison Company . Power Study Under Way lie-disclosed that Deputy City Administrator Gorden Clapp is making a study of the power situation . A knotty phase of the problem , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the city continues to generate . its own power , a costly plant-rehabilitation program will be necessary . The Mayor took pride in the city 's race in recent years to replace its ' ' inadequate and obsolete school facilities . " Altt-oligh the city has made a record in the number of schools built and the size of appropriations for school construction . " much more reinams to be done  --  arld will be done , " he pledged . It was made known in the letter that the city , in a drive to push school construction even faster , has already taken " the initial steps " to acquire sites needed for the 1955 school construction program . " Every effort will continue to be made to . speed up the school construction program so that our planned program may become a reality , " Mr. Wagner promised . " I urgs your commission to continue to rank the improvement of educational facilities as your first priority for 1955 . " In general , the Mayor - told the city planners to give first priority in the 1955 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He pointed out that there are now many projects in the planning stage . It may be necessary in some cases , in the light of 1955 needs , the Mayor conceded , to shelve some improvements now on the planning boards for entirely new projects . The Mayor referred in his letter to the study now being made by the Youth Board of the activities under way by various city agencies to provide new ' recreational facilities and take other steps needed to combat the rising tide of juvenile delinquency . " The upsurge in juvenile delinquency emphasizes the need for furnishing added facilities so that the leisure time of the youth of our city may be diverted to more useful channels , " Mr. Wagner declared . " New or expanded recreational facilities are essential if we are to cope successfully with this problem . . . I urge your commission to make adequate provision for the construction of facilities to alleviate this disturbing condition . " Under the anti-pollution program , which also got a high priority , the city would push the construction of new sewage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York .                     