@@717739

txt The Leipzig Fair , a door to EastWest trade , was opened wide today . Statistically , the- number of West European and uncommitted countries represented at the spring session of the fair would seem to indicate that a good part of the barrier to East-West trade has been torn down or is in process of being torn down : Among the surprises to visitors to the East . German fair were the number and power of the West German industrial concerns that were participating . This would seem to contradict the general line in West Germany that there is no active interest in Eastern markets  --  the Soviet Union , Communist China and the " People 's Democracies " in Eastern Europe . A list of the 1 ; 589 parti4at ? ing West German concerns reads like a roster of the summit of West German industrial power . Included are Krupp of Essen , Kloeckner of Duisburg , Ruhr Stahl , Hoesch of Dortmund , Phoenix Rheinrohr , Mannesman , Bochumer Verein , Ferrostahl , Demag , Daimler-Benz and others . These companies are . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Diesel engines , generators , pumps and similar goods in West Germany . This is the first time since World War II that Krupp has participated . Its exhibit of steel products is one of the most impressive . By way of introduction to Soviet visitors there is a discreet notice next to the Krupp office explaining the company 's opera- tions ; The notice is written in Russian and is entitled " From our production program . " It lists the numerous articles produced in the factories of the Krupp empire . Even more discreet is a smaller notice set in what resembles a restaurant menu stand . It contains a handsome photograph of Alfried Krupp , the present owner . There is a brief description of him , followed by the names of the board of managers and a list of the principal divisions of the Krupp enterprises . The West German exhibitors form the , strongest delegation among the , twenty-nine Western and uncommitted countries . The Federal Republic is-followed by France with 291 , Britain with 140 , India with 123 , the Netherlands with 117 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Austria , : with ninety-eight . Althoughs ' ' has ' : ' been represented by private industry at earlier sessions ofthe today was the first timel that the Indian Government was officially represented . Finland , Paraguay , Portugal and Israel are also exhibiting for the first time . Fair a Meeting Ground The East German Communist Government frankly states that the purpose of the Leipzig Fair , the history of which goes back to the Middle Ages , is to provide a meeting ground where the East and West can cooperate in breaking down trade barriers . Heinrich Rau , East German Minister for Foreign Trade , said he hoped that trade barriers would eventually collapse unde the greedy appetites of Western industry . Speaking of the endeavors o some West German business men to enter into greater trade con-1 tact with the Soviet bloc , Herr Rau said : " These people are acting exactly as experienced business men are accustomed to act . They deal with facts and are preparing new marketing possibilities in times of comparative boom , " he declared . In Herr Rau 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West has become the indispensable means ' of achieving the coexistence with the Western world sought by the Soviet Union . He discounted the fact that certain countries refused to recognize the East German regime . The fair authorities said 400 West German concerns had been turned away for lack , pf space . More space was awarded to the more prominent West German exhibitors , with the result that the total number of West German concerns was seventy-three fewer than last year . Nevertheless , there were more German exhibitors than those of all the non-Communist countries put together . Many Soviet Goods Shown The Soviet exhibit is the most impressive in size and variety of goods . The exhibit includes heavy machine tools , farm machinery , generators , electric motors , compressors , pumps and other heavy equipment . The exhibit of Communist China also contains samples of heavy machine tools that , acCording to the official descriptions ' , are copies of Soviet models . The exhibits of the East European satellites , including East Germany , emphasize machine tools , trucks , automobiles and other heavy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fair is of a rapid industrialization of the Eastern countries . In discussing what he deIscribed as the coordinated industrialization program of these countries , Herr Rau said last night that this development would undoubtedly lead to an increase of competition between these countries and those of the capitalist world . " There is no denying this fact , " he declared . " We are of r the ? opinion , however , that this competition must be carried on by peaceful and fair means f bn the basis of peaceful coexistence . "                     