@@717314

txt HOLIDAY RUSH ON , IN AND OUT OF CITY ; MAY TOP ' 54 MARK Traffic Jams Develop Early at Hudson River Bridge and Tunnel Crossings CLOUDY WEATHER DUE 40 Million ears Expected on U. S. Roads Over Week-End ? 400 Deaths Forecast The Labor Day week-end , they last long one of summer , began yesterday with crowds swarm-1 ing into and out of New York . Undetsrreci by threatening skies , New Yorkers jammed automobiles , buses , trains and airplanes for shore , country or mountain , while tourists in smaller numbers rushed into the city . Considerable cloudiness today and tomorrow was predicted last night by the Weather Bureau . Temperatures will show little change , although the hu  --  tnidity is expected to be high . The chances of rain along the coast tomorrow are insignificant , the bureau said . Monday will be mostly fair and warmer . GenerallN , better weather is expect &; inland and upstate than along the coast . A growing stream of automobiles moved out c : the city yesterday afternoon . By 4 P. M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington Bridge and the Holland and Lincoln Tunnels . Westbound cars backed up on the West Side Highway and other access roads . Route 17 , the main highway leading to the Sullivan County resort area in the southern Catskills , was plagued last night by a thirteen-mile traffic jam beginning at Mahwah , N. J. Traffic was backed up to Paramus , on Route 4 , and to Lodi , on Route 17 . Road Work Causes Tie-Up The tie-up was caused by a road-widening project designed to make Route 17 a six-lane highway . Work between Mahwah and Ramsey has left only one lane open In each direction . Traffic was reported heavy but moving steadily on other main arteries . The Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority said it expected an increase over last year 's total of 1,695,000 vehicles that used its bridges and tunnels on the Labor Day week-end . Its bridges are the Triborouy , Bronx-Whites tone , Henry Huck son , Marine Parkway and Cross Bay ; its tunnels the BrooklynBattery and the Queens-Midtown . The Port of New York Authority estimated that 975,000 vehicles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Holland Tunnels , compared to 919,000 last year . At 6 P. M. bridge traffic was 10 per cent heavier than last year . The authority also estimated that 7,000 airplane flights would carry 180,000 passengers , a 20 per cent increase over last year , in and out of its three major airports . These are La Guardia , New York International ( Idlewild ) and Newark . 400 Fatalities Predicted Across the country , 40,000,000 automobiles were erpected to be on the move . A traffic death toll of 400 was forecast . Here , air , rail and bus terminals were crowded late yesterday afternoon . There were sixty extra flights in and out of La Guardia , others at Idlewild and Newark . There will be more extra flights Monday night and Tuesday morning . At La Guardia , owing to the mid-holiday lull , 202 flights were canceled for today , 289 for tomorrow . The Pennsylvania Railroad scheduled forty extra trains in and out of New York between yesterday and Tuesday , besides 300 extra cars on regular trains . Fourteen extra trains left Pennsylvania @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , New Haven and Hartford Railroad scheduled thirty extra week-end trains , and the New York Central twenty-three in and out of Grand Central Terminal . Yesterday the New Haven ran thirteen extra outbound and the Central five outbound and three inbound . Both railroads are attaching extra cars to regular trains . The statiorudster at Grand Central said last night that trafContinued an Page 32 , Column 5 Holiday Exodus and Influx Is On ; Week-End Travel May Top ' 54 // fice there had been 20 to 25 per cent heavier than on a normal week-end , but not heavy for the beginning of a holiday . The Greyhound Bus Lines added seventy-four buses to its New York runs yesterday and . will put on another 100 today . The company said it expected a 6 per cent increase over last year 's business . The National Safety Council estimated that throughout the country 40,000,000 automobiles would be on the move some time over the week-end , and that 400 persons would be killed in traffic accidents between 6 P. M. yesterday and midnight Monday . Last year 369 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deaths was 100 more than might be expected on a nonholidayl week-end . In many , cities and states authorities were taking extraordinary precautions to keep down the death toll . Traffic police have been put on lemerg-ency duty , and airplanes and helicopters have been drafted to aid police highway patrols . A. police plane flew over main arteries here yesterday afternoon and notified the Traffic Department by radio when traffic became congested . It will do the same all day Monday and on Tuesday morning . In New Jersey 222 ambulances and first aid squads will park in prominent highway spots with " slow down and live " signs to warn drivers .                     