@@720344

txt Governor Rockefeller described himself today as highly pleased " with the very constructive " program approved by the 1959 Legislature , which adjourned for the year at 3:57 A. M. today . The Republican majority in the Legislature , he said , showed real courage in voting for some " tough " bills and taking a stand on what ? seemed to be an unpopular side of some issues . Mr. Rockefeller 's appraisal ' was in close harmony with one by Walter J. Mahoney , the Re-I publican majority leader of the Senate , and Oswald D. Heck , ' the Speaker of the Assembly . But it was in complete conflict with one made by Michael H. Prendergast , the Democratic state chairman . Democrat Objects Mr. Prendergast said the 1959 session would go down in history as the one in which Governor Rockefeller " soaked the poor , consorted with special interests and side-tracked New York 's social welfare program . " " Seldom , " the Democratic chairman said , " has a Governor disappointed so many , so utter . /SF ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appraisal of its own , issued in New York City , the Liberal party found some things to commend and others to denounce in the Legislature 's actions . It was particularly critical of the manner in which so much legislation was rushed through in the last few days . A. tabulation today disclosed that the Legislature in the sixty-six days it was in session had received 8,215 bills of which 1,197 were approved and sent to the Governor . Of those sent to the Governor 508 were passed in the last three days of the session . 18 Measures Vetoed So far Governor Rockefeller has approved 194 of the bills that were sent to him and has vetoed eighteen . This leaves him 985 to dispose of in the thirty days following the Legislature 's adjournment . Any bills that he does not approve within the thirty-day period are automatically vetoed under the provisions of the state constitution . In former Gov . W. Averell Harriman 's last year in office , the 1958 Legislature received 8,157 bills and approved 1,303 . Of those approved , Mr. Harriman had signed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Legislature adjourned for the year . He disposed of 863 during the thirtyday bill period . All appraisals of the session 's accomplishments were in agreement today that its highlight was the enactment of Governor Rockefeller 's 8272,000,000 tax increase program . This involved putting collec // tion of the income tax on a withholding basis , lowering exemptions and raising rates , increasing the gasoline , cigarette and inheritance taxes , lengthening the thoroughbred and harness racing seasons and raising hunting and fishing license fees . Largest State Tax Rise In the amount of money involved , it was the largest tax increase ever voted by a New York Legislature . The total of state tax collections from all sources amounted to only U45 , - 800,000 as recently as 1940 . The enormity of the program and its possible political consequences caused consternation among Republican lawmakers and produced threats of a revolt that threatened for a time to hand the Governor a major defeat . In the end all but fourteen of the ninety-two Republicans in the Assembly and all but two of the thirty-four Republicans in the Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Democrats , still smarting from the wounds received last fall when Mr. Rockefeller , running counter to a national trend , was swept into office by a 570,000 plurality , denounced the tax increases as a " soak-the-poor " program . They voted solidly against the program in both Senate and Assembly , hoping to capitalize on the resentment that welled up spontaneously among those whose taxes would be raised . Mr. Rockefeller told a news conference today that he had written a personal note to every one of the Republican legislators who had voted for the controversial income tax increase . Admiration Is Voiced " Some of the bills were tough to vote for and I respect and admire the people who were willing to stand up and be counted on those issues , " he went on . " People have got to have the courage to take what for the time being may seem to be the unpopular side of an issue but which reflect the long-time best interests of the people . " Asked what about the Republicans who had not voted for the bills , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them any letters . " Would he refuse to help them out in the next campaign ? No , he replied . Next to the tax program , the most controversial questions that came before the Legislature were Mr. Rockefeller 's railroad and commuter aid program , court reform and an omnibus bill to give various types of banks broader privileges in the establishment of branches . Over solid Democratic opposition , the railroad and coma muter aid program was ap-1 proved on the closing hours ofl the session . The court reform ) received its final approval , also , over solid Democratic opposition on Tuesday . On the same day the omnibus banking bill went down to defeat in the Senate as the result of solid Democratic opposition and the defection of Republicans from suburban counties and some upstate rural areas . Loss on Bank Bill Denied Governor Rockefeller claimed credit today in behalf of himself and the Republican majority for the transportation and court programs but denied that the banking bill- represented a Republican defeat . " There were n't any disappointments as far as I 'm concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not really an Administration program or a Republican party bill . " But I suppose this is an area in which the Administration will have to take a stand next year . There is a definite need for the clarification of the ground rules and to assure the people of adequate credit facilities . " Comparing the results of the session with the program he outlined in his annual message and a series of special messages , Mr. Rockefeller said he was highly gratified by what the Legislature had done . The foundation was laid , he contended , for an expansion of the state 's economy , social welfare laws were broadened , machinery was set up to provide more middle-income housing , rent controls were continued , social insurance laws were broadened , civil rights laws strengthened and special school assistance provided for rapidly growing areas . Governor 's Objectives As for the rest of this year , Mr. Rockefeller said , he had these objectives : STo get in touch with and work intimately with departments and commissions of state government with a view to improving-their efficiency and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ various fields not covered this year such as finding a way to make private pension rights transferable if an employe shifts from one job to another and devising means of enabling families to meet the major medical and hospital bills through health insurance . CT ? get out and around the state , visit various state institutions , to obtain first-hand knowledge of problems by talking to people directly affected . A reporter , apparently looking for an admission that Mr. Rockefeller was interested in next year 's Republican nomination for President , asked , the Governor today if he was going to try to repair the damage to his political prestige caused by his tax program . " Well , I do n't think , frankly , that the people of this state elect Governors or legislators on the popularity contest basis ? to try to keep out in front ? I think they elect him to do a job for them " ? Informed that a California group had been organized to advance his Presidential chances , Mr. Rockefeller commented : " I appreciate the thought but it does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do here . " Mr. Rockefeller said he would confine his activities to New York State for the rest of the year . Former President Franklin D. Roosevelt followed a similar course when he was Governor in 1931 . But Mr. Roosevelt found occasion in his handling of state problems to make comments and proposals that greatly advanced his claim to the Democratic Presidential nomination in 1932 . Serving in his first elective office , Mr. Rockefeller said he found the Governorship " stimulating " ? " a tremendous challenge . " Unlike his Democratic predecessor , Mr. Rockefeller said he did not plan to take any vacation until he disposed of every bill before him . Mr. Harriman followed the practice of spending the first week after the Legislature adjourned in Florida while his staff and various state agencies analyzed and digested the measures the lawmakers had left with him . Defers View on ' Spanking ' Asked what he would do on the Corso bill allowing New York City teachers to use " reasonable force " in maintaining discipline , Mr. Rockefeller said he did not have enough information @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was sponsored by Assemblyman Joseph R. Corso , Democrat of Brooklyn . It occasioned a great deal of controversy as it went through the Legislature on a nonpartisan basis . Mr. Harriman vetoed a similar bill last year . Governor Rockefeller appeared disturbed at today 's news conference by criticism of his dealings with Mayor Wagner and the Democratic city administration in New York . Despite the criticism he has received from city officials , he went on , he is hopeful that ways and means can be found for improved relations between the state and the city on a nonpartisan basis . One of the things he wants to do , with the help of his staff and outside experts , over the legislative recess is to review all phases of existing programs providing state aid to local government . " To effect reductions ? " he was asked . " No . I want to compare the original intent of the programs and their actual workings and to weigh the operations of the programs against present problems and needs and to find out if changes need to be made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repeated New York City contentions that it is being discriminated against in the distribution of state grants to local governments has been the formula for apportioning aid for education . On a per pupil basis , the city 's grants are substantially smaller than those to average upstate districts . The present formula was enacted into law during Mr. Harriman 's first year in office . It was devised by a special commission headed by Henry Townley Heald , then chancellor of New York University . Dr. John Theobald , now superintendent of schools in New York City , was a member . A major concern . of the formula is to equalize the burden of financing education on real estate in various areas of the state . Since the ratio of real estate values to school attendance on a per pupil basis is relatively high in New York City its grants are relatively low .                     