@@718472

txt Letters to The Times Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It is imperative , in the interests of good government , that Rule XXII of the Senate 's Rules  --  popularly called the closure rule  --  be modified to provide in some way for the limitation of debate after a reasonable opportunity for delibenation , exchange of views and public education . One effort to do so  --  by way of adopting new rules at the outset of a session  --  has already been defeated this session by a coalition of opponents of civil rights legislation , supporters of the principle that the Senate is a continuing body and advocates of full , free and unlimited Senate debate . Several bills to amend the existing closure rule have been or will shortly be introduced in this session . Their sponsors , however , appear to have little hope of success , for under the existing rule ( which , according to Vice President Nixon , the Senate has approved by tabling Senator Anderson 's motion to adopt new rules ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to unlimited debate . Furthermore , if the efforts to amend the existing rule are unsuccessful and a move is made at the beginning of the next Congress to adopt , by majority vote , a new closure rule , there would be a preliminary question , on which Vice President Nixon has already expressed an opinion , as to whether a new Congress has the constitutional right , after reasonable debate , to adopt new rules by majority vote . But Vice President Nixon has conceded that " under Senate precedents a question of constitutionality can be decided only by the Senate itself . " If he is correct , since the Senate would be operating without any closure rule , there would seem to be nothing to prevent a filibuster in the course of the constitutional debate which would in effect prevent consideration of the proposed new rule . . The filibuster maneuver can be avoided , however , if steps are taken in this Congress to affirm the right of a new Congress to adopt its own rules and the correlative right to impose reasonable closure upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitutional question can then be limited under existing Rule XXII , Section 2 , and a majority of the Senate can resolve the issue of constitutional interpretation . If a closure rule is adopted and the issue is resolved favorably to the right , a new and reasonable closure rule can be adopted at the outset of the next session . The problem . can not be handled in any other way in the face of a small Senate minority committed to filibuster , if it can , Bny effort to change the closure rule . LAURENCE S. FORDHAM . Bethesda , Md. , Jan. 9 , 1957 . To Save City Monument To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Congratulations on your editorial of Jan. 7 " A Neglected City Monument . " The purpose of a memorial must be , first and foremost , to preserve the memory of persons or events . In a sense , to be a memorial at all . it must also represent a sacrifice on the part of the public to express its gratitude and to keep the memory of it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Monument we are commimorating a great event in our national history . Since 1902 it has reminded us of those who gave their lives to preserve the Union in a bloody conflict . To create a park on its site , no matter how beneficial , would be to fail completely to appreciate the true meaning of what this memorial has meant to the city through the years . The Soldiers and Sailors Monument has been listed in the Municipal Art Society 's index of buildings in Greater New York designated as worthy of preservation . In spite of the neglect which it has suffered , to tear it down would amount to an act of vandalism . WALTER KNIGHT STURGES , Chairman , Committee on Historic Architecture , the Municipal Art Society . New York , Jan. 8 , 1957 . Dilemma of the Auto Driver ro THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK . TIMES : I am confused . The automobile advertisements tell me , " You will Save more power . " I infer this means power to drive faster than the other lriver  --  to go up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The ads say , " Your car will be onger . " I figure this will mean nuch more room will be taken up In overcrowded highways , streets Ind parking places . The ads say , ' Your car will be much brighter and nore colorful , " inferring that I will hen be much more important than he driver with an older , duller car . Now safety councils tell me , " Never xceed the legal speed limit . " ( But vith all this power I could drive at .00 miles an hour . Speedometers ire set to 120 . ) They tell me , " Think f others , be courteous . Other drivers , re just as important as you are . ) rive carefully above all . " In the first instance the appeal is o vanity , self-importance , the emulative instinct to beat the other guy ? to ignore one 's duty to others and hink of self-satisfaction only . In he second instance the appeal is to he desire to obey the laws for one 's wn good and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to take a civilized attitude oi live and let live . Why ca n't the advertisers and the safety councils get together ? ( I have been driving for thirty-nine years . ) , BABETTE K. EISNER , Maplewood , N. J. , Jan. 7 , 1957 . Aiding Hungarian Students Need Seen for Private and Federal Funds for Scholarships To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Prof. Stanley J. Pincetl 's letter printed Jan. 2 rightly ' emphasizes that little has been reported in the press regarding the actions which American colleges and universities are taking to aid the Hungarian student escapees . The story should be more widely known . The problem of effective planning for Hungarian students is , however . complex . Data regarding the numbers of students who wish to come to the United States are still frage mentary . Vice President Nixon reports that some 600 students are now in the United States . Sources in Vienna indicate that the total number of students wishing to come may be as high as 2,000 . We know that these students have little Eng @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Institute of International Editcation , in cooperation with World University Service and several of the resettlement agencies , in November , 1956 , canvassed all four-year colleges in the United States asking them to report how many scholarships they could provide for Hun . garian students . More than 300 full or partial scholarships have been offered , and the number is increasing . To prepare Hungarian students for enrollment in American colleges the Institute of International Educe : . tion , with financial support from three foundations , opened at Bard College on Dec. 22 an orientation program emphasizing English instruction and a general introduction to American life . The Bard center is already filled to capacity with more than 300 students . Probably additional orientation centers or other training , resources , similar to the plan outlined at San Diego State College , will need to he provided in the early future if the growing number of Hungarian students are to be made ready for admission to colleges and universities . With the critical financial problems facing most institutions of higher education it is doubtful that colleges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scholarships and living costs to as many as 2,000 Hungarian students . Private and governmental sources of funds will need to help in this critical situation . DONALD T. SHANK , Executive Vice President , Institut* of Inter-national Education . New York , Jan. 2 , 1957 . Bombing in Yemen Charged To THE EDITOR Ole TnklIFAv YORK TIMES : , In a news story published in The New York Times Jan. 8 a British Foreign Office spokesman denied that British forces have attacked some villages and towns in Yemen . The truth is that on Christmas Day the British artillery bombarded the town of Qadabah and the village of Madhroobat Aamir . The many casualties among the inhabitants and the many houses demolished as a result attest to this fact . On the morning of Monday , Dec , 31 , New Year 's Eve , two Royal Atr Force planes bombed Harib and the surrounding villages . Several houses were damaged and others were burned . The British press itself ' reported other attacks in which many men , women and children were killed . Until now the Kingdom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These attacks have seriously disturbed the peace of the area . Ali MAD ZABARAH , Charg ? d'Affaires , a. i. , Legation of the Mutawakelite Kingdom of Yemen . Washington , Jan. 8 , 1957 . Naming Atlantic Storms To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES ! Re Topics of The Times for Jan. 9 : Did the Weather Bureau forget a famous woman 's name beginning with an X ? How about Xantippe , the wife of Socrates ? Xantippe , as the awry goes , was a suitably violent woman . ANN M. KENT , Elmhurst , N. Y. , Jan. 9 , 1957 . Closure Revision Proposed Suggestion Is Offered to Avoid Filibuster Maneuver                     