@@713808

txt This is the 14th article in a group of exclusive features under the general title " Men Against the Jungle . " Rapidly moving events have focused the spotlight of world attention on the crucial , oil-rich area of southwest Asia . Tints the first phase is entitled " Crisis in Iran . " These articles present a clear picture of what is happening in - that country and why it is important for the whole free world , Later articles wilt deal with southeast Asia . The next article will appear Friday . This is the year 1330 , according to the official Iranian calendar , which a quarter of a century ago replaced the Moslem calendar . But whereas the Iranian calendar is calibrated to the solar year , the Moslem calendar is made up of 12 lunar months , which means it gains about 31 , , months with every solar Century , The Iranians still celebrate their religious holidays according to the Moslem calendar . In most business dealings , especially with foreigners , they also use the Gregorian calendar . Most printed calendars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measurement of time matches glaring anachronisms in Iran at every step . Teheran , for example , is outwardly a modern European city of broad , straight avenues and spacious squares laid out in a geometric pattern under the personal inspection of old Shah Reza , whose statues continue to gaze upon his handiwork from many a tall pedestal . But in two essential details , Teheran is far more primitive than ancient Rome ? it has no supply of unpolluted water and no sewerage system . Drinking water is delivered fr om door to door by bulky horse-drawn tank carts which dispute the roadway with shiny latest-model American automobiles . ' Ritzy ' Autos Preferred Perhaps nowhere in the world are brand new American cars so comparatively numerous and conspicuous as in Teheran . Moreover , Iranian motorists prefer highpriced makes . That is because those Iranians who can afford a car can afford the best . There is virtually no middle class between the 1 per cent fabulously rich and the poverty-stricken 99 per cent . Furthermore , many new cars are minus some sundry accessories that easily can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ syndicate operates all over the city , deftly stripping hub caps , tail lights , and side mirrors from unattended vehicles . However , the business is highly organized and the owner usually can recover the missing part by paying a small ransom with no questions asked . In such transactions , the police often act as go-between . Protected ' Bus System Though Teheran is a sprawled-out , rapidly growing city of more than a million , there is no centrally organized , municipally run public transportation system  --  either streetcars or regular bus lines . Swarms of pint-size taxis will convey you to any point insidethe city limits if you can pay the fixed fare of 10 rials ( about 25 cents ) . Otherwise the sole common carriers ate dilapidated , overcrowded busses , privately owned and oper7 ated under special police department franchises . An American colonel assigned by the miltary mission to help streamline the Teheran police system , including traffic regulation , noted that there were no summonses served for bus traffic violations and no prosecutions in accidents where bus drivers weie at fault . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ owned by police officials , who , thanks to their control over the Issuance of franchises , had built tin highly lucrative monopolies , The American colonel called this situation to the attention of the city police chief , who thoroughly agreed that it was most unbecoming for police officials to own busses and promised prompt action . Transferred  --  to Wives ! He kept his , word . A fortnight later , the colonel found that police officials no longer owned any busses . All had been transferred to their wives or close relatives . As regards the legal and judicial system , Iran , like its official calendar , still is in the 14th century . The laws and courts pi ovide no adequate machinery for the enforcement of contractual obligations or pi otection against fraud . The i esult is an over-all lack of confidence which hampers commercial business activity . Because of this , credit is unavailable except at usurious rates plus high collateral . The small-business man is unable to survive in such an environment , but big-time operators reap fantastic profits . In like manner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case of the Isfahan textile mills . Recently three textile mills in Isfahan closed , depriving several thousand workers of their livelihood . The manufacturers explained that the high price of raw cotton and lack of credits for modernizing the plants rendered further operation submarginal . Thereupon they left for Europe to live like kings , their income derived from investment abroad of their enormous wartime profits . During the war , mill owners bought up Iranian and Egyptian cotton cheap and resold it to their own'mills at high prices . Then they bought finished textiles from the mills at low prices and resold them to individuals at high prices . Today , when the influx of fm-ported textiles has spoiled this double game , the rich mill owners see no incentive in operating the mills for a modest return , especially when this involves an added investment to cover depreciation .                     