@@717135

txt Negotiators for the General Motors Corporation and the United Automobile Workers , C. I. 0. , rolled up their sleeves for hard work today in efforts to reach a new agreement by midnight Sunday . Union and company officials remained silent regarding progress in negotiations . But movement was expected in the bargaining as the strike deadline came nearer . Day - long talks wound up near midnight . Another session was set for tomorrow afternoon , The company reported that workers on strike had returned to their jobs at all plants affected by unauthorized walkouts earlier this week . But twenty . : hevrolet and Fisher Body plants were shut because of parts shortages as a result of the walkouts . John W. Livingston , vice president of the union , noted that the unauthorized walkouts had ended . He commented there was no reason now why all concerned should not get to work at the bargaining table . He had acknowledged yesterday that the strikes this week had taken up , the time of union negotiators and had delayed the bargaining . Shutdown Affects 60,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a strike on Monday if there is no agreement . " We still expect to have an agreement by Monday , " Mr. Livingston said , " or the boys will be picking them up and setting them down picketing Monday . The plants closed today as a result or parts shortages anti were scheduled to remain ' inoperative tomorrow , the company said , but were expected to be back in operation on Monday if an agreement was reached . General Motors said that about 60,000 workers were al- , fected by the closing in the East and Midwest . The union represents about 350,000 hourly General Motors workers . The shutdowns and unauthorized walkouts earlier this week , the company said , resul'ed in a loss in production of 20,000 vehicles . There was speculation that , the company was about to make , a new offer . Union leaders have , indicated they are expecting a , proposal that would be in line with the supplementary unem-1 employment compensation plan ' coontained in the agreement reached with the Ford Motor Company on Monday . The Ford plan provides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combination with unemployment compensation , these benefits guarantee workers 65 per cent of their take-home pay for the first four weeks of layoff , after a waiting week , and 60 per cent of take-home for the remaining period of their eligibility for benefits . The limit for such payments is twenty-six weeks . The benefits would be paid from two funds to be built up by company contributions of 5-cents an hour for each worker over a period of three years . On the basis of present employment levels , the two funds will total $55,000,000 . The payment of supplemental unemployment benefits was a key part of the union 's original demand for a guaranteed annual wage to protect laid-off workers against- the hardships of unemployment . Following the Ford settlement , Walter P. Reuther , president of the union , announced he was joining the General Motors negotiations in an effort to win the Ford pattern there or to improve upon it . Mr. Reuther was asked if he was getting impatient after three days of participation in the General Motors bargaining without announcement of a company offer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most patient men in America . In this job I have to be . " Negotiations are expected to begin next week between the auto union and the American Motors Corporation , manufacturer of Nash and Hudson cars . The union represents about 22 , - 000 American Motors workers , with most of them employed in Milwaukee and Kenosha , Wis . The present contracts covering these groups expire Aug. 12 . Realistic Bargaining Asked In an appearance in Washington today before a Senate Judiciary subcommittee on Antitrust and Monopoly , George Romney , president of American Motors , expressed the hope that the union would bargain this I year on the facts of American Motors and not of Ford or Genera ' . Motors . Mr. Reuther said the question raised by Mr. Romney would be dealt with at the bargaining table next week , Meanwhile , the Ford Motor Company , which has also been beset by strikes this week , reported that its Rouge plant and others in the Detroit area were back in full production . Strikes continued , however , at the Chicago Ford assembly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an assembly plant in Kansas City , Mo. , and at an aircraft plant there . Altogether , the company said , about 5,000 workers remained off the job today . Ford reported that the company had lost 11,500 vehicle units of production last week and 15 , - 400 units tins week as a result of walkouts.                     