@@720488

txt Britain staged one of its finest spectacles when Queen Elizabeth II officially opened the Atlantic Congress of 1959 in West-minister Hall June 5 , This congress marks the 10th anniversary of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and looks ahead to the next 10 years . There could hardly have been a more auspicious start for this great gathering of 650 delegates from the 15 NATO countries which could have such a profound beating on the next 10 years of development of the Atlantic community . One of the aims of the congress is to spread the Atlantic community idea into Asia and Africa . How this can be done is being discussed in six days of intensive debate and committee work . The congress is described as the largest and most ambitious public gathering of its kind held since the European Congress at The Hague in 1948. which led to the establishment of the Council of Europe . London First Choice Organizers of the congress  --  the NATO Parliamentarians  --  decided on London as the most appropriate setting for this Atlantic Congress . And London spared nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 550-year-old baronial hall beneath the tower of Big Ben were the 650 or so delegates to the con- , gress , mingled with the cream of British political and official life  --  judges , businessmen , members of Parliament , peers , Cabinet ministers . The hall provided a fabulous setting of massed color against mellow stone walls , with a towering oak hammer-beam roof above . The color came from the robes of the British dignitaries , the great banks of blue , pink , and mauve hydrangeas . The rose-pink damask of the chairs of the Queen and Prince Philip , the brilliant scarlet urn. forms of the Yeomen of the Guard with their pikes , the gold-brocaded trumpeters set dramatically against . a huge stained . glass window , all dazzling in the glare of TV camera lights . Music Eased Wait We sat waiting in this lovely setting for the Queen 's arrival . But there was little feeling of impatience . A band of the Welsh Guards in scarlet tunics played appropriate selections of music from the NATO countries  --  Norway 's Grieg . Germany 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and England 's Elgar . Beneath our feet and on the walls were fascinating plaques and other reminders of the deep historic significance of this hall . Some of the world 's earliest . Parliaments met on this ? site , notably the so-called Model Par-1,50 Million joined Here were the representatives ' of an Atlantic community num-1 bering about 450,000,000 people who banded together 10 years ago in defense of freedom for mankind . Their achievements in that 10 years looked far more significant and encouraging as they faced the next 10 years in this Westminster Hall setting with its background of 600 years or more . Queen Elizabeth , looking charming in a blue dress and little white hat , said in her opening address there was an unmistakable longing among peace-loving people to create a happier and an easier international atmosphere , but there was no simple guide to point the way . The success of the congress , therefore , would depend on the simplicity of its recommendations and the clarity of its ideas . The Queen stressed as the main principles of thought and action " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dignity of human nature and a simple faith in God . " Hope Put Forth She also expressed the hope that when the congress disperses , the peoples of the Atlantic community will be one step nearer to a practical system of cooperation . The Queen said , " The Atlantic community is an alliance b.f like-minded peoples and it is therefore something much more profound than a formal agreement between governments and leaders . " Then came the presentations to Her Majesty and the handshaking with the top delegates to the conference and British Government leaders and other notables . Most of them were in formal morning dress . After the Queen had formally opened the congress , Prime Minister Harold Macmillan followed with a short speech of welcome . He said Queen Elizabeth had rightly laid stress on the links which bound together the members of the Atlantic community . Those tics of friendship and common inheritance and joint interest were strong , indeed .                     