@@714470

txt An emergency board , reporting to President Truman , recommended today that the railroads make a national agreement with seventeen nonoperating unions providing for ' the union shop and " check-off of union dues . This proposed solution of a dispute , if the carriers agree , means that all but an excepted few of the 1,100,000 office , shop , and track employes would have to join the union of their craft or give up their jobs within sixty days after the effective date of the agreement . Job applicants would not have to be union members to get work , as under the closed shop , but they would have to join within sixty days after they were hired . The employe would have to be dis- ' charged if he were expelled from the union because of failure to pay dues , initiation fees or assessments . The unions have testified that 85 per cent of the nonoperating employes already are members . If the carriers accepted the recommendation , the agreement undoubtedly would be extended to the operating unions , who represent 250,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unions in both groups . The board gave the nonoperating unions virtually all they asked . The board members were David L. Cole of New Jersey , chairman ; Aaron Horvitz of New York and George E. Osborne of California . They were unanimous on the fundamental issue of the union shop . Mr. Osborne , however , would except more jobs from the compulsory coverage than the other two members . The number of jobs excepted from union shop coverage was the leading subsidiary issue raised by the carriers in the hearings before the board . The majority of the board said the unions should have the right to take the next normal step , " namely , to have all those for whom they substantially bargain be compelled to join and share the expense and responsibility of their activities . " The dues check-off , under which // employers would deduct dues from wages and turn them over to unions , was not a major issue in principle . Only employes who made voluntary assignments to a union would be bound by a checkoff , and such assignments could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recommend that the carriers be compensated for colleting dues . The board 's report holds important implications for many employers , who believe it may be the opening wedge for a new Government policy on compulsory union membership throughout all industry . Wage Board to Rule Within a month the Wage Stabilization Board will rule on the union-shop issue in three disputes , including the steel case , that will affect all industry outside the railroads . Telegrams and letters of opposition to Government encouragement of the union shop have been corning to Congressmen and the Wage Board in quantities usually indicative of an organized campaign . Today 's recommendation may be considered new Government policy itself , for no such award has been made by an instrumentality of Government before , with the pos-1 sible exceptions of three obscure cases , each involving one company ' and one union . There is some question , however , whether such a board can be said to make Government policy . It is a Government-appointed board , pursuant to the Railway Labor Act , as distinguished from a private arbitration board , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are not sworn officers of Government . They were appointed to serve in this dispute only , and stated in their report , " it may be seriously questioned whether an * * emergency board is truly a Government agency at all . " " No Binding Award " The members of the board said : " While it is hoped that its report will be influential in suggesting a basis for settlement to the parties , it is important to note that ! the board makes no directive order and it issues no binding award . The board is the creature of the Government but does not wield its authority . It still remains for the parties to reach an agreement . " The union-shop issue is before the Wage Stabilization Board only because of the mobilization emergency . Outside the rail and air transport industries , the Government normally does not attempt to write the terms of labor-management agreements by the device of public recommendations . Since last April , however , under an emergency executive order , disputes that threaten to affect defense production substantially have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except for disputes involving rail and air carriers , which go to emergency boards . The War Labor Board , the chief disputes agency of World War II , refused to order union shops into effect where they did not previously exist . The board hit upon the device of maintenance of membership , which required only that an employe who voluntarily joined a union must remain a member for the duration of the contract . Under this plan , expulsions ' from the union for any reason required the discharge of the employe . Ban Lifted by Congress Prior to 1934 , when Congress outlawed commtsory union membership on the railroads , the board reported , " numerous carriers maintained company unions in which membership was compulsory and in which their dues were checked off " Congress thirteen months ago lifted the ban in an amendment to the Railway Labor Act . In that interval railroads employing more than 215,000 persons have made union-shop agreemeents with some or all of the seventeen nonoperat- , ing unions . Among them are the New York Central , Baltimore and Ohio , Great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than one-third of all the railroad employes of the country now have union-shop agreements with at least one of the unions representing their employes . The emergency board said : " We are both puzzled and struck , by the fact that carriers appear I before us bitterly opposing the union shop on basic principle and yet have themselves recently entered into such agreements with other unions on their properties , in fact even after the dispute before us had already been referred to the National Mediation Board . " We might also point out the numerous examples of union shops on wholly or partly owned subsidiaries of the railroads , including bus and trucking operations . " With respect to exceptions , the carriers had urged that in no event should the provisions of a union-shop agreement apply to executive officers , supervisory positions , subordinate officials who exercise supervisory jurisdiction , or to positions of a technical , professional , specialist or confidential nature . Scope Rules Vary The unions contended that the coverage should include every employe whose wages , hours or working conditions had been or might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the unions . That would make the union-shop coverage co-extensive with the scope rules in each existing agreement . These rules on positions subject or excepted from union membership vary from railroad to railroad . The board majority said " the only definite exceptions from union-shop agreements which we can recommend * * * include the positions not represented by the labor organizations , those fully excepted by the scope rules , and those which have only nominal or token coverage . In the last category are those for whom the union does not bargain for wages , hours or working conditions . " On the point of possible discriminatory practices by some of the unions , the board said " Congress has protected the job rights of minorities against whom dis-1 crimination may be practiced . It is appropriate in this connection that racial discrimination has been almost completely eradicated from the laws of these unions , and assurances were given by their top executives on the record that action would be taken at coming conventions to eliminate whatever traces remain . " The board also recommended contract clauses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In case of a dispute over a union demand for discharge of an employe , for example , the union , the employer , or the individual employe would , under the recommended clause , have the right to request arbitration . On the point that some employes may have conscientious or religious scruples against joining a labor organization , the board cited a National Labor Relations Board case , approved by a Circuit Court of Appeals , in which such an employe was deemed to have met the condition of continued employment if he tendered the necessary dues , even though he remained out of the union .                     