@@717662

txt Can fanners attain a high and rising standard of living without Continuous piling up of surpluses by the government , - without production controls , and without high fixed price supports ? A group of businessmen placed high ' in the American economy believe they can .. In a- comprehensive study just releasefl , called " Economic Policy for American Agriculture , " membdrs of the research and policy committee of , the Committee ' for Economic Deyelopment have outlined what they think should be done to restore prosperity to American ' farms . On many points this parallels the Eisenhower achninistration 's plan . Nonpartisan Board One of the committee 's most clearcut proposals calls for establishment of an agricultural stabilization board " with power to determine policy within bounds established by law , and reporting annually to the President and Congress . Headed by the Secretary of Agriculture , this " nonpartisan board representative of farmers , food processors and consumers , serving long terms , staggered so ? as to provide continuity , would help to protect policy from Short-run political demands " such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three basic problems urgently requiring action are p summarized ' as : first , too much roduction of some farm products ; second , too much instability of farmers ' incomes ; and third , too many full-time farm families with very kw incomes . The study stresses the necessity for finding long-range solutions to these problems , at the precise moment when Republican standard bearers are pounds ing at White House doors with demands for a farm program that will . put money into farmers ' pockets now , before November elections  --  and before those sweet-talking Democrats convince farmers that they can promise more than the GOP . Price ' Props Opposed accumulation of problems that have become urgent and that ; because of their size and character , agriculture can not handle by itself , " the committee declares that " the costs of whatever adjustments are necessary should be ' shared by the country as a whole , and not left to be borne entirely by the farmers . " Yet . it expects the measures it proposes would eventually cost the government and taxpayer less while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " we do not believe we can return to a completely free market price situation for agriculture without expbsing farmers to unnecessary risk and instability . But we wish to emphasize that a satisfactory farm price policy must retain as many of the desirable features of a freely functioning price system as possible . " The committee would deal with the first problem , surplus crops , with " a combination of continued , price supports at gradually reduced levels , coupled with a program to pay farmers to take some land out of production . " ( This resembles the widely discussed Soil Bank Plan . ) It suggests for this program a transitional period of five years , at the end of which it envisions farmers as " able to earn satisfactory incomes at prices that clear the market without accumulation of excessive surpluses in government hands , and without production controls . " Income Safeguards It urges that the land retirement program be voluntary , temporary , and transitional . It recommends individually tailored measures for the surplus crops in greatest difficulty : wheat , corn and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem , of unstable incomes , the committee recommends " moderating extreme price fluctuations through a system of flexible price supports or income payments and a storage program . " Although the details of this income payment proposal may cause some to mutter " Brannan Plan again " the committee hastens to explain that " these devices would not be used to affect the long-run movement of prices but would protect farmers against sharp and temporary swings of prices and income . " To help solve the third problem , concerning low-income farm families , the committee would stimulate " trends already in existence . " During the last 35 years , the study points out , there has been a steady movement of people away from farms , with farm population declining nearly a third just since 1940 . Voluntary Program " Over the past five years about one million persons a year have been leaving agriculture , the workers in this group finding other occupations . This trend must be continued if we are to solve the underlying problems , because farmers increase productivity more rapidly than consumption of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any program to more pea , . ple off their farms " should avoid compulsion , " be wholly voluntary , and offer both information and certain financial aid which the study spells out in some detail . " Econorpic Policy for American Agriculture " was made public by Frazar B. Wilde , chairman of the CED 's research and policy committee and president of the Connecticut General Life Insurance Company , Hartford , Conn. , and J. Cameron Thomson , chairman of the agricultural subcommittee which drafted the report and chairman also of the board of Northwest Bancorporation , Minneapolis . J. D. Zellerbach , president of Crown Zellerbach Corporation , San Francisco , is CED chairman . In this politically charged atmosphere of a campaign year , the committee calmly . opposes both high rigid price supports , which it considers " wasteful " , and " Self-defeating " ; and a " two-price system " ( to dispose of - surpluses abroad at lower prices than prevail in the United States ) , which it thinks might disruPt world trade . P 's ' The , committee , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Present ann . difficulties , " but it expresses ? firm confidence in the future prosperity of agriculture and the nation . It reminds everyone that " despite the urgenry , of these problems , many farmers are in a sound economic position . " But with the nation facing " an                     