@@719311

txt Representatives of Syria and Israel agreed today that there would be no more interference with " legitimate " civilian work in the demilitarized zones along their borders . The agreement was reached during a six - hour emergency meeting of the Syrian - Israeli Mixed Armistice Commission , a subsidiary of the United Nations Truce Supervisory Organization . It was the first time since 1955 that representatives of these two nations had sat down together to discuss a border incident , The statement of the meeting 's results was made public by Col. Christian Moe , chairman of the Mixed Armistice Commission . The meeting had been called at the request of Syria . It was concerned with an exchange of fire across the border Nov. 6 . The New York Times Nov. 15 , 1957 Demilitarized zones ( black ) I The incident occurred near the village of Tawfik , in the demilitarized zone southeast of the I Sea of Galilee . As a result of this firing , an ' Israeli border policeman was killed and another wounded . ' The announcement of an agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meetings usually ended with one side found 21 lines deleted cent increase in Syrian press attacks on Israel , an agreement of any kind was unexpected . Military Observers on Hand In the complaint initiating the meeting Syria charged that the Israelis had attacked Syrian troops from the demilitarized zone near Tawfik . The Israelis filed a counter-complaint charging that it was the Syrians who had fired first . The shots were exchanged while Israeli civilian workers using bulldozers were deepening a drainage ditch at the base of the steep border hills near the village . United Nations military observers were present , with the Israeli civilians and policemen on one side and the Syrian troops on the other , According to the report of these observers , the Israelis used a mobile broadcasting unit to describe to the Arab residents of Tawfik the work they were doing and to assure them there was no danger involved . The Syrian troop commander told the United Nations observer on his side that he would shoot if the work continued . When this warning was ignored , the Syrians opened up with automatic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shortly afterward returned the fire . In his statement Colonel Moe declared : " At today 's emergency meeting an informal discussion was held between the parties regarding the firing incident of 6 November , 1957 . The parties examined the investigation report of the U. N. military observers and considered measures to be taken to prevent a recurrence of such incidents . It was agreed by the parties that any legitimate work in the area concerned should not be interfered with and that differences of opinion should be solved by peaceful means . It was also agreed that the parties should comply fully with the general armistice agreement . "                     