@@716511

txt The Mayor and the Police Commissioner were officially requested yesterday to permit bingo games conducted solely by and for religious and charitable institutions and veterans ' organizations . A resolution to this effect was filed with the City Clerk by Edward A.Cunningham , Bronx Democrat and chairman of the City Council 's Finance Committee . Its filing strengthened the impression that Thursday 's demotion of Deputy Chief Inspector Louis Goldberg , Brooklyn antibingo crusader , might lead to a . . political battle over bingo in this ' fall 's state elections . Last month Mr , Cunningham ' Wrote a letter to Richard H. Balch , Democratic state Chairman ' urging that a.plank be incorporated in the Democratic platform calling for a referendum to legalize bingo , lotteries and off-track betting on the races . The City Council has ? appealed several times to the Republicancontrolled . State Legislature to initiate a constitutional amendment to legalize such forms of gambling . Plea for Welfare Objectives The Cunningham resolution says the discontinuance of bingo " will cause great hardship to many worthy objects of the charitable work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that these organizations are dependent on their proceeds from bingo to carry on welfare and other activities . The Democratic state platform committee , meeting in state committee headquarters at the Biltmore Hotel yesterday , displayed " considerable sentiment " for local option on bingo for the benefit of religious , charitable and veterans ' organizations . This was announced by Thomas K. Finletter , committee chairman , who said no final conclusion had been reached . A rumor circulated here yesterday that Governor Dewey , who has power to remove the Police Commissioner , had summoned Commissioner Francis W. H. Adams and Inspector Goldberg to his office for a conference . This was denied at Albany by the Governor 's executive assistant , Harry J. O'Donnell , who said : " It 's nothing more than a wild rumor with absolutely no substantiation in fact . " Inspector Goldberg was demoted a day after renewing a drive against church bingo in Brooklyn which he started two weeks ago but which Police Headquarters stopped a week ago . It then indicated police officers were expected to wink at bingo games for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' If Necessary ' Commissioner Adams repeated his statement of Thursday that all laws would be enforced , including that against bingo . Asked if the law against bingo would be enforced by warnings , as done Thursday night by Assistant Chief Inspector James B. Leggett , successor to Inspector Goldberg as head of the Brooklyn Morals Squad , or by arrests , the Commissioner replied : " If an arrest is necessary it ' will be made as in any other case . " The Commissioner asserted he had told Inspector Leggett to " go , ahead , enforce the laws " against ' bingo and all other violations of the law . Asked if it had been departmental policy to wink at bingo games and if policy had changed recently , he replied : " The effort to enforce the law has been continuing since I have been in office . In reality the department 's policy has not changed . " Regarding a complaint from a woman member of a Brooklyn church where a bingo game was Stopped Thursday night that similar games were going on in other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be investigated . The Commissioner repeated his statement of Thursday that Inspector Goldberg was not demoted for enforcing the antibingo law , but for insubordina- , tion . He added : " In the Police Department a man must be trusted , but he must also do what he is told . Otherwise we would have chaos . Mr. Goldberg was told not only once , but on several occasions to report to his superiors on what he had , done , was doing and intended tol do . He refused . This was a studied ' and repeated position . " The Commissioner said he had received " many " messages endorsing his position and only one protesting it . " The callers said I was wholly justified , " he added . " Within the department my position has had the strongest kind of approbation . " Leggett %Yould Stop Gaming Inspector Leggett said he would ' continue his practice of Thursday ( night , warning operators of bingo games to stop . If they did not close after fair warning , he added , he would issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be tolerated , " he went on . " Bingo must stop in Brooklyn . I was sent here to enforce all the laws and I 'm not going to equivocate or try any subterfuge . I 'll be out day and night right along , dealing with all offenses against public morals . " He denied any discrimination in closing one bingo game Thursday night and allowing four others he visited to operate with a warning not to do so again . He said two of these had already closed for the night and two were well under way , whereas the one he stopped had not yet begun . Abraham Kalina , president of the Yeshiva Sharel Zedek Congregation at Mermaid Avenue and West Twenty-third Street , where the game was stopped , said he did not believe there was any discrimination . Inspector Leggett 's men conducted a tour of Brooklyn last night , issuing warnings at places where bingo games were scheduled . Seven Roman Catholic churches and a Protestant church called off their games after visits by a squad led by Acting Lieut . Kenneth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official charges of insubordination that might be preferred against him . He filed his retirement papers Thursday immediately after being demoted to the rank of captain and transferred to a subordinate post in the department 's civil defense division . If no official charges are preferred , he will retire automatically Oct. 9 , after the usual thirty days ' notice , with a pension of $4,800 a year . He is 61 years old and has been in the department thirty-six years . Commentary on Goldberg Inspector Goldberg said he had received at least 100 messages commending his anti-gambling stand . One was from Ramon H. Chadeayne , foreman of the recently discharged Brooklyn rackets grand jury , which recommended creation of the Brooklyn Morals Squad . Mr. Chadeayne wrote : " It is deplorable that your loyalty , honesty and devotion to your job have been rewarded by your being demoted and transferred for doing your sworn duty to uphold the law . Your position was therefore untenable and your resignation inevitable . " Bruce Smith , director of the Institute of Public Administration , upheld Commissioner Adams in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matters who last year surveyed the Police Department for the Mayor 's Committee on Management Survey , said : " The Commissioner had a hard choice to make , and he made the right one . It was a choice between on the one hand supporting a man who was taking correct police action against things technically against the law and on the other hand ? maintaining good order and discipline in his department . " His decision was one that would have been made by any man fit to lead and maintain his command . He had every right to demote Goldberg without trial or formality and without giving any reason . This power in the Police Commissioner is the means by which he is held responsible for policy , and Goldberg was trying to make policy . "                     