@@713330

txt AIM TO STRENGTHEN U.N . ASSEMBLY WINS BY BIG MAJORITIES Every Provision of Resolution Gets More Than Two-thirds of . Committee 's Vote ACTION CALLED HISTORIC Plan Would Take Emphasis From Security Council as Peace-Preserving Agency By A. M. - ROSENTHAL Special to TIM NEW YORE Tutzs . LAKE SUCCESS , Oct. 18 ? The sweeping program to put United Nations military power under the General Assembly when the Security Council is hamstrung by the veto was approved in committee today , point by point and with heavy majorities . Delegates to the Assembly 's Political and Security Committee took twenty-nine separate ballots to voice their approval . of the United Nations preparedness program first put forward by Secretary of State Dean Acheson . Every provision received the two-thirds majority necessary to see it through to final approval when the plan is put before the plenary session of the General Assembly . The committee , which has spent two weeks on the debate , . has only a couple of more tasks before sending the program , sponsored by seven powers , to the Assembly . Tomorrow the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resolution as a whole  --  a formality ? and naming the membership of the peace observation commission set up to check and report on aggression . Soviet Wants Big Five in Unit The Soviet Union has put in a strong bid for membership in the commission for itself , Communist China , Britain , France and the United States . Late tonight some sponsors of the resolution Were reported leaning toward giving the Big Five seats  --  the Big Five of the Charter , which means Nationalist China instead of Communist China , at least for the present . Many of the delegations that voted for the resolution  --  it goes by the name of the " United Action for Peace " resolution  --  believe that its final passage will mark a historic turning point in the United Nations . As they see it , the resolution will put the emphasis on ' he vetoless General Assembly as the key organ of the United Nations . Behind the introduction of the plan is the fear that in case of new acts of aggression , the Soviet Union will be able to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the guilty country . The idea of strengthening the Assembly has been in the talking stage for years , but the war in Korea , and the fear of new Koreas , // translated it into concrete recommendations . The Security Council took swift action in the Korea case , but Western delegates have- said openly that it was able to act only because the Soviet Union was boycotting , and thus not present to cast its veto . In the eyes of the majority , the danger was that the next time the Soviet Union would not make the mistake of boycotting in time of crisis. - In the opening days of this Assembly , Mr. Acheson outlined the United States proposals to prepare the Assembly , where every country has just one vote and the veto does not exist , to meet aggression . Later , the Unites States was joined by Canada , France , the Philippines , Turkey , Britain and Uruguay , in sponsoring the long resolution . Opposition came quickly from the Soviet Union . The Soviet bloc , led by Foreign Minister Andrei @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provisions making the Security Council responsible for enforcement action , that it was a back-door way of amending the Constitution of the United ' Ntaions . The Soviet group offered a batch of amendments designed to eliminate the heart of the seven-power resolution . Mr. Vishinsky also introduced a couple of resolutions of his own  --  not yet voted on  --  calling on the Big Five to hold new conferences . Earmarks National Units The resolution has fourteen paragraphs but the meat of the program is in the section calling on member states to earmark national contingents and keep them ready for United Nations duty . That section also asks members of the United Nations to survey their own resources and decide what they can give to back up Assembly or Security Council recommendations for restoring the peace . That section had been most vehemently opposed by the Soviet Union . On the vote tonight , fortyeight countries voted in favor , the five members of the Soviety bloc voted " No , " and six countries abstained . The five countries seen to raise their hands in abstention were India @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Secretariat-later announced Iceland as the sixth . The next vote was to authorize the Secretary General to appoint a panel of military experts who would be made available to member states desiring technical advice on organizing , training and equiping armed units for United Nations service . Israel. , dropped from the " Yes " column on that vote and added her name as a seventh . For te rest , the voting on major provisions showed pretty much the same line-up  --  a heavy majority in favor , the Soviet bloc against and a handful of abstentions . The first ' operative part of the resolution states that if the veto prevents the Security Council from acting to maintain peace in the face of aggression , the Assembly should take on the ' case at once , and-may be summoned into session on twenty-four hours ' notice . Any seven members of the Security Council or the majority of the United Nations can call for an emergency session  --  thus eliminating the veto . , Fifty-two countries voted for that section ; there were the usual five " nos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ batch of Soviet amendments , the committee went on to approve establishment of a peace observation commission for 1951 and 1952 , composed of fourteen countries to be named later . The commission will have the responsibility for spot-checking and reporting on threats to the peace and can report to the Security Council , the Assembly or the Soviet-boycotted Little Assembly . Fifty-five countries voted for the peace commission . The Soviet bloc , which supported the basic idea , voted b ac , ainst it . Soviet opposition was based on reference to the Little Assembly . Nevertheless , the , Soviet Government has made it crystal clear that it wants a place on the commission . ? Before the committee began work today , Mr. Vishinsky had a private talk with John Foster Dulles of the United States to urge that the Big Five  --  including Communist China  --  receive places on the commission . Yesterday the sponsors of the joint resolution had announced that they would reserve decision , waiting to see if the Soviet Government Would go along with the rest of the resolution . But today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that the Soviet Government has steadily maintained op- , position to the provision earmarking forces for United Nations duty , The attitude of some sponsors was that the Soviet could do less harm on the commission than away from it , but there was no support for naming Communist China . Heavy approval also was voted today for a section of the resolution establishing a collective measures committee  --  membership to be filled'in later  --  to survey means of carrying out the Assemblystrengthening program . The section was approved by a 47 to 5 vote with 7 abstentions . The final part of ' the resolution , stressing economic cooperation and human rights , was approved 58 to nothing , with Yemen and the Union of South Africa abstaining.                     