@@715365

txt Top Republican organization leaders who picked Leonard W. Hall , former New York congressman , as new chairman of the Republican National Committee , hailed the first 75 days of President Eisenhower as a period of solid and substantial achievement . The national committee summed up the 75-day record in a 5,000-word statement which did not give its party any the worst of it . Democrats promptly got out their own statement both on the Eisenhower beginning and on Mr. Hall in which , to the surprise of nobody , they took a less friendly view . Mr. Hall , himself a member of the House of Representatives from an Oyster Bay , N.Y. , district for 14 years , who more recently became a $28,000-a-year surrogate judge in New York , now takes over full-time guidance of Republican affairs . Mr. Hall is approved by all wings of the Republican Party , but he is the particular candidate of the House Republican group . He was pushed for the chairmanship by Speaker Joseph W. Martin , Jr. , ( R ) of Massachusetts immediately after C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A committee of the Kansas State Legislature criticized Mr. Roberts for his part in a " 10 per cent " real estate transaction involving the Kansas Legislature . Mr. Roberts held the national chairmanship only 70 days . Budget Cuts Cited Mr. Hall 's big job will be to get his party organization ready for the congressional elections next year . His votes in Congress show him generally following the main line of the GOP majority . Republican indorsement of the Eisenhower 75-days credited the administration with " memorable and significant " achievements and said the GOP campaign pledges were being fulfilled " quietly and without fanfare . " Since inauguration , Mr. Eisenhower , it said , had been " doing rather than explaining . " The No. 1 accomplishment of the administration was its ap proach to economy and efficiency , according to the statement , The leaders explained : " The first six departments of the executive branch to report  --  Commerce , Agriculture , Justice , Labor , Treasury , and Interior  --  trimmed a total of $423,325,300 from fund requests made in the last Truman budget @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make cuts in the Truman budget came up with reductions averaging 15 per cent . Their cuts totaled $21,382 , - 000 . " This is the budget which the former Democratic President said could not be cut . " The survey noted the freeze order of Joseph M. Dodge , Budget Director , Feb , 3 , ending the hiring of new federal employees . It noted that the Republican Congress made a 59.5 per cent cut in the second supplementary appropriation bill and that officials forecast a cut in the prospective foreign-aid budget . Mr. Eisenhower 's three reorganization plans for governmental agencies were noted . In the . section devoted to the appraisal of Korea the survey cornmerlted on withdrawal of the Seventh Fleet which has formed a barrier between Chinese Nationalists on Formosa and Chinese Communists on the mainland , and to the stepping up of United States aid in the training and supplying of South Korean troops . Other Achievements Other achievements noted by the administration were tightening of income-tax prosecutions , suspension - of 23 State Department employees as security risks , FBI checks on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turning offshore oil back to the states , favorable House action on the Hawaiian statehood bill , and administration moves to end racial segregation , one in the District of Columbia restaurants , the other in Army schools . The Democrats promptly issued a reply quoting from published accounts of a speech by Senator Robert A. Taft ( R ) of Ohio before a Yale alumni meetifig this week . Senator Taft was quoted as saying of the new administration : " Some progress has been made , but it seems slow and will seem to be slower in the future ... men who have been eminently successful in their own lives have been chosen ( for government posts ) , but as far as I know they do n't have a single day 's experience running a federal government  --  the biggest institution the world has ever seen . We can not possibly put into effect the program you would like by the beginning of the fiscal year on July 1 . " Sharp division within the Republican ranks was indicated even in the midst of the party gathering here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a statement from Topeka , Kan. , said that President Eisenhower 's administration had " bungled " almost every major political problem of the first 90 days . Mr. Landon said that was the administration 's " only real weakness . " He said Eisenhower 's Cabinet was " unpleasantly reminiscent " of that of former President Hoover . He said the Cabinet was long on ability but short on " political savvy. "                     