@@719855

txt As American marines began streaming ashore in Lebanon , events in the great Arab hinterland still were unclear . It was nut yet certain whether the Iraqi insurgents who overthrew King Faisal July 14 now were in control of all Iraq , or still were confined largely to Baghdad , the capital . Jordan Radio , broadcasting from Amman , capital of Jordan . said the loyalist Iraqi Second Division had marched July 15 from the northern Iraqi cities of Mosul and Kirkuk to attack the rebels in Baghdad . It was the Iraqi Third Division which had mounted the Baghdad coup which overturned the Iraqi Government and changed the country from a kingdom to a republic , dedicated to the policies of President Nasser of the United Arab Republic . Jordan Radio pointed out that , due to the great distances of Mosul and Kirkuk from Baghdad-250 and 170 miles respectively ? the loyalist division would not arrive until July 16 . At this writing there was no confirmation from any other source that a loyalist Iraqi force still existed intact . British Foreign Secretary Selwyn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support of the American landing in Lebanon , but denied that British troops were taking part . If British intervention came at all , diplomats in Washington believed , it would be in Jordan and Iraq , where London has historic ties . Still unknown at this writing was the fate of King Faisal of Iraq . His uncle Crown Prince Abdul Ilah , a power behind the Iraqi throne , was reported killed by , Iraqi mobs . Baghdad Radio , in rebel hands , broadcast July 15 that veteran Iraqi Premier Nuri es-Said also had been killed by mobs . In neighboring Jordan , technically united with Iraq in the so-called Arab Federation , King Hussein proclaimed himself chief . of state of the Arab Fed eration and called on loyal Iraqi and Jordanian citizens to rally behind his Hashemite throne . Observers gave King Hussein little chance of remaining in control of Jordan should the Iraqi rebels consolidate their control of the country . Indeed , some European diplomats reported the young Jordanian King already had asked for Western intervention in his country , as President Chamoun had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wire service dispatches , some 2,000 American marines landed on beaches at Khaldi Bay , five miles south of Beirut . About 1,000 of the marines marched inland and took over Beirut 's International Airport , while the remaining troops headed for Beirut itself . The marines were the vanguard of a 5,000-strong contingent , ordered into Lebanon by President Eisenhower to protect American lives and property and to protect Lebanon itself against indirect aggression , This was a reference to President Chamoun 's long-standing charge that the United Arab Republic ( Egypt-Syria ) was sending men and arms into Lebanon to aid Lebanese rebels in their efforts to topple President Chamoun . United States Ambassador Robert McClintock urged the 2,500 Americans in Lebanon to leave the country . Ten United States Embassy families , including the wife and son of the Ambassador , left Lebanon July 15 . The British Embassy also.advised its nationals to leave the strife-torn land , scene of a revolt which began May 10 and which since has focused world attention on the troubled Middle East . Meanwhile , the rebel-held Baghdad Radio ordered all Iraqi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 12,000 Iraqi troops are believed to be in Jordan . Counter reports from Amman . capital of Jordan , said these troops were remaining loyal to King Hussein of Jordan , their new commander in thief .                     