@@720946

txt A private study group urged Congress to end the present U.S. farm price-support program and to stop protecting domestic mineral producers in order to help brighten the economic outlook for Latin America . International Economic Consultants , Inc. , basest these suggestions on the thesis that problems in exporting commodities are inhibiting Latin American economic growth and U.S. policies are contributing to those problems . Its report is the second in a series prepared by various private groups and paid for by the Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee on Latin American affairs . In addition to urging sweeping revisions in the current type of U.S. protection of agriculture and mining , the report recommended a less negative U.S. attitude toward international commodity agreements and continuation , with some revisions , of foreign aid to Latin America . The authors of the report  --  Jerome Jacobson , John Lindeman and Maurice Levy-Hawesdepicted many of the Latin American countries as caught in this economic vicious circle : many are one-commodity or two-commodity nations , making them vulnerable to international market fluctuations . But to diversify their economy and move toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of capital which the vagaries of the commodity market can not supply . And . while the world average increase in exports since 1937 has been 45c ; Latin American exports have climbed only Ur : . Policy Changes A.ked Thus , the teport concluded , the U S can help these countries dispose of their cornmudities by modifying its farm and mineral policies ' The S i mice support program has produced huge surpluses . ( which ) have become a heavy weight on world markets " and hurt Latin American farm exports , the authors asserted . Viewing the price support program as a failure . they urged an alternative be tailored to " serve our foreign policy interests " as well as the domestic question . Without going into details , the report suggested a program of direct subsidy payments to farmers like the one proposed a decade ago by then Agriculture Secretary Charles F Brannan Theoretically , this would not build up a surplus to choke the world market : under the present system , the Government keeps farm commodity prices artificially high by taking crops as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point . " the report added , ' is that our example might inspire similar action in Europe , where price supports , some of them ridiculously high , greatly limit Latin America 's traditional exports of foodstuffs . " " In the minerals field , " the authors maintained , - lead. zinc and copper are all protected by import quotas , with the result that U.S. high cost production takes a market that would otherwise be largely filled by Latin America Quotas on petroleum have undoubtedly inhibited imports from Venezeuela . " Their answer : Remove the quotas . " If national policy considerations make it desirable to insure marginal domestic producers against undue hardship . " the report continued , then pay a cash subsidy to producers along the lines of the plan proposed by Interior Secretary Seaton . but later dropped by the Administration -- a sort of Brannan plan for the mining industry . Commodity Agreements Without taking a definite stand on the value of regional and global commodity arrangements often proposed by Latin America , the authors criticized U S. refusal to consider them . These arrangements may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of wheat , may set quotas as in the case of sugar , or may establish a stablization agency to buy and sell the commodity as in the case of tin , or may combine all these methods Commenting on the U S. argument that such agieement.c. on more commodities %could merely postpone deceeons by national governments to discourage ocerproduction and would interfere with free market forces , the report declared : . It may appear that this U.S position is doeti maire and that it conies with ill grace from a nation which has contributed to some world-v ide difficulties by overthrowing the doctrine of the ! tee market in dealing with its own Internal agricultural problems . . " The important thing is that we should free ourselves from the traditional position that international attempts to influence commodity trade , prices and production are somehow reprehensible : '                     