@@720904

txt Life is possible on at least ' 1100 million planets other than aim own world , an internationally known scientist said here Tuesday . Dr. Harlow Shapley , emerlitus professor ' of astronomy at Harvard . lniversity , Shapley ' mane tnat statement in his role as chairman and participant at the first panel discussion opening the Darwin Centennial celebration at the University of Chicago . 2,000 Here for Sessions There will be five such sessions , each to run three hours , daily thru Saturday as part of the school 's international salute to the first 100 years of the theory of evolution . More precisely , the event commemorates a century of that concept since Charles Darwin announced it in the first edition of his book , " The Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection , " published Nov. 24 , 1859 . Approximately 2,000 scholars and scientists from the United States and nine foreign countries , including Russia , are here for the celebration , regarded as one of the greatest intellectual exercises in Chicago 's history . Survival of Fittest Before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leading experts will participate as panelists in attempts to answer some 50 major questions concerned with five major areas of evolution and its survivalof-the-fittest explanation for the otigin of all life . At Tuesday 's discussion on " The Origin of Life , " in Mandel hall , 5706 University ay. , ' where all the panels are being held , Shapley and Sir Charles Galton Darwin , 72 , of London , a grandson and namesake of Charles Darwin , exchanged comments on the possibility of life elsewhere in the universe . Darwin , who is a mathematician , said that on the basis of Dr. Shapley 's estimate it seemed likely that by the ( spin of a coin all of 10 thousand million suns have planets able to support some kind of life . Mars Could Support Life Replying to this observation , Shapley said that a low form of life seems possible on Mars and that further studies might enable scientists to penetrate the clouds of Venus to ascertain whether such prqbabilities exist on that planet . However , Shapley ad de d , " It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this world . " Prof. G. F. Gause , director of the Institute of Antibiotics , Moscow , Russia , also exchanged remarks with Darwin on Gause 's assertion that micro-organisms could be regarded as having either a right- or left-handed source of life origin . Darwin told Gause , " You soon have to come to the point where you come to believe that the right hand and the left hand are identical with each other . " Responding to that assertion , Gause said that it has been theorized that at one time there was only polarized light which came from one direction and made one form of life substance turn more than other forms . " I do n't care whether you take it seriously , " Darwin said , " but it Gause 's explana tion suggests that at on , , , time there was only life developing in the northern hemisphere " where there was a strong magnetic field exposing only one kind of life to magnetic polar radiation . In addition , Darwin said to Gause , " if I catch a cold , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handed bacteria . " " Sterilize Moon Rocket " Gause also told the panel that precautions have been taken by Russian scientists to sterilize rockets sent to the moon to avoid bacterial con- , tamination of that satellite . Later in the evening , Darwin delivered an illustrated ; lecture on " Darwin , the Traveller , " describing his grandfather 's voyage as , an unpaid naturalist aboard the British ship Beagle . It was during that trip that Charles Darwin made the observations which confirmed in his mind the theory of evolution as a valid conception for the origin of all We from a common ancestor . Roses , Termites Cousins In an earlier talk introducing the panel of nine participants , Dr. Sol Tax , professor of anthropology and centen nial celebration chairman , said that roses , termites and men are cousins . Darwin 's origin of species , Tax said , broke thru , a tremendous fog . " If God did not in six days , 6,000 years ago create the different species we see about us , how did this wonderful variety come to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , termites beget termites , men beget men , " Dr. Tax said . " Common sense sees this continuity yet denied the relationship . It requires great imagination as well as logic and evidence to see that roses , termites and men are cousins . " In a talk preceding Darwin 's lecture , Lawrence A. Kimpton , university chancellor , said that Charles Darwin 's evolutionary concept did for the biological sciences what Sir Isaac Newton did for I the physical sciences .                     