@@717522

txt BONN , Germany , Dec. 2 ? The Government coalition parties approved today the Bonn regime 's policy of rapid armament and integration with the West . By a show of hands , they gave this answer to the Soviet refusal to agree to the reunification of Germany in peace and freedom . The Bundestag 's vote was taken after a foreign policy debate that reflected the deep fissures in the German political scene as a result of the inability of the Western powers to obtain the Soviet approval of their solution for the German problem . Erich 011enhauer , leader of the Social Democratic Opposition , stated his party 's case for exploratory talks with the Soviet Union . His main target was the Government 's statement read yesterday by Dr. Heinrich von Brentano , the Foreign Minister . The Social Democratic leader severely criticized the Government 's intentions to remain steadfast toward its current policy . 011enhauer Warns Germans I He warned the Bundestag that any attempt to put up with the failure of the recent Foreign Ministers ' Conference in Geneva would create serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West Germany are to give the people the impression that they are unable to reunify the country , the possibility of the rebirth of nationalism can not be discounted , Herr 011enhauer declared . He also criticized Dr. von Brentano for not having conferred with Vyacheslav M. Molotov , Soviet Foreign Minister , at the Geneva conference . Chancellor Konrad Adenauer replied briefly to Herr 011enhauer . It was his first statement in the Bundestag since his illness and he seemed to be in good form . The Chancellor said he wished to assure the Bundestag that his Government 's efforts for reunification had not reached a dead end . Dr. Adenauer also defended Dr. von Brentano for not having met with Mr , Molotov . " Herr 011enhauer does not know Mr. Molotov if he thinks that a talk between Dr. von Brentano and the Soviet Foreign Minister could have influenced things in the slightest , " Dr. Adenauer said . " Anyone who has had experience with Mr. Molotov for a week knows this is a misapprehension . " Other speakers included Kurt Georg Kiesinger , chairman of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , representing the Free Democrats who are resisting Dr. Adenauer 's Con , Inued on Page 4 , Column 5 BUNDESTAG BACKS ADENAUER POLICY // summons to . submit to his authority or leave the coalition . I Dr. Becker 's principal contribution to the debate was that politicians could speak of procedures to attain reunification ' without being disloyal to the ' West . This was an allusion to the public statements of Dr. Thomas Dehler , Free Democratic leader , suggesting the I Federal Government undertake exploratory talks only with the Soviet Union to facilitate reunification . In explaining the Social Democratic party 's attitude toward exploratory talks on unity with Soviet leaders , Herr 011enhauer said " direct talks with Moscow must not and can not annul or impair our close and friendly relations with the Western powers . " Regarding the European security problem , he declared there would not be a common solution of the questions of reunification and European security " unless all parties concerned " approve a " solution that frees the two parts of Germany from the respective military alliances and incorporates a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contended the Western foreign ministers had made a tactical error at the Geneva con1 ference in failing to ask Mr. ' Molotov for his concrete ideas about the military status of a reunified Germany . " Naturally asking such a question involved a readiness of the Western powers and the Federal Republic to discuss the membership of the Federal Republic in the Atlantic alliance and the Paris agreements , " the Social Democratic leader declared . " Any proposal on a security system that tries to avo:d these consequences has no chance of success in view of the Soviet Union 's attitude . " The Social Democratic leader contended that the basic thesis of the Government 's foreign policy had proved erroneous . This thesis is that German membership in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization will give the West effective means to force the Soviet Union to abandon East Germany , he declared . He said the Soviet bolstering of the East German Government presaged Communist attempts to infiltrate West Germany , particularly his own party and trade unions . However , he asserted that under no conditions would the Social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democracy , " nor would his party ever agree to deal with or countenance the German Communists .                     