@@719162

txt The tiniest . Communist state on this side of the Iron Curtain is threatened with civil war . On Sept. 19 , in Piazza della Liberta in San Marino , the world 's oldest independent republic , there were scuffles when police barred entry to the Parliament building to the majority party deputies . At the same time the Communist rulers of the pocket-sized republic ? called Captain Regents and elected every six months ? declared the Parliament dissolved and called for new elections for Nov. 3 . Faintly reminiscent of the eve of the French Revolution the debarred deputies .. defying the government ban , held a meeting not on a tennis court but in a church where they would be safe from arrest . The political trouble in San Marino was fomented by the proposal of the Communist government to nationalize coffee shops and milk bars , For most San Marinese whose communism does not follow normal rules , even to the extent of permitting a parliamentary opposition , this was too much . ueptity Deserts Party The revolt was , however , sparked when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ floor of the House and aligned himself with the opposition parties . This defection from Communist ranks put the government in a minority by one vote . The power of the Communists had , however , been waning for some months . Last August four of the left-wing Nenni Socialists had withdrawn their support from the Communists and had joined the opposition . In the 60-member Parliament this defection upset the balance of parliamentary power giving 30 deputies each to government and opposition . With the Communists in the minority through the defection of Signor Giannini , an election of new , non-Communist heads of stale would have resulted for the first time in 11 years . It was this prospect that forced the Communists to their present action . Manifesto Published The parliamentary opposition , from its ecclesiastical meeting place , has declared , that the government 's closure of Parliament and decision to hold elections were illegal . In a manifesto sent out to the San Marinese and to the world , the opposition deputies stated that they would " fiht at home and abroad for their rights and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troubles of this tiny republic which exists largely on the sale of postage stamps and revenues from its casino . But still , Communist troubles here may be significant for Italy as a whole . What exactly will be the next move in San Marino is not clear . With a police force of only 150 , many of whom are not Communists , it will be difficult to dragoon the pdpulation of 13,000 and thus impose the Communists ' will In any case it is almost certain that new elections , if they are held , would confirm the presenf anti-Communist trend in San Marino ,                     