@@714307

txt Boston : Motions to Delay Delaney Case Denied Trial of Denis W. Delaney. ousted federal Collector of Internal Revenue in Massachusetts , will begin on Dec. 3 at 10 a.m. in Federal Court in Boston , it was announced by Judge Charles E. Wyzanski , Jr. , who denied several motions to delay the trial . Page 2.1 Massachusetts legislators in Washington line up on roll-call votes with Republicans voting heavily in favor of " economy " bills and Democrats supporting " spending " legislation . Page 2.1 in Europe : Border Guards Fire on U.S. Plane Hungarian and Romanian border guards fired on a United States Air Force C-47 which became lost on a flight to Belgrade , the American Embassy in Belgrade reported . Whereabouts of the plane is still unknown . Britain " expects to receive " a share of any dollar aid provided by the United States Congress under the Mutual Security Act , Chancellor of the Exchequer Richard A. Butler is reported as saying in prliament . Pravda , leading Soviet newspaper . pledged support to the peoples I of Egypt , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " in their " struggle for independence . " Washing-ton : ' Fired ' Pair Still Buy for Chiang A Chinese Nationalist spokesman in Washington admitted that his government A continuing to buy Air Force supplies in the United States through the two procurement officers it Fired months ago . Ten congressmen. back in Washington from a 10,000-mile inspection tour of United States military bases , agree that " if war comes , we will be prepared to meet force with force . " The group reported that construction of Allied military bases ringing Russia is proceeding " remarkably " fast in some places . The Air Force will suspend most training activities between Dec. 22 and Jan. 2 and will give Christmas leaves to as many men as possible . The action is similar to that ordered by the Army last week . Israel has told the United States that it has serious misgivings about the Allied plan for a Middle East defense command . Mideast : Weizmann Reelected in Israel , 85 to 11 Dr. Chaim Weizmann , Israel 's first President , has been reelected by a parliamentary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Superiority Held Deteriorating Allied air superiority in Korea is tending toward inferiority , Australia 's Prime Minister Robert G. Menzies declared in Canberra . Premier Sbigeru Yoshida expressed hope for Japan 's early admission to the United Nations . He promised full cooperation with the UN . First battalion of Britain 's Gloucester Regiment , heroes of last spring 's stand on Korea 's Imjin River , are scheduled to be home by Christmas . Allied infantrymen on the western Korean front recaptured a hill after losing it to attacking Chinese . In the east , the Allies gained along ridges northwest of the Punchbowl.                     