@@719216

txt The Senate 's rackets investigators have demanded all records on the selection of delegates to the teamsters convention at Miami Beach . All locals of the union in the United States were directed to comply . This became known tonight after the committee had charged that James R. Hoffa could not have been elected president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters at the convention last week without " dictatorial action " by his predecessor , Dave i Beck . This allegation was made by 1Senator John L. McClellan , chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Improper Activities in the Labor or Management Field . In a sharply worded statement the Arkansas Democrat asserted that the committee had found " some situations which are just plain scandalous " in the selection and seating of delegates at the teamsters Miami Beach convention that overwhelmingly elected Hoff a . It also announced the opening of a new phase of its investigations involving New York City locals of the Amalgamated Meat Cutters , affiliated with the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations . Mr. McClellan disclosed ear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain records of Locals 342 and 640 of the meat cutters union , and was still awaiting their delivery by union officials . Continuing the committee 's battle with Hoffa and the teamsters , Senator McClellan said that some of the convention records were missing , Ind that those that had been furnished were " so incomplete as to be almost useless . " The Senator said that the circumstances surrounding Hoffa 's election were " a matter for the courts , " as well as for continued committee investigation . The committee was given records by the union yesterday after a temporary impasse in which a union spokesman first said the documents had been thrown into an incinerator by a maid at the Eden Roc Hotel lin Miami Beach . Subsequently , the union said it had salvaged most of the documents . They were presented yesterday by Joseph Konowe , secretary of the credentials committee . " Even a preliminary examination of the records furnished by the teamsters in connection ; with their credentials committee revealed a shocking situaI tion , " Senator McClellan said . " Not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ available are , to say the least , inadequate . Chicago teamster officials Mr. Cross and on Sept. 16 removed Mr. Sims from his post . Hoffa Hailed In Detroit Special to The New York Till1C5 DETROIT , Oct. ** fa returned triumphantly to his home city of Detroit late this afternoon . Nearly 2,000 members of his union and friends , many of them wearing a single feather and Indian headdress , met him at the Willow Run Airport . They , cheered , rattled noisemakers and threw paper streamers as ; Hoffa and his wife walked down a line of union stewards to a makeshift platform on the rear of a truck trailer . A teamster official presented to Hoffa an Indian chief 's headdress of white feathers with orange tips . He said it was being given by the Indians to " our big chief Jimmy Hoffa . " Hoffa received a plaque in appreciation for his services to his Local 299 . Hoffa said it was a pleasure to be home again among the , honest members of his own local and those who understood his problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secretarytreasurer last May , Mr. Sims charged James G. Cross , union president , with mismanaging union funds . Mr. Cross retorted that Mr. Sims had violated the union 's constitution by making such charges publicly . 