@@715073

txt More than 1,000 longshoremen employed on Hudson River piers between Forty-fourth and Fiftyseventh Streets staged a one-day strike yesterday to protest the serving of subpoenas on four union leaders by the New York State Crime Commission . The walkout hampered but did not prevent the docking of four passenger lines , including the Iworld 's fastest and the world 's largest . It forced 5,200 inbound passengers , from grandmothers to toddlers , to carry their own luggage . It turned steamship executives and office workers into winchmen and porters , and it undoubtedly ran up the sales of arnica and other drug-store lotions . But as darkness closed down on the river last night every passenger and most of the baggage had been cleared from the ships . and the only apparent losers were the dock workers , who though they had gathered early in the morning opposite the pier entrances , had not been called to work by union hiring bosses . The walkout , had been forecast on Monday as a gesture of defiance after four leaders of Local 824 , International Longshoremen 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appear yesterday before the crime commission . Leaders Told to Return The men were Harold Bowers , an international organizer for the union and a delegate of Local 824 ; his cousin , Mickey Bowers , a power in the local ; John Keefe , business agent , and Thomas ( Tottie ) O'Rourke . All put in brief appearances yesterday at the commission 's offices , 270 Broadway , and were ordered to return at a later date , othe first three on Dec. 9 and Mr. O'Rourke on Dec. 5 . While the principal action was at the uptown piers where the big ships were docking , the stoppage spread in a sympathy walkout to Pier 32 at Canal Street . It did not seriously impair operations there , however , for no ship was arriving or sailing . Obviously unimpressed by the dockers ' demonstration , the crime commission issued a statement to the effect that the strike would in no way affect its investigation . " You can read a lot into that if you want to , " said a commission spokesman . " It means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ More formally , Joseph Kaitz , chief investigator for the commission , added : " Pursuant to an order of the Governor , the New York State Crime Commission will conduct a public hearing regarding waterfront conditions in the Port of New York . It has issued , and is now engaged in serving , sucn subpoenas as it deems necessary and desirable for the purpose . " The union leaders were silent after their meeting with commis. sion representatives , but their attorney , Henry Lowenberg , defended them as " good , honest family men " who " should not be har-. assed . " He disclosed that he had made an application in the State Supreme Court to vacate the subpoenas . The work stoppage brought a sharp reaction from John V. Lyon , chairman of the New York Shipping Association , which represents 170 American and foreign-flag steamship companies and contracting stevedores in the port . Mr. Lyon branded the strike a " flagrant violation of the I. L. A. 's contract and an abortive attempt to interfere with the State Crime Commission . " " That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duly constituted Government agency , such as the commission , " said Mr. Lyon , " is a conduct that should seriously concern not only the public but the union leaders , municipal , state and Federal authorities , who should take steps to bring about resumption of work . " Joseph P. Ryan , president of the International Longshoremen 's Association , commented that the men were unable to go to work because their hiring bosses were at the crime commission 's offices answering subpoenas and thus were not available at the piers . Mr. Ryan asserted , after conferring with officers of Local 824. that the longshoremen would be back on the job today wherever they were needed . This was supported by a spokesman for John Keefe at the local 's headquarters , ' 642 Twlfth Avenue , who said : " II can see two shipping calls on the office'board for Thursday at Piers 84 and 90. and the men will be back at the other piers on Friday . " Telegram Sent to Ryan Hugh E. Sheridan , impartial , chairman of the New York City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following telegram to , , Mr Ryan : " The New York City Trucking Authority , comprising teamster unions and truck operators , pro -I tests this latest of many work ' stoppages perpetrated so lightly by members of your unions . Too often has it happened , merely because on whim of some of your membership it is decided no work , will be performed , that trucks have been obliged to turn away from piers. leaving laden trucks stranded and causing considerable economic I loss to truck owners and loss of , job opportunity to teamster ern-1 proves . " The trucking industry , consider- , ing the time long past for further ' temporizing , will presently enter- , tain taking collective action to i embargo all piers where strike action has taken place until suchl time as the International Longshoremen 's Association and steam-I shin companies can give satisfac-1 tort ' guarantee that such crippling and damaging work stoppages will , not recur . " City Council President Rudolph Halley last night described the walk-out as a " crime . " In the first of a series @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York 's share of the country 's overseas commerce had dropped from 46 per cent in 1947 to 39 per cent . Attributing the decline to dock racketeering , Mr. Halley urged the strikers to return and permit the crime commission 's , investigation to continue . The first ship affected by the walkout was the American Export liner Independence , which docked at 10 A. M. at Pier 84 with 9331 passengers . Six regular and eleven , extra gangs of longshoremen were ; ordered for an 8 A. M. appearance at the pier to handle baggage on ' the Independence and the Italian liner Vulcania , which docked atj 1:40 P . M. with 1,120 passengers . ' With twenty-four men to a gang , at least 400 longshoremen gatheral , on Twelfth Avenue opposite the pier before 8 A. M. They remained in force until about 9:30 o'clock , then began drifting away . By 10 A. M. only about fifty were on hand . Meanwhile , 100 executives and clerical personnel were pressed into service and began carrying luggage from the Independence to , the pier . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ' with little grumbling , carried their , ' grips or pushed trucks to waiting , Customs inspectors and eventually , to the pier head and taxicabs . The picture was repeated at Pier 86 when the superliner United , States tied up at 1:50 P. M. About 100 company personnel pitched into the mountains of baggage and , ; by 3:30 had most of the 1,547 pas- ' isengers well on their way from the pier . A company official said the inexperienced " porters " moved the , baggage from the liner at a faster ' Ipace than the longshoremen nor- , mally did . This sentiment was echoed by Cunard Line officials , who pressed 161 office workers into service to debark 1,611 passengers and their baggage from the liner Queens Elizabeth . The Cunard pier appeared clear at 7 P. M. , and one hour later the Italian Line reported the Vulcania virtually clear of its passengers . The United States Lines ' officials had the additional problem of clearing the ship of passengers in time for the vessel to sail at 5 P. M. for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a general overhaul . The , inquiry into waterfront crime by the State Crime Commission , headed by former Supreme Court Justice Joseph M. Proskauer , began last February . At that time special staffs started delving into racketeering and crime that have marked the port 's shore activity for generations . The commission 's waterfront hearings will begin next Wednesday in the County Courthouse , Center and Pearl Streets .                     