@@720315

txt Recent geographic research employing new concepts ? has confirmed the increasing sociological and economic importance of New York City to the rest of the country . The studies , at the American Geographical Society here and at Princeton University , are based on data from every ' decennial census from 1790 to 1950 . They indicate that for land values , prices , population data ) ' and a wide variety of other phenomena , New York is the nation 's nucleus . Moreover , the studies show , that the city . is still increasing in importance . as the center ? to ' . use the language of the social ' scientists  --  about which the naI tion is structured economically , sociologically and financially . The studies are under the direction of Dr. William Warntz , a 36-year-old research associate at the two institutions . View Is Discounted For years , according to Dr. Warntz , some social scientists have argued that the nation 's population center has had significance from a marketing viewpoint . As the population center moved westward ( it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sociologists have reasoned , it must follow that New York 's importance was diminishing . This attitude Is sometimes en- , countered in the statements of chambers of commerce and in advertisements by cities urging industry to relocate . In the social scientist 's " literature , " Dr. Warntz said , there can be found laments that the Eastern seaboard has remained in con- , 1/.01 of the nation 's finance only by some deception or trickery . These researchers , Dr. Warntz said , have invested the concept of population center with social and economic importance that his studies show it does not possess . " Actually , " he declared , ' ' the financial center is exactly where the physics of population puts it . " The Princeton and Geographical Society research , based on a wide range of sociological and economic data , indicates that : gNew York was established at the peak of the nation 's sociological intensity by 1840 , by which time Philadelphia and Boston had relatively declined . 9New York continued its dominance until 1900 , throughout the build-up of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important cities developed into the Midwest during this time . 9From 1900 on the importance of New York has increased in relation to the rest of the nation , In recent years , the studies show a developing center on the West Coast , about the cities of San Francisco and Los Angeles . Dr. Warntz ' conclusions about New York are only a side result of the research at the two institutions  --  attempts to discover systematic mathematical relationships between classes of sociological data . One of the basic concepts in the attempt to introduce generalization into geography is that of potential of population developed in 1940 by Prof. John Q. Stewart of Harvard , an associate of Dr. Warntz on many research papers . Potential of population is a measure of the influence of people at a distance . It is the number of people in an area , divided by their distance from another point ? a process that produces an index number . The concept can be applied to many human activities ? phone calls , mail or bank check flow , railroad intensity and the like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , lines are drawn connecting similar numbers , thus producing contour maps of sociological activity much like the contour maps of the physical geographers . It is these contour maps that established for the researchers the primacy of New York . In using the maps , Dr. Warntz and Dr. Stewart say they have found " a remarkable constancy " in certain classes of sociological phenomena . They foresee a generalized logic applying to the social sciences , just as it does to the physical sciences .                     