@@718359

txt When the Democrats , under the aegis of the New Deal , started giving away groceries for the school lunch program they could at least pretend they were helping unfortunate children sit down to a square meal . Under the Republicans , as our Mr. Cooper reported the other day , a resourceful man can work all day in a grocery store and then go home to a dinner provisioned for free by a bountiful Uncle Sam . And some have . Thus we are come to a situation where the facts are so absurd they almost make comment superfluous . In the year 1956 when ( as the Republicans have lately reminded us ) the nation is enjoying unparalleled prosperity , some 3,466,114 persons are enjoying the privilege of being dined by the rest of us . And if you think these are the poor and down-trodden , consider : Sunflower County , Mississippi , is one of the richest cotton producing areas in the state . Yet 37,000 of its 53,000 citizens are on the free list . Of course that took a little urging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farmers to be sure that their tenants and hired help got on the gravy train . In Pennsylvania , as one man found by experience , the Government is so anxious to give away groceries it was only necessary to walk up , stick out his hand and receive the hand-out , with no questions asked . In Detroit the distribution of free food began as a welfare program back in December last year , with a thousand families on the rolls . Today , with the auto factories humming , there are 30,500 families being fed for free , causing a bit of a traffic jam on distribution days because the people drive down in their cars to pick up Government groceries . There 's a temptation to argue seriously about the foolishness of all this . For the excuse now , of course , is not welfare but a frank attempt to get rid of the farm surpluses ; and , morality aside , this only leads in practice to a vicious circle . What is the Government going to do about the groceries left unbought on the grocer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " groceries ? But this morning we feel unequal to a serious argument . Once long ago , in the days of the Democrats , we were moved to ask about some of their wild schemes for meeting the farm surplus problem : How much more ridiculous can things get ? Now it looks as though the Government under a Republican Administration has answered our question .                     