@@715064

txt President Elect Eisenhower made it an even half do zen for his cabinet this afternoon with th e announced selection of Ezra Taft Benson , a Utah farm marketing expert , f o r agriculture secretary . He also picked Gov . Adams Sherman Adams of New Hampshire as his chief assistant in the White House . With three to go , Gen. Eisenhower still has to nominate his secretaries of labor and commerce and postmaster general . He is expected to fill the remaining cabinet jobs before he takes off on his trip to the Korean war front . Taft Halls Appointment In Columbus , 0 . , Sen. Taft R. , 0. hailed Benson 's choice as " an excellent appointment " and said " I certainly joined in the recommendation . " However , he added : " I ca n't claim him as my recommendation . " The proposed agriculture secretary read a prepared statement to a press conference saying his designation came as " a great surprise " and he had " never sought political office or preferment . " He revealed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him yesterday and that he had supported Taft for President to the extent of lending his name to the citizens for Taft committee . Benson explained that his duties as one of the 12 members of the council of the Mormon church , prevented him from taking an active part in the Taft campaign prior to the Republican national convention in Chicago . The new appointee , who is 53 , refused to be drawn out on whether he favored supports of 90 or 100 per cent on farm parity , adding he was " in general agreement with Gen. Eisenhower 's farm statements . " Adams Plum No Surprise Selection of Gov . Adams , also 53 , as assistant to the President , a post created during the Roosevelt-Truman administration as the executive branch of the government swelled in power , came as no surprise . Adams , with his patronage machine , put over Eisenhower 's victory in the New Hampshire Presidential primary , first in the country . During the national convention Gov . Adams was floor manager for the Eisenhower forces . In the election campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself to the Republican nominee 's side thruout the campaign . Since the election and Eisenhower 's return to New York , the two have occupied offices at the headquarters here on the 6th floor of the Commodore hotel . After the appointment was announced , Adams explained the duties of the assistant to the President which he proposed to fulfill would differ greatly from those now performed by John R. Steelman , who acts in that capacity for Truman . Plans to Be a Coordinator The New England governor said he would function as an over-all c ) Ordinator of the various executive agencies , serving as liaison man between the White House and departments . Steelman has functioned as a trouble shooter for the President . Adams disclosed a study for reorganization of the executive departments win under way and " a good many changes " could be expected . The study will take into consideration the reconunenclet Lions made in 1949 by the commission on the reorganization of the executive department , headed by former President Herbert Hoover . Eisenhower had a busy day filled with eight conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and talks with the U. N. officials , and a two-hour luncheon with Vice President Elect Nixon . This was the first time Eisenhower and his running mate have been together since the election eve rally in Boston . The senator disclosed at a press conference afterward he foresaw the duties of his office expanded to include some administrative responsibility , altho the scope of his authority was yet to be decided . Nixon admitted smilingly he had discussed what protocol he should observe with Ambassador William O'Dwyer when he goes ; to Mexico City to represent the new administration at the inauguration of President Elect Adolfo Ruiz Cortines Dec. 1 . Sen. Nixon attacked O'Dwyer , former New York mayor , as one of the undesirable appointments of the Truman administration , during the recent campaign . Seeks a Job for the South " In Mexico I plan to have what ' contacts with him O'Dwyer ) that his official duties or mine require , " said Nixon . Eisenhower also saw John Minor Wisdom of New Orleans , Republican national committeeman from Louisiana , who is one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lar vote below the Mason and Dixon line . Wisdom said he was not a candidate for any office altho he had recommended a Louisianan , whose name was not revealed , for a position of sub-cabinet status . Wisdom , a lawyer , said he had outlined to Gen. Eisenhower the results of a survey of the southland with a view to strengthening the Republican party on a permanent basis in " solid " Democratic territory . He thought G. 0 . P. backers in the south should be represented at the policy making level . Eisenhower also had talks with Col. John Jacob Astor , owner of The Times , London ; Thomas J. Watson , chairman of the International Business Machines corporation : and Kenneth Wells , president of Freedom Foundation . Confers with U. N. Officials During the forenoon , the general made a fast tour of the rapidly mushrooming United Nations plant on New York City 's East River front and conferred privately with officials over peace in Korea . Both Trygve Lie . U. N. secretary-general . who has submitted his resignation , and Lester @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talked behind closed doors with Eisenhower PSI . 20 minutes . The meeting took place in Lie 's office . When a crowd gathered in the corridors , a microphone was hauled up and Eisenhower said : " This building and the people In it and their work are the symbol of the free world 's hope for geace . Every true citizen of the free world follows what you have done here with interest . " John Foster Dulles , named as the next state secretary , and Byron Price . assistant to Lie , made the tour with the general . In the main assembly ball , the President elect shook hands warmly with Dr. Ralph Bunche . Negro director of the U. N. trusteeship division . " Who are you working for , the United States or the U. N. ? " the general asked . Visited by RCA Chairman " I 'm with the U. N. , " replied Bunche . " How in hell can the United I States afford not to have you working for us ? " Eisenhower asked . Earlier in the day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Corporation of America and also chairman of the citizens advisory commir. - sion on man power utilization in the military services . Aitho the commission is a Truman creation , Eisenhower indorsed it today and assured Sarnofi of his cooperation . Ernest T. Weir , chairman of the National Steel corporation of Pittsburgh . was another Eisenhower visitor . Weir said he asked for the appointment . He had no comment when he emerged after a brief conference .                     