@@714142

txt Communist forces were reported yesterday to be using 132-mm. rockets launched from trucks on the east central front . The same type of rockets were used by the Russians during World War II . They have a range of about 10,000 yards and are launched sixteen at a time . No reports were received of damage done by the rockets yesterday . The Associated Press said the Communists in the KumhwaHwachon area had used their new weapon sparingly . Meanwhile , allied investigators termed inconclusive evidence presented by the Communists of alleged strafing of the Kaesong neutral zone , where the Korean truce conferences have been held . Allied troops began a determined effort to capture two heights commanding valleys in the Pyonggang area on east central front yesterday . The battle was NEW YORK TIMM still raging last night as a temporary news blackout was imposed by the Army . The Pyongyang area being fought for is of vital strategic importance . If it remains in Communist hands , it will provide protection and defense of valleys that can be used as a route for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allied troops can capture and hold the high ground , the Communists will be unable to use the area to launch an attack . The valleys , running . down from Chorwon through Uijongbu , have been used by armies for centuries as an ideal military route of attack in the central part of Korea . Their level winding roads would provide excellent routes for the movement of troops and tanks , and the high ground bordering each side of the valleys would provide good protective terrain from which Communist units would have a maximum chance of holding off allied attacks . Early reports of the fighting indicated that the United Nations troops were making gains on at least one of the hills . It was reported that allied fighter planes had driven large numbers of enemy soldiers from bunkers with bombs and napalm . Once the enemy was out in the open , the allied troops mowed the Communists down with rifle and machine gun fire . Strengthen Bridges in West Reports received yesterday from the western front suggested that the enemy might be planning an attack from that sector @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and strengthening bridges . Some observers interpreted this to mean that military roads and bridges were being prepared for heavy : vehicles , such as tanks and armored cars . Enemy casualty estimates given out yesterday by Gen. James A. ' Van Fleet , commander of the al-1 lied ground forces in Korea , emphasized that action had been . heavy and bloody on the east central front during the last two weeks . The general said the Communists had suffered 25,000 casualties during the period , including 1,000 prisoners taken by the allies . He commended a company that had been in action on the western front against a surprise Chinese attack . " That one company alone accounted for 600 Chinese casualties , " he said , explaining that , although the company was surrounded , the men were having such a field day shooting down the enemy that they hated to pull out of the " trap " from which they were inflicting such heavy losses . Jet Planes Battle General Van Fleet broke down the Communist casualty estimates further , saying that about 14,000 Communist soldiers were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ September alone . He added that , as the fighting mounted in fury , the United States Second and Seventh Divisions had inflicted the heaviest losses in the areas south of Kumsong and north of Yanggu . In the air over northwest Korea , a major jet battle took place yesterday afternoon . The clash came near Sinanju , when about eighty enemy ** streaked across the Yalu River to strike at thirty F-86 Sabre jets . During the half-hour battle at an altitude of 34,000 feet , two Russian-built fighters were damaged . No damage was inflicted on the allied planes . Reds Resist Strongly in East EIGHTH ARMY HEADQUARTERS , in Korea , Tuesday , Sept. 11 UP ) ? On the western end of the Korean front , Communist units seemed to be receding slightly from their ominous advance of several days ago . In the east , the enemy met and grappled with every advancing United Nations force . In the ground fighting in the eastern sector , bloodly battles for hill positions picked up momentum . Allied infantrymen attacked north in the heavily wooded ridges above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Inje , eight miles southeast of Yanggu . On the western front , the United Nations forward units pushed farther into enemy territory southwest of Yonchon , for the second straight day . U. S. Destroyer Escort Is Hit WASHINGTON , Sept. 10 ( II3 ) ? The United States destroyer-escort Seiverling suffered some damage but no casualties yesterday when it received three direct hits from enemy shore guns at Wonsan , the Navy reported . The ship 's number two fireroom was flooded and there was other minor damage from the hits and near misses . The vessel was able to proceed under her own power to the Sasebo naval base in Japan . The Navy said combined air and surface bombardment had silenced the enemy batteries , knocking out at least nine guns . The Seiverling was the 13th United States fighting ship appreciably damaged or sunk by enemy shellfire in Korea .                     