@@713731

txt British indignation over the decision of the Teheran Parliament to take over the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company provokes ironic comment on the inconsistency of the Labor Government , which pushes nationalization at home and protests vigorously when the same policy is applied to British holdings abroad . Even those most opposed to the program of the Labor party , however , must recognize the distinction between a vote to nationalize your own property and a vote to expropriate the property of someone else . What is at stake in Iran is not the right of that country to own and work its own natural resources if it can , but themnilateral breaking of a contract which runs until 1993 and has become valuable because the British company has invested vast sums in developing the oil industry . Nor is this all . Larger issues than oil , or even the moral validity of international agreements , are involved in the violent storm of nationalism that has blown up in the quaking land be , tween the Caspian Sea and Persian Gulf . Such high-handed expropriation of foreign development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mexico  --  without much action on the part of the American Government . The discussion in Parliament indicates that the British Government does not intend to take Iran 's action lying down . A note to Teheran declares that the British are prepared to discuss new terms for ' sharing profits , but that the agreement can not legally be terminated by nationalization . While they hope that wiser counsels will prevail in the three months that may elapse before the decision of the Majlis takes effect , the note makes plain that they will take whatever action is necessary to protect their interests . The " new terms " are modeled on the fifty-fifty division of profits recently agreed on by the Arabian-American Oil Company and King Ibn Saud , and if they had been presented sooner the widespread popular sense of grievance might have been mollified and the present crisis avoided . But the trouble goes deeper than the deepest oil wells . Martial law has been proclaimed in Teheran to hold in check the fanatical anti-foreign forces that assassinated the late Prime Minister . These reactionary forces are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flame in the name of " revolution " by the Communist party , outlawed but engineering public demonstrations . The turmoil is not only made to order but made by order of the Kremlin , which would win another bloodless battle by driving the British company out of the country and cutting off one of the most important sources of oil available to the Western Powers . The Iranians lack the technical skill , commercial knowledge and capital to operate - the industry themselves , and the measures of development and reform the harassed Shah is striving to put through will be impossible if the revenues from oil are interrupted or reduced . Iran 's position is so vulnerable that in this case expropriation of the oil industry is not a step toward but away from the independence ruler and people passionately desire . It would inevitably increase Russian pressure and power in an area both the Czars and the Politburo have always coveted . Here is the first test of the mettle of the new British Foreign Secretary . It is a challenge that can be met without force , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  