@@715275

txt Today 's meeting of the Franco-Vietnamese High Military Committee in Indo-China was called to authorize the doubling of the Vietnamese forces in the field . The method that has been agreed upon by the French and the Vietnamese is somewhat different from that hitherto employed . The sixty battalions that will be added to the Vietnamese Army will be of a lighter type , more mobile , and suited to meeting guerrilla tactics in kind . This sounds on the face of it like a wise decision and a feasible plan of operation . It is to be expected that the United States will have a stake in this program . We have already declared that the battleground in Indo-China against Communist imperialism is second in priority only to Korea and a substantial increase in our assistance has been forecast . In this case some of that assistance would have to take the financial form , since neither Vietnam nor France nor both together can carry the additional money cost of doubling the Vietnamese force . Similarly , the United States can expect to be called upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to meet some of this need without a diversion from other essential operations . The equipment of Vietnamese light forces , for example , should properly include adequate motor vehicles to give the troops the highest possible mobility . This should not present an insurmountable supply program to the United States . There is a double reason for the obviously increased American concern over Indo-China and the determination to do something about it . First is the close connection between what France can do in Europe and the burden that France is carrying in the Far East . Second is the now well-established conviction that the French and the Vietnamese are fighting for the free world in Indo-China just as the United Nations force is fighting for it in Korea . And what is more , they are fighting the same enemy . That conviction is not shared by some United Nations members , and the defense of Vietnam against Communist conquest is therefore not a United Nations operation , although it Might very properly be so . In the Indo-China case the Communist conspiracy made clever use of genuine nationalist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Comintern directives of as far back as 1928 . Their camouflage was so skillful that there was even a successful propaganda campaign to the effect that Ho Chi Minh was not really a Communist but a true anti-colonialist patriot . This was actually swallowed in some parts of the world and by some persons in the United States in the face of the established facts that Ho was Moscowtrained , commuted back and forth between Moscow and the Far East for years and set up shop for a decade as the chief Far Eastern agent of the Comintern . Similarly , with the play on nationalist feeling , Bao Dai and his Frenchsupported Government were portrayed as pure puppets and Vietnamese autonomy as a myth . This could be expected to alienate Asians who had recently become independent , and it did so . Those fictions are no longer believed by informed persons in the United I States . The recognition of the Bao Dai Government was a firm indication of our disbelief . The increasing military supplies that have gone to Vietnam is an even firmer indication . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As Senator Mansfield pointed out on Friday , there are many persons who believe that the Indo-Chinese irgnt is quite as vital as the Korean . Not merely would Communist conquest in I that sector provide the conspirators with vital strategic materials but it would also open the way to Communist control of the major part of the world 's exportable rice . The potential stability and the immediate security of the whole of Southeast Asia would be gone with a Communist victory in Vietnam . The free world has an immense stake in that stability and security . When Marshal Juin comes to the United States after his Far Eastern inspection he can be expected to give an account of the needs of this vital area . He can also suggest the ways in which our help is imperative . He should , and doubtless will , get a warm and thoughtful reception .                     