@@719304

txt LONDON , Nov. 14 ? Queen Elizabeth II has abolished Court presentation parties , These have been a traditional means for young ladies to gain social prestige since Queen Elizabeth I was a girl more than 400 years ago . The abolition will become effective after next year 's parties , scheduled to be held March 19 and 20 . After that , the Queen proposes to hold additional garden parties so that larger numbers may be invited to Buckingham Palace . This policy , announced today by the Lord Chamberlain , will be interpreted as part of the cautious democratization of the royal family , said to be influenced by Prince Philip , Duke of Edinburgh. , It began when Prince Charles was sent to an ordinary private day school t Continued ontage 16 , Column QUEEN ABOLISHES DEBUTANTE FETES // early this year to study and play with commoners . Prince Charles celebrated his ninth birthday today at Cheam , the preparatory boarding school in Berkshire he entered this fall . He received a cake baked by the Buckingham Palace chef and a bottle of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but his celebration did not interfere with a normal day of lessons . A palace source said the Queen 's decision to end the presentation parties had been made after three years of consideration of the whole pattern of official entertaining . She was reluctant to abolish them because the number of applications for presentation each year indicated that the parties were " extremely welcome , " the source said . United States debutantes-tobe who had their eyes on presentation to the Queen will be disappointed , but their fathers , if not their mothers , are probably relieved . Each year about 800 British debutantes and a dozen Americans were presented at the two parties , which open the London social " season . " American applicants , acting through the United States Ambassador , were usu- , ally selected according to the importance and number of Senators , Governors and other prominent figures from whom they could get letters of recommendation . Invitations to the enormous Buckingham Palace garden parties , where 5,000 or 6,000 persons mill about and stare respectfully at the Queen and other members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prestige of the Court presentations . At the garden parties , usually held in June , the well-dressed throng opens serpentine lanes of a respectful width when the Queen emerges from the palace and makes her progress toward the cordoned-off canopy over the royal , tea table . Should she speak to a guest , it does not ' count as a presentation . One reason given for the shift to garden parties only is that men can attend them . Since the presentation levees for men were dropped in 1939 , only women have been presented at Court . Ambitious parents began presenting their sons and daughters at Court in the reign of Henry VIII . Queen Elizabeth I allowed selected members of the public in the long galleries at Greenwich Palace . Queen Anne , in the early Eighteenth Century , instituted " drawing rooms , " full-dress parties where she would move among the guests and receive introductions . Levees for young ' men of fashion began at that time . From the reign of Edward VII , beginning in 1901 , until 1939 presentations were called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war . Beginning in 1947 , the war-1 time backlog of young ladies1 began being presented to King George VI at afternoon parties on a more modest scale . In 1951 he gave the parties their present form .                     