@@714248

txt The United States statement regarding Egypt and the Middle East defense command was its second and much stronger warning . Secretary of State Dean Acheson some days ago aligned the United States firmly behind Britain in the Suez Canal dispute . Now , through a State Department press officer , the secretary declares plans are going ahead for formation of that command in collaboration with Britain , France , Turkey , New Zealand , Australia , and the Union of South Africa . Middle East nations will be kept informed of plans as they are formulated , the State Department said . They may be invited to join " later . But there is a strong hint in the press officer 's statement that Egypt would be left out , if it persOs in its intransigence on the Suez Canal issue , and merely would be told what the big powers had decided to do . Somewhat similarly , the Chinese Communists have been " told , " by the solid logic of battle , that the United Nations is resuming negotiations toward a truce only on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lines . Heretofore the Communists have sought to draw a truce line close to the 38th parallel , politically logical for them but militarily unlogical to the West as a defensible line . Gen. Matthew B. Ridgway 's formidable strength in the autumn campaign seems to have forced a change of attitude in the Communists ' thoughts , Washington believes . In Strong Position On the Iranian oil crisis , the disposition of that country 's variable leader , Premier Mossadegh , to journey to Washington to visit with the President and hold a series of conferences with Mr. Acheson and other State Department officers reflects a stronger position by the United States than heretofore . While negotiations are secret , therq are responsible indicationsthat progress is being made toward a formula that would bring Britain and Iran together on future operation of the Abadan refinery . The United States was described as acting as an " honest broker . " In that capacity Washington is seeking to find a way by which Iran can own and control its oil resources , while operation of the refinery , plus sale and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " neutral " company , Iran obtaining greater profits than previously and with Britain sharing in the same , though less than previously . UN Anniversary The United States-Iranian talks were pursued even as Washington joined other world capitals in hailing the sixth anniversary of the UN . Forty-eight UN soldiers from several nations fighting together in Korea were brought here to mark the event . The President , Mr. Acheson , and the UN soldiers all bespoke the unity as well as the strength of the United Nations . In Mr. Truman 's words : " I hope the time will not he far distant when the leaders of the Soviet Union and their satellites will come to see that it is utterly foolish to oppose the united will of all the other peoples of the world for peace and justice . " But as long as the forces of aggression are attacking the United Nations there must he no weakening , there must be no slackening of our effort to check aggression and to build up the defense of the free world . " Secretary Acheson acknowledged that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was founded , but said the necessity to fight has given the UN a " vitality and life " that at least " has put of the terrible catastrophe of another world war . " Commandant Johann P. D. Blaauw , a Korean veteran from South Africa , said : " We 're all proud to belong to the . armed forces in Korea . It is the first time that so many people have fought together for a common cause . " What makes it better , we 're winning it . ' '                     