@@716097

txt Sir Winston Churchill says he still thinks his plan for an East-West meeting of heads of state " should not be ruled out . " The Prime Minister , who first suggested such a meeting last May 11 , was speaking in a House of Commons debate on the decisions of the Berlin conference of Foreign Ministers . " Peace and perseverance must never be grudged when the peace of the world is at stake , " he said , adding : " If we have to go through a cold war , punctuated by parleys , that would be preferable to the catalogue of unspeakable and unimaginable horrors which is the alternative . " We must not shrink from continuing to use every channel that is open , or that we can open , any more than we should relax the defensive measures indispensible for our own strength and safety . " Heads of States Referring to his famous speech of May 11 , when he suggested a conference of heads of states to discuss world problems , the Prime Minister said : " I still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He said that the resource of such a meeting could always be held in reserve . " It would certainly be improvident to see that resource used lightly , and it would perhaps be disastrous to use it in vain , " he said . He was sure Britain and the sister Commonwealth countries would find it difficult to go forward with the policy of increasing military strength at such great sacrifice if they did not feel that everything was being done to ward off " the supreme catastrophe . " He added that the aim was to try to build bridges and not barriers between the Soviet Union and the western world . Peace Is Our Aim ' " Peace is our aim , and strength is the only way of getting it , " the Prime Minister said . " We need not be deterred by the thought that we are trying to have it both ways at once . Indeed it is only by having it both ways at once that we shall get the chance of getting anything of it at all . " Sir Winston opened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most obvious disappointment at Berlin " the failure to secure the liberation of Austria : " I am sure the Soviets would have been wise , in their own interests , to make this gesture of humanity . " At any rate , I do not think we need regard this as a final discussion . I certainly do not feel that anyone ought to take ' no ' for an answer in this matter . " Sir Winston mentioned increased East-West trade as a " helpful contact " by which relations with the U.S.S.R. could be improved . He did not suggest at present that there should be any traffic in military equipment , including certain machine tools . Rut a substantial relaxation of the regulations affecting manufactured goods and raw materials would undoubtedly be beneficial , he contended . " We are examining these lists ( of strategic goods banned ) and will discuss them with our American friends , " he said .                     