@@713080

txt Suburban trains of the Rock Island railroad were put back on regular schedules yesterday , and long distance trains will be back to normal within a day or two , the railroad 's passenger department reported . The restoration of service was started after Arthur J. Glover , president of the AFL Switchmen 's union , ordered strikers back to work late Saturday night . Several long distance trains were put on the road almost immediately . Considering the short notice , officials were surprised to find that the Peoria Rocket , which left Peoria for Chicago at 7 a. m. , had an almost capacity crowd of passengers . The road also resumed running the Des Moines Rocket and train No. 39 to Los Angeles , which left Chicago at 8:30 o'clock last night , as well as other trains not serving Chicago . Colorado Train to Run The Rocky Mountain Rocket will leave Chicago for Colorado at 1:55 p. m. today and No. 11 for Rock Island at 8:45 a. in . The first Golden State Limited to Los Angeles will leave Wednesday ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . First trains in service were on slow schedules because rust accumulated on the tracks interfered with operation of automatic signals . Spokesmen said one or two trains running over the rails would remove the rust . Glover 's order to return to work came after he had been notified of an injunction the government obtained in federal District court in Buffalo , temporarily restraining the switchmen from striking . A hearing on the injunction was set by Judge John Knight for July 17 . Glover said the union will seek to have it removed . Army Controls Line The Rock Island returned to service under control of the army , which seized the road by Presidential order Saturday afternoon . Lt. Col. Thomas E. Sams of the army transportation corps took control under an agreement whereby the railroad management will operate under his supervision . The switchmen struck five railroads June 25 but returned to four lines a week ago . They seek 4S hours ' pay for 40 hours ' work . Officials of three other rail unions , the trainmen , conductors , and yardmasters , will begin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be called out on strike when a cooling-off period ends Saturday . A spokesman for the Order of Railway Conductors said the government seizure of the Rock Island and the injunction returning switchmen to work " has not made any difference in our thinking . " 