@@720853

txt Planning consultants for Boston 's Government Center project are up in arms today over the latest proposal to shift the " wandering " federal building . Their concern and frustration spilled over at a meeting of the Civic Progress Committee held in Mayor Hynes ' office yesterday . Moving the federal building to the site currently planned for City Hall would " be detrimental to the entire scheme , " said Prof. Frederick J. Adams , chief planning consultant . Two letters highly critical . of the proposal , from the city 's top-flight Architectural Advisory Committee and from the consulting firm , helped to create a hardening tone in the committee 's attitude toward federal government negotiators . Dissatisfaction Aired In art unusually frank session ? " the newspapers are on strike " ? those attending gave full vent to dissatisfaction over the " hopskip-and-jump " game played with the federal government since last June . There was even talk of " calling Mr. Flocte 's bluff . " Franklin G. Floete is administrator of the federal General Services Administration , and the one who must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ building in the government center project . He has remained firm in his contention that the site originally proposed by Boston planners ? between Hanover and Sudbury Streets ? is not satisfactory . Anxious to please Mr. Flocte in order to insure that the federal building would he included in the project  --  instead of in the Back Bay or elsewhere  --  city officials had the plan changed , relocating the federal site at School and Washington Streets , outside the original project perimeter . Move Thwarted Objections were immediately raised by the Greater Boston Real Estate Board and others that this site defeats the " redevelopment purposes " of the project , because the existing buildings are still valuable . Legal proceedings and a court injunction filially persuaded city officials to seek another change . The only plan that would satisfy Mr. Floete , apparently , was one that switched City Hall to where the federal building was originally supposed to be , and gave the central spot in the entire project to the federal government . Another possible alternative mentioned yesterday was across Tremont Street to the present Houghton-Dutton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city on the assumption that a federal building is necessary to the success of the project , because : 1 . It helps to preserve the character of the project as a " government center . " 2 . The federal government is a " known client , " eliminating the uncertainty that would arise if the site were thrown open to private interests or for another purpose . Alternatives Weighed Another assumption has been that the federal government has the best bargaining position , because it can always threaten to pull out of the " center " and locate elsewhere ? on land it owns in the Back Bay , for instance . Both these assumptions were challenged briefly yesterday . " Why could n't a new opera house , or sonic other building , take its place ? " it was asked . " What makes us so sure that the federal government could afford to pull out of the project ? " someone else added . " No other sites available in the city would he big enough to accommodate the federal building . " The conversation frequently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the consultants represents the best possible solution for all concerned . in spite of Mr. Floete 's objections . It was therefore proposed by several committee members that the redevelopment authority bypass the issue for the present and begin land-takings and demolition of the project area as soon as possible  --  leaving negotiation of the federal building site for the future .                     