@@713745

txt Judge Samuel S. Leibowitz of the Kings County Court testified today that gamblers pay between $20 , - 000,000 and $25,000,000 a year : to New York policemen for protection . Appearing before the Senate Crime Investigating Committee here Judge Leibowitz said that the graft , or the toleration of graft , ran from the policeman on the beat right on up . " It goes right to the man in the City Hall , " he testified , " It could n't exist without his knowing it . It goes right through channels to the top . " Other major developments during today 's session of the dramapacked hearings were : The Day 's Highlights 1 , Attorney General J , Howard told the committee that , in his opinion , Frank Costello , the gambler , could not be deported or deprived of his citizenship because he had not been convicted of two serious crimes within five years of his immigration into this country . 2 . J. Edgar Hoover , Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation , said that if state and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out in the United States within forty-eight hours . 3 . In a telegram to the committee , William O'Dwyer , Ambassador to Mexico , said that testimony last week that he had received a $10,000 campaign gift from the Uniformed Firemen 's Association in 1919 when he was Mayor was a " vicious lie . " This testimony had been given to the committee by John P. Crane , president of the association . 4 . Wayne ( Coy , chairman of the Federal Communications Commission , termed as " impracticable and unenforceable " a committee proposal to place racing news by wire and radio under the control of the F. C. C. 5 . Both Mr. Hoover and Mr. urged that the committee continue in the form of a permanent standing body . Under present authorization , the committee will go out of existence on Saturday . 6 . At an evening session Abner ( Longie ) Zwillman , alleged New Jersey racketeer , refused to give the committee details of his bootlegging activities - during prohibition . He said that the committee was trying to implicate him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Two Cleveland gamblers , Lou Rothkopf and Morris Kleinman , refused to testify before television and were ordered kept under arrest until their appearance Friday unless they posted $10 , - 000 bonds each . Leibowitz on the Stand Judge Leibowitz said that Harry Gross , Brooklyn bookmaker , " paid out over a million dollars in graft to venal members of the Police Department in one year . " He said Gross was only one of many bigtime bookmakers . The judge added that the policeman on the beat would not countenance gambling if his sergeant was not in on the " cut " and that lieutenants , captains , inspectors and deputy chief inspectors would not let it continue without getting their share . The judge urged continuation of the Senate committee . He said it would be a " tragic thing " and a " disservice to the nation " if the committee , either in its present or some other form , was allowed to die . Mr. and Mr. Hoover both painted a dark picture of the increase of major crimes in the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1933 . Mr. Hoover told the committee the country 's population has increased 14.3 per cent since 1940 , while serious crimes have increased by 18 per cent . He listed the following serious crimes - ts committed on a single average day in 1950 : 301 felonious killings or assaults ; 146 robberies ; 1,129 pilces burglarized ; 468 stolen , automobiles , and 2,861 thefts of other types . Mr. said he had doubts of the efficacy of a national crime commission to act as a permanent watchdog over the underworld , as has been advocated by Senator Estes Kefauver of Tennessee , Crime Committee chairman . The Attorney General said he feared it might develop into a national police force which " would also endanger our cherished liberties . " When he took the stand a little later , Mr. Hoover expanded this thesis . " This nation has no need for a national police force , " he told the committee . " Cries are frequently heard that America , to meet the problems of the day ' must create a master , over-all law enforcement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cranny of the nation . " I disagree vigorously with this attitude . My experience has demonstrated that the present system of law enforcement , national , state and local , is the best system . " Mr. interrupted his prepared statement to the committee - to explain why Costello can not be deported . He spoke in considerable anger , obviously nettled at criticisms of the Department of Justice for failing to send Costello back to his native Italy . Naturalized in 1925 He explained that Costello was born in 1891 and entered the United States in 1895 as a child of four . In 1914 , he married a citizen of the " United States . He himself was naturalized in 1925 . Up to the present day , the Attorney General said , Costello has only one conviction on his record . This was for carrying a ooncealed weapon in 1915 . The law , he continued , permits deportation of an alien only if he has committed a crime involving moral turpitude and punished by imprisonment of one year within the period of five years preceding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more such crimes committed after his admission . Senator Herbert R. O'Conor , Democrat of Maryland , asked Mr. whether perjury would constitute grounds for deportation , intimating the committee might consider Costello had given perjured evidence . The Attorney General replied he was not sure the Supreme Court would consider perjury a crime involving moral turpitude , within the meaning of the deportation laws . Senator Charles W. Tobey , Republican of New Hampshire , then asked whether misrepresentations on his application for naturalization would be grounds to annul Costello 's citizenship . Mr. answered that the frauds , if any , connected with Costello 's naturalization , having occurred twenty-five years ago , would be very difficult to prove today . He explained that denaturalization , of itself , is no ground for deportation under the law . Tells of Proposed Measure He added that the Justice Department has proposed a bill that would make commission of a single felony , or de-naturalization , sufficient grounds for deporting an alien . As one remedy for the spread of organized crime , Mr. recommended that the committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board of inquiry to look into the state of law enforcement in their jurisdictions . He added that Federal grand juries are being kept available in all judicial districts to receive complaints of violations of Federal statutes . He said gambling and other rackets are costing the public billions of dollars a year , and de ; plored the effect they are having on the youth of the country . Mr. Hoover , in his testimony , said that organized gambling " corrupts our youth , " and both officials deplored the complaisance with which the average citizen regarde it . " One has only to conjure up the memory , not very old , of the newspaper photographs of shamefaced , grief-stricken college basketball players lined up for arraignment like common criminals , " Mr. said , " to get the full significance of what organized gambling has been doing to the moral fibre of our young people . " Mr. Hoover then expressed the opinion that " if the laws against gambling presently on the state and local statute books were earnestly and vigorously enforced , organized gambling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the land . " Gambling and other rackets , can not long exist , he said , without the assistance of allies in the form of political renegades . " Law enforcement officers are the people 's representatives , " he told the committee . " They are not persons with unlimited power . They must obey those under whom they hold office . " If they are dominated by the criminal-aligned politician , ruthless rackets and vice are inevitable . The law-enforcement officials in our nation , for the most part , are honest and anxious . to do a good job . Regardless of their personal honesty , however , they are frequently powerless to act . " Both the Attorney General and Mr. Hoover emphasized repeatedly that law enforcement is primarily a matter for local authorities . Even the racketeers of national stature , Mr. Hoover said , depend for their primary financial support on local " gambling czars . " National ramifications of gambling could be effectively stamped out , he added , by blasting the foundation out from under the big figures by local action against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has recommended legislation that would forbid communciations companies to transmit gambling information over interstate channels . The proposed law would be intended to harass bookmakers by depriving them of " flash " wire service from race tracks giving latest odds , jockeys , scratches , prices paid and other details on which they depend for rapid turnover in their business . Mr. said today he views with disfavor a suggestion to get after Continental Press Service , of Chicago , principal distributor of racing news , as a monopoly under the anti-trust laws . He said the result would be , if such action were successful , to force the wire service to sell its information to large numbers of bookmakers , which he would not consider to be in the national interest . Later , Mr. Coy , the Communications Commission chairman , was called . His testimony disclosed that the committee had under consideration a plan by which distributors of racing information would be subjected . to Federal license , renewable annually . At each renewal the Federal Communications Commission would be charged with determining that the distributors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gamblers and that , in fact , use by gamblers was not the primary result of their activities . If such a determination could not be made , a license would be refused . Mr. Coy found this plan impracticable and unenforceable . He urged the committee to give fresh consideration to a bill proposed by the Federal Communications Commission a year ago . This proposed measure would simply make it a crime for any one to transmit over interstate facilities any kind Of bets , wagers , betting odds or prices paid . All other details of a race could be sent as they occurred , he explained . He considered that the " legitimate " news needs of the public would be filled by learning which horse won the race , which I jockey rode the winner , how fast , it was run , etc . The banned information , he held , could only be of use to persons interested in ' making or collecting a bet . Senators Are Critical Mr. Kefauver and Mr. O'Conor debated the matter at some length with the witness . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undertake the administrative burden which would be involved in the plan the committee appears to be seriously considering. , Under Mr. Coy 's plan , the Justice Department would have the duty of prosecuting for violations , just as in any other case of Federal law violation . The committee , under its present plans , would submit its final report , including recommendations for Federal legislation to assist local and State officials in the suppression ' of organized crime , by next Saturday . It was this urgency which brought into such lengthy discussion the proposed means to hamper the bookmakers ' news service .                     