@@720591

txt A sanitary engineer testified at a Senate hearing Tuesday that the degree of pollution at some places in the Chicago river is 60 times greater than it should be Officials of the Chicago , sanitary district promptly denied the charge to reporters , and Sbn . Douglas D. , Ill. told the Senate committee that the charge was not true . The charge was made during hearings by the Senate public works rivers and harbors subcommittee on Chicago 's bill to take more water from Lake Michigan to clean up the Illinois waterway . Pictures of Garbage Isle Milton P. Adams , technical and engineering adviser to Atty . Gen. Paul L. Adams of Michigan , backed up his pollution charges with photographs taken last April along the river between the lake and Lockport . W. G. Turney of Michigan Associates , consulting engineers of Lansing , Mich. , took the photographs and samples1 of the water in the Illinois waterway for laboratory tests . Michigan opposes Chicago 's taking any more water from , Lake Michigan . It contends that the pollution of the Illinois waterway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handling of the city 's sewage . None Above Plant Turney and an associate engineer went up and down the a waterway in a 14 foot motorboat , photographing among other things a onequarter mile island of floating garbage just downstream from the Stickney sewage treatment plant , and accumulations of raw sewage at numerous other points . " No garbage could be found floating on the upstream side of this sewage plant outfall , and it is therefore concluded that this material is being discharged from the plant itself , " Turney testified . " If this is the case , one can only conclude that a percentage of Chicago 's raw sewage is being by-passed around the plant without treatment . The floating solids , as shown in the pictures , were found in concentrated form for about one-quarter of a mile downstream . from the sewage plant outfall . " It should be pointed out that the portion of ground garbage that would be seen floating is probably only a small percentage of the original untreated sewage being discharged . It should also be pointed out that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solids that are shown in these pictures . " Shows Later Pictures Don Brown , hydraulic engineer for the Chicago sanitary district trustees , said the Michigan opponents of the Chicago water diversion bill took their pictures at a time when the flow of water thru the river was at its lowest level . Brown showed Chicago newsmen photographs of the same places taken about a month later showing foam covered , but otherwise clear appearing water . Brown said that in January the city stepped up the flow of water from the lake into ' I he waterway to increase its downstream depth to facilitate the movement of oil barges to Chicago . In February , March , and April , the month when the pictures were taken , the flow was greatly reduced so that diversion could be held within the average of 1,500 cubic feet per second for the year . He said the slower current allowed the sewage to accumulate . The bill before the Senate , which the House has passed , would permit Chicago to take an additional 1,000 cubic feet of water per second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three year test program . Dispute Effect on Lakes Michigan , other lake states , and Canada contend that if Chicago takes the additional water , it will dangerously lower the levels of all the Great Lakes , reduce the flow of water over Niagara falls , and deprive others of their rightful water . The army en , gineers , regarded as the authorities on the nation 's water problems , however , tend to discredit the claims of Michigan , Canada , and New York . The engineers , : have testified the proposed diversion would not lower the level of Lake Michigan by more than one-fourth inch , and the other lakes by an even less noticeable amount . One of the color photographs projected on a large screen during the hearing was of large accumulations of raw sewage in Bubbly creek near Cermak road and Racine avenue , and extending into the stock yards . The sanitary district engineers told newsmen that the sewage disposal plant in this area is overtaxed whenever there is a storm and large quantities of sewage have accumulated in this " finger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee that many of the charges made by Turney and Adams " are false and others are exaggerated . " He asked for permission for Chicago sanitary district officials to answer these charges in public hearing at the earliest possible date . " Misstatements c a n go around the world before truth can put on its boots , " Douglas said . What effect these expressions of professional opinion that Chicago should double check its sewage disposal system before demanding more water from Lake Michigan may have on the diversion bill worries the bill 's sponsors . Both Sen. Douglas and Rep. Sidney R. Yates W. , who managed the bill in the House , said in interviews that the vote in committee on reporting out the bill will be extremely close . Douglas and Yates backed the sanitary district trustees in their claim that Chicago has some of the finest sewage disposal facilities in t h e world . The city has spent more than 400 million dollars on them . 