@@718926

txt ion Jr. , 41 , said tonight ? on the eve ) f his court partial  --  that Lt would have been disloyal if he lad not challenged a defense departnent order limiting the range if army guided missiles . At the same time Nickerson denied that he had deliberately sought his own arrest and trial in order to focus national attention on the whole missile program . Nickerson faces 18 charges of espionage , perjury , and dis-1 obedience of orders . Faces Court Today The lean colonel , married and the father of four children , will lay his 23 years in the military service-11 as a rocket expert ? before a 10 man court martial board at 9 a. m. tomorrow . If convicted on all counts , Nickerson , a 1938 graduate of West Point , could be imprisoned for 46 years , suffer a dishonorable discharge , and be fine d 510,000 . In a brief interview , Nickerson told reporters , " My goal . . . has been to obtain permission for the army to use the intermediate range 1,500 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was visibly angry over the espionage charge . Tried to Change Order He told reporters " the most disloyal thing you could do would be to fail to bring to the attention of a superior a serious error and try topersuede him to change his mind . Anything short of that would be disloyal " I was proceeding in the best way I knew how to change Defense Secretary Wilson 's order but I was in no way inviting court martial proceedings , " he continued . " I intended to go anonymously to influence certain key people to help modify Wilson 's decision . " , The bespectacled Nickerson denied that he had ever disobeyed orders . " There is no place in the military hierarchy for anyone who does n't carry out orders , " he said . Trial Closely Guarded The trial will be held for the most part in a closely guarded , white frame building just inside the main gate at Redstone arsenal . Since the trial is expected p involve some of the nations top military secrets , the buildMg has been divided into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involve security , the members of the court can retire to a smaller room behind the main court room . If the evidence is deemed to fall into the " Q " or very top secret category , the members of the court will go to a third court room about a mile away . Missile Range Limited In effect Nickerson is jeopardizing his military career in a protest against Wilson 's order last November limiting the army to development of 200 mile range missiles . This order followed by two months the successful firing of an army missile in the Jupiter series some 3,000 miles from the Cape Canaveral , Fla. , launching site . Another Jupiter was flown early this month 1,500 miles at a speed around 5,000 miles per hour . The charges against Nickerson stem from four papers he wrote protesting , the Wilson order . Perjury Charged These papers , the army charges , contained secret technical data and were placed by Nickerson in the hands of unauthorized person s , chiefly congressmen , newspaper editors and columnists , and industrial sources . There are two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he knew the papers had been distributed . Fifteen of the charges concern disobedience of orders in that he failed to protect secret information . The major charge is that he violated title 18 , section 793 of the United States code which deals with espionage . Under section 793 it is a violation of the law to obtain a n d distribute information which might be used to the injury of the United States . It is even against the law to make copies of such information .                     