@@714212

txt American exports have cost taxpayers in the United States $80,000,000,000 since 1914  --  a sum virtually thrown away  --  a New York economist charged today at the opening session of the 23c1 annual Boston Conference on Distribution . Vergil D. Reed , vice-president and associate director of research of J. Walter Thompson Company , New York City , said this " stunning cost to taxpayers " was " for the sole purpose of subsidizing our exports . " Abundant Supplies Seen Yet , the United States will have both guns and butter during the remainder of the fiscal year . ending June 30 , 1952 , Edwin B. George , an economist of Dun and Bradstreet told the close to 1,000 business leaders attending the first of the two-day sessions , sponsored by the Retail Trade Board of the Boston Chamber of Commerce . Mr. George forecast economic activity " largely without parallel in our history , " with rising employment and only slight price rises compared with those of June , 1951 . Prospective supplies available for civilians  --  taken in the aggre.gate  --  will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capita , Mr. George declared . Warning that failure to produce as fast as we spend " will level our social and economic order faster than any A-bomb may level our cities , " Lansing P. Shield of New York , president of the Grand Union Company , a chain store nperatpr , said " this is what Stalin is counting on . " Advocating a revival of the hard work such as that done by our forefathers in building America , Mr. Shield said that " self-preservation demands that we make an honest appraisal of our American system and make needed changes . " Labor Voice : Favored " Many segments of labor now believe that work is something to be avoided even at the cost of wrecking our American system , " Mr. Shield asserted . " Labor leaders who preach a philosophy of less production for more money  --  whose slogan appears to be ' less for more ' ? are neither friends of labor nor of the American way . " He favored expansion of the plan to give workers a voice in policy making . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to review company practices and participate in policy making . This method is now in use and it works . It should he adopted more generally in industry , " he said . Stacy May , economic adviser to large investors , warned that the free world , whose factories are running short of raw materials , must rush a - 25 per cent expansion of such output in the underdeveloped areas to halt the threat of Soviet aggression . United States urged to balance exports with imports : Page 4.                     