@@716026

txt WasbingtOn 52,500 to 53.000 , with the maidPresident Eisenhower has sub- thmum term toears xtended from ' rated to . Congress a housing ree to five y program in line with his basic The President 's program is middle-of-the-road policies , based primarily on recommendations submitted to him by his Advisory Commission on Housing last December , although it goes beyond those recommendations in some respects and is more cautious in others . Liberal Underwriting The President apparently has tried to meet that resistance by Proposing that the federal government shoulder a larger proportion of the financial risk by underwriting such loans on a more liberal basis . He also asks for greater flexibility in the terms of government or guaranteed mortgages so that the administration will be freer to make adjustments in line with prevailing economic conditions . Such flexibility would enable the government to adapt its terms to specific conditions in specific areas , thus encouraging building in areas where it is particularly needed . In the past the Federal National Mortgage Association has found itself in the position of a primary lender rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has come about through the tendency of lenders to make loans with the idea of selling them immediately to the FNMA . The President recommends that Congress tighten this section of the law to prevent that and make the FNMA truly a " secondary mortgage market , " as originally designed . More Details Later The commission 's proposal to bring the sprawling housing agency together in one unit under an administrator " with clear supervisory authority " will be taken care of , the President advised Congress . in a separate reorganization plan to be submitted later . The message Indicates strong feeling on the part of the President with respect to the federal government 's part in seeing that Americans have suitable homes . He believes it is " the concern of this government to insure that opportunities are provided every American family to acquire a good home . " He is convinced this objective can be achieved " if the builders , lenders . and communities , and the local , state , and federal governments , as well as individual citizens , will put their abilities and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 