@@716711

txt A remarkable degree of harmony emerged from bipartisan consultations of Democratic and Republican legislative leaders with President Eisenhower at the White House . Under the world threat of communism and with the active support of a friendly President , the United States is apparently about to see an experiment in bipartisan cooperation such as it has not witnessed in years . Some 30 legislative leaders and executive assistants came away from an all-day White House session with expressions I that left no doubt that an unusually cordial gathering had been held . Feature of the gathering was the quoted agreement of President Eisenhower to consult with the Democrats , who dominate the new 84th Congress , " step by step " at the committee level , in the formulation of three big issues having to do with world affairs ? ( 1 ) foreign aid , including the new assistance to Asia ; ( 2 ) reduction in trade barriers , including implementation of the Randall committee report for a three-year extension of the reciprocal trade agreement , and ( 3 ) defense manpower legislation . No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ session did not include domestic legislation . Here political partisanship presumably will continue as hot as ever . But since the forthcoming year may well be dominated by foreign events , the preliminary agreement reached here is at least one of the most remarkable experiments undertaken in recent political history . Here is the gist of the President 's quotation , as given after the conference by a Democratic legislative leader . Mr. Eisenhower is quoted as saying in effect : " I want you to know that I am available for consultation at any time you want to be consulted . " If you do n't want to call directly , get one of the Republican leaders to do it . " But I want you to consult me , and I want any contribution you can make . " This reply was made to a smiling , but serious question by Senator Lyndon B. . Johnson ( D ) of Texas , slated to be Senate majority leader , who observed that offering good will was one thing , but that the important matter was direct consultation in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his weekly press conference , Dec. 15 , Mr. Eisenhower was asked about the mechanics for implementing this promise to hear Democratic leaders in advance . These have not been fully worked out , he said , but he already has instructed the Cabinet members involved to consult with , and keep their doors open to , party leaders from the congressional security committees involved . He also said he was convinced that he will get maximum support from Republicans generally for his program and that Democrats will give him very real cooperation in the fields of foreign policy , defense , and mutual security . The speculation about a " multibillion-dollar " Marshall Plan for Asia has been scaled down to what Senator Styles Bridges ( R ) of New Hampshire describes as a " modest but sufficient " sum to which no price tag has been affixed . The best current figure given is " several hundred million dollars . " Mr. Eisenhower now appears to be prepared to go all out on the reciprocal trade program which he dropped last year in the face of Republican opposition . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ? if it can be called this  --  will be most interesting to watch . The Democrats offer stronger support for a major Eisenhower trade proposal than the Republicans . The big question is , what happens in the shifting political coalitions in Congress with the Democrats backing a Republican President on a major and bitterly fought issue , against a majority of his own party ? The other item on the for- eign-affairs conference table discussed with Democrats at the White House was the President 's new plan on universal military training . Leaders are cautious about this . They forecast some kind of legislation to accomplish the aim of UNIT  --  to put more trained men into the armed services . Eisenhower to ask Congress to postpone tax cuts : Page 5.                     