@@717747

txt Letters to The Times HENRY B. MOSLE . Litchfieid , Conn. , March 7 , 1956 . Letters to The Times To Reduce Farm . Surpluses Access to World Markets Held Solution to Overproduction The writer of the following letter formerly served as Food Administrator of the State of Connecticut , where he is now engaged in dairy farming . To TRIO EDITOR OF THE NSW YORK TIMES : The March 7 edition of The New York Times carries a front-page story about declining farm ' income . The figure given for per capita farm income is $860 , or less than half the $1,922 individual average in the nonfarm population . On the editorial page of the same issue appears a letter . expressing the hope that Congress will extend the minimum wage . However meritorious in themselves , advancing wage rates are one of the things which adversely affect faltering farm income . This is evidenced in the increasing spread between what farmers get for the food they raise and what the consumer must pay . It is hard to say exactly what is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all farmers in the United States are dairy farmers . The dairy farmer works on the average abet t seventy-two hours a week , fifty-two weeks in the year . If he received for his labor a dollar an hour he would on the average receive an income ( labor income ) of $3,744 . Possibly dairy farmers as a group are better off than other farmers , though being ' so large a part of the total they are obviously not that much better off , if the average income of all farmers is only $860 . Mandatory Wage Scale Farmers protest and fight against mandatory hourly wages , since they have to recruit their help in the same labor market as industry . This is very probably unwise in the longer run , for it is certain that if farm wage rates were based upon an hourly minimum . the result would be either to put a great many farmers out of business or to raise precipitously the cost of all food and fiber to the rest of the population . There is a remedy for the farm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major political party . Prior to World War I the only farm problem was the problem imposed upon most farmers of buying in a protected market and selling in a world market . While this may have lowered the farm standard of living somewhat , there was no surplus problem and certainly in a general way , because American farmers were upon the whole well in advance of other farmers technologically ( as they still are ) and had good land to farm , farmers in the United States were well off . In fact it was American cotton , wheat , meat , hides , apples and other agricultural products that not only made it possible to pay off and service America 's debt abroad , but made of certain places such as New York , Baltimore , Mobile , New Orleans and other of our port cities the centers of finance and mercantile activity . Foreign Customers World ' War I transformed the United States from the world 's largest debtor to the world 's largest creditor over night . But no corresponding change in tariff policy was effected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , meat , cotton , hides , apples , etc. , were unable to find the dollars necessary to buy our agricultural surpluses . Ever since then we have had the agricultural problem on our doorstep , even though the demands of World War II , for a time at least , hid the basic situation from view . There is no final or satisfactory answer to the farm problem short of restoring to the American farmer access to the world market  --  that is if you bar the various polite and somewhat veiled schemes which have at bottom the idea of retiring the American farmer from business . Between the wars we had export subsidy plans  --  expensive and irritating to the rest of the world . We also had Secretary Wallace 's evernormal granary plan , a concealed form of surplus purchase similar to the support-price program of which it is the ancestor . That it had the effect of stockpiling durable agricultural products which were more than useful when war came was incidental and accidental . Without a war we should merely have reached our present dilemma earlier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent of parity have demonstrably failed to reduce Government-owned surpluses . Flexible support prices will make for more realistic farm prices , but only by retiring farmers from production through bankruptcy . Schemes such as plowing under part of a crop , or paying farmers not to raise as much ( on an acreage basis ) have simply led to increased production upon the remaining acreage , so that no net drop in production has resulted . With a few exceptions the new program to stockpile fertility in the land is bound to lead to the same result . If you pay a farmer to retire some of his land he will , in the interest of maintaining his gross income , simply grow more per acre on the balance of his land . We all- know how to farm better than we do . The exceptions , if the proposed legislation takes this form , would be land that was permanently retired , to protect watersheds , reduce the hazards of dust storms , prevent erosion and the like . When an enclosed economy is able to pro duce more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , th only possible solution other that the forced retirement of farm opera tors is to find an expanded mark ? for agricultural products . There is ho surplus of food an ( fiber in the world . On the contrary in many countries the basic ques tion is how to produce the foo ( necessary to increase the presen standard of living and provide foi an ever growing population . Better that we should use our food to make friends in the world where we nee them , better even to ' feed our vie ? mies , who would thus become par . tially dependent upon us and so bi the less likely to attack us , than to retire farmers from production when the world is still hungry . The solution of the farm problem lies in getting our agricultural production out into world markets again , where it is needed . HENRY B. MOSLE . Litchfield , Conn. , March 7 , 1956.                     