@@712636

txt Japan's- Socialist Party , which for nearly two years has been wracked by factional differences , finally has disappeared as a major political organization . Climaxing a four-day convention here , the party was decisively split Jan. 19 when former Premier and party chairman Tetsu Katayama led 200 right-wing delegates from the convention hall . An adamant left-wing faction remained behind to undertake a structural salvage operation . But it now is clear that the party finally has been divided into two irreconcilable groups , neither of which has sufficient strength to be called a major political party . Communists Get in Line At the same time , the Japanese Communist Party has bowed to its critics in the Cominform and Russia , the Associated Press reported from Tokyo . The party 's central committe issued a statement admitting errors as charged by the Cominform journal published in Bucharest , Jan. 7 . Sanzo Nosaka , the party leader who was the chief target of the Cominform blast , also " voluntarily " criticized himself and was not disciplined , the report said . As a result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with other left-wing forces of Japan , are deprived of any major political representation or political leadership . There no longer is any major political organization capable , of challenging the strength of the conservative Liberal Democratic Party of Prime Minister Shigeru Yoshida . And the Japanese government ? at least for the time being  --  has become virtually a one-party affair . Struggle for Power Ostensibly the party split was the result of ideological differences between right and left-wing groups . For nearly two years the two groups have differed on platform issues , and when Mr. Katayama walked out of the convention , he played the spotlight on these differences when he stated his group could no longer cooperate with that " section of Socialists who follow Marxist teachings . " Actually , however , ideologies have been secondary to a struggle for power which has gone on ever since the party was formed in November , 1945 . The basic fault with the Japanese Socialist Party always has been that it has attempted to encompass an ' unwieldy conglomeration of widely separated prewar political institutions . When the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it included both the left-wing portion of the labor movement and the ultranationalist Kodokai , or Imperial Way Associations . It included the left-wing of labor , the farmer movement , and , at the same " time the right-wing of the social Mass Party and the right-wing of the prewar National Socialist Party . During the successful period of 1947 , when the party won a plurality in the elections , the party held together only because of the powerful leadership of political chief Suehiro Nishio , who himself was ideologically an extreme rightist . Mr. Nishio had sufficient political acumen and financial backing to hold the opposing factions along a single line ; But when he was finally indicted for bribery and removed from office as secretary general , the party began a downhill slide . Opportunity Muffed The loss of forceful leadership , together with the fact that the Socialist Party had been maneuvered into the position of taking over the national government in 1947 when it was not prepared for such responsibility , combined to bring the party to the brink from which it now has plunged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japan , meanwhile , rests in the fact that within recent months the party was in an excellent position to take over the political leadership of the nation 's entire labor movement . Collapse of the Communists ' summer offensive and the resulting loss of influence in the ranks of organized labor offered an unprecedented opportunity for the Socialists to assume the labor leadership and rebuild the party as a moderate left-wing force in Japan 's political spectrum . This opportunity was virtually thrown away , however , when opposing factions within the party refused to cooperate and insisted rather on petty struggles for party power . Exchange Rate Fixed By the Associated Press San Francisco The . Chinese Communist Government has fixed the exchange rate of its currency at 25,000 " people 's currency dollars " to $1 . This compared with an official rate of 16,500 to $1 in December and 300 to $1 when the Communists took Shanghai last May .                     