@@719133

txt Nashville , Tenn. , police have arrested five men for questioning in connection with an early morning dynamite blast that wrecked a newly integrated half-million-dollar school . Three of the men were seized by Assistant Police Chief F. W. Muller when they refused to move from the vicinity of another grammar school which , like the dynamited one , was among six where white and Negro first graders went to classes for the first time Sept. 9 . Capital Schools Open Some 110,000 students in the Washington , D.C .. public schools have returned to racially integrated classes with a minimum of confusion . Officials said actual enrollment figures will not he available until later but at least 70 per cent of this year 's public school population will 11 be Negroes . Birmingham Police on Guard Reinforced police in Birmingham , Alabama , were calico co stand guard both against renewed attempts by Negroes to enroll in white city schools , and against any possible violence associated with racial segregation . Some of the tension was eased Sept. 9 when a Negro leader said he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school board action on integration petitions . Police Commissioner Robert Lindbergh said that if the Rev. F ; L. Shuttlesworlh makes another enrollment bid at the white school : " He will be stopped by the police . " Governors Parley Weighed There has been intense speculation that a compromise , spearheaded by the governors of live states , may be in the making to dissolve the impasse between the United States Government and Governor Faubus . Massachusetts Gov . Foster Furcolo , a Democrat , telephoned Governor Faubus . Sept. 9 , and laid before him a proposal to put the Little . Rock dispute in the hands of five governors for study and recommendations . Governor Faubus said he deliberated for an hour and then telephoned his acceptance to Governor Furcolo . President Stresses Patience President Eisenhower , vacationing at Newport , R.I. , was quoted as saying " Patience is the important thing " in the government 's efforts to resolve the school integration crisis in Little Rock , Ark . The President 's view was reported to newsmen by a Rhode island Republican leader who conferred with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Justice Department will file " some time this afternoon " for a court injunction in the Little Rock ease . Related stories : Pages 5 and 13                     