@@715287

txt John Foster Dulles , Secretary of State , gravely entreated Congressional Republicans today not to attempt to harden President Eisenhowe ? s proposed denunciation of Soviet " perversion " of the wartime Yalta and Potsdam Agreements . Appealing for bipartisan unity in the name of the President , Mr. Dulles carried all before him in the Foreign Affairs ' Committee of the House of Representatives , where he appeared in open session what even some of his old Coh , 1 gressional critics called perhaps the greatest advocacy of his ! career . In the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , where he was heard in closed Session in conditions of secrecy that he had not requested , the Secretary ran into difficulties from some Republicans , though apparently not serious difficulties . Senator Alexander Wiley , Republican of Wisconsin and chairman of the committee , said laterthat several Senators had offered amendments to the Eisenhower declaration and that'Itfr . Dulles lia.kagree &to; - study them . No action itithatcommittee , bef ? re next week at the earliest . therefore was possible . In the the Foreign Affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the way and the resolution , intact , may be approved there tomorrow . Twin Themes Advanced Mr. Dulles went to- the Capitol with twin themes : 1 . He urged the Republicans to be content to have Congress adoRt unaltered the resolution recommended by the President . Thin would arraign the Soviet Union for the. , " enslavement " of whole peoples by twisting the terms at the Yalta and Potsdam arrangements , - which were signed on behalf of the United States by Presiden+s Roosevelt and Tr-timad It would proclaim that the United States would never acquiesce in such enslavement , but it would not repudiate the territorial concessions made to the Soviet Union nor would it put any blame on Presidents Roosevelt and Truman . 2 . He asked Congress . to forget the past , to concentrate on the future , and to give to the Eisenhower resolution such a majority as to notify the world that the United States would never agree to any " international deal " that put the peoples of Europe and Asia under " Soviet despotism ! ' The passage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Mr. Dulles , declared , would be the greatest possible " insurance for peace . " In these circumstance &; he said , it would be an act " that will resound through the ages and eventually will attain a dignity in history comparable to that of the Declaration of Independence or the Monroe Doctrine . " But , he said , any Republican insistence on so changing the mani- festo as to make it . unacceptable to the Democrats , thus forecasting its adoption by only a narrow majority , would be worse than useless.1 In such a case , he declared , he ' would prefer no action at all and ' ' would wish that the subject never had been brought up . " What the President seeks , " said ' Mr : Dulles in summary , " is a solemn act of dedication for the future . It is an act which needs , and deserves , the support of both great parties . " It will provide the indispensable foundation upon which future foreign policies can again build a structure of peace , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us not on this occasion divisively debate the past . Let us unitedly move on to mold the future . " Against the background of his appeal was the fact that the Democrats , and especially in the Senate , the really controlling body on this issue , had made it plain that they would back the Eisenhower resolution to the limit as it stood but that they would fight any effort to rewrite it into a denunciation of Presidents Roosevelt and Truman . Specification Avoided Many of the Congressional Republicans , on the other hand , had long been committed to the line , as was the Republican national platform last year , that Yalta ought to be repudiated outright . They particularly have long attacked the fact that- President Roosevelt for the United States and Winston Churchill for Britain at Yalta in 1945 had turned over off-Japan island positions and Polish territory to the Soviet in order to get her to come into the war against Japan . These concessions were confirmed at Potsdam . where Mr. Truman represented the United States . The Eisenhower resolution does not mention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country 's hostility to the enslavement of any people and it pledges this country 's hope that by peaceful means the captive nations might become free again . Again and again before the Heuse committee , and presumably in the secret session before the Senate committee , Mr. Dulles declared in effect that the importance of such a pledge could not be overestimated . Though they should have no Such suspicion , he said foreign ' peoples nevertheless were not absolutely convinced that the United States in some future arrangement with the Soviet Union might not " sell out " the smaller nations . To make a reassurance on this point , he said , would release in many parts of the world the spirit of thus far immobilized forces seeking freedom and in the end , though not soon , might have enormous results in weakening the Soviet hold on so much of the world . It was hoped not only that Soviet imperialism would thus develop a case of " indigestion " over ' some of the areas it had swallowed but that " regurgitation " might follow , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions from House committee members , Mr. Dulles declared that President Eisenhower 's expression yesterday of a willingness under certain conditions to meet Premier Stalin could not by any stretch of the imagination be properly interpreted as any willingness under any circumstances to make an accommodation with the Russians at the expense of other peoples or nations . " Nothing whatsoever " was in prospect for such an . Eisenhower . Stalin meeting , the.Secretary said . The President , he observed , had simply responded in yesterday 's White House press conference to I a question that he " had not anticipated , " and there was nothing to suggest that any meeting with Stalin . was in fact a. probability . At all events , Mr. Dulles said flatly that he , for one , would never Ugive up anything in behalf of the nited States on the mere " promises " of the Soviet . Communist standards , he added , did not accept obligations of morals or honor and one therefore " must appraise their promises in accordance with their own standards . " In short , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any agreement with the Soviet Union it would be on a " barter " or " barrelhead " basis , by which the Soviet would first do something concrete before we did anything concrete . Before the House committee Mr. Dulles had some of its most casehardened isolationist Republican members leaning front their chairs in approbation , and the Democrats all joined in supporting him . After his appearance , the committee this afternoon heard members of the House . who wanted to harden the Eisenhower resolution , but the outlook was plain that they had lost their cause . The dissidents nevertheless pressed on . Two of them , Representatives Alvin E. O'Konski and Charles J. Kersten , both Republicans of Wisconsin , asserted that the Eisenhower text would be an insult rather than an encouragement to enslaved peoples . Representative Thaddeus M. Machrowicz , Democrat of Michigan , a former president of the Polish-American Congress , described as " not the truth " Mr. Dunes ' statement that the resolution was along the lines of what had long been sought by the captive peoples . Truman Doctrine Cited Representative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was at Yalta , sought to show that what the Eisenhower Administration was now doing was only an extension of what President Trutnan had begun in the Truman Doctrine in 1947 when he went to the assistance of the Greeks and Turks against Communist pressures . Mr. Roosevelt read to Mr. Dulles two penciled paragraphs , not at first indicating their source , and the Secretary replied that ? he would " certainly be in general accord with them . " " Before I issue . it as a state paper , " he added with a smile , " I would like to study it more closelly . " Mr. Roosevelt then ' handed over the memorandum and recalled that it was from Mr. Truman 's 1947 message proclaiming the Truman Doctrine . As to the Senate committee , Senator Wiley would not disclose precisely what changes in the resolution had been offered and by whom . He would not say what his own attitude was on the Administration text , nor would he give the reason for hearing Mr. Dulles in secrecy except to say that his committee had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so voted , Senator Wiley replied that he believed there had been " no formal vote . " Democratic members asserted in private that , they had not been consulted about the decision . Mr. Dulles , in. emerging , said the closed session had not been at his request nor had it been his idea . As far as could be gathered , some Republicans in the committee feared that to adopt the present resolution would be to " affirm " the Yalta and Potsdam arrangements . Some were understood to want a stipulation that this was not the case . None , it was understood , wanted to try to go so far as outright repudiation . The Democrats were generally opposed to any change in text , although not committed against minor and unsubstantial ones . The outlook , on the available information , was that Mr. Dulles would never agree to a major change and that the small storm in the committee would blow over next week . Secretary Dulles stressed to the committee , as he had to House groups , the Administration- view that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repudiate any or all secret wartime agreements . The United States , he said , wanted to reserve its ultimate position , so as to be able as events indicated either to : demand enforcement of parts of the agreements or perhaps to denounce them because of scores of violations already charged to the Soviet Union . In the meantime , he declared , some of the agreements involved , I which the Soviet had violated , 1 pledged the independence of Austria , a central government in Germany , free elections in Poland and the unity and independence of Korea , Others , he said , established American rights to be in Berlin . " If we say there are no agreements , " he observed , " then the Russians are utterly free of these violations . "                     