@@717593

txt The Democratic majority of a House subcommittee charged today that increasing corporate and bank mergers were killing free competition and leading to dangerous monopoly . The Republican minority contested this conclusion . While it agreed that mergers had increased and any monopoly trend should be watched , it held that the Democratic opinion had a ' political tinge because of the coming election year . Argument arose ever whether the Democrats or Republicans had done the most to head off monopoly and a stifling of free enterprise . The subcommittee making the investigation is headed by Representative Emanuel Celler , Democrat of Brooklyn . It is a unit of the House Judiciary Committee , which Mr. Celle ? also heads . The panel agreed generally that mergers were reaching a record for twenty-five years . The Republicans , however , insisted that this meant little in itself . To consider restrictions on this basis " made no sense , " they declared . The implications of the report prompted rebuttals from the Republicans , headed by Representative Kenneth B. Keating of upstate New York . 1953 Case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Justice and Federal Trade Commission had made only " token gestures " to enforce the Celler - Kefauver Antimerger Act of 1950 . The report held that in the Pillsbury Mills case , filed in 1953 , the F. T. C. had ruled against the public interest . This was the first and only decision rendered by the commission . Its chairman then was Edward F. Howley . Mr. Howley , a Republican appointed by President Eisenhower , resigned this year and was replaced by John W. Gwynne , Iowa Republican who served in the House from 1936 to 1946 . The Democrats on the sub-I emphasized that the tide of corporate and banking mergers had proceded without abatement . The report said : " This is one of the most ominous clouds on the economic horizon , since it is hastening the reduction of competition in many areas and contributing in large measure to the growing concentration of economic power . " Since January , 1951 , it said , more than 3,000 companies in manufacturing , mining , trade and services have " disappeared in the swelling merger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the G. 0 . P. Administration was responsible , brought out the following : All of the monopoly-suspect , merger cases cited by the Justice Department were initiated by Stanley N. Barnes , Republican , Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Antitrust Division , during his two and a half years in office . All but one of the F. T. C. 's merger cases were instituted since the change of Administrations in 1953 . Says 5 Were Denied The Republicans also contended that five mergers had been denied and nine requests with- , drawn during a period in which the Justice Department was al- , leged to have been lax toward ) monopoly perils . The report held that mergersI that might endanger independ ent enterprise should be stopped by injunction proceedings . It added that this procedure had been eliminated by the F. T. C.'si insistence that it maintain juris-I diction over such cases . Such " zealous and jealous " in sistence should " not be condoned , " the report declared . It , suggested that the F. T. C. assign serious competitive matters to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress gave such , authority to the commission . lit warned that " many superstructures in industry have been created not through superior technology or natural internal growth but through absorption of independent competitors . " " Here mergers are not indicative of a normally developing industry , but rather symptoms of the competitive avarice of certain giant corporate enter-1 prises , " the report continued. , " Frequently , the plant of the acquired company is closed in the process , which not only elim-1 mates the competition of this unit but throws people- out - of employment and reduces the economic wealth of the community ' in which this particular plant existed * " " This is not to say that ail , mergers have had an adverse effect . " It appeared that the merger issue would be an important one in the coming session of Congress .                     