@@719732

txt WASHINGTON , May 2 ? Unemployment among workers covered by the compensation system showed in late April the first over-all improvement in many weeks , the Labor Department reported today . Part of the improvement was seasonal . The department said both initial claims and " insured unemployment " were down by statistically significant amounts in the latest reporting week . Initial claims are a rough measure of new lay-offs and insured unemployment is a rough measure of workers actually collecting benefits . In the week ended April 19 insured unemployment fell by 30,742 to 3,332,602 . This represented 8.0 per cent of the labor force , as compared with the record of 8.1 per cent reached in the previous week . The total was still more than double a year ago , however . Initial claims in the week ended April 26 were down 23,335 to 423,031 . The Labor Department report said the improvement in both figures was partly due to a seasonal pick-up in outdoor activities , particularly construction . There were also fewer automobile lay-offs in some states , the report said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 22,400 in insured unemployment . In a final mildly encouraging note , the report said that the number of persons exhausting their benefit rights in the eight large states that report weekly fell in the week ended April 26 // to 24,500 , down SOO from the week before . The issue of exhausted benefits  --  and ways to extend them ? again dominated the recession front in Washington today . President Eisenhower was said to have been " gratified " at the action of the House yesterday in approving a modified version of his plan for a 50 per cent extension of benefits in substitution for a more liberal and costly Democratic plan . Hopes Senate Will Act James C. Hagerty : the White House press secretary , reported the President 's reaction . Mr. Hagerty said the President " hopes that the Senate will act ' speedily . " The sponsors of the version approved by the House yester ' day insisted today that its difference from the Administration , plan was not " minor . " Representatives A. Sydney Herlong Jr. , Democrat of Florida , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their bill made the extension of benefits " completely voluntary with the states , " and that the Admin'stration had opposed this idea . The first signs of a fight in the Senate on the issue apwared as Senator Paul H. Douglas , Democrat of Illinois , said " we have got to improve on the House bill . " Senator Douglas , a member of the Finance Committee , which will handle the bill , said it should provide for extension of benefits for a flat sixteen weeks , should " do something " to help unemployed workers not covered by the benefit system , should not require special sessions of State Legislatures to become effective and should make a start toward improving the amounts of state benefits . The conservatively oriented Finance Committee is expected , however , to stick closely to the lines of the House bill . As passed by the House , the bill would 5rovide additional payments to workers who exhaust their benefits ' under the existing Federal-state unemployment insurance system . The duration and size of benefits will vary from state to state to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In a related development , the House Appropriations Committee approved a second " urgent deficiency " appropriation for the relatively small federally financed unemployment compensation system for veterans and Federal workers . The amount was $26,000,000 , 1contained in a bill totaling $28 , - 761,802 to cover deficiencies in a few programs for the rest of the current fiscal year , which ends June 30 . The House Banking committee , meanwhile , heard H. Christian Sonne , head of the National Planning Association , recommend a tax cut of $7,000,000,000 to $8,000,000,000 to assure a vigorous recovery from the gecession . Mr. Sonne said he felt the downward movement in the economy " will probably come to an early halt . " But he argued that It was " most doubtful that in the near future we will be back on the road towards a satisfactory level of activities if we wait for the forces of the market to resume their expansion . "                     