@@716446

txt One of the newest of several development credit corporations established in New England , the Massachusetts Business Development Corporation , already has become the largest in the area . inc mispc received its charter of approval from the Massachusetts General Court only a year ago . It began operations in January of this year , and , as of Aug. 9 , it has made loan commitments to 20 Massachusetts companies to the aggregate amount of $2,710,000 . The effectiveness of the corporation after only six Months of operation is indicated by the fact that employees in the companies financed by MBDC exceed 2,339 , with an annual payroll in excess of $8,500,000 . The Massachusetts corporation has been supported by the business and financial community , and more than one-half the potential dollar amount available from all possible financial members  --  Pie banks and insurance companies  --  already has been pledged to it . All six New England states have passed enabling legislation authorizing the establishment of development credit corporations , the Federal Reserve Bank points out . Diverse Sponsorship Maine pioneered in the movement , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hampshire Legislature passed a similar act in 1951 , and Rhode Island , Massachusetts , Connecticut , and Vermont followed suit last year . Every state except Vermont now has a development credit corporation in active operation . A Vermont group is in the process of selling stock and obtaining member financial institutions . Sponsorship of these development credit corporations has come from a number of different sources . For all five active corporations , bankers comprise about 30 per cent of the sponsoring individuals , closely followed by manufacturers . Lawyers make up 9 per cent of the total number of sponsors ; merchants , 7 per cent ; utility executives , 3.5 per cent ; and insurance companies , 2 per cent . A small number of stock brokers , industrial rcaltors , and farmers also have taken an active pa.:t in the formation of some development credit corporations . Sponsorship has varied from state to state . In Maine , bankers and utility executives were the first to recognize the need for this type of organization and to take active steps to form such a corporation . Bankers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ active part in organizing the Massachusetts BDC . Formation of the credit corporation was part of a general program td make it easier for outside manufacturers to locate in the Bay State . It also made it easier for new manufacturers to get started , and for existing industries to continue in business or to expand their operations . The authorized capital stock of these development credit corporations ranges from $100 , - 000 in New Hampshire to $4,000,000 in Massachusetts . The paid-in capital of all five active corporations on June 15 , 1954 , totaled $901,670 ? ranging from $67,200 in Maine to $541,170 in Massachusetts . Banks Give Major Lift ' Ina live active corporations have 434 stockholders . The number ranges from 17 shareholders in the Rhode Island corporation to 165 in Massachusetts . The number of financial institutions which have become members of the various develop ment credit corporations ranges from 11 in Rhode Island to 129 in Massachusetts . ' Each corporation has a larger number of commercial bank members than any other type of financial institution . Commercial banks have pledged three-fifths of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Only in Massachusetts has more than half of the potential dollar amount available from all possible members already been pledged . The proportion of potential amounts already pledged by different trams of eligible institutions varies from state to state . The cooperative nature of the various state development credit corporations gives them some important advantages . They are able to operate ' more economically than an ordinary financing agency . Their large number of members and directors act without compensation as new business developers and supply an experienced force of administrative agents , thus reducing expenses .                     