@@713555

txt President  --  TruMan made it plain today that he would welcome a Senate declaration endorsing the dispatch of American troops to Europe . Such an action , he said at his afternoon press conference , would make him happy , but in any case he was going to do whatever was necessary to meet the situation . He repeated that his constitutional authority to send American forces to Europe to take up their positions in an integrated European Army was clear and did not depend upon the consent of Congress . What he would be glad to have , he said in substance , was a Senate expression that affirmed his constitutional authority . Just such an expression is now being prepared by the President 's foreign policy leader in the Senate , Senator Tom Connally , Democrat of Texas . While the President thus seemed to be moving a bit toward placating the Administration 's critics on the issue , the principal Republican disputant , Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio , himself appeared to be willing to forego a struggle as violent as the one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after a I meeting of the Senate Republican Policy Committee , which ht. heads , that he personally believe I Congres ought simply to put a limit ' on the number of divisions that the President would be authorized to assign to Europe . Senator Taft , . said that the policy committee had not sought to suggest that the party generally follow the demand of Senator Kenneth S. Wherry of Nebraska for passage of a proposed resolution flatly admonishing Mr. Truman to take no troop action whatever " until the adoption of a policy with respect thereto by Congress . " A showdown on the Wherry resolution has been set for next Tuesday , with the Administration 's leaders determined not to give Senator Wheery a direct vote , but to cast his plan aside by ordering it sent to the Foreign Relations Committee for further study . G. 0 . P. Hierarchy Divided The Republican hierarchy , Mr. Taft made clear , was divided upon the wisdom of the Wherry plan . He indicated that it was entirely possible that the Republicans generally would be willing after all to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attitude . Such an act of conciliation , Senator Taft suggested , might consist of a promise next Tuesday by Senator Connally , the chairman , that once the Wherry resolution got to the Foreign Relations Committee it would be brought back to the Senate , in some form at least , in a reasonable time . Mr. Connally , it may be stated , is considering just such a statement . Mr. Taft had no illusions that the Democratically controlled committee was likely to approve the Wherry text . His greatest concerti was to get some sort of substitute text back to the floor , where the Republicans , if they saw fit , could try to alter it . He had no criticism of Mr. Wherry 's approach , but he ob served that , speaking as an individual Senator and not for the policy committee , he thought a Congressional limitation on the number of troops to be sent would ' about fill the bill . Taft Explains Concession In opening on Jan. 5 the Senate 's current foreign policy debate , Senator Taft questioned the wisdom of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this afternoon that his concession to the effect that " a limited number " might go had been based upon the assumption that the Europeans were going to raise forces , too . The statement of Jan. 5 , he said , referred to the fact that as of now the Europeans themselves were making no substntial contributions of new forces . At that time he challenged the President 's legal right to send troops without the advance approval of Congress . This morning , Mr. Taft remarked that he was willing to " leave the legal question in abeyance " for the more practical question of whether the President ought to commit troops . The whole controversy involves the degree to which Congress , or the Senate at all events , is to be consulted . The Democrats , under Senator Connally 's leadership , propose to permit nothing beyond some general Senate statement , in no way questioning the President 's authority or seeking to limit the force he ' might send . Opposition Position Varies Trie declaration which they will offer , after General of the Army Dwight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European Commander , will , under present plans , simply say something to the effect I that the Senate considers it " desirable " for the President to dispatch troops . This afternoon at his press conference , where the President may be quoted only indirectly , this was 1 the sequence of questions and ) answers on the subject : Q. " The Democratic Senate leadership is preparing a resolution stating the sense of the Senate I that it is desirable to send troops . Was this move taken with your consent ? " A. The President knew nothing about it . If the Democratic majority in the Senate was taking that action the President would appreciate it very highly . Q. " Will you abide by the outcome of the vote ? " A. The President would do whatever was necessary to meet the situation as it came up . Q. " You would like to see the Senate approve that ( resolution ) ? " A. Certainly . Of course . The President would appreciate it very highly . Q. " If the Senate would approve it ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was necessary to meet the situation . . Q. " You do n't intend to request the resolution as an Administration project ? " A. The President was making no request . The President understood that he was being told that the Democratic majority of the Senate was working on it , and he was happy about it . Q. " That is , a resolution that would express approval of your existing authority ? " A. That was right . That was Constitutional , said the President .                     