@@717749

txt Pope Pius XII received today a large cake adorned with eighty candles on his eightieth birthday . It also was the seventeenth anniversary of his elevation to the pontificate . He celebrated both in the Vatican . Birthday cakes with candles are anything but a Latin habit and this one may have been the first ever seen inside the Vatican . It was presented to the Pope by more than 200 school children representing seventeen nationalities . The children later delighted the Pope by singing songs in chords , including Mendelssohn 's " Spring Song , " whose words had been altered to express.good wishes . The children then gathered around the Pope and one child for each nationality represented recited a few memo-rized words wishing the Pope long life and a successful reign . The spokesman for the United States group was Rey- nold Donald Kimball , 9 years old , of 1,430 Park Chester Road , the Bronx , New York . His father is an airline official in Cairo , Egypt . A message from President Eisenhower was read to the Pope later by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state . The Pope expressed appreciation not only of the message but also of General Eisenhower 's announcement that he would be represented by a special envoy at a service that will be held in St. Peter 's March 11 to commemorate the seventeenth anniversary of the Pope 's coronation . One of the first birthday presents the Pope opened was a covered glass cup , twenty-two inches high , sent by Francis Cardinal Spellman , Archbishop of New York . News that the ' Pope was suffering from a severe cold had spread throughout ' the Vatican causing considerable anxiety because it is known he still is weakened by the illness he suffered a little more than a year ago . The Pope appeared today with a white woolen shawl around his shoulders and he coughed frequently . Apart from this , he seemed in good and vigorous health . He was well enough to stand at an open window of his private apartment and bless crowds gathered in St. Peter 's Square ' below . The New York Times GIFT FOR POPE PIUS XII : This Papal Cup , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the anniversary gift of Cardinal Spellman . Doctor Checks Pontiff portion missing night  --  and it is not foreseen that it will  --  would tomorrow 's audience be canceled . The Pope arose as usual at 6:30 A. M. At 7:15 he was saying mass in his private chapel , which had been adorned with red roses from two Italian cripples who had sent them on behalf of " all who suffer in the world . " After a breakfast of one cup of coffee and milk and one ' slice of toast the Pope moved into the workroom adjoining his bedroom . Here he usually spends an hour or so reading newspapers . Today , instead , he gave his attention to large : dies of telegrams , letters , messages and presents that had arrived for him from most countries of the world . At 9:15 , as is his invariable custom , the Pope descended to his official apartment on the floor below . There the children were waiting for him . Later , he received the Sacred College of Cardinals , which came to express its collective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in receiving delegations and individuals who came to offer their congratulations and to express the hope that the Pope might remain at the head of the Roman Catholic Church for a long time . At noon and again at 1 o'clock the Pope appeared at windows of his private apartment on the third floor of Vatican Palace to bless crowds clamoring in St. Peter 's Square to see him . Tens of thousands of persons including a large number of priests , were present on both occasions . Crowds Cheer Pontiff Almost everyone fell to his knees on the hard cobbles of St. Peter 's Square when the Pope raised his arms and intoned a Latin formula of benediction . Then the cheering and shouts of " Viva II Papa ! " ( " long live the Pope " ) obliged the Pope to appear at a window again and again , waving his arms in friendly greeting to the applauding crowds In obedience to doctors ' orders , the Pope 's secretaries try to get him out of his office and to lunch at 1 o'clock . Today it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rested for an hour this also on doctors ' orders . Normally the first thing he does after his nap is to walk in the Vatican gardens . Because of his cold it was thought better to keep him indoors today . There he remained with three interruptions through the whole afternoon and most of the night . Two of the interruptions were to go to his private chapel and recite the Divine Office and the Rosary , the third was for dinner , almost as scant as his lunch . The light in the Pope 's study was still shining late at night . He seldom retires to bed before 1:30 A. M. , contending that with one hour 's rest in the afternoon , five hours of sleep is all he needs : Eisenhower Praises Pope Speclal to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , March 2 ? President Eisenhower cabled today a birthday greeting to Pope column missing                     