@@718745

txt Park Commissioner Robert Moses has proposed to build a ' stadium for the Brooklyn Dodgers on the old World 's Fair site in Flushing Meadow , Queens . ? His bid to counter the offers made by Los Angeles to get the baseball team to move there was submitted - to Mayor Wagner yesterday . Spokesmen for the Parks Department and for the Mayor emphasized that nothing definite had been worked out yet . But , they confirmed that Mr. offer . included the suggestion that ; the Parks Department construct a stadium seating about 50,000 persons and costing between $10,000,000 *and $12,000 , - 000 . . Field Has 78 Acres Mr. Moses ' ' plan would provide . the Dodgers with a new home on a seventy-eight-acre tract in Flushing Meadow bounded by Northern Boulevard , Roosevelt Avenue , Grand Central Parkway and 126th Street . Mr. Moses and Walter O'Malley , president of the Dodgers , made a tour of the proposed site last Monday . Mr. O'Malley who has expressed deep interest in the invitation put forward by Los Angeles to provide a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . no commitment on the Flushing Meadow prospect . However , he is known to have shown real interest in the offer . An official at the Parks Department said that the plan submitted by Mr. Moses would in no way involve a " gift . " He said that the plan was keyed to they general idea that the Parks De- , partment would construct thei plastic-domed stadium the Dodgers want and turn it over to . the ' %Dodgers on a license ? arrange-1 Ment . Ownership of the stadium , it was stressed , would remain with the Parks Department . . " Whether the plan will bel financially feasible depends on , the Dodgers , " the Parks ) Depart-I went official said . The president of the Brooklyn ' ball club has told Mr. Moses that a twenty-year period should . be enough for the Dodgers to , make up the costs of stadium , construction to the city . The Mayor 's meeting with Mr. ' ? Moses in Gracie Mansion yester- , day was to discuss such items as slunk clearance . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new proposal . ' The Mayor was described by one of his : spokesmen as interested in the plan . He asked Mr. Moses to submit more details so that he could take it up with the Members of the Board of ; Estimate . The Board of Estimate must make the final decision on the proposal . The fact that Mr. Moses put forward a plan to convert some of the Parks Department property for use by the Dodgers created some surprise , because he has always fought to keep Parks Department areas intact . A Parks Department ? official said that ' Mr. Moses was not personally interested ' in what happened to the Dodgers but that " the Wagner Administration was , and Mr. Moses works I for the Administration . " Now a Parking Lot The site that Mr. Moses has ' proposed is now used as a parking lot for cars , of Commuters , most of whom take the IRT , Flushing line into Manhattan. , There is additional Parks Department property just across Roosevelt Avenue , which could become : a substitute parking area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parking space for about 12,000 cars . This parking space , as well as the planned 50,000-seat capacity of the stadium , would mean considerably riore space for Dodger fans on all counts . Ebbets Field , only seven acres compared with the proposed seventy-eight-acre site in Queens , can seat only 31,902 persons . There is parking space for only 1,000 cars at Ebbets Field , with space for perhaps 3,000 to 4,000 more in the immediate area . There would be ready highway access to the new site , along such main arteries as Grand Central Parkway , Horace Harding Expressway , Willets Pgipt Boulevard and Northern BOulevard . For subway riders there is the Flushing IRT line , which maintains a station at Willets Point , right at the proposed site . There is a free transfer point connecting the IRT with both the Independent and BMT lines at Roosevelt Avenue . Dodger fans living in Brooklyn can reach the new ' site in thirty-five to forty minutes from Borough Hall , . the IRT said . However , the Long Island Rail Road has dismantled the station and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a World 's Fair terminus eighteen years ago . The closest railroad stations now are at Main Street in Flushing and at Corona , each about fifteen minutes by taxi from the proposed site . Other Plans Opposed Mr : O'Malley has been pressing for a new Dodger stadium in the heart of downtown Brooklyn , to . be constructed . by . the Brooklyn Sports Center Authority as part of - a comprehensive rehabilitation of the area . Another bid to keep the Dodgers in the city was made recently by City Council President Abe Stark . He suggested ? that thirty-nine and one-half acres known as the Parade Grounds , in Prospect Park , Brooklyn , be utilized for a new Dodger home . Mr. Stark has contended that the Parade ' Grounds site , bounded by Parade Place and Parkside , Caton and Coney Island Avenues , would provide ample parking facilities as well as a 50,000-seat stadium . Considerable opposition has arisen to both plans for a new park in Brooklyn . The Park Association and other groups have contended that the Parade Grounds should be kept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other outdoor sports . Opposition to the site in downtown Brooklyn , where Fourth and Flatbush Avenues cross , is based on financial obstacles . The Dodgers ' present park , Ebbets Field , has been sold to a private owner . ' Mr. O'Malley has said repeatedly that the Dodgers must play on some other field after the 1958 season . The Dodgers , by acquiring the franchise and park ' of the Los Angeles team in the Pacific Coast League , have increased pressure upon the city to back their plan for a new borne here : The city has appropriated $25,000 for a survey by the Sports Center Authority to , de- , termine if it would be possible to market a bond issue to sup- : port a ? stadium on the site in downtown Brooklyn. ;                     