@@720513

txt Law and order have deteriorated in the South since the United States Supreme Court 's outlawing of school segregation , a report by three agencies said today . The report pointed to killings , beatings , bombings and mob action since 1955 . It was published jointly by the American Friends Service Committee , the department of racial and cultural relations of the National Council of Churches of Christ in the U. S. A. and the Southern Re- , gional Council , a bi-racial group , working toward better race relations . The report listed 530 specific cases of violence , reprisal and intimidation , and said the record pointed to a widespread erosion of individual liberties . ' Evasion ' Policies Cited " Although political leaders of Southern states have declared their opposition to lawlessness , " it observed , " one may fairly ask whether legislative and executive policies of evasion and defiance of decisions of the Federal courts have not set an example whose contagion is uncontrollable . " An introduction to the report said that the incidents listed had been taken from newspapers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been used . " They are reports of actions taken by private groups and in- dividuals , and sometimes by mobs , who have wielded violence land economic power in a bitter ' land defiant protest against a ' knew order of race relations , " it noted . Pressure and Lobbying " Resistance groups , typified by the White Citizens Council burn in Mississippi in 1954 , have spread across the South . By 1956 , they had an estimated ' 300,000 members . Their characteristic tactics have been ' economic pressure , propaganda and lobbying . " Other groups , such as a revived but disjointed Ku Klux Klan and some extremist offshoots of the Citizens Councils , have advocated and participated in cruder methods of intimidation . " Gunpowder and dynamite , parades and cross burnings , anonymous telephone calls , beatings and threats have been the marks of their trade . These attacks have been directed not only at Negroes but at some white persons who have strayed from local customs . Also , overt anti-Semitism flared and synagogues have been attacked . " The report said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courage and goodwill by Negroes and whites . It continued : " But we feel an obligation to call attention to the dangers posed by the record that follows , danger for which all of us , through silence or inaction , must share the responsibility . " The list showed six Negroes killed in racial incidents and twenty-nine persons , including eleven whites , shot and wounded ; forty-four persons beaten , five stabbed and a Negro emasculated . There were thirty bombings of houses , the report said ; in one , at Clinton , Tenn. , thirty homes were damaged by a single blast . Other incidents included fifteen homes hit by gunfire and seven stoned ; school bombings in Jacksonville , Nashville , Chattanooga and Clinton ; seven church bombings ; a church burned in Memphis ; Jewish centers bombed in Miami , Nashville , Jacksonville and Atlanta ; bombing attempts on Jewish buildings in Gastonia , N. C .. Birmingham and Charlotte ; a Y. W. C. A. building in Chattanooga and an auditorium In Knoxville dynamited and two schools burned . The report showed school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ University of Alabama , Clinton and Mansfield , Tex .                     