@@719652

txt Herbert V. Nobler denied today improper or illegal activities by his company during the fouryear strike against it . He claimed victory in the fight . The 65-year-old president of the plumbing wares concern at Kohler , Wis. , was the next to the last scheduled witness in the five-week hearing before the Senate Select Committe on Improper Activities in the Labor or Management Field . Walter P. Reuther , head of the United Auto Workers , is to testify tomorrow . The union has spent more than $10,000,000 to sustain the strike . Meanwhile , the Senate " Labor subcommittee heard James P. Mitchell , Labor Secretary , urge adoption of the Administration 's labor program to overcome abuses found by the select committee . Questioned on Policy Mr. ' Kohler 's ninety-minute appearance was a mild event after the many flare-ups at the investigation . After having read a prepared paper , he was questioned for an hour , mostly on company policy . Mr. Kohler affirmed that he no longer regarded the U. A. W. as representative of a majority of the employes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ union unless it demonstrated it had a majority . The company president is a tall , powerfully built man with white hair who has a resonant voice . He turned ' to Lyman C. Conger , his counsel and chief , bargainer , when he thought a question had legal implications . When he felt sure of his ground , he boomed out answers . Senator Barry Goldwater , Republican of Arizona asked whether the union had lost the strike . " I have to be a little modest about it , " Mr. Kohler said . " I think they 've lost . " The witness said he would bargain in good faith with agents of the majority of his employes , but would not agree to arbitrate disciplinary discharges . This was a major cause of the breakdown of negotiations . The union believes that a contract has little meaning if the employer can dismiss union leaders in a plant and answer to no one for it . As matters stand now before the National Labor Relations Board , the U. A. W. is still the legal bargaining agent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election at the plant , however , since more than half the present force of 2,700 employes are new , having been hired since the strike . Tells of ' Violations ' Senator John L. McClellan , Democrat of Arkansas , the chairman , asked Mr. Kehler to list the union activities he considered improper , whether they violated existing law or made the law seem inadequate . Mr. Kohler mentioned mass picketing , picketing of homes , vandalism and violence , a boycott " in which innocent third parties are coerced " and the " importation of goons from out of state . " Has the company engaged in any improper practices ? " he was asked . " No , sir . " " Has it bargained at all times in good faith ? " " Yes , sir . " " Has anything occurred that may have caused you to revise your position ? " " No , sir . " At the Labor subcommittee hearing Senator John F. Kennedy , the chairman , suggested that Secretary Mitchell had been slack in not doing something about union financial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was nothing but a custodian . He explained : " . What is needed is authority to investigate the validity and accuracy of the reports . " " No Secretary of Labor ever asked for authority , " the Massachusetts Democrat remarked . " You have such a recommendation now and I hope you 'll act on it , " Mr. Mitchell said . " It is an unfair implication to say the Department of Labor , past and present , has not been vigilant . " The Administration 's program calls for several changes in the picketing and boycott prohibitions of the Taft-Hartley Law , and new provisions to safeguard ? union funds and curb " middlemen " in labor relations . Senator Irving M. Ives , Republican of New York , said it was " very dubious if we 'll get any Taft-Hartley amendments this year . " This view is widespread here .                     