@@715253

txt The nation was warned today that its military chiefs plan to build modern American cities all over the world at a cost of 100 million dollars ' each and to keep threequarters of a million service men on global duty for a generation . The warning was contained in a report by the military public works subcommittee of the senate armed services committee , which conducted an on the spot investigation of American military spending abroad . The subcommitte reported that : 1 . There is no assurance an enemy could not break the backbone of the military services , despite the billions spent on global defense , or that plans for spending billions more would insure this nation against attack . Wo n't Fight ; Depend on T. S. 2 . , Instead of sending more men to sit in the " muck and mire " of Europe , Asia , Africa , and the arctic circle , the military planners should make a major reduction in the forces abroad and depend upon mobile units to man American bases on short notice in case of emergency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men in Europe Morse ( left , Long center , and Stennis. as are necessary , but unless present policy is reversed , hundreds of thousands more may be sent there . The American military organization in Europe is " top heavy and overstaffed . " 4 . Other nations are gouging the United States on its overseas bases program , and some are depending on this country for defense of their liberty and are unwilling to fight for it themselves . Naples Project All Waste 5 . The navy project at Naples , Italy , where $350,000 worth of construction is under way , appears to be a completely unnecessary waste of money and personnel . 6 . The family housing situation in all foreign countries appears to be well out of hand . The subcommittee , established during the Democratic regime , is made up of Sen. Long D. , La. , chairman ; Sen. Stennis D. , Miss. , and Sen. Morse Ind. , Ore . . Long and Morse conducted the on the spot survey of this nation 's overseas bases , visiting 60 military installations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direc tl y at " high level " military planning , the subcommittee said it is understood neither by the people nor by Congress . " In some instances , " the report said , " our nation has spent hundreds of millions of dollars developing defense bases where our allies will have every right to tell us to leave within a few years " We were impressed by the fact that the number of American boys stationed at remote bases in Newfoundland , Labrador , Greenland , Iceland , and many other locations was excessive . For example , on one base at a remote I location where our troops are sharing the facility with an allied nation our ally had 450 men on its side of the field , while this nation had 2,500 men . " The report said that the American force could be reduced to the size of the other nation 's , but that American planning calls for an " enormous increase of personnel " at that base . " The same thing is true of other bases , " the report said . Taxpayers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were being unsuspectingly led into a program that would require the virtual building of small , modern American cities , running into an investment of over 100 million dollars each , at many points thruout the , world , and the stationing of perhaps three-quarters of a million service men at remote points of the earth for the next generation . " By contrast , we feel that this nation should concentrate on building air fields , supply depots , and naval installations in friendly and allied countries , rather than keeping our youngsters living overseas for a lifetime . " The subcommittee said perharip a dozen important bases should be maintained at remote points from which American operations could be expanded in an emergency , and that small housekeeping units of perhaps 100 men should be kept at other bases where quantities of American supplies are stored . No Defense Against Capture The , report continued : " However , we can not understand a program which has 100 or even 200 groups of men in units of 2,000 to 5,000 sitting idly in the muck and mire of Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waiting for a war which we hope to avoid . " Air bases involving untold millions of dollars have been , constructed without any arrangement to defend such bases from easy capture by an enemy , notwithstanding the fact that thousands of airmen and American civilians are expected to live on such bases under the most unfavorable climatic conditions . " Mobility of American reserves is a better answer to the threat of communist aggression at remote points than an attempt to station and maintain enough American boys at sparsely settled outposts to defeat a major enemy assault upon such points . " The report said there is a large force in Iceland and recommended that it be cut to a few hundred men , since thousands can be rushed there in time of emergency . The report continued : " We noted that there were no arrangements of the Icelandic government for its own defense . " Force in Europe Top Heavy Later , the subcommittee said : " It is our feeling that the United , States has made a fundamental mistake.in departing from the sound principle that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to fight for it , " The subcommittee deleted the number of American soldiers in Europe , for security reasons , but said of the number : " We question whether more than half of that number are necessary . " The report characterized the American military organization : n Europe not only as top heavy and overstaffed , but as " unwieldy and inefficient . " The report said the readiness and morale of American troops in Europe are excellent and that the nation should be proud of its officers there . But it said Gen. Ridgway wears " two hats " as supreme allied commander and American commander , and that the organization and line of command are " extremely confusing . " TealtShop a Surprise for Russians Other criticisms reported of the overseas bases program were : Negotiators for sites , planners , builders and the . service men all get there at the same time thru bad planning . A complete rebuilding shop for tanks has been built in Germany a few miles from the Russian zone , where it could not be used if there were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ close to the runways that a single bomb could start a fire that would destroy all that are concentrated at a base , and plane fuel is stored so close to planes that an explosion could be disastrous . The report criticized the air force for constructing bases in England without getting cost sharing agreements , saying that deals favorable to other nations would incline the British to seek the same kind of deals , and adding : " This was a common problem in all the nations where the United States attempted to build bases for its own forces . Each of our allies appeared to be in search of instances where another of our allies had taken greater advantage of the American taxpayers to serve as a precedent for additional financial and trade concessions by our government . " Suppressed for Weeks In France and Italy , the report said , service families are being charged exorbitant prices for inadequate housing , and " the family housing situation in all foreign countries appears to be well out of hand . " The report , made public today , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air force , gave their replies to its accusations . The full committee , using its special legal powers , has ordered the suspension of work on 146 million dollars worth of overseas bases projects .                     