@@715101

txt This is the time for anxious . but on the whole reassuring , self-examination on the part of delegates to the second biennial meetinu the general assembly of the huge National Council of the Churches of Christ in the U.S.A. Formed two years ago in Cleveland as a successor to 12 interchurch groups among Protestant and Orthodox churches that now claim nearly 40,000 , f , 00 communicants ? as a result of the expected accession today of the Greek Orthodox communions of the Western Hemisphere ? its thoughtful members feel that the council is still only beginning . Its first two years have been the subject of careful and prayerful scrutiny by a " committee on appraisal . " whose report was presented on this Dec. 10 by Bishop G. Bromley Oxnam , formerly of the New York , now of the Washington , Diocese of the Methodist Church , largest single communion in the council . Too Many Parsons ' Self-appraisal , on the whole encouraging , was also the subject of its retiring president , the Rt . Rev. Henry Knox Sherrill , presiding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fellowship dinner at which Denver officially welcomed the great assembly . Perhaps the largest single fault found by the appraisal committee was that the council has " toomany parsons " and not enougn lay people . This shows up most clearly in the general board . the interim governing board which meets bimonthly between biennial sessions of the general assembly . The board is still 85 per cent clerical , Bishop Oxnam said . and the appraisal committee feels that the churches have not yet taken seriously enough their responsibility to name laymen , laywomen , and young people to the board . This report also chides board members for inattention . pointing out that average attendance at bimonthly meetings was 42 per cent . Of about 3.500 persons drawn into the council 's work . nearly two-thirds are lull-time employees of some religious organization . Oneness ' Stressed " Young people , farmers , manual laborers , and business and professional women , in particular , are inadequately represented . The council ends its first biennium with lay people not yet full partners numerically or psychologically , " the report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the council has successfully trodden the narrow path between becoming a " super-church " and the othe4 extreme of disintegrating into a loose cometary swarm of ecumenical particles , each going its own lonely way . It pays tribute to the untiring work of the secretaries and other employees of the 12 formerly independent bodies merged into the council , who , it says , have " labored magnificently " to get along together , as parts of one greater whole . Bishop Sherrill in his address dwelt also on the psychological difficulties faced in seeking joint action amid so many communions with differing dogma , hound only by a common " oneness in Jesus Christ . " This " oneness , " he said , is and must remain the central and essential qualification for membership . If it were abandoned , he added , he believes the council would break asunder , not because it is not always ready to cooperate with all people of good will and with all efforts for human brotherhood , but because it is this " oneness . . . that we find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The chief difference within the council lies between those who believe that the churches should deal only with the worship and the inspiration of the individual who , in turn , makes his own application to the modern scene ; and those " who believe that a gospel not specifically applied , is a gospel in a vacuum , powerless to affect the court of human history . " " Inevitably , " Bishop Sherrill added , " we face all the tensions existent in American life , social , political , and economic . " He said , too , that the church can not avoid such tensions " if we are to be realistic , " but that the church should , after prayerful consideration . speak .                     