@@717214

txt The Senate approved tonight legislation to build the present ready military Reserves from 800,000 to 2,900,000 in four years . The vote was 80 to 1 , with Senator William Langer , Republican of North Dakota , the only dissentbr . The House of Representatives has already approved the measure . Thus , the program will go to conference to settle differences between the Senate and House . However , both branches appeared to feel the need of a Reserve build-up so great that the program was almost assured of final enactment . Both Democratic and . Republican leaders predicted that " a workable " program would be agreed upon . The final settlement was not expected to meet the full program President Eisenhower proposed last January . The whole matter had been a touchy question in Congress . Opposition to one or another phase of it had been strong and apparently controlling in some Congressional voting quarters . At several stages of controversy it appeared that the program ' would be scrapped . Now it is predicted in key quarters that differences will be resolved and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President , though perhaps with reservations . The Senate measure rejected the Administration contention that compulsion should rule the program for Ready Reserve training even by those who have already had active service . The new program provides that the " hard core " of trained men necessary to build up the Reserves be men who , having completed their enlistments or inductions , volunteer and be paid bonuses to stay on for three years of Reserve training . This program would terminate after two years . It also depends heavily upon volunteers , particularly youths facing draft calls , to enter training programs on active service for three months or more , ? and then stay in the Ready Reserves so that they may be kept up to date with military - knowledge and strategy . Particularly , the program seeks to avoid a repeated burden of active service upon those who already have responded to one or more war calls at the fronts or in the forces supporting them . Relief for Some In Plan The Senate plan would relieve from Reserve training those who were now in service but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ call for from one to three years of additional strict drilling and field training . The House bill would put such ' obligations upon all who had entered the services since the Korean , armistice of July 27 , 1953 . The Senate measure would not start such obligations until at least thirty.days after the enactment of the pending program . This , it . was conceded , would ) cause a lag in Reserve trainees , , perhaps a postponement of , Ready Reserve service until 1957 ' for those who were serving two-1 year active service hitches . Yet , it was argued , there should bei no " breaking of contract " with those who had enlisted or been inducted , not knowing that Reserve training obligated them to at least forty-eight drills and two weeks in camp a year . Those unable to meet those requirements could consolidate their obligations into thirty days of active training annually . If they failed they would be ordered to forty-five days in active service . Complaint was made in the Senate that many reservists in Western states , particularly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their homes from training centers . The racial discrimination issue that sidetracked the House bill for weeks was injected into the Senate fight in its early stages . No formal proposals for changes in the bill to force the question back into legislation were offered . It had almost killed the whole program in the House . Several Senators , including Herbert H. Lehman , Democrat of New York , pursued the question in debate , but asserted that they would vote for a bill containing no mention of this subject . They added that they would do so in the interest of a necessary build-up of Reserves but with continued conviction that the program discriminated against Negroes . In the background were at least a dozen states in the South that do not admit Negroes to their National Guard organizations . Yet , the original House bill provided that reservists could be transferred to National Guard units when their strengths were below par . Representative Adam Clayton , Powell Jr. , Democrat of Manhattan , forced the inclusion of an amendment under which no reservists Gould be transferred , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It won so decisively that the bill was withdrawn from consideration . A new bill was entered that eliminated the National Guard from the program . President 's View Noted Thus , ' there was no premise upon which the segregation issue could be raised again in the House . This was in line with President Eisenhower 's vigorous fight against the introduction of what he called " extraneous " issues into legislative programs of vital national importance . He urged that segregation and allied subjects be considered separately and on their own merits . When such issues were promoted as " riders " to bills focusing upon a single program , the President asserted in effect , they called up combat lines that concentrated Upon the side issue rather than the main program . He had in mind the history of the Senate in Which questions relating to the integration of the races caused the defeat of many measures . In the Senate today there were many Members who appeared to want to review the segregation issue , for the record if not for a voting phowdovQ . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inject the matter into the program in the bill sent over from the House . So the question went to debate instead of proposed amendment . Senator Richard B. Russell , Democrat of Georgia , conceded that many states did not admit Negroes to their National Guard units , but this , he emphasized , was a state rights ' matter as the Guard was entirely under the command of the governors of the states .                     