@@720024

txt WASHINGTON , Oct. 26-1 With the withdrawal of United States troops from Lebanon now completed , State Department officials expressed the view today that the landing operation there had resulted in a net political gain . The officials at the same time discounted the importance of Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev 's decision to help President Gallia ' Abdel Nasser build the Aswan High Dam . These official State Department views were in sharp contrast with those held by many people in the Administration and outside . The critics considered the United States position in the Middle East to have been weakened by an ineffectual and unnecessary military demonstration in Lebanon , They saw the Soviet Union following up its advantage with a major move of economic penetration in Egypt . They feared disastrous consequences in the Middle East and Africa . State Department arguments of a net gain in Lebanon elude the following : Cali country demonstrated what some people in the Middle East and elsewhere had seemed to doubt  --  that the United States would keep its word ; that it was capable of forceful action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take advantage of such action to gain a permanent military foothold. aThe presence of the Americans dampened the ardor of United Arab Republic with regard to intervention and helped // preserve the Lebanese Republic . This is cited as the main immediate gain ; the fact that the new Government is neutral as between President Nasser , and the West is regarded as relatively transitory and of minor importance . The United States did not seek to save the pro-Western government of President Camille Chamoun . In fact , during the sixty days preceding American intervention , the State Department tried hard to explain to President Chamoun that the United States was willing to intervene to save the republic , but not the regime . tiThe American intervention in Lebanon has given heart to others in the Arab world concerned with preserving their independence . President Habib Bourguiba of Tunisia is the leading example . Paradoxically , Premier Abdul Karim el-Kassem of Iraq , whose revolution precipitated Amer , ican intervention , appears to be developing into another example . Though friendly to the United Arab Republic , he is clearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which is standing up to Cairo on frontier and Nile water issues . The dispute over division of Nile waters will arise acutely if and when construction of the Aswan Dam begins . Contrary Views Cited But critics see quite a different picture in Lebanon . They make these points : American intervention was decided in a moment of panic on the false assumption that the Iraqi revolution had been engineered by Cairo and would have a chain reaction elsewhere . The effect of the landings was to stiffen the forces of President Chamoun , making them less willing to compromise , and then to infuriate these forces when they discovered the Americans would not use force against the rebels and would not even move into rebel territory . At the same time , the appearance of foreign troops in the land strengthened the rebel cause , since most people in any country dislike foreign intervention . The net result was to aggravate and prolong ? the conflict . It is less important that independent Arab leaders were encouraged  --  if that is the case ? than that on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ North Africa , Cairo propaganda could effectively exploit the fact that American troops were in Lebanon . The reason the Soviet decision to help build the Aswan High Dam causes concern lies in the size of the project . If carried out along the lines hitherto envisaged , the construction will dominate the Egyptian economy for ten or fifteen years , Concentration of so much labor and local materials on a new project will have inflationary effects , it is felt , and make likely further Soviet intervention  --  either to curb inflation by controls or to feed It with consumer goods . Views on Britain 's intervention in Jordan , now drawing to a close , follow lines similar to those on Lebanon . The critics concede , however , that the chain reaction thesis applied better in Jordan than in Lebanon . Jordan 's intimate connection with Iraq in the Arab Federation , or Arab Union , made it plausible that an attempt would be made to overthrdw King Hussein . The arrival of British troops may have saved him . But now that the British find it politically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he would have been if he had never had to rely on British bayonets .                     