@@719132

txt A United States ? marshal passed through the main gate of the Arkansas Governor 's mansion today with an order directing Gov . Orval Faubus to appear in Federal District Court Sept. 20 . Troops guarding the mansion opened the gates for the officer . The summons ordered the Governor antl two subordinates to come to court ing on the issuance of a preliminary injunction restraining him from further with enrollment of Negro students at Little Rock Central High School . A federal authority said he understood the Governor had agreed to accept a summons but there was no confirmation from Governor Faubus 's office . By Josephine Ripley Staff Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor Washington In full view of an intensely interested world , racial integration in the nation 's schools and the cause of civil rights in general are rushing toward a momentous climax in the Little Rock . Ark .. case . It is seen here as the first big test case on this issue involving the powers and authority of the federal government to enforce the Supreme Court desegregation order and prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State John Foster Dulles emphasized the worldwide interest in the Arkansas situation at his press conference . He told reporters that violence against Negroes in the Arkansas dispute is undoubtedly being used in Communist propaganda abroad . In response to a specific question , he said that he has not studied such propaganda , but added that he has no doubt Communists are playing up the racial incidents to discredit the United States . Meanwhile , the Justice Department is moving rapidly into the situation . Attorney General Herbert Brownell , Jr. , has petitioned the Federal District Court at Little Rock for an injunction against Gov . Orval Faubus , challenging his right to prevent integration in the schools of his state as ordered . The injunction sought would include , besides Governor Faubus , Maj. Gen. Sherman T. Clinger , head of the Arkansas National Guard , and Lt. Col. Marion E. Johnson , head of the guard detachment now ringing the Little Rock Central High School . Patience Stressed President Eisenhower is prepared to be as patient as possible in settling the dispute involved in this highly emotional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " should Governor Faubus ! defy a federal injunction. - Whether these alternative procedures would involve the use of federal troops in any way is not known , but is doubted here . The right to use troops in civil rights cases was struck out of the civil rights bill by Congress  --  legislation to which the President has just put his signature . At the same time , the President as Commander in Chief has the authority to use the armed forces of the country or to federalize the Arkansas National Guard . 1 The situation in Little Rock rs regarded here as the boldest move Yet in defiance of the inItegration ruling , and part of the South 's strategy to delay integration as long as possible , and perhaps indefinitely . Visit Pondered It is seen as significant that Goverpor Faubus 's action in calling out the National Guard to forestall integration followed a visit to Arkansas of the Governor of Georgia , another state leader determined to avoid school desegregation . Governor Faubus , who has maintained his action was necessary to prevent violence and disorder , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claim . Integration in Little Rock , at this point , involves nine Negro children in a school of 1,900 white pupils . This is the first time that a state Governor has been brought into direct conflict with the federal government on this issue . It has given international prominence to the country 's racial problems . Foreign newspapers and radio commentators now are giving it news priority in their dispatches . The effect of this direct clash will be to delay integration while the legal machinery is brought into play . To that extent Governor Faubus will have succeeded in his effort'to prevent integration , or at least delay it . Aide Dispatched The possibility of a solution outside of the courts was suggested by Gov . Foster Furcolo of Massachusetts . His proposal for the appointment of a bipartisan committee of governors to seek a solution to the problem has the approval of Governor Faubus . The Justice Department , busy with the preparation of its injunction petition , had " no comment " on this new suggestion . The federal government was brought into the case at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ previously directed that integration proceed in accordance with the law . It is at Judge Davies ' request that the Justice Department is preparing its petition . The department quickly dispatched a representative to Little Rock  --  Donald B. , chief of the litigation section of the civil division , and considered among its top legal talent . At Little Rock , Mr. Mac-Guineas was quoted by the Associated Press as saying , " A summons could be served to an attorney of Faubus or anyone else authorized to represent the Governor . " Cooling-Off ' Period However , as Judge Davies began drafting the court order , it was not clear just precisely what steps may be taken next . The legal moves inherent in the situation call for , first , the filing of the injunction petition ; the issuance of an order to Governor Faubus requiring him to show cause why he should not obey the petition ; a hearing at                     