@@717898

txt Disability Benefits Opposed Change in Social Security Program Consifierqd Unnecessary TO THEEDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In your editorial of May 7 " Social Security Changes " you gave your approval to the provisions of H. R. 7225 , which would pay benefits to persons 50 years of age or older who can not engage in any substantial gainful activity because of medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or to be of long continued or indefinite duration . The Commerce and Industry Association was one of those employer organizations which testified before the Congressional committees in opposition to this change . It could well be that this amendment is part of a calculated plan by the proponents of this bill to start with disability benefits at age 50 , and then next year to urge that disability benefits , be paid to all disabled workers regardless of age . A next step would be elimination of the provision which would reduce benefits to a disabled person under Old Age and Survivors ' Insurance when receiving workmen 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nobody knows . We are greatly concerned as to how the term " disability " is defined by this bill . It is not limited to those totally and permanently disabled . With a Government agency determining who is disabled and whether they have made a genuine effort to be rehabilitated , it is easy to see how they could use this route to increase Government-paid medical service and to regulate standards of medical treatment . No Earnings Test The term " substantial gainful activity " is not defined and it may be liberally construed to mean any wage less than that previously earned . No earnings test is provided which will reduce benefits similarly to those who retire between the ages of 65 and 72 . We fear that the wages a claimant may earn plus his Social Security benefits will be more in many cases than the prior earnings of the claimant . This dangerous risk proposed for the Social Security program may also result in additional compensation during a period of depression or a temporary setback . It is a well-known fact that private companies lost hundreds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policies . Additional millions of dollars in benefits would also result during such peripds because a very liberal construction would undoubtedly be given to the term " disability " in order to assist such claimants to obtain benefits . Disability benefits would be given as a form of unem ' employment insurance and socialized meditine would be the result . We concur with Secretary Marion Folsom and his predecessor , Oveta Culp Hobby , that preliminary studies are advisable before disability benefits are enacted into the law . At present such benefits raise serious actuarial problems and nobody knows what effect they will have on workmen 's compensation , unemployment insurance , state temporary disability programs , private ; union and voluntary health plans . It may well destroy the present program of hiring the handicapped worker and defeat rehabilitation rather than help this program . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TImEi : I have read with interest Cammissioner Goodhue Livingston 's letter on improvement of transport , published April 23 , and agree that adding more cars to our top-heavy roads will not solve the present bumper-to-bumper travel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the outskirts of New York City hope to reach the city within a reasonable time arid with some degree of comfort . Yet , strangely enough , the railroads instead of gaining passengers are losing them . The chief reason for this is the present high rates and the periodic fare increases . The Long Island Rail Road has increased its fares 165 per cent since 1947 , the New Haven is asking for another 25 per cent increase and the New York Central is waiting around the corner to follow suit . The Interstate Commerce Cornmission pointed out that with fares reduced to within the reach of the public passenger traffic has increased as much as 38 per cent , with the railroads making a profit . Increased fares have reached a saturation point and from here on any further increase will bring a mass exodus from this method of travel to that of the highway , with the possibility that for a radiui. of twenty-five miles the highway system may reach stagnation . The problem can not and should not be left in the hands of the railroads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service . Moreover , they are devoid of plans for the future . In Boston , Chicago , Cleveland and other cities the problem has been attacked with vigor and foresight . There the authorities have come to the realization that mass and rapid transportation is vital and necessary to the life stream of any city , and to solve this problem cheap means of transportation is a must . Any deficit resulting therefrom is made up by the city , the surrounding communities and the state . We must look ahead . Railroads must not be permitted to cut lines . They must be compelled to improve schedules and facilities , Honest and efficient management is an absolute necessity . Last but not least fares should be lowered to obtain maximum patronage . Only in this way will highways become a pleasure instead of a plague , accidents reduced , and a hot dinner for the commuter assured . NATHAN M. KLEIN , President , North Shore Commuters Association , Inc . Sea Cliff , N. Y. , May 4 , 1956 . Play in Spanish Sent to Brazil To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special dispatch headed " ' Teahouse ' Fails in Rio " in The Times of May 7 , I agree with the drama critic of the Correio de Manha and the Diario de Noticias that " the State Department could ' use funds better if it wants to promote United State* theatre . " Surely there are more effective ways of promoting cultural relations with our neighbor Brazil than by sending a company of actors to perforM , in Spanish to a people whose langtiage and literature are proudly Portalguese . LAWTON MACKALL1 , , , Staten Island , May 7 , 1956 . Existing Program At present there is , in fact , no need for disability benefits . In 1949 a disability benefit provision passed the House but was rejected by the Senate . At that time Congress established a Federal and state program of disability aid for the needy . States and cities under the program for disability assistance take care of those who are now without funds to care for themselves . The use of a case worker to determine the need of the disabled workers is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urge , therefore , that this present program be continued and that this provision not be enacted . A number of industries throughout the country are already carrying disability benefit plans . The enactment of the proposed legislation might lead to the elimination of the private plans . It would seem more practicable to allow the gradual development through private industry to continue in accordance with the needs of the industry and ability to pay rather than have such plans imposed on industry as a whole by the Government . THOMASJEFFERSON MILEY , Executive Vice President , Commerce and Industry Association of New York , Inc . New York , May 7 , 1956 . Religious Quota System Queried To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your April 13 story and also the report on May 8 on the naming of two Tammany candidates for Surrogate ought to be enough to give the heebie-jeebies to any true believer in democratic government and civil rights . When " Liberal leaders " are found " urging that a person of the Jewish faith be named for at least one vacancy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been consulting with various advisers on whether to recommend a Jewish or Italian candidate for one of the two vacancies , " then it is clear that a startling perversion of values is taking place . Jewish and Italian leaders who know the score should be the first to cry out against such practices , which , far from contributing to the elimination of racial and religion : discrimination in our society , make the evil worse by sometimes encour ? aging the elevation to public office of political hacks who happen to be available to fill the " quota " assignee by party leaders to their pa ? ticulai racial or religious group . Is n't it bizarre that leaders o minority groups should openly dis regard one of the first principles oour Government  --  that there shall b ( no religious ( or national origins ) test for public office ? This principle was designed for their protection and the extent to which it is honoree or breached is the measure of thi : country 's success as a democracy The whole procedure is only one step removed from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official ballot . I consider it t disgrace that New York City ? where I was born and raised  --  ahoulc be coming to this . STANLEY LICHTENSTEIN . Arlington , Va. , May 8 , 1956 To Aid the Commuter Active Role by City Authorities Urged to Improve Transit ?                     