@@719301

txt Governor Furcolo 's 1958 legislative program will be far shorter than his voluminous , sometimes vague , 1957 proposals and will be designed to attract broader legislative support in a critical election year . These are indications gleaned from Representative John F. Thompson ( D ) of Ludlow , Speaker-to-be of the Massachusetts House , during an interview on 1958 legislative plans and prospects . Mr. Thompson , already assured of the speakership in January as a result of a Democratic House caucus vote , now is at work on plans of his own to reduce Democratic factionalism in the House and produce party cohesiveness to assume solid backing for the Governor 's forthcoming program . The latter will be outlined in the Governor 's annual message to be delivered on Jan. 1 , at a joint session of the House and Senate . Sales Tax Abandoned ? It is obvious that Governor Furcolo 's reelection prospects will be materially affected if he is unable to improve his position with the Legislature in the 1958 election year . He can not afford repetition of the legislative setbacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands of the Democratic-controlled House . Key to better legislative relations may well be abandonment , for the 1958 session , of his drive for a limited sales tax . Mr. Thompson is among those who believe the Governor will not repeat his sales tax proposal at the 1958 session . Such a course would remove the biggest obstacle to Democratic legislative acceptance of the Governor and his program . Shorter Session Looms Another obstacle could be removed if the Governor is more specific in his program and limits his proposals to.a few highly important proposals , even if they may prove controversial . Mr. Thompson , long a strong supporter of Governor Furcolo , today forecast success for the forthcoming Furcolo program . His forecast is based on expectations that the Democratic House majority will be more solidly behind the Governor than in 1957 and that sufficient bipartisan support will be forthcoming in the narrowly Republican-controlled Senate to push through his major projects . In the Senate , however , much depends on what Senator John E. Powers ( D ) of Boston dots . His course undoubtedly will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pitch . Senator Powers was the leading legislative battler against the sales tax in 1957 . Mr. Thompson anticipates a far shorter legislative session in 1958 . The 1957 session lasted until late September . That anticipation is based on a shorter , less controversial program , better relations with the Legislature , and a desire on the part of legislators to get back to-their districts to campaign for reelection . Mr. Thompson , House majority leader in the 1957 session , succeeds to the speakership vacated by Michael F. Skerry ( D ) of Medford when he was appointed clerk of the Malden District by Governor Furcolo . The move transfers House contrbl from a Speaker considered hostile to many of the Governor 's proposals to one dedicated to the Governor and his program . The incoming Speaker now is busy formulating plans to expedite the 1958 session business through prompt legislative corn. - mittee hearings and reports . He feels a shorter session will meet with voter approval . Members Queried Mr. Thompson said he has or is contacting all members of the House asking for their preference in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say whether or not he will make many committee shifts midway in the 1957-58 Lefislature . He said that if any shifts are made , they will be designed to unify the Democratic factions in the House . As yet he would not disclose whether or not he will replace Representative John J. Toomey ( D ) of Cambridge as chairman or the important House Committee on Ways and Means . Mr. Toomey , dedicated to keeping state costs down and within the revenue prospects of existing taxes , won wide praise for his actions as committee chairman but his economy moves ran counter to the Furcolo program in 1957 , particularly in regard to the sales tax , On the other hand , his removal as committee chairman could widen rather than lessen Democratic factionalism in the House . Regarding the forthcoming Furcolo legislative program , Mr. Thompson believes it will be based in good measure on findings of the Special Commission on the Audit of State Needs . While the commission is only part way through its voluminous studies , Mr. Thompson feels the mass of information it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on several important issues .                     