@@715155

txt A plan for students of both pub-1 lic and parochial high schools , under which the city 's youthful scholars will report at 10 A. M. during the bus strike so as to relieve transit congestion in the morning rush hour , was announced yesterday by Dr. William Jansen , ! Superintendent of Schools . Dr. Jansen announced also that no city school would be closed oh Monday , thus rejecting an appeal , by Michael J. Quill , president of the Transport Workers Union , , C. 0. , to shut . down the schools for fear that over-crowded sub- ' ways " will provoke a state of panic too great even to imagine . " The 10 A. M. starting time will prevail in all city high schools except in Staten Island , where the customary school hours will continue in effect . Junior high schools and elementary schools will open at their usual times . Dr. Jansen 's announcement of the plan led Mr. Quill to address his plea , in- which he was joined by Matthew Guinan , president of Local 100 of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " From our observations , " Mr. Quill said , " we are sure that the impact of the bus strike on the subways will create the most serious crush in the city 's history . On Monday , everybody will be staggering  --  not only the school children  --  and the children must be spared the risks and perils that necessarily accompany such a condition . " Mr. Quill then urged the sbandonment of the proposed school schedules and asked that both public and private schools remain closed for the duration of the strike . Appraised of Mr. Quill 's request , Dr. Jansen issued the following reply : " I believe that the public wants us to try to keep the schools open . Education is too important to be interrupted too easily . If there is to be any alteration in plans , consideration for the children should be paramount . " Perhaps the bus drivers would be willing to run a few buses so that their own children , as well as others , could reach the high schools especially because end ' term and Regents examinations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his statement on school plans , instructed high school students to arrive at 10 A. M.I Buses carrying physically handi-1 capped children will continue to operate as in the past . Students Urged to Walk Junior high and elementary schools , Dr. Jansen said , will open at their usual times , but children traveling to these schools on the subway or elevated lines " should not arrive before 10 A. M. " Wherever possible , he said , older children should be encouraged to , walk to , school on Monday . Dr. Jansen said that , beginning at 10 A. M. on Monday , hourly announcements for the information of school principals would be made over Station WNYE , the Board of Education 's FM outlet . " I have been authorized to include the parochial schools in this announcement , " Dr. Jansen said . " The main purpose of these directions is to relieve the rush hour traffic by reducing to a minimum the number of school children riding on the buses and subways during the rush hour . " Dr. Jansen said the regular school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as usual . Although no bus lines serv- , ing Brooklyn are on strike , Dr. ' Jansen said " it has been deemed ' advisable to delay opening high schools in that borough because of the heavy load on transportation lines inlother boroughs . " " Since transportation conditions will vary from area to area , " he continued , " individual adjustments will be made . " A breakdown of the number of children involved who use privately owned bus lines that are on strike showed 491 in Manhattan , 2,095 in the Bronx and 659 in Queens . Children who have no means of transportation to school other than the struck buses are expected to devise some method of getting to classes in the increased travel time . It is expected that many of these students will be the subjects for " individual adjustments . " Test Period Called ' Crucial ' The United Parents Associations , noting that the end-term examination period may be " crucial " in the school life of thousands of high school students-who ' " may find it impossible to reach classes without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediate conference with . the companies , the union and the Board of Education to provide service to the schools or to the nearest available operating transit . The association , in a telegram to the Mayor , suggested special pick-up points - in those areas in which no other accommodations exist , or , if possible , the - use of school buses now under contract . Some observers noted that company .. union cooperation for the transportation of the high school children would represent no advantage to either side and , at the same time , would Solve the problem .                     