@@717842

txt These are crucial make-orbreak days for the five-nation East-West disarmament talks being held here . Within a short time , the negotiations between the United States , Britain , France , and Canada on one side and the Soviet Union on the other are expected either to show progress  --  or commence to slide downhill as in past disarmament efforts . If no progress appears , the United States is at least hinting it may have to beef up rather than cut down its own arms level and arms spending . Informed American opinion . meanwhile , is that the United Nations Disarmament subcommittee is on the verge of discovering more precisely where the Communist stand . With opening maneuvers completed in the past three weeks of meetings , and with numerous techniques for an approach to disarmament on the table . the West is now definitely awaiting the next Soviet move . Varied Overtures According to a qualified informant , if Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko is under Instructions from Moscow to make a serious attempt at disarmament progress after a vain ten years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including some special American " first steps " presented by Harold E. Stassen , presidential adviser . Or Mr. Gromyko can reword his own proposals to make them acceptable to the West . But if the Kremlin hierarchy is not yet ready to make a serious bid for a worldwide relaxation , of military burdens , the four Western representatives expect a word barrage that will clearly signify a resumption of the Communist propaganda line on this subject . Meanwhile , American circles , at least , remain " cautiously optimistic " about the prospects . Meetings will not be held on April 11 in order that the British representative . Minister of State Anthony Nutting , can answer questions in the House of Commons . Nor will sessions convene on April 17 and 18 , the day before and day of arrival in Britain of visiting Soviet leaders , Premier Nikolai A. Bulganin and Nikita S. Khrushchev , First Secretary of the Soviet Communist Party Percentages Weighed Whether or not this " holiday " is significantly timed for a Soviet disclosure , no one is prepared to forecast . American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ percentage chance " that the Soviet Union will have something more to say before the Bulganin-Khrushchev arrival  --  and that they will not allow their present incomplete proposal , which virtually ignores nuclear disarmament plans , to stand unembellished . Following repeated Gromyko indications that the Anglo-French comprehensive plan is not acceptable to the Soviet Union , the four Western powers appear to have regained unity . The United States working paper has given the British , French , and Canadians a dc- Soviet-American-Chinese Communist armed forces ceiling oft 2,500,000 men . In what is construed as a warning to Moscow that the United States may feel it is essential to bolster its armed strength next year if no disarmament agreement is reached , Mr. Stassen told the conference the present sentiment in Washington congressional circles tends toward an increase rather than a reduction in the rate of arms spending .                     