@@720831

txt It is now more than a quarter of a century since the farmers turned from independence to the Federal Government as a way out of their troubles , and there are still farmers around whose memories reach back to the bill , the old Farm Board and the original A.A.A. Yet as a survey in this newspaper showed the other day , if indeed documentation is necessary , the farm problem is not only still with us but it is worse than before . The folly is not merely that the taxpayers have wasted billions of dollars ? some $10.5 billion since 1946 alone . Nor is it expressed alone in the statistic that farm prices are near their lowest level in 13 years after all that the Government has done . The real folly is that the things done have failed utterly to restore agriculture to a healthy economic estate and that the ills for which the medicine was prescribed  --  a surplus of crops , the loss of world markets and all the rest  --  are now far N1. arse than they were in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the belabored farm program . But it is surely worth noting the curiosity that with such a horrible example before the country the ver same remedies of Government intervention in the market place should now be invoked by other economic groups in the population . One can only conclude that experience is not a teacher at all . Take one example . It 's no secret that foreign imports plague American businessmen in a good many industries . Textiles , for instance , face stiff competition from Japan : so do manufacturers of such varied items us electronic resistors and optical goods . Bicycle makers get competition from Britain : watchmakers from Switzerland : oil producers from just about everywhere ; and even Detroit finds its customers buying cars from abroad . So what is the reined. proposed ? Like the sugar-grow. ers , businessmenbeat a path to Washington asking for higher tariffs or import controls or " Buy American " acts ? anything to put up a barrier between the U.S. market and the markets of the world . Or take an industry like that of oil production , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faster . It seeks not only import controls to keep out " cheap " foreign oil but also , in the manner of all farm prograins since 1930 , some sort of Government control on production that will " protect " the marginal producers , a pro-rata sharing of the market . This is to keep up the high prices that , in the first place , encouraged the over-production at home and lured the oil from abroad . Rarely does it occur to anyone to ask whether these remedies applied to the present symptoms will cure the things complained of or make them worse . Will creating a wider differential between U.S. domestic prices and orld prices , help or hinder the U.S. iK selling its products abroad ? That is , will it widen the market or narrow it ? If U.S. prices are held artificially higher than world prices , will that encourage or discourage foreign-made goods to leap the barrier of tariffs and other restrictions ? In other words will it increase or decrease the surplus supply ? And if the Government , as it did in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  by whatever means  --  above the le . el a healthy market would establish . will that increase or decrease the domestic consumption of the product ? Will the artificial price reduce or build higher the surpluses that were complained of ? We suppose that , a generation ago . there was some room for argument about these speculative questions . But now , it seems to us , anyone can find the answers in the farmer 's almanac of folly . 