@@714209

txt It would n't be surprising if the recent rain of news about atomic-weapons production left a lot of people wondering where we really stand . From sources which are qualified to appraise atomic developments the following report aims to put the essential facts in perspective : 1 . Resolving all doubtful points on the Soviet side , Russian progress in design and variety of atomic weapons still lags well behind what is being done in the United  --  States . 2 . In volume and in quality the United States is maintaining , probably increasing , its lead over Soviet production , and this lead remains as the greatest single military deterrent to Soviet aggression . Thus far the Kremlin has tested two atomic bombs ; the United States has tested 10 different models of atomic weapons , and others are to be tried within the next few weeks . 3 . The United States has now developed atomic weapons which can be used for tactical as well as strategic purposes . Strategic bombing means attacking enemy industrial or military installations some distance behind the line of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . employrnent against front-line targets , including troops , tanks , or guns . This development is of the largest military significance , because in the defenseof Western Europe it means that General Eisenhower before many months can have in his hands a weapon capable of cutting Russia 's great superiority in land forces . 4 . Finally , it needs to be appreciated that tactical atomic weapons are not yet available for use in Korea and are not likely to be for another six months . Also , talk about any immediate substantial savings in conventional weapons from substituting atomic weapons is premature . These savings are foreseeable . A A A Senator Brien , chairman of the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy , is certainly right on that , and it is well that he is speaking out so forcefully . But it will be well into next year before the Defense Department can begin to substitute atomic arms for conventional arms . The war in Korea can not be fought with weapons on the early stages of the atomic assembly line , and when substitution comes in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not , a trickle . The Moscow announcement that Soviet atom bomb No. 2 has been exploded experimentally is a confession of weakness , not a sign of productive strides . Bear in mind that when the United States first put its giant plants at Oak Ridge and Hanford to work in the latter stages of the war , we were able to produce only at a rate variously estimated at between one and six bombsevery two months . Considering the outside possibility that through concentration , slave labor , and espionage the Soviet Union could better the American rates the Kremlin now would have a stockpile of somewhere between 30 and not much over 100 . Today the Atomic Energy Commission is turning out A-bombs on a " mass-production basis , " and the estimates of our stockpile run to three and four figures . One reason the United States is ahead in atomic production is the fact that America can draw on richer sources of uranium than Russia , and thus can afford to be more lavish in its experimental use . fr It is an interesting fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their disclosure by American intelligence . Two years ago Stalin would not admit that Russia was making atomic bombs . He claimed the explosion only had to do with " the purely peaceful use of atomic energy . " This time Pravda confirms the report of the secpnd explosion and admits it is a bomb , not an atomic-driven washing machine . There is nothing the United States would like more than an end to the atomic armament race by airtight , uninhibited UN control and inspection . The Soviets can resume the negotiations at Lake Success any time they are willing .                     