@@714845

txt The Massachusetts Federation of Labor endorsed Governor Dever for reelection in the closing sessions of its annual convention here today : While the vote was unanimous , the applause following was mild . The state branch of the American Federation of Labor also gave its endorsement to Representative John F. Kennedy ( D ) in preference to Henry Cabot Lodge , Jr. , ( R ) for the seat in the United States Senate now held by Senator Lodge . Backs Key Democrats In addition the federation strongly backed the following representatives in Congress : John W. McCormack ( D ) of Boston , Foster Furcolo ( D ) of Springfield , Thomas J. Lane ( D ) of Lawrence , Philip J. Philbin ( D ) of Clinton , and Harold D. Donohue ( D ) of Worcester . All are running for reelection except Representative Furcolo , who is a candidate for state treasurer . The convention resolution did not specifically mention him for this office . All endorsements today went to Democrats . But federation leaders noted that Glen Slaughter of Labor 's League @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Washington , yesterday . commended Representative John W. Heselton of Deerfield , who is a Republican congressman . The convention did not endorse any political party but picked individuals within the party whom it could endorse . This was pointed out as significant among the political leaders . Nor did the federation endorse Gov . Adlai E. Stevenson for President , though in 1940 and 1944 it endorsed Franklin D. Roosevelt for reelection , when the AFL , the parent group , did not . Stirs Up Furore In avoiding explicit endorse , ment of any candidates on the 1Democratic state ticket except Governor Dever , the convention took no action on lieutenant governor , secretary of state , auditor , attorney general , and treasurer . The delegates do not get into the contests for the state Senate and House . The central labor unions , or city federations of labor , will generally begin to work on recommendations for these offices after Labor Day . A bit of a , furore developed when A. J. DeAndrade of the printing pressmen 's union declared that the delegates were setting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out certain candidate , he urged giving endorsements to all who were friendly to labor . Protests were voiced at . once , the agitation subsided , and the convention proceeded With its scheduled program . Leaders afterward commented that the federation had made such endorsements for many years . 1Communists Ruled Out In its general resolutions , the convention voted that " no organization or individual known to be controlled by Communists , Fascists , or other groups advocating the violent overthrow of our democracy and free institutions shall be allowed representation in the Massachusetts Federation of Labor . " The Most Rev. Richard J. Cushing , Roman Catholic Archbishop of the Archdiocese of Boston , urged political . candidates to conduct their election campaigns on a high plane , without dishonesty , slander , and detraction and defamation of character . The prelate said also : " In politics , the principle that anything goes ' simply because people are thought not to expect any high degree of honor in politicians is grossly wrong . " We have to recover that sense of honor in politicians on the part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to political ife . "                     