@@715509

txt Premier Alcide de Gasperi 'S pro-western democratic coalition remains in power in Italy despite its hair-breadth failure to gain majority of the popular vote for the Chamber of Deputies ( lower house ) . For the western the most important emerge from the fused situation . Although the center parties failed to quality for the majority premium of 64 per cent of the Chamber seats under the terms of the electoral law , they nevertheless came out of the election with slender but working majorities in both the Senate and the Chamber , which in Italy is the sole requisite for a stable parliamentary government . Clear Win in Senate In the Senate elections , the center parties received 50.2 per cent of the popular vote and the gov7 ernment will control 125 seats out of 237 . In the Chamber elections , the center scored 49.8 per cent of the popular vote . But the previous electoral machinery which now remains operative since the majority bonus clause does not apply . awards five extra seats to the largest single party , and for this the Christian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis of the distribution of Chamber seats , the center will receive 303 out of 590 , a majority of 12 which roughly equals Prime Minister Sir Winston Churchill 's working majority in the British Parliament . Moreover , on separate issues , especially on foreign policy , the p , overnment is likely to have the added support of 40 Monarchist deputies and probably even of 29 deputies of the neo-Fascist Movimen to Soci a le Ita I iano . Ironical Outcome It is ironical that the government will retain control of the Chamber on the basis of the original electoral law . This means that the long , tiring months of parliamentary wrangling over the controversial majority premium clause were so much wasted effort . Moreover , once adopted , this measure provided the opposition groups with a powerful campaign talking point which pi.obably harmed the center , as to many it seemed unjust . Leftists Not Dented From the American standpoint the most disappointing aspect of the election was the failure to dent the strength of the Communists and left-wing Socialists who appeared to have held or slightly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the , total vote . The sole consolation for the failure of the American aided recovery program to reduce the leftist vote is that : the ? CommuniSts appeared AO , AiiiiV6Adst slightly in the northern industrial areas , where the benefits of recovery are most felt and where the working class is most numerous . But these setbacks were more than covered in the over-all picture by leftist gains in the rural south . The rightist advance was less sensational than had been expected . The Monarchists increased more than the neoFascist extremist MSI . Though the MSI raised its Chamber representation to 29 seats , compared with three in the old Chamber and won nine Senate seats from scratch , its share in the popular vote was under 6 per cent and if anything slightly below its showing in the 1952 municipal voting . No MSI candidates presented themselves as such in the parliamentary elections of 1948 . The Monarchists polled just under 7 per cent of the popular Chamber vote this time . The over-all net gain for the right , compared with last year 's local elections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ landslide ,                     