@@714607

txt I U. N. security council rejects demand by 11 Asian and African nations for investigation of France 's " naked show of force " in Tunisia . Details on page 14 . Washington , April 14 Special ? The president general of the Daughters of the American Revolution tonight rebuffed a plea by President Truman for D. A. R. support of the United Nations . Opposition to the Presidential message was voiced in an interview by Mrs. James B. Patton as the 61st continental congress of the D. A. R. convened in Constitution hall . Mr. Truman 's message urged the 5,000 delegates and alternates to indorse the " untiring efforts of the United Nations to s. cure world peace , " and stated that " the nation 's future is being shaped by the actions we are now taking . " Assails Socialistic Trends While not questioning the latter part of the statement , Mrs. Patton declared the D. A. R. could not give the U. N. a blanket indorsement . At the same time , the president general assailed what ' she termed " socialistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We want peace , just as much as Mr. Truman does , " Mrs. Patton said . " But different people may want to arrive at the same point by different roads . We do not believe that peace can be attainec by surrendering our n a tiona sovereignty . " President ' Truman 's message stated further that " I sincerely believe actions now being taken by e government to be in keeping with the far-sighted planning of our forefathers , and I am conficlent that our children and our grandchildren will benefit m.iasurably from them . " " I ca n't go along with that , " the D. A. R. president general declared : Urges Asiatic Review Mrs. Patton proposed in an address opening the congress that the D. A. R. demand a nonpartisan survey of the entire Asiatic situation . She asked the organization to support establishment of a review group consisting of executive . legislative , and judicial officers of the government and leaders of the military forces  --  both active and retired . " We have a right to know just where and how far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to Europe , or any other foreign land , " Mrs. Patton asserted . " Stalin does not fear the United Nations . His government is a part of it . Between the Communists and world domination stands one big obstacle , the United States of Amex ica . " Mrs. Patton 's speech also contained an apparent reference to a phrase in Mr. Truman 's message that " American dollars and  --  far more important ? American lives are involved in defending the concept we call democracy . " Denies We Are a Democracy " We are not now and never were a democracy , " Mrs. Patton said , recalling that George Washington called this " a republican government . " She described " democracy " as " a word used in United Nations pronouncements in a fraternal sort of way and now even adopted by communist groups . " Mrs. Patton suggested that the proposed foreign policy survey take up such questions as : " What does the United Nations , ultimately , intend to do in Korea ? What about Red China ? What is our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now held in Formosa ? " She said such a survey would show where our plans for national defense should be rearranged to I become more effective . A warning against " wasteful federal programs and socialistic schemes advanced under the guise of ' security ' or the ' public welfare " was sounded by Gov . John Stewart Battle of Virginia in another address before the assembly . He indorsed the federal economy I program of Sen. Byrd D. , Va. and suggested federal withdrawal from fields of operation and taxation which could be handled by state and local governments .                     