@@717523

txt The French national election will take place Jan. 2 . The Cabinet decided this tonight after having consulted the Council of State , the determining authority on the Constitution , which provides the vote ' must follow dissolution of the National Assembly by not more than thirty days . Jan. 1 being a Sunday and Jan. 2 a holiday , it was decided to adopt the latter date , for both Metropolitan France and Algeria . It was said that provision would be made for voting by ' those attainingtage of 21 years1 this year who were not yet on the rolls . Meanwhile the campaign al- ' ready was under way . Premier ; Edgar Faure replied to charges made against him by former Premier Pierre MendesFrance , his principal opponent , former friend and fellow Radical . M Faure also got himself confirmed in the titular leadership of the Radical federation , the Rally of the Republican Left , whose principal constituent is the Radical party under control of M. Mend  --  s-France , which expelled M. Faure yesterday . M. Faure appealed to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officers of the Rally met during the day and , by rejecting a move to change the method of party representaContinued tion , confirmed M. Faure as president of the organization . The officers also rejected , in effect , a demand framed by the Mendes-France Radical faction that the rally clear all investitures of Radical party candidates with the party organization . Finally , the group voted to transform the Rally into a political party permitting it to present lists of candidates under its own label . The decision confirming M. Faure in the presidency was taken by a vote of 26 to 9 , with only the delegates of the small Democratic and Socialist Resistants Union , led by M. MendesFrance 's ally , Francois Mitterand , voting against it . Meanwhile , M. Faure 's decree dissolving the National Assem , bly which became effective today , produced some constitutional pioneering . Dissolution was last invoked in 1877 and there were few valid precedents to use in resolving the questions that have arisen . One Question Unanswered One unanswered question was : " Who is the second man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an Assembly in power , the President of the Assembly , currently Pierre Schneiter , is designated as the man who would replace the President of the Republic if he were removed from office by death , resignation or any other cause . But M. Schneiter is only a Deputy and , like all the others , has been strippedof any official standing by the dissolution decree . It was agreed , informally , that M. Schneiter and the other officers of the Assembly would remain at their posts simply for carrying on the administration of the Assembly , control of employes and other housekeeping functions . Most of the 623 other members of the Assembly already were packing up for the return to their constituencies , They will receive their salaries ( about $607 a month ) for December , since the month already had started when the dissolution decree was printed . Until the end of the year they will have free rides on the state railways , free mailing privileges and the use of their offices in the Palais Bourbon . But beginning today , they no longer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sport the , red , white and blue sash of deputy , or exact extra courtesy from the police with a tri-color insigne on the windshield of teir car . M , Mendes-France had called M. Faure 's decision to dissolve the National Assembly a " coup de force " ( violent measure ) that would have " disastrous consequences for the regime and for ' civil peace . " " I wonder how anyone coulcE have spoken of a ' coup de force ' in connection with what is only the strict application of the re- ' publican Constitution , " M. Faure said today . The Constitution provides ' that the Assembly may ' e dissolved after two crises in , eighteen months . Aide Disputes Mendds-France At almost the same hour that the Premier was defending his action at a news conference , Francois Mitterand , a follower of M. Mendes-France in the outgoing Assembly , said he approved of the decision to dissolve that body , against which his leader had bitterly protested . M. Mitterand , member of a group allied with the Radials called the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's view that the snap election would leave too little time to create a Left coalition . He welcomed the dissolution as providing an opportunity to form the non-Communist Left alliance that M. Mendes-France was seeking by joining Radicals , Socialists and some Gaullists . In another action during the day M. Faure said he could not accept the resignations of the five Radical Ministers who quit the Cabinet in opposition to dissolution of the Assembly . In a letter to the five , M. Faure said the Constitution authorized no changes in the Cabinet after a dissolution of the Assembly and therefore the mnisters were under the obligation to stay . The five were understood to have agreed o remain , but merely on a caretaker basis , while the Premier might asume the responsibilities of the Ministry of the Interior                     