@@714919

txt The United Nations ' Economic Commission for Europe published today an unusually gloomy survey of Europe 's recent economic development . Covering the first quarter of 1952 in the commission 's Economic Bulletin for Europe , the world organization 's economists pass out a good many brickbats and no bouquets to European nations for their recedt economic policies . The survey finds that industrial production and employment fell in all major European industrial countries except France , wheie continuing inflation kept things booming on the internal market . However , France was the work example of collapsing exports , particularly those that earnjital dollars for Europe . As the commission sees the present European economy , it is incapable of suppressing inflation without becoming stagnant . It is incapable of meeting the demands on it for capital goods , while devoting too many resources to the production of consumer goods that prove unsaleable abroad and , without the stimulus of inflation , even at home . In fact , it is rather a mess , as the United Nations economists see it . False Dawn of Plenty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gloomy picture , " the report declares  --  the increased output of coal and the apparent end of the severe steel shortage in Britain that has been holding back production . The report makes a special point , however , of warning European governments not to start behaving qs if there were a real coal " surplus . " " There has already been a false dawn of plenty in the coal fields once since the war , " it recalls , referring to 1949 . " It would do lasting harm to the possibilities of European expansion if either coalproducins or coal-importing countries lost their nerve now and relaxed their efforts to raise the level of output . " One positive suggestion put forward publicly for the first time is that European coal producers and importers get together to work out a cooperative plan for financing coal stocks . It always is a sudden change in inventories that sets off a coal crisis in Western Europe . A 5 per cent chan4e can throw all of European industry out of alignment by creating bottlenecks here and there . Dollar Imports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policies now in force will aid much in solving Europe 's againcritical " dollar problem . " Western Europe 's exports to the United States declined , while imports greatly increased during the period . The steady revival of United States imports in early 1952 did not benefit either Europe or the overseas currency areas linked with European currency systems so much as it could reasonably have been expected to do . " The most alarming factor , however , was the persistence of im- ports from the dollar area by both European countries and the overseas sterling area at levels 25 per cent and 90 per cent respectively higher than they had been a year earlier , " the report states . The improvement in the over-all dollar deficit , to the extent of about $350,000,000 , that occurred during the quarter came almost wholly from cuts in imports by Britain , and " half of this improveIment in the British position , 11.11 turn , resulted simply from the absence of any interest payments on the United States Government loan in the first quarter . " Events since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prepared have made the British picture look somewhat better on both , the export and import sides . However , a detailed analysis of sterling area problems made recently in London shows even more strikingly than the commission 's report how overinvestment in dustries that neither displace dollar goods nor provide exports saleable in the dollar area is the root cause of the chronic British and sterling area crisis  --  which is overwhelmingly the largest part of the European crisis as a. whole .                     