@@715753

txt Rarely has there been greater interest and less hard news than from yesterday 's meeting of the President and the National Security Council on the hydrogen bomb . There is one story from a usually well - informed reporter that a large-scale continental defense program , such as that recommended by the Summer Sttidy Group of Project Lincoln , has been rejected . But this reporter says The reason was economy and that the decision was made to spend not more than a billion dollars in this field . Expense Weighed It is not generally realized that the first phase of the continental defense project requires less than one billion dollars . First steps could in fact be taken for less . Larger expenditures would come only later , if and when the equipment has been developed satisfactorily . Therefore the report that expenditure in this field is to be limited to one billion dollars does not necessarily mean that full-scale continental defense has been turned down . On the contrary , reports from other sources indicate that agreement on the first phase of the project , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon . Another report circulating widely in the capital is that physicists have developed much less expensive means of making hydrogen bombs . One story hints that a . standard uranium explosion would no longer be needed as a " trigger . " Red Bomb Surprises There is still no news on what the American atomic-energy experts found when they analyzed the air samples from the recent Soviet H-bomb explosion . It is known that they were amazed at some unexplained aspect of it , which appears to have , indicated that the Soviet Union has some new way of making hydrogen explode that was not previously known to the United States . It is conceivable that this method might bear some relation to ways of making hydrogen bombs more easily and cheaply . There is still intense debate on how much the President should tell the American people in his expected forthcoming radio , address . Cheap H-Bomb ? pty the Associated Press Washington The hydrogen bomb may turn out to be so cheap and simple that almost any nation can pro duce an arsenal of them in a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ met in a prolonged , three-hour session with his National Security Council , the commanders and civilian chiefs of the armed forces , and a committee of advisers on defense of the North American continent . New Technique Looms No information was released after the secret session as to what took place . Vice-President Richard M. Nixon , one of the 26 participants , commented in reply to questions that meetings of the council are " always completely confidential . " Nuclear scientists are on the track of methods for making and exploding hydrogen weapons so simplified and so relatively cheap that any nation with a moderate military budget may be able to manufacture them well within the next decade . Among other things , the American bomb makers are working on a technique for " triggering " the mighty hydrogen bomb without using the unearthly heat of a standard fission bomb to set off the atomic fusion process of hydrogen . Until recently , the popular ' supposition was that unless a nation already possessed fission bombs there would be no way to detonate the hydrogen fusion bomb with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may no longer be necessary , although the technical details-of the process being worked on by American weaponeers may not be disclosed at this time . However , it may be said they involve basic facts considered by physicists during early studis of atomic reaction in the mid 1930 's  --  and thus must be presumed to be available to the Soviet Union and other nations as well as to the United States . Soviet Gains Studied An assessment of what is known or guessed at about Soviet progress shows among other things that : 1 . The foundation for an enormous scientific progress in the Soviet Union has been laid . 2 . The educational pattern in physical sciences has changed rapidly . Contrary to its policy in dealing with everything else , the Kremlin politicians are keeping hands off the physicists . Communist natural scientists are virtually free from the indoctrination and political warping to which all other Soviet citizens are subjected in their daily work . 3 . Analyses of Soviet-made weapons captured inihe Korean war show far greater progress in design and manufacturing methods than American military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  