@@713485

txt After two months of armed intervention in Korea , the Chinese Communists now appear to have turned the military responsibility back into the hands of the North Koreans . This apparently is its significance of mounting United Nations intelligence reports being collected here which show that the North Koreans not only have reconstituted the major portion of their once-shattered army , but already have put a new army into the field and are taking over where the Chinese Communists have left off . As far as can be told , the Chinese Communists never have moved the bulk of their field armies in Korea further south than Pyongyang . Air and civilian intelligence reports showed that some Chinese Communist troops had advanced a few miles south of the Taedong River . But it appears now that these may have been patrols.sent out following the occupation of the former North Korean capital . The Chinese , in other words , did not press the military advantage they gained when they blunted . and turned back the United Nations offensive along the Chongchon River on Nov. 24 . Stragglers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Nov. 24 offensive , the Chinese Communists presumably devoted the major portion . of their war effort to regrouping , retraining , and reequipping the North Korean stragglers who every day moved into the northern assembly areas after making long retreats . This was many weeks ago when United Nations intelligence here reported that the North Korean Army probably had no more than 20,000 effectives left . Now , however , the same intelligence sources estimate that at least three corps  --  including possibly as many as 12 divisions  --  have been reorganized and put into the field . Undoubtedly a large portion of this regrouped North Korean Army until a fortnight ago was scattered in segments along the North Korean east coast corridor which runs northward from the 38th parallel . Isolation of the American 10th Corps in Hamhung ? Hungnam beachhead area effectively separated the United States 10th Corps from the American Eighth Army on the west coast . Taking advantage of this separation , the enemy has begun tying up the isolated units in between . First evidence of this came when it was reported in Eighth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ units in regimental strength had attacked a South Korean defense position on the 38th parallel in the region of Chunchon  --  some 40 miles northeast of Seoul . At this time it suddenly became clear that the enemy no longer was operating as guerrillas but as a fully reconstituted army enjoying a continuous supply and communications line all the way northward from the 38th parallel to the main bases north of Pyongyang . This was one method whereby the once-decimated North Korean enemy regained his strength . Another method described here by United Nations intelligence sources was that used by the North Korean 7th Division which once fought on the Naktong River perimeter defense line . While the division was mauled badly shortly after the Inchon landing , it apparently maintained some cohesiveness . For 17 days its remaining members walked northward presumably through the hills and road networks of the central Korean peninsula . Arriving at a designated assembly area on Nov. 12 , the division was reorganized and elements of six other decimated divisions were brought in to fill out the cadres . Conscripts Picked Some 2,000 North Korean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also were included to bring the total strength up to the normal 10,000 mark by Nov. 17 . The reorganization of the North Korean Army , however , should not be taken as an indication that the Chinese intend to pull out of Korea altogether . The Chinese Communists still have a large role to fill in re-equipping and retraining the North Korean Army until it reaches sufficient strength and effectiveness to handle military tasks by itself . Undoubtedly the Chinese Communists for the time being will retain top-level strategic control .                     