@@719552

txt Special to The New York Thriell . WASHINGTON , Feb. 22 ? Once again the perennial issue of Hawaii-Alaska statehood is before Congress and again it appears that the same sad frustration for the territories will be repeated . A year that began promisingly for Alaska , at least , seems destined to conclude with both territories still seeking admission to the Union . Barring a last-minute reprieve , which could come in the closing weeks as part of some more elaborate political deal , statehood for all practical purposes is already dead in the second month of the session . The reasons for this are not overly complex , and as usual they center around politics . Although both territories are changing , with traditionally Republ ! van Hawaii moving toward the Democrats arid traditionally Democratic Alaska showing Republican gains , it . still remains a basic tenet . of political faith on Capitol Hill that if Hawaii is admitted it means two Republican Senators and if Alaska it means two Democratic Senators . Whether this would be true in the event no one can say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ties the fates of the two aspirant states together in a vise-like connection that apparently can not be broken . Particularly is it tough to break now when it begins to appear that the arithmetic may be faulty , and that conceivably this neat two-to-two balance might be upset by the voters in one terrritory or the other . Faced with this problem , the Democrats , who believe that their edge in Alaska still holds , decided this year to separate the two and give Alaska statehood with Hawaii put off to some future date . Both or None This arrangement at first had tentative Republican , approval , on the theory that one new state was better than none , but on Feb. 8 this was blasted into the discard . The Senate Republican leader , William F. Knowland of California , emerged from a White House conference to announce that the Administration considered it " inadvisable " to call up Alaska for action without calling up Hawaii . He said that if he could not arrange with the Democrats to have Hawaii called up , an attempt would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Alaska bill . Former Gov . Ernest Gruening of Alaska , one of the most active fighters for Alaska statehood , denounced the Knowland statement . He said the Senator should know that forcing consideration of the two territories together would be " an obvious way of defeating both . " Since this was an accurate reflection of the situation , the assumption is now general on Capitol Hill that nothing will be done on either . Therefore the other three factors that have complicated ' the picture will probably not even be discussed this Session . One is the fear on the part of some legislators that Hawaii has more than its share of Communists , particularly among dock workers . Hawaiian Protests Despite indignant Hawaiian denials , this feeling persists among such powerful opponents of statehood , for instance , as Senator James 0 . Eastland , Democrat of Mississippi , chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee . It is riot the type of argument that an unemotional recital of facts and figures can easily refute . Another troublesome factor is the prejudice that some legislators have against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a state . The third factor is the argument , in the case of Alaska , over how much land the Federal Government is to retain of the vast territory for purposes of national defense . Around these points considerable debate might center should the statehood issue come to the floor . But for the time being it seems probable that it will not do so , for while the Democrats are willing to take Alaska without Hawaii , the Republicans are not , and the Democrats have shown themselves to be no more willing to take Hawaii without Alaska .                     