@@718025

txt Juvenile-court judges have long insisted that the juvenile court " record " is not a criminal record in the usual sense of the term , and should not count against a child in later life , unless he repeats his lawbreaking . Therefore , the juages attenaing the current 19th annual conference of the National Council of Juvenile Court Justices in Boston approached with special interest today 's workshop discussions on the use of juvenile-court records by the armed services . During World War II the problem became acute . Many boys who had done well under probation and had , in the eyes of the court , been rehabilitated and set on the right road again , were refused admission to the armed services . If a young man had been before a juvenile court , it was held against him in many recruiting offices in much the same degree as a criminal record would have been . Purpose Held Nullified Judges throughout the country ever since have emphasized to the public that the juvenile courts were set up to restore the child to law-abiding activity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Judges felt this purpose was nullified by recruiting officers who took the position that a juvenile-court record should count just as heavily against an applicant as a criminal-court record . Judge Harry W. Lindeman of Newark , N.J. , who was elected president of the council today , read to the conference today a report of his committee on the situation . It disclosed that many judges were satisfied that long strides in the right direction had been taken , although many others felt policies had not changed noticeably . In August , 1955 , the Department of Defense adopted the policy that " an applicant is to be judged as to his fitness for the armed services by his character as of the time of his application for enlistment . " It stated further that " the evaluation of the civil court and its probation officers will be an important consideration . " It also did away with a provision , in effect up until then , that a boy must have been off probation for at least six months before he could be received into the services . Judge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system was now working well in his jurisdiction . " We had our headaches prior to the adjustment of this problem with the Department of Defense , " he said , " but our recent relations have been very good . We still do not furnish copies of our records , nor do they ask for them . Histories Discussed " The recruiting officers come in and we go over the boy 's social history together and discuss the reasons why we feel that he should be received by the armed services . " I think , " the Virginia judge added , " this is a problem in which it is up to the judge to establish good relations with the men in the service who have the responsibility for making the decision . I have , therefore , been very careful not to make any recommendations that I do not feel confident will stand up . " Judge Reid 's experience was typical of that reported by many other judges at today 's meeting . But there were other judges who said they had not fared so happily . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Md. , said the Marine Corps has insisted to him that it would not consider an applicant until it had " complete information from the juvenile court as to the dates of an offense , nature of offense , and complete disposition of the court . " Details Go in Record " This seems unfortunate to me , " said Judge Noyes , " because to reveal the details of the youngster 's record means that it becomes part of his service record . " Members of the committee reporting on this subject included , besides Judge Lindeman , Judge Edith H. Cockrill of the District of Columbia , Judge James H. Ricks of Richmond , Va. , Judge Reid , and Judge Noyes . A high light of the conference is the dinner tonight commemorating the 50th anniversary of the founding of the Boston Juvenile Court , the third oldest such court in the nation . Sir Basil Henriques of London , retired magistrate of the East London Juvenile Court , is to be the guest speaker . Mrs. Byron G. Tosi of Boston end Judge William H. Henchev of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toRIM-TOW . Those elected council officers besides Judge Lindeman were : vice-presidents , Judge William B. of Los Angeles , Judge Leo J. Yehle of Syracuse , N.Y. , and Judge Clayton W. Rose of Columbus , Ohio ; treasurer , Judge Venable Vermont , cf Spartanburg , S. C. ; secretary , Judge Noyes.                     