@@718042

txt A classic example of how the public worked itself up to a high state of indignation over lobbying in Congress only to see the chance of reform gradually subside while its attention was distracted elsewhere has been given in this session of Congress . President Eisenhower Feb. 17 vetoed the natural gas bill , declaring that " a very small segment " of an industry had engaged in " highly questionable activities " to get it passed . Nearly every newspaper in the country demanded an investigation . The Senate promised such an inquiry . No Penalties Applied From this situation there has been a gradual retreat . From the point of public relations it has been a brilliant technical performance . At no time could the public put its finger specifically on a situation and say , " Nothing is being done . " At every point there ha been a show of activity  --  always diminishing . As a result What will the great lobby in-vestigation  --  Of 1956 produce ? No legislation at this session of Congress . What penalty was imposed on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $100 bills ; to Senator Francis Case ( R ) of North Dakota in connection with the natural gas bill fight ? Nothing , except a verbal criticism by a Senate committee . What has happened to the " honest elections bill " which 85 senators endorsed at the height of the public furore . It is almost forgotten in the press and unlikely to pass in this session of Congress unless strong pressure is applied . The story of the episode is best told chronologically . On Jan. 21 , 1955 , Senator Thomas C. Hennings , Jr. , ( D ) of Missouri and three other senators introduced a bill to modernize the Federal Corrupt Practices Act of 1925 . Nothing was done in 1955 . Feb. 3 , 1956 , Senator Case made his sensational disclosure on the floor of the Senate of his rejection of the $2,500 campaign contribution from an agent of a gas-oil company . The Senate passed 53 to 58 the bill to exempt independent producers of natural gas from federal utility rate control ; 22 Democrats and 31 Republicans voted for the bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Range Inuuiry Set Feb. 17 President Eisenhower vetoed the bill because of lobby activity . National indignation flamed up . The Senate felt the breath of moral anger and reacted effusively . But even at the beginning it did not let the matter go to the Senate elections subcommittee under Senator Albert Gore ( D ) of Tennessee ? a young energetic liberal  --  which would have been the normal agent for the inquiry . It started an immediate inquiry into the specific Case incident . On the first days the counsel of the group seemed to be as suspicious of Senator Case as of the oil company agent . John M. Neff , Lexington , Neb. , lawyer , who handed over the money . Ultimately , however , the group condemned the oil company 's action . No prosecution was made . Second , the Senate undertook a long-range investigation of lobbying . By a 79-to-1 vote it committed itself to " investigate the subject of attempts to influence improperly or illegally the Senate or any member thereof . . ? . " Eight senators were named to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gore was a member and it was assumed that he would be chairman . But shrewd , conservative Styles Bridges ( R ) of New Hampshire , dean of his party in length of Senate service , was also a member . Yes , Mr. Gore could be chairman but only under conditions , it appeared , that would have the effect of putting him in Mr. Bridges ' pocket . After weeks of deadlock the committee broke up , disorganized and without a chairman . Gore Forced Out By his strategy Mr. Bridges forced young Mr. Gore aside in favor of Senator John L. McClellan ( D ) of Arkansas , a southern conservative , a man of ability and integrity , but also one deeply sympathetic to the club-like atmosphere of the Senate . Months later the McClellan committee has , begun hearings . On June 14 , Leonard F. McCollum , chairman of the Natural Gas and Oil Resources Committee , disclosed that his group has spent " about $1,750,000 " for an " education program . " There arc indications that the big companies which put up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under income tax exemptions as a " legal business expense . " The third action of the Senate was to propose an elections reform bill . Interest Subsides Feb. 25 Democratic and GOP leaders said they were working on a measure " to cover this year 's elections . " The next day , in the emotional fervor of the time , Majority Leader Lyndon B. Johnson ( D ) of Texas spoke of a bill that " will put the influence peddler in a strait jacket . " On Feb. 29 he introduced a bill . By March 4 some 85 senators had given it their public support . What has happened ? Like the air going out of a balloon , public interest in the big lobby probe of 1956 has subsided . Long delays and shrewd manipulation have reduced the chances of anything much happening .                     