@@714032

txt Boston paused today to give a tumultuous welcome to the nation 's No. 1 soldier of World War II Pacific campaigns , Gen. Douglas . First of an anticipated 2,000,000 persons began early to fill Dewey Square outside South Station to meet the general 's train at 3 p.m. , and to line his route through the city  --  already decked with bunting , flags , and welcome banners . To hold back crowds , as the general , his wife and small party of accompanying officers leave the special New Haven train amid a 17-gun salute , as many police had been assigned as were stationed to protect the President during his 1948 visit , the police department disclosed . Welcoming Plans Outside the station , preparations were made throughout the day for a welcoming group of city officials , state legislative reception committee members , and Army , Navy , Marine Corps , and Coast Guard honor guards . Chosen to introduce these officials  --  generals and admirals heading Greater Boston and New England military and naval forces  --  was a former army enlisted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ James A. Burke ( D ) of Hyde Park , Boston , now House chairman of the reception committee . Representative Burke , who served as an infantryman in the Pacific during World War II , commented , " It 's quite an illustrious group for an old ? tech sergeant to present ! " While members of the committee gathered within the station to meet the visitors ; plans called for the party to be greeted by Mayor Hynes and other city and state officials outside in the square , Within sight of television cameras representing other millions of spectators . Speculation on Talk But , while most citizens made a mental note as to which street corner , office window , or TV set they would hurry to in order to watch the eity 's welcome for the former Korean commander , others wondered at the contents of his address to the State Legislature at 9 p.m . Little was said of the text of this address yesterday at the general 's hotel in New York , and it was announced that copies would not be available for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislative session . Some observers took this secrecy to mean that perhaps a major " political " topic might be broadcast and telecast throughout New England ? and rebroadcast to the nation . Others felt that the former Japanese commander in chief wished to incorporate the latests details of the United Nations - Chinese cease-fire talks in his comments , since he has not spoken of these meetings since they began . Meanwhile , one important change in the motorcade route through Boston to Quincy was announced by the state reception committee . krow , the general 's car is to pass near historic Dorchester Heights in South Boston , and the site of fortifications by which General Washington forced evacuation of Boston by the British during the American Revolution . As ? now scheduled , when the general concludes his review of the military and naval honor guard outside South Station , he will enter his open car and pro-ceed to the Mall separating Boston Common from Boston Public Garden . En route , the motorcade is to travel over Summer Street , Washington Street to Winter , Tremont @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adjacent to the Mall . Leaving the Mall at perhaps 4:10 p.m. , the party will continue toward Quincy via Beacon Street , along it to Arlington Street to Boylston Street to Copley Square . left to Huntington ' , venue , along Huntington to Massachusetts Avenue , left on Massachusetts to Harrison Avenue to Broadway , and , , , Dorchester Street , to Old Colony Avenue ; left along Old Colony Boulevard to Columbus Circle , right along Columbus Road , left on Dorchester Avenue to Adams Street , left to Neponset Avenue . Crossing Neponset Circle and the Neponset River to Hancock Street , Quincy , to Washington Street . to Temple Street , and right on Hancock Street . Greeting by Officials Arriving at First Parish Church , Quincy Square , the party will be greeted by city officials . Here the general will place wreaths at the memorials to John Adams and John Quincy Adams , former Presidents who resided in Quincy . By 5:15 , the party is expected to have reached the war memorial in Mattapan Square via Hancock and Adams Streets , having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harris , widow of an Army colonel who served with General . From the mansion , the autos will proceed to Brooks Road , Milton , to the Bluehills Parkway , and right into Mattapan Square . Following a wreath-placing ceremony at the war memorial , the party will return to the Copley Plaza Hotel , Boston , where the visitors are staying during the two-day visit . Their route will be along Blue Hills Avenue to Seaver , left to Columbus Avenue , and along Dartmouth Street to the hotel . Leaving Copley Square at 8 p.m. , after dining privately , the general and Mrs. will motor to . the State House via Boylston , Tremont , and Park Streets . Official Reception On the sidewalk before the gold-domed Beacon Hill structure the general will be officially welcomed by the Sergeant-at-Arins , Arthur R. Driscoll , who will escort General across the sidewalk and present him to two members of the reception committee . Together they will walk up two flights of stairs in front of the State House . Here the general will be presented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Waltham . . After an inspectiori of the flags , the sergeant-at-arms takes over again and leads General to the Governor 's office for a short rest . Then he 'll guide the party to the House chamber . Tomorrow , the general is to visit the City Hall , Boston , the City of Waltham , and the Murphy General and Cushing Hospitals , before proceeding to Chicopee , Mass. , to tour the early home of his father , Arthur . He will then continue to Springfield , where he will catch the special train back to New York . Other stories : Page 2.                     