@@715234

txt The Treasury has a sum of ? take a deep breath ? $102,300,000,000 ? which Congress has appropriated and which has not yet been spent . On the hope of reducing this ; huge already appropriated sum probably rests the'chance of balancing the federal budget in the first Eisenhower year . ' President Eisenhower men . tioned the carry-over appropriations in the State of the Union message . Now a new team of sharp-eyed fikal experts is going over this total with microscopes to see if they can cut something from it ? say a billion here and a billion there  --  to help meet the deficit of about 10 billion dollars which outgoing President Truman indicated in his final budget message . Mr. Truman at his last budget seminar was asked what he thought of cutting into the unexpended balances of old appropriation bills . His answer was he did n't think much of it . Byrd Figures Here is what President Eisenhower told Congress : In addition , the accumulated obligational authority of the federal government for future payment totals over 80 billion dollars . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , so numerous and extensive as to be almost beyond accurate description . " Senator Harry F. Byrd ( D ) of Virginia has come forward with an over-all estimate of what these hard-to-describe contingent liabilities , obligations , and all the rest , add up to . The answer to the arithmetic problem he gives is S102.300,000,000 . Senator Byrd thinks this is a lot of money . He asks if Congress can not hack some of it off . That is the proposal which Mr. Truman took dim view . And that is the proposal upon which depends ? very likely  --  the success or failure of the budget-balancing effort in the first part of the Eisenhower administration . Package ' Budget ; One of the first steps Senator Byrd would take in this drive is to modernize congressional budget planning . He argues that there is at present no mechanism in either house for taking an over-all view of federal finances ? one set of committees deals . with- taxes . another with expenditures. and the membership never knows how much is in one pocket and how much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ omnibus , over-all appropriation bill in Congress . Congress - would set a ceiling for expeditures every ? year and make all the separate appropriation bills fit into this larger pattern . But that is only one part of the Byrd plan . ( This first part , incidentally , has been introduced regularly since 1947 and Congress actually experimented with it in 1950 , but later abandoned it as too complicated . ) Now Senator Byrd has widened his proposal . Not merely would all new appropriation bills be packaged as one , but Congress also would include limitations on disposal of the unexpended balances . Powerful Support The significant thing is. that Senator Byrd is not alone in his proposal , he has persuaded no less than 45 other senators to join him . And that is just two less than half the membership . It appears that the weight of the Eisenhower administration is behind him . At any rate his proposal is backed by George M. Humphrey , Secretary of the Treasury , and Joseph M. Dodge , Director of the Budget . Such contrasting figures as Senators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ H. Douglas ( D ) of Illinois support the program . The Byrd proposal is offered as the effort to " recapture control . " There is some dispute over the word " recapture . " Congress always has had the power to limit expenditures and shut off authorizations and appropriations . The big backlog of obligations is due to acts which Congress took in the past . Fiscal Statistics The following statistics show how important the old appropriations are in the present question of balancing the budget . Of the $78,600,000,000 estimated by Mr. Truman as expenditures in the next fiscal year , only 541 , - 100,000,000 will be from the S72. - 900.000,000 he requested in new appropriations and other authorizations to be enacted this year . Mr. Truman estimated that $37,500,000,000 of the total expenditures will be from old appropriations and other authorizations which are carried over into the new year . How this happens is simple enough : Congress wants a big Air Force and authorizes it . It takes three to four years to produce a new plane from drafting board to completed weapon . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ahead of time in such defense expenditures . Truman Says ' No ' Can these be cut back ? Mr. Truman shook his head . Contracts have been let , factories built ? it will be hard to revoke this procedure , he said . To attempt to balance the budget only by cutting down new appropriations " will reduce excessively heavy reductions on half of the expenditure budget , " he says . " The half to be spent from ( ) la appropriations would be exempt from review or reduction . "                     