@@720139

txt For a man on a " holiday " Soviet Deputy Premier Anastas I. Mikoyan , who arrived here Sunday , Jan. 4 , is wasting no time getting down to business , r or a nonoiticial visitor this second man in the Kremlin is planning to see a lot of top American officials . Mr. Mikoyan 's noon meeting Jan. 5 with Secretary of State John Foster Dulles is only the first in a long list of engagements , stretching over two weeks , that will have him meeting President Eisenhower . Vice-President Richard M. Nixon , Cabinet members , senators , and undoubtedly a few Supreme Court justices to boot . But between his first " hello " and his final " farewell " Mr. Mikoyan is going to see a lot of America too . Between his arrival and departure he is taking a swing throughout the United States for about 10 days  --  presumably to see what has happened in and to America since he last visited in 1936 . Top Subject Berlin Thus Mr. Mikoyan 's opening talks with Secretary Dulles are in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The real negotiating and discussions will occur on his return to Washington . And from all reports the sky is literally  --  the limit . Berlin is , without question , the subject uppermost in the minds of both Mr. Mikoyan and Mr. Dulles . Mr. Mikoyan primarily wants to find out if Mr. Dulles is really prepared to go to the brink over West Berlin . And Mr. Dulles wants principally to impress his Soviet visitor with America 's determination to stay in Berlin despite Kremlin threats and ultimatums . Also Mr. Mikoyan may want to find out if America is divided on this issue , if Democrats are less or more determined to fight for Berlin than Republicans , if the Midwest is less willing to stand firm in Germany than the East Coast . And perhaps he also wants to learn what he can about inter-Allied differences , , if= any , on how to defend Berlin : He is not , of course , going to find out all these things in his first meeting ? with Mr. Dulles Jan. 5 . But before his last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vice-President , he should have reached a pretty solid conclusion . Time Bomb ' Ticks He will , without question , also talk trade , exchange of persons , and a dozen other subjects , ? But West Berlin is still the key subject up for discussion . The West Berlin diplomatic time bomb is ticking away with May 27 less than five months away . It was Nov. 27 that Soviet Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev handed the West his ultimatum to get out of West Berlin by then . " or else . " Eric Johnston , president of the Motion Picture Association of America , is giving a dinner Jan. 5 for Mr. Mikoyan , at the association 's headquarters . One of the invited guests has publicly refused to attend . Representative Walter H. Judd ( R ) of Minnesota has declined , with a statement charging both Mr. Mikoyan and his government with criminal and violent misdeeds . There is no qtiestion but that the security officials , responsible for Mr. Mikoyan 's safety while touring the United States , have their hands full . He was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freedom fighters carrying placards and shouting " Communist dog " and " murderer . " Peace Theme Accented Both in New York and in Washington , where Mr. Mikoyan encountered newspapermen , the Soviet deputy premier hammered home two points : he is a man of peace : and he is a free man . The " peace " theme holds promise of some compromise on Berlin . The " freeman " reference apparently refers to the filexibility of his instructions on what and what not to talk about when in America . There has been speculation that Mr. Mikoyan 's visit was timed to the launching of Moscow 's " lunik . " But alining officials , his visit is more generally related to the recent North Atlantic Treaty Organization council meeting , to the West 's decision to stand firm on West Berlin , and to development of " contingency plans " to defend Berlin come what may . Mr. Mikoyan is , as the phrase goes , coming to Washington " to taste the climate " ? not the wintry . wind that greeted him , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rejected There is some thought that Mr. Mikoyan is here to get Washington 's official private counterproposal to Mr. Khrushchev 's ultimatum of Nov , 27 , As the Soviet Premier told Senator Hubert H. Humphrey ( D ) of Minnesota , who was recently closeted with Mr. Khrushchev for the unprecedented time of 8 hours : " Well , we 've made our , proposal . What 's yours ? " America 's public position was disclosed in the note that Washington dispatched to Moscow last week , turning down the Kremlin ultimatum . In return Washington proposed a Big Four meeting on Germany and Berlin . Mr. Mikoyan 's purpose today is to find out if there was anything ' written in between the lines of the note  --  if the United States has anything to offer that did not meet the eye . Mikoyan role in Soviet affairs recalled : Page 4.                     