@@718489

txt If things were going well in the Communist world Nikita . S. Khrushchev would no doubt have spent New Year 's Day relaxing with his family and playing with his grandchildren . But things are not going so well in his dominion . As a result the Soviet Communist chief had to go to Budapest to meet with the gauleiters who rule Hungary , Rumania , Bulgaria and Czechoslovakia for him . The communiqu ? issued Saturday night about that meeting was remarkably uninformative even for a Communist statement , except to indicate that the Hungarian situation was one of the chief  --  probably the chief ? topics of discussion . Nevertheless , yesterday 's policy statement by the Kadar puppets in Hungary undoubtedly reflects the line Mr. Khrushchev laid down while he was in Budapest . That line , the Kadar statement shows , is that no important concession is td be made to the Hungarian people 's desire for freedom . There is not even a vague hint that Soviet troops will be withdrawn from Hungary soon , though that is the fundamental demand of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to form a coalition government that might command popular support , but , after Mr. Khrushchev 's visit , the statement yesterday made clear that Kadar will not share even the semblance of political power with any other organized party really representative of the Hungarian people . The fact that Kadar has managed to enroll only little more than 100,000 persons , out of some 9,000,000 Hungarians , into his party does not stop him and his Soviet masters from claiming that his reborn version of the Communist party is entitled to dictate to the people of Hungary . The moral would seem plain : Moscow has decided to continue its military ' occupation of Hungary indefinitely . While he was in Budapest , however , Mr. Khrushchev undoubtedly had an opportunity to see something of the economic and political realities there . Yesterday 's Kadar statement is a relatively candid admission of the economic debacle which has taken place in Hungary . But neither Moscow nor Kadar seems to have any great illusions that the free world will be anxious to provide the economic aid which would strengthen the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Khrushchev and his colleagues probably discussed in Budapest was the economic impact on the other Communist countries of the Hungarian catastrophe . Mr. Khrushchev may well have told the Czechs , . the Rumanians and the Bulgarians how much they are going to have to contribute to help make the Kadar group 's economic position tolerable . There is ample room for speculation in the fact that Mr. Khrushchev , was accompanied to Budapest by Georgi M. Malenkov . Almost exactly two years- ago Mr. Khrushchev was preparing Mr. Malenkov 's downfall as Premier of the Soviet Union , using as his lever the " general line of the party " that heavy industry must have priority over consumer goods production . The Hungarian revolution stands as a testimonial in part to the disastrous impact of this Khrushchev line . Only a few days ago in Bucharest Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej , Communist chief in Rumania and also a participant in the Budapest - meeting , declared in Malenkov-like words that the " principal task " is the raising of Rumania 's living standards . For Mr. Malenkov the trip to Budpest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without more concern for the needs of people living under Communist rule there would be trouble ahead . - The absence of Poland from the Budapest meeting must also stir speculation . We can hardly doubt that if the Poles had had a voice in the matter yesterday 's Kadar statement would have been more sensitive to the desires of the Hungarian people , while the Budapest communiqu ? would have been less idyllic ? and more truthful  --  in its description of the Hungarian situation . It is hard to escape the impression that Mr. Khrushchev went to Budapest with impaired prestige , and an influence sharply diminished by the errors of these past two years of his primacy in the Soviet-ruled world .                     