@@714830

txt How three women and three children were rescued from a 42 foot cabin cruiser sinking in Lake Michigan 100 yards off the Fort Sheridan shore during a heavy fog was told yesterday . The vessel foundered when it struck submerged piling while en route to Wilmette harbor after a pleasure trip to Kenosha , ? Wis . An 18 year old girl , the skipper of the boat , and an army captain rescued the six persons . The craft was owned by Mark A. Brown , 32 Linden ay. , Wilmette , president of the Harris Trust and Savings bank . Four of the rescued are members of his family . Two others are widows of vice presidents of the bank . Members of Brown 's family who escaped are his wife , Hannah , and three of their grandchildren , Lynn , Billy , and Mark Landwer , 12 , 9 , and 7 respectively . Their father is William I. Landwer , a Barrington r e al estate dealer . The executives ' widows are Mrs. Charles . G. Fisher , 736 Judson ay. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ridge ay. , Wilmette . Wilson 's Daughter . Aids , - The girl who helped in the rescue is Miss Suzanne Wilson , 18 , 36 Linden ave. , Wilmette , daughter of Kenneth L. Mug Wilson , college and Olympic sports official . The skipper is T. Barry , 21 , of 422 Davis st. , Evanston , Northwestern university senior who runs the vessel as a summer job . Those involved gave this account yesterday : The vessel , the Squivot , was returning Saturday night under 's command when it ran into a heavy fog off the Great Lakes Naval Training Center . As waves mounted , cut speed and maneuvered closer to shore . The compass failed and navigation became difficult . Hole Smashed in Bow ? After an hour and a half of floundering , the piling smashed a hole in the vessel 's right bow and it began to ship water . Miss Wilson , a University of Michigan sofomore , and were the only Rersons aboard who know how to swim . All donned life preservers . Flares were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for help , Pvt . Thomas Sharkey of Toledo , a soldier on guard duty on the Fort Sheridan bluff , heard the cries and saw the flares . Capt . Stanley C. Allen , 39 , of Plymouth , Mich. , a staff duty officer , also saw the , distress signals . Aboard the cruiser , the youngsters were linked by a rope . Miss Wilson and took its ends and towed the children to shore . The rescuers then swam back . Capt . Allen swam out , too . The three women were standing on a rear deck , linked by a rope and ankle deep in water , as the craft continued to sink . The three rescuers towed them ashore . is the son of W. P. , paper Arm executive .                     