@@715171

txt The fight between the French and the Sultan of Morocco sterns directly from attempts by the French to extend their power at the Sultan 's expense , Since World War II especially , there has been a steady shift from indirect French control , as provided for in the protectorate treaty , to direct control . More and more , French authorities have tended to move in on functions previously exercised by the Sherifian Government , at the same time giving greater direct voice in Moroccan affairs to French colonists . This represents a major departure from the policy of Marshal Louis Lyautey , who , in accord with the spirit and leitcr of the protectorate treaty , scrupulously avoided encroachment on the Sultan 's sovereignly and worked to preserve and strengthen the Sultan 's power . The Sultan has fought this trend to French control with every means at his disposal . His first serious clash with the French occurred when he refused to sign the decree pegging the Moroccan franC to the French franc , but the French went through with it anyway . Basic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a French proposal to establish elective municipal committees to be chosen by French colonists and Moroccans on a ; 50-50 basis . The French describe the measure as a step toward democratic self-government . According to a residence mimeographed handout , the " purpose is to have Frenchmen and Moroccans participate on equal terms in deliberations and decisions affecting municipal administration . " The handout adds , " The Sultan has not yet accepted this project because it raises the problem of French representation in Morocco . New formulas are being studied now for the purpose of reconciling the Sultan 's view with the economic interests of Morocco 's French population , which in certain cities like Casablanca are considerable . " I It is worth asking that none of the existing treaties bestows on French nationals any favored status or privileges as compared with . other foreigners . On the contrary , the Treaty of Algeciras , whose validity the International Court recently upheld , specifically excludes such preference . Dual Sovereignty Fought But the Sultan 's main objection to the French proposal is that by granting noncitizens the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the concept of citizenship meaningless . Moreover , the small French minority would enjoy a voice in Moroccan affairs equal to that of the 8,000,000 Moroccan citizens . This is a cardinal sample of that dual sovereignty which the Sultan is determined to resist . He says he is convinced that once admitted in principle , even in the case of local municipal administrations , it would undermine the juridical position of the Sherifian Government and pave the way for Morocco 's eventual annexation by France , as in the case of Algeria . As a countermove to French attempts to impose dual sovereignty , the Sultan repeatedly has requested the French to replace the protectorate treaty with a treaty of friendship and to work out a timetable for gradual French withdrawal and transfer of powers . So far , the French have declined even to discuss these requests . The Sultan also has pressed for inclusion of younger and more vigorous men in the cabinet instead of the present collection of antiques headed by the venerable Grand Vizier ( prime mivister ) . He is officially listed as 102. but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even greater . Sultan Supporters Ousted The Grand Vizier has been in office continuously since the protectorate was established in 1912 and is a firm friend of the French , which explains his tenure , as all cabinet changes and appointments are subject to residency approval . Two years ago , the French forced out several ministers known as strong supporters of the Sultan and members of the nationalist Istiqlal Party , replacing them with persons they could trust . This setup discloses how thoroughly the French have succeeded in isolating the defiant Sultan even within his own entourage . The French , not the Sultan , have the real say in appointing officials and functionaries at all levels of the Sherifian administration , including pashas and caids , who in theory are the Sultan 's local personal representatives but in practice are beholden to the French . each with a Frenr.h adviser at his elbow . Among others , the French have found places in the Moroccan civil service for three generations of the Grand Vizier 's numerous progeny . Isolation Tightened The French are accused of deliberately stirring up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the south , using for this purpose the powerful Pasha of Marrakesh Thami el Glaoui , whose strongly pro-French is due mainly to his enmity against and rivalry with the Sultan . Since the Casablanca riots , the Sultan 's isolation has been rendered more complete than ever by the mass arrest of Istiqlal leaders , including his former cabinet ministers . In face of this encirclement , the Sul ' , s n has resorted to his one effective weapon to block French plans . In the past 10 months he has refused to affix his signature to a single dahir ( decree ) , thereby holding up not only plans for municipal admin. istrations but also the appointment of new pashas , caids , and other officials . French Hesitate Now French patience is reportedly wearing thin . Having about given up hope of taming the Sultan , a younger and more determined man than the Bey of nips , they reportedly are considering ways of removing him . The Sultan 's deposal would not disrupt the administration , staffed as it is with French ? appointees . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ step for fear of repercussions both among the population , with whom the Sultan is highly popular , and on an international scale . One added cause for hesita. tion was the laudatory reference to fse Sultan contained in United States Ambassador Philip C. Jessup 's United Nations speech . In trying to gauge which way American opinion and policy will jump , the French read into this speech a hint that the Unit . ed States would strongly disapprove any attempt to remove the Moroccan Sultan .                     