@@719022

txt The week-end weather news is good for vacationers but bad for farmers . At least five more days of drought were predicted yesterday by the Weather Bureau for southeastern New York State , including New York City , Long Island and adjacent counties . Fair and warm weather was forecast for today and tomorrow . Light showers were indicated as a possibility Monday and Tuesday . However , they were expected to offer little protection against the further parching of crops and the increasing danger of forest fires . No more than a quarter-inch of rain was predicted for this part of the state through Wednesday . Meanwhile , farm losses mounted on Long Island ' and in the Hudson Valley . Fruit and vegetable crops and milk production continued to suffer badly . In Westchester County , an inspection of the 300-acre county farm showed the following effects of the drought : Clippies , which normally would be as large as baseballs by now , are the size of golf balls . ( Carrots are only an inch long and no thicker than the lead in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long and an inch and a half in diameter . cCorn is two feet tall , against the usual eight feet . tiPastures and hay fields are so barren that cattle waited at barns to be fed from bins . The rainfall at the farm has been 5.32 inches since May 1 , compared with an annual average of 11.02 inches for the same period since 1944 . Vacationers were warned against throwing lighted cigarettes into dry grass along roadsides , especially in wooded sections . So far in the dry spell , // only minor fires have been reported in woodland areas , according to John F. Daly , secretary of the State Conservation Department . He said the situation was not critical yet , but that five more days of drought might make it so . In western New York State , where drought conditions have not been as serious as in the metropolitan area , showers were predicted for today and next Tuesday . A spokesman for Governor Harriman replied to Thursday 's criticism- of the Governor by Assembly Majority Leader Joseph F , Carlino . Mr. Carlino @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for New York farmers . The spokesman quoted the State Agriculture Department as having said that not one farmer in the state had asked for drought relief . He said the policy of the state was not to ask for Federal help until it was requested by farmers . Daniel J. Carey , State Commissioner of Agriculture , said the drought did not warrant emergency measures . If it does , he added , he will recohimend that Governor Harriman ask for Federal aid . - In New Jersey , details ' were announced on a conference to be held in Trenton next Friday to determine whether to ask for Federal aid . County agricultural agents , crop reporters and others are preparing " for the conference by collecting detailed information on the effects of the drought . The-drought is affecting many parts of the northeastern section of the country . Prayers for rain have been scheduled in Roman Catholic churches in the dry areas . The Delaware River is only three inches deep at Trenton at a place where the normal depth is two feet . In Massachusetts , Gov @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a disaster area . Such a proclamation would make dairy farmers eligible to buy surplus feed through the ' Commodity Credit Corporation at reduced prices . It would also provide more liberal credit for production loans . New York City and the metropolitan area - enjoyed clear skies , seasonably comfortable temperatures and moderate hu- midity yesterday . The high temperature for the day was 81.2 degrees at 4:30 P. M. Continued fair weather with some cloudiness or hazy skies was predicted for the week-end . Today 's high was expected to be in the middle eighties .                     