@@718379

txt The situation in Hungary seems to be heading toward a new explosion . There was evidence today that the Russians were continuing to deport young Hungarians to the Soviet Union ; Workers evinced a determination to put a stop to this , by violent means if necessary . Delegations of miners and oil field workers from Tatabanya , Komlo , Varpalota and Dorog were reported to have traveled to Budapest to protest to Promier Janos Kadar against the deportations and to demand that Soviet troops leave the country in three weeks . They threatened to flood mines and blow up oil wells if the demand was not met . Meanwhile , a source close to the Hungarian Government " leaked " information tonight that twenty more . Soviet divisions were on the way to Hungary and that some had already crossed the border . Western observers were not sure whether this report was being put out by Premier Kadar to lead the people to feel their cause was hopeless or whether Moscow simply was sending in infantry to replace fifteen mechanized divisions already in Hungary . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no Hungarians had been deported to the Soviet Union . Maj. HUNGARY FACING A RENEWED CRISIS // Gen. K. Grebennik , commander of Soviet forces in Budapest , told a delegation of workers that he had never ordered deportations , but acknowledged that some other office or unit might have taken such action independently . This could have been an allusion to the Soviet secret police . The general promised to halt any deportations that came to his attention . An amateur broadcast on the standard " ham " radio wave length , heard in Vienna tonight , said that from last Wednesday to yesterday eighteen trains carrying more than 10,000 persons , including 300 small children , had left Hungary by the frontier station of Chop . The amateur , who appeared to have some connection with Hungarian railroads , said all of them had been guarded by Soviet troops . He added that on Thursday freedom fighters had blown up a track near Kisvarda , stopped one train and freed about 2,500 persons . This supported a report that came from Budapest last week . Threat to Council Cited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , according to reports from the capital , that Premier Radar had threatened members of the Budapest Workers Council with deportation if the general strike , now in its fourth week , was not ended tomorrow . The council decided by a slim majority on Friday to call for a return to work . Today a workers ' delegatOn protested to the council against the decision . It demanded that delegates be elected by factories and offices to a " Workers Parliament " which , it said , should meet in the next few days and choose new representatives to negotiate with the Government . in an ultimatum to workers to return to their jobs , issued through the workers council , the lioOar regime has ordered that fpoo must be distributed only tio'ough Government food shops . Cmpled with this was a promise ti-17t those who were at their jobs tomorrow could expect W77m meals for themselves and free delivery of food for their The Government 's action is obviously intended to put a stop to the free deliveries of food that the peasants have been making to workers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the workers will reject the Government 's ultimatum to work or starve was not clear . some have already gone back to their jobs after declaring that they would resume the stirke unless their demands were met . In addition to calling for an end of deportations and for withdrawal of Soviet troops , the workers are demanding that Mr. Kadar be replaced by Imre Nagy , who was ousted by the Russians Nov. 4 . They say that when these basic terms have been met , negotiations must begin for the establishment of Hungary 's independence and neutrality , free elections and complete dissolution of the secret police force . Most of the workers are confused . Their instincts tell them that since the armed revolt has been suppressed by the Russians , except in hilly and marshy areas that tanks can not easily reach , their only remaining weapon is the general strike . But the issue is muddied for them by the fact that the Radar Government controls all sources of public information , that Soviet soldiers are at their elbows and that after eight years of Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of former leading , Social Democrats were released from prison in recent months , but they are being denied access to the radio or to the single newspaper being published in Budapest , Nep Szabadsag . Meanwhile Gyorgy Marosan , a renegade Socialist who has accepted a Ministry Without Portfolio in the Kadar Government , went on the air today to reiterate the Communist line , He said that " counter-revolutionaries , " after having been beaten by force of arms , were now seeking-to paralyze the nation 's economy by strikes and false reports . The October revolt , he said , had been misused by " imperialists " in the interests of reaction . He execrated journalists , writers and students as " saboteurs " of the revolution . The Kadar Government , as represented by the new Minister of Agriculture , Imre Dogei , tried today to appease the peasants . The Budapest radio , in its denial of the deportations , asserted that the Government had been forced to arrest terrorists who had been preventing workers from ' returning to their jobs and also " robbers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number had been arrested , not one Of ' them had been sent to the Soviet Union . Some of these persons , the radio said , were shipped out of Budapest to provincial jails , while others were arrested by the Russians in the process of restoring order . But the Government promised that all of them , no niatter by whom arrested , would be brought before examining judges , who would determine whether they should be set free or face court trials . The Government 's denial was in strong contrast to an admission last week by a Government spokesman that three trains loaded with young Hungarians had proceeded eastward from Budapest toward the Soviet border and the testimony of Hungarian railroad men that two of these had actually crossed into.the Soviet Union .                     