@@713969

txt A steel mill , a large increase in hydroelectric power projects and modernization of industrial practices were among the recommendations made today in a report to President Truman for expanding . and giving long-term stability to New England 's $14,000,000,000 economy . Moreover , the seven Yankee economists who made the exhaustive analysis of New England 's economic ills and benefits urged Yankee business men sand officials to modify their traditional independence and take a larger share of Federal social and economic programs . The economists stressed that the Federal Government was taking much more out of the area than it was putting in , anyway . While the study resulted from the 1948-49 recession , which hit New England harder than any other region , the economists generally were optimistic that the area would be able to maintain a leading position as a manufacturing center . The report of 205 pages was submitted to the President by his Council of Economic Advisers . It was written entirely by a committee of seven well-known economists of the New England States who began studying New England 's economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Leon H. Keyserling , chairman of the council . They were George H. Ellis , University of Maine ; Seymour H. Harris , Harvard University ; John A. Hogan , University of New Hampshire ; John Perry Miller , Yale University ; Alfred C. Neal , vice president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston ; Philip Taft , Brown University , and Charles I. Gragg , Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration , chairman of the committee . President Truman in a brief letter to Mr. Keyserling about the report , said : " Studies of regional economic in the older , declining industries , have often missed the opportunity to extend or even maintain . their market positions because of a failure to follow realistic policies in the scrapping and replacing of their obsolete plant and equipment . " We have likewise been told that even in the expanding industries some firms have been unwilling to modernize and expand their plant and equipment to take advantage of the opportunities presented . " Both labor anti management have commented on the imperviousness to new ideas of many New England executives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generations , who often do not show the ability of the original owners , partially explains management deficiencies . " In some cases , absentee ownership also contributes to management weakness because of an unawareness of technical problems and plant requirements . On the other hand , in some cases outside management has been the source of renewed vigor and improved management techniques . " various states should consider tax reforms like those of New Hampshire , new road construction , and further development of forestry guidance services . Federal aid for forestry should be given through state and local governments and institutions . 11 . Fishing  --  Federal , state , industry and labor leaders should cooperate in dealing with problems like growing scarcities of key fish species , conflicts among workers , dealers and ship owners , water polprogress of the nation . " lution , tariff negotiations , and diMany recommendations under versification of employment in sixteen topics mere made by the ii communities where fishing is the committee . A summary follows : only industry . 12 . Education  --  Educational leaders should give more attention to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Recreation  --  To stimulate the important vacation and tourist industry , a system of country agents , like the Agriculture Department 's system of extension agents , should be established to advise those who cater to visitors . 14 . External Relaitons  --  A way of measuring the nature of competitive pressures and opportunities facing New England industries should be established , for New England must sell a major portion of its output in other markets and must buy a major portion of materials and supplies from other producing areas . 15 . Tax and Expenditure Policies ? The Federal tax structure should be revised to increase incentives . It should bear more heavily on surpluses and less on costs . The Federal Government in its outlays should give more attention to older industrial regions in which employment and output can be expanded at less capital cost . Improvements should be sought in state and local tax structures , and the general property tax and business taxes should be reduced where they place a burden on industry that is in excess of the burdens on competing areas . Nonbusiness taxes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government administration should lead to reduced business taxes . State and local governments should exploit all Federal programs that contribute toward the improvement of the New England economy and improve the standard of living in the area . 16 . Tariff Policies and Foreign Trade  --  In the consideration of tariff reductions , every effort should be made to avoid job dislocations before new jobs are available . Federal import duties on products of New England 's declining industries should be reduced with caution . Whenever possible such reductions should offset any reduction of barriers against imports of raw materials and foods of the area . Consideration should be given to a reduced tariff on Canadian aluminum ; the tariff on copper should be removed ; and removal of the quota on long-staple cotton should be considered . The committee of economists made a study of each state before writing the comprehensive report . They concluded that the 1948-49 recession showed New England had more than its share of " highcost marginal producers , " and that some industries experienced new 6 . Raw Materials  --  To stimulate competition from firms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , encouragement should be giv- nanced war plants and equipment . en by the Government to plants for ' " It was clear by 1948 , " they producing steel and other metals said , " that in any peacetime econoneeded by fabricators . These my further changes in New Engplants should be privately man- land 's industrial structure were reaged and owned , at once or within quired . We conclude that the rea reasonable time . cession of 1948-49 was indicative 7 . Transportation  --  New Eng- of aneed for further structural i land 's transportation facilities , changes n the New England econparticularly with respect to access omy and did not reflect a decrease to Canadian natural resources , in New England 's cyclical stabilshould be re-examined . The Interstate Commerce Commission should continue to study discrimination in railroad rates to which the Port of Boston is subjected . 8 . Power  --  New England 's 1951 power capacity is sufficient for current needs , but Federal and state governments should study possibilities for reducing , power costs , and related community problems of navigation , flood control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the social costs and social gains of multi-purpose water control development are beyond the immediate commercial inter , ests of private enterprise , " the report says , " and especially since water power projects , not otherwise feasible , may be provided through multi-purpose projects , we think it likely that community welfare in the long run will be found to require cooperative efforts between Federal and state governments , on the one hand , and private enterprises , on the other . " 9 . Agriculture  --  Active attention should be given to improved transportation , increased use of research facilities , better education for farm youth , recruitment of farm workers , improved land use and increases in sizes of farms . 10 . Forestry In this field , the again that some firms , especially ( problems can be a valuable aid in. development of national economic policies and I hope that this study of New England 's long-run problems will contribute to future planning for the economic growth and // 1 . Manufacturing  --  A census of New England industries should be taken in terms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most likely to thrive in various sections . The Department of Commerce should expand its facilities to aid smaller business men . Both labor and management should explore new means of increasing productivity of labor and capital . New industries should be encouraged both in prosperity and depression . The Federal Government should " modernize " the Wool Labeling Act to meet realities in the uses of synthetics and reworked wools. 2 . Adjusting to Defense  --  Defense production officials should receive a full analysis of the longterm implications of New England 's economic needs and capacities with relation to . procurement contracts and plant expansion or modernization . Industrial leaders should adapt the requirements of the defense program to the region 's long-run economic health as well as to the present national needs . 3 . Local Evaluation of Job Opportunities ? Each state should provide an organization to promote job opportunity evaluations by responsible local groups . In the communities where one-third or more of industrial employment is dependent on the shoe or textile industry , local groups should begin immediately to broaden the community 's industrial base . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the last three decades . 4 . Labor and Social Security ? Wherever possible , the Federal Government should adopt minimum standards of wages , hours of work , factory conditions and unemployment and workmen 's compensation . This would meet the problem raised by the competition among states to improve their industrial position by retarding the growth of their services . Federal outlays should be made to promote mobility of workers . 5 . Capital and Credit ? Venture capital should be encouraged to support new enterprises or expansions of established industries . Such encouragement should be made by ending double taxation of dividends , easing of restrictions on use of insurance funds and encouragement of venture capital corporations in which banks and other institutional investors participate . Congress and the Bureau of Internal Revenue should review , the problem of asset depreciation for making tax revisions . ity . " The economists suggested an increasing concentration on building up the area 's durable goods industry . They noted that New England had 5,236 metal-working plants employing 579,000 persons in 1947 , or nearly 40 per cent of the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " further growth and expansion of these plants will be retarded by lack of an adequate and reasonably priced source of supply of steel . " They urged the construction of a flat-rolled products mill to meet the need , and the National Security Resources Board has issued a certificate of necessity in the amount of $228,000,000 for its construction . While the economists said consulting engineers found such a mill to be economically and financially feasible as a branch operation of a large steel company , Bethlehem Steel dropped an option it had to construct it . While praising forward-looking business men who kept abreast of new technological developments , the committee made this general observation : " Now England needs more enterprising management . The committee has , been told time - and                     