@@713647

txt Defense Mobilise Cliaries Wilson said last night that a way mute be found to stop the rise an prices of farm products . Ottierwise. he implied , wage ceilings camaot be expected to bold firm . Mr. Wilson , making a broadcast report on the mobilization program . did not say how be proposed to put a lid on foods . He did not suggest that Congress change the price control law so that ceilings can be imposed when farm prices are below parity . He said proposed wage ceilings are being " modified again to conform with the best interest of the entire economy ? ' This was his only reference to the current dispute over what limits to put on new pay boosts . Mr. Wilson talked about wages yesterday with labor leaders and with Economic Stabilizer Eric Johnston . Later the two officials went to the White House with Her bert Bergson , general counsel of the Office of Defense Mobilization. and the President 's counsel . Charles Murphy . Mr. Johnston indicated he may decide on a pay formula in the next day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by six members of the Wage Stabilization Board . This formula , which provoked the resignations of the three labor members of the board . would bar pay increases to those who have received boosts 10 " -e over their pay level of January 15 , 1950 . It provided for no further increases . once that limit is reached , even if the cost of living continues to climb . Formula Called " Inflexible " The Wage Board promised to look over the figures again around July 1 , but the labor members and the unions nevertheless attacked the formula as " inflexible . " In his broadcast later . Mr. Wilson conceded that " of all the problems involved in price and wage stabilization , one of the most difficult is control of food prices . We van hardly expect a worker to see his wages frozen without complaint when his wife tells him that the food bill is going up each week . " " But no smatter how difficult the problem . " he declared . " it mum be solved . It most he solved with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wilson and President Truman have discovered already that farm and food prices are no easier to control the= wages . Not long ago . the O.D.M. chief was reed ! , to go to Capitol Hill to plead for ? change in the price control law . Price Boss DiSafie appeared and said the problem of hand  --  ng farm prices would have to be studied for a month or two . The President also said amendments would be asked , but none . were proposed . Meanwhile , farm bloc legislators were protesting against the prices ceilings that were in effect on commodities priced above parity . A large section of the speech was devoted to the anti-inflation controls . Mr. Wilson said the U. S. " risks great catastrophe . " if taleLion is not attacked " on all fronts . " He defended the controllers against complaints that price and wage " freezes . " begun January 26. were " followed by immediate thaws . " The term " freeze " was " unfortunate . " Mr. Wilson said . explaining that inflation could not be stopped instantly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " though it " sounds both easy and attractive . " The speech also stressed " other necessary weapons in the fight against inflation : for instance . striated credit controls and a fiscal policy that discourages inflation . " Mr. Wilson said Congress ca n't vote higher taxes " too soon . " Notes Lots of Criticism Mr. Wilson did not go into detail on the row he has been having with labor leaders over appointment of one of their number to his staff and over the handling of controls on materials and manpower . He only noted that the O.D.M. " is getting a lot of criticism . Criticism is part of the democratic process . We expect it , profit by it , and will do everything possible to translate constructive criticism into sound national policy . " At another point , he said the point of view at the fermata and morkens ' baud be raven. sented m saostssig national problems . " Yesteninr afterasaa the 0 . D.DIL boas met with le labor union leaders . They were expected to discuss the appointment of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The defense chief indirectly tried to answer some other criticiamsoof his set-up . He did not mention the unions ' charge that the defense agencies are being run by " big business . " but he promised that - your Government will do Its best to see that no one is going to preitteer out of taxpayers money in this defense effort . " " There is a place for the econoadca of the legitimate market place . " Mr. Wilma said . - There is no plain for the phony economies of the cinder in commodities . We are going to try to make the life of the chisler both unprofitable and downright painful . " Problems of Sneed Business He also noted that ? special office has been set up in the National Production Authority to deal with problems of small business . He said William Harrison production chief . " is acting to use small business to the fullest practicable extent . " As far as possible materials in short supply will be doled out to the little concerns and federal buying plans will be adapted to them , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present shortages will be only " temporary . " because the Government will encourage an increase in capacity for making the scarce materials . He said that the number of new automobiles made this year will exceed the 1948 volume . He predicted that by 1953 , there will be more steel and aluminum available for civilian use than before Korea . These forecasts , he made clear , wo n't hold if the U. S. gets into an " all-out war . " Mr. Wilson said the nation intends to develop the capacity to build 218,000 jet airplane engines a year . This capacity would be only 40.000 less than the number of military aircraft engines of all types  --  most of which were conventional piston engines  --  actually produced during the peak year of World War II .                     