@@716849

txt EFFORTS TO HALT FORMOSA FIGHTING SUSPENDED BY EN . Action by Security Council Follows Protests Against Red China 's Absence SOVIET DENOUNCES U. S. France Sees the Way Opened for ' Traditional Diplomacy ' to Cope With Situation Excerpts from Council debate are printed on . Page 3 . By THOMAS HAMILTON Special to The New York Timer . UNITED NATIONS , N. Y. , Feb. ** Security Council suspended today its efforts to stop the fighting between Nationalist and Communist China over the small islands off the , China coast . 11 Communist China 's rejection lof the Council 's invitation to send a representative to discuss the question was a principal reason for the Council 's decision to adjourn without considering any form of resolution . The Council did not fix a date for its next meeting . One can be called by Dr. Victor A. Belaunde of Peru , Council President for February , either on his own volition or at the request of any member . Today's'action leaves the way clear for what Henri Hoppenot of France called " traditional diplomacy " to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference . M. Hoppenot was the only Western member of the Council who said publicly that the Coun ? cil should not go ahead with a discussion of the coastal island question in the absence of a Peiping representative . A Bitter Soviet Attack M. Hoppenot recalled that when the Council issued the invitation to Peiping two weeks ago it felt that " the situation could be examined appropriately only with the participation of all those who were most directly concerned in its peaceful settlement . " Arkady A. Sobolev of the Soviet Union was more explicit . After a bitter attack on United States " aggression " he told the Council , slowly and emphatically , that " it is impossible to solve international problems , especially in the Far East , without the participation of Communist China . " The only delegate who pro . tested against the Council 's fail . u ? e to act was Dr. T. F. Tsiang of Nationalist China . He appealed to it to " muster enough courage to face the basic and monstrous fact of the aggression of international communism in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , introduce a resolution . Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek said in Taipei , Formosa , today that the United Nations ought to impose sanctions against the Communists , but the mood of the Council was clearly against any kind of resolution that would irritate Peiping . . On the other hand , the Colin ? cil voted down , 10 to 1 , Mr. Sobolev 's motion that it take up the Soviet demand for the ouster of United States and other " non-Chinese " forces from all the Chinese islands , Formosa in eluded . t Two weeks ago the Council // placed on its agenda both the coastal islands question and the Soviet proposal , which accused the United States of aggression , and invited Communist China to take part in the discussion of the coastal islands . At the same time , however , the Council decided that it would not take up the Soviet proposal until it had disposed of the coastal islands question . Mr. Sobolev contended that the Council 's failure to consider a resolution on the coastal islands meant that it had decided to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take up the Soviet proposal , which also called for the exclusion of Dr. Tsiang from the proceedings . Mr. Sobolev 's statement brought emphatic denials from Sir Leslie Knox Munro of New Zealand , who had submitted the question of the coastal islands to the Council as a situation threatening international peace and security , and from other western delegates . Henry Cabot Lodge Jr . of the United States declared " it is clear that the Council has not completed its consideration of the New Zealand item . " " Indeed , it has hardly begun to do so , ' Mr. Lodge added . From the outset most Council members had pinned their hopes of effecting an informal ceasefire on private talks with the representative to be sent by Communist China , rather than on a public debate . The rejection of the invitation is generally interpreted as meaning that the Chinese Communists would not be satisfied with getting the coastal islands , which the Council majority was willing to hand over to them in return for a provisional agreement not to attack the Nationalists on Formosa and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members felt that the Soviet Union would veto any resolution , even one expressing regret that the invitation had been rejected . In effect , the Council is standing aside while Britain and India continue their efforts to arrange a settlement . One Western delegate said developments in London and New Delhi in the next two or three days would decide whether the Council would meetI again . In any event , the Counci : , at , the suggestion of Sir Pierson Dixon , British representative , ' agreed without a vote to adjourn without taking any decision on the coastal islands .                     