@@718956

txt The shift of power in Russia should remind us all again that no matter how solid  --  or to use a familiar ad ? jective , monolithic  --  the dictatorial states look from outside , they are anything- but solid inside . It is true that the dictatorships of Hitler and Mussolini fell because of invasion from without and not from revolution within . It is also true that in each case the internal struggle for power was clearly present and in each case might have produced a collapse or a shift of power if the outside intervention had not occurred . Hitler was the object of an attempt on his life made by his own supposed friends and supporters . Mussolini was killed after he had lost his war , but the violence of the hatred felt for him was shown by the insults to his dead body when it was publicly exhibited in Milan . The hatred of the oppressed for the oppressor may not be sufficient in these modern days to bring down . any dictatorial system , but the rivalry of those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact of human nature . Because of this rivalry Stalin drove Trotsky out of . Russia and eventually , beyond a doubt , brought about his murder . For similar reasons Beria attempted to seize control after Stalin 's death and lost both the battle and his life . Now we have seen other shifts , including the deposition of V. M. Molotov , who dared to disagree with Nikita S. Khrushchev , First Secretary of the Soviet Communist party . The Russian ruling gr .. : up was never solid . It could not be . The nature of the dictatorial state is such that members of the small ruling group , and especially the dominant member at the top , the Stalin , Hitler or Mussolini , will be drawn into conflict with others not only because of the lust for power but also for sheer self-preservation . The prizes for success are too great , the penalties for failure too terrible to permit a moment 's tranquillity . We are naturally concerned with the Russian as the ' most ominous of the totalitarian powers . We can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holds sway ; Nasser 's Egypt ; the Spain over which Generalissimo Franco rules ; the Portugal where Dictator Salazar presides more humanely and intelligently but perhaps just as firmly ; the Venezuela of Perez Jiminez ; the Cuba of ex-Sergeant Batista ; or the Trujillo-ridden Dominican Republic . Those with the power to control the army , the police , mass communications and the courts can present a formidable exterior . They can do this largely because they can hide their mistakes and bury their crimes . The Russian dictatorship , to return to the subject which we could not get out of our minds even though we wished to , has endured through all its crimes and all its errors for forty years . We can not say that it now shows the least sign of collapse . But let us not be deceived by the illusion of solidity in the big Communist states or in the little states on which they have imposed their systems . How much solidity was there in East Berlin when young men ran out in the streets to throw stones at Russian tanks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ popular discontent compelled the Gomulka Government to make concessions and Moscow to accept them ; or in Hungary when thousands of patriots died in the streets and many other thousands fled the country to get away from the hateful foreign tyranny ? We must not talk of war under modern conditions . It is unthinkable . We may , however , think in terms of economic , social and , above all , moral strength . Power in the democracies is solid because it rests on open debate and the consent of the governed . There is no such solidity in the countries beyond the Iron Curtain , where a few distorted personalities controlling the machines , the arms and the communications squabble among themselves to see who shall be king . The legend of the supreme and superhuman bully who controls the destiny of nations and of mankind is dead . It should have died sooner .                     