@@715692

txt India , once the jewel of the British empire and now the darling of the British commonwealth , was denounced in the United Nations political committee today as a treacherous accomplice of the Communists . It Pyun was accused of intriguing with the aggressors to make the whole noncommunist world look contemptible far appeasing the enemy in Korea . The speaker was Dr. Y. T. Pyun , foreign minister of the ReRublic of Korea . His attack came during the debate on the composition of the U. N. delegation to the Korean peace parley . India seeks to be a member of the delegation . His condemnation of Premier Nehru 's government was unprecedented in the history of the U. N. No Communist delegate ever made such a scathing attack on a U. N. member , and certainly no noncommunist delegate ever assailed the soviet union with such ? vehemence and scorn . " India is not only trafficking with the Communists but intriguing with them to make the free world look contemptible , " Dr. Pyun said . Lays Treachery to India " We all know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communist yoke . But India is assiduous in laying schemes to enhance the prestige of their oppressors by inviting them into the United Nations and handing Formosa , the last entrenched seat of the Chinese nationalist government , over to the communist overlords of the Chinese people . This is a treachery of the first magnitude . This alone will suffice to earn the eternal enmity and wrath of the Chinese people . " Krishna Menon , India 's procommunist chief delegate , refused to comment on Dr. Pyun 's attack when the political corn- ? mittee adjourned . Usually he is voluble and arrogant , but today he was silent and subdued . By denouncing'India , Dr. Pyun attacked Great Britain and other members of the so-called commonwealth who are seeking to appease the Communists by supporting India for membership in the proposed political conference on the future of Korea . The American delegation is opposing India 's candidacy , but , in accusing the whole U. N. of appeasing the Communists , Dr. Pyun did not spare the United States . Takes Dig at Lodge Henry Cabot Lodge , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but admiration for India as a leading " democracy " of Asia and is opposed to its candidacy solely because the armistice agreement limits the proposed conference to belligerents . Lodge argues that , if one " neutral " should be admitted , others could not logically be excluded . By implication the South Korean accused Lodge of hypocrisy . " The only difference between me and my friends is that I speak out while they do not , he said . " Nobody is different from anybody elsel in knowing what India has done , or , for that matter , what India has not done . " Altho he has not said so publicly , Lodge has told other U. N. delegates that President Rhee 's government " would not participate in a peace conference with India . Dr. Pyun said his govern. - ment would find if " next to impossible " to participate in -a conference with " betraying and scheming India . " L a , t e r Col. Ben C. Limb , the Korean republic 's permanent U. N. representative , said this Meant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ India is invited . " U. S. Wants Two Sided Parley The United States has insisted the armistice agreement calls far a " two sided " conference between the belligerents , with the Communists on one side and members of the U. N.which sent troops ' to Korea On the other side . The United ' States has no objection to the participation of the soviet union provided it is ? invited by the aggressors . ( However , Great Britain and other members of the commonwealth have argued that the concept of " two sides " should be forgotten , that a " round table " conference should ? be called , that both the soviet union and India should attend , and that there should be no distinction between the aggressors and the resisters of aggression . Chou en Lai , premier and for ) eign minister of , communist China , announced in Peiping today that his government favored a proposal by the soviet delegation for an 11-nation peace conference . However , Indian sources at the U. N. disclosed the Indian ambassador in Peiping had been advised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " round table " conference such as Great Britain has advocated , to be attended only by the U. N. belligerents plus India and the soviet union . Thus it appears that Britain , India , and the communists are in full accord . Hints at Isolation of U. S. Obviously hinting at this virtual isolation of the United States in the U. N. , Dr. Pyun said : " Many influential blocs within the United Nations are closely tied up with the soviet bloc , of course not professedly but in actions , which is far more significant . The United Nations is fast becoming a hot place , not for the soviet union but for its free world opposite number . " Dr. Pyun recalled that the general assembly , on Oct. 7 , 1950 , passed a resolution calling for the unification of Korea and authorizing military operations north of the 38th parallel . The intervention of Chinese communist hordes caused " a wave of defeatism " in the U. which finally resulted in the armistice agreement , " a documented appeasement , " he said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the enemy , master minded an arrangement for the exchange of prisoners of war which was calculated to carry out the - forced repatriation of all the anti-communist prisoners , to which so much ostentatious and hypocritical aversion was displayed . " Trading with Enemy Cited Pyun alluded to trading with the entemy during the Korean war by Britain and other U. N. members . " Certain nations , " he said , " have acted in a manner as if they were betraying the very cause for which their own valiant sons were laying down their lives in Korea . " He recalled that the old league of nations , " tho it lacked the means to punish the aggressors , never stooped to honor them . " It did have the courage to expel the soviet union when that " habitual aggressor " attacked Finland in 1939 , he remarked . " In the light of the experience of the league of nations ? how long will the United Nations survive this debacle in Korea ? " Pyun asked . " If the appeasing United Nations were to survive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free world ? " Certain delegations keep saying that there should not be any more sides in the political conference . We fail to see any reasons , whatever to expect a sudden advent of the millennium , in which lambs can lie down with lions without any anxiety for their lives . Asks Exclusion of Soviet " Since the soviet union has both master minded and supported the Korean invasion , it is only proper that it should come in on the communist side , not otherwise. , If the soviet union lacks the manliness and wishes to sneak into a round table conference , it should be kept out by all means . " Kuzma Kiselev of Byelorussia said Pyun 's speech was full of " evil slander . " He charged the United States was trying to make the composition of the political conference dependent on the wishes of " the rotten Syngman Rhee regime . " In addition to Byelorussia and the Ukraine , Indonesia supported India 's candidacy ? in today 's debate . Luxemburg said it would abstain , while the Dominican republic , Haiti @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ India . The United States appears to be bringing all its influence to bear on the Latin American governments . While India will be supported by a majority of the assembly , it probably will not get the necessary two-thirds majority .                     