@@713601

txt Test of the ground observer Corps in New England today will give defense leaders a good estimate of what preparations from air attack are still needed The test , part of a nationwide observer corps and radar interception exercise covering the eastern United States from the Great Lakes east , and northward from Kentucky , will show what chance an enemy plane might have to sneak in from any quarter . Scheduled to run from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. today and tomorrow , the exercise , utilizing all sizes and styles of planes to serve as " enemy " craft , will bring out an estimated 5,000 spotters in Massachusetts alone , and 150,000 throughout . the eastern states .. 152 Posts Enlisted All of the Bay State 's 152 spotter posts have been alerted to participate in spotting , charting , and estimating the speed of the " enemy " planes , and to phone the information to filter stations , Brig . Gen. William H. Harrison , Jr. , state Adjutant General , disclosed . Some 2,700 stations are to be manned in all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tall buildings , telephoned messages indicating path and estimated speed of aircraft will be relayed to information centers ? filter stations ? where each " enemy " will be charted and carefully followed until it leaves the area , and at the same time , reported to the First Air Force headquarters at Stewart Field , Newburgh . N.Y . In previous spotter tests , when some 270 stations were located in Massachusetts , closer together than the nine-mile average now established , telephone messages all but swamped several of the filter centers , then located at Ban-. gor , Maine , Providence , R.I. , Manchester , N.H. , and New Haven , Conn , New Brigade Readied Lessons learned then indicate that fewer spotting stations could accomplish the same mission , leaving more civilian volunteers free to take part in other civil-defense jobs . In the air over Massachusetts today are Air Force B-45 jet bombers , as well as fighters of jet and propellor-driven styles , supplied by Air Force wings at Otis Field on Cape Cod , and Hanscom Air Base , Bedford , Mass. , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boston , and Westfield , Mass. , squadrons . In addition , it was announced this week by First Army Headquarters in New York , that a new AAA Brigade , to be numbered the 56th , will be established at the camp . Selection of the commanding officer will soon be announced , Lt. Gen. Willis D. Crittenberger , First Army Commanding General , said . Expansion also was scheduled for the 102d Fighter Wing , Massachusetts Air National Guard , Brig . Gen. Lyle E. Halstead , wing commander , announced . Seven new nonflying squadrons are now authorized , he said .                     