@@715239

txt At a recent meeting of the Republican National Committee in Washington it was contended that Republican success in the 1952 election was due far more to the large turnout of " stay-athomes " than to any swing of " independents " to the Republican column . Wayne J. Hood , executive director of the committee , emphasized the point by revealing that in a secret plan of strategy during the campaign it had been decided to concentrate on the " stay-at-homes " rather than the " independents . " As it happened , almost 13 , - 000,000 more people voted in the 1952 Presidential election than in 1948 , and it was " obvious , " Mr. Hood concluded , that an " overwhelming majority " of them had been former " stay-at-homes . " The implication is clear  --  and the Taft forces so argued before the conventions ? that since the bulk of the normal " stay-at-home " vote in the United States is Republican , the only trick for the G. 0 . P. would be to get that vote out . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by 12,000 , - 000 over 1948 , while the Democratic vote went up by only 3,000,000 . The adult population of the country in creased by 3,500,000 in that time , so probably the principal Republican gain did come from former " stay-at-homes " ( although no one knows how much interparty switching was done ) , However , that is a very long way from proving that these " stay-at-homes " are normally Republican . And , in fact , there is some important evidence to the contrary . The evidence comes from the results of the Congressional elections . While General Eisenhower was beating Governor Stevenson by a 6,600,000-vote majority , the Democrats polled a slightly larger combined total in the 435 races for the House of Representatives than the Republicans . In other words , those " stay-at-homes " who poured out to the polling places to vote for a Republican President did not necessarily vote for the rest of the Republican slate . Some of the discrepancy is accounted for , of course , by the oneparty strength in the South , where many people voted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excluding the South we find that the Republicans did not set the Congressional districts ablaze . The G. 0 . P. held nearly 61 per cent of the nonSouthern seats in the House prior to the last election . After it , their percentage increased only to 65 , Something remarkable has happened in American politics when a Republican Presidential candidate can win with better than 55 per cent of the total , while the best the Republicans can do in the House is to capture exactly three more seats than the minimum necessary for a clear majority . And at that , of the 221 districts won by the Republican party , forty were taken with less than 55 per cent of the total vote . While it is also true that forty-five of the Democratic seats were won by the same narrow margin , the closeness of the Congressional race lends force to the argument that the Republican victory last fall was not based on the emergence of a fundamentally Republican reserve . It indicates rather that Americans desired a new personality in the White House who would also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was our contention before the election that a Republican victory could be achieved only through an appeal to the independent vote . Whether that " independent " vote is composed of normal " stay-at-homes " or normal Democrats is immaterial . It still seems to us that it would be a mistake for the Republicans to assume that their victory was due to the emergence of long-dormant but essentially Republican party strength .                     