@@714315

txt Letters to The Times WILLIAM J. BUTLER.JEROME ALEXANDER.A.L . MALAKOFF.H . ELIOT KAPLAN.ETHEL E. WORTIS Letters to The Times Prayer in Schools Discussed Dbjections to Program as Fostering Denominationalism Questioned To THE Emma or TEN New YORK Tana : In THe TIMES of Dec. 7 the Board of Leaders of the New York Society for Ethical Culture protests a proposed public school program by which those pupils who choose to do so may open the school day by joining in a prayer to Almighty God . The Society for Ethical Culture " would not insist upon the centrality of a deity or the efficacy of prayer to an ' Almighty God . ' " Not " insist , " indeed ! It flatly insists on the contrary . It says that " if there is any power to be invoked it is the latent power for reason and good in men themselves . " Moreover , the assertion of God 's existence " is a denominational doctrine in the sense prohibited by the Constitution . " Hence , the prayer would offend " the religious conscience of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Here is the reductio ad absurdum of the McCollum decision . Anti-religion is a religion . McCollum made it the official state religion . It is no defense on Almighty God 's part that only those who wish to pray to him need do so . The mere opportunity to join in public prayer would " stigmatize " children who ! do not join and thus breach the rule that " even a single child of nonreligious parents in a school that is otherwise composed of pupils from religious homes should not be coerced in matters of religion . " In other words , let the ninety-nine believers be coerced into non-belief by meeting every day , in the schools the law makes them attend , official policies which reflect non-belief . That 's all right . Never mind their " religious conscience . " But if the ninety-nine want to pray they must be shut up because the hundredth is n't satisfied to let them do it their way while he stays out . They must all do it his way . This certainly proves one thing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who is not with me is against me . " There is no middle ground . The McCollum decision , which supposed that there is , was a fatuous performance . The question was asked then , " How silly can you get ? " Now we know the answer . WILLIAM J , BUTLER . New York , Dec. 7 , 1951 . Source of Ethics To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The basic error in the pronunciamento of the Six Ethical Leaders is that they confuse real religion with the numerous theologies , creeds , sects and ceremonies founded upon that everpresent spark of divinity which distinguishes men from brutes . Our Declaration of Independence , our coinage , and our national anthem all indicate that as a nation we are a God-loving people . The Pilgrims , the Huguenots and most of our pioneers were deeply religious people , fleeing from statedominated theologies or " churches , " not to deny God but to choose their own way in which to worship God . Even Thomas Paine , who even fifty years ago was falsely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his " Age of Reason " : " I believe in one God , and no more , and I hope for happiness beyond this life . " The hatred directed against Paine was due to his independence of all form and creed , the so-called " religions . " Our laws aim to preserve that independence , not to prevent our children from learning of God , and thus make us a godless nation . It is also surprising that the Leaders forget that the origin and development of ethics has followed along with the development of true religion . The ancient Egyptians were an intensely religious people , and the Chapter of the Negative Confession , extant thou , - sands of years before there was any Jewish , Christian or Mohammedan " religion , " states many of the Ten Commandments in the same negative form as does the much later Bible . Moslems and Christians have called each other " unbelievers , " though all believe in God and have in their ethics much that comes from ancient Egypt . Faith in a divine and infinite Power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ honest man 's the noblest work of God , " was paraphrased by Robert G. Ingersoll into this : " An honest God 's the noblest work of man . . " Ingersoll also wrote : " Our ignorance is God  --  what we know is science . " But as we extend the frontiers of our knowledge we correspondingly extend the frontiers of our ignorance , thus making ever closer contact with what Ingersoll termed " God . " Without faith life and the future become void of meaning , and the basis of ethics is undermined . For these and other reasons the letter of the Six seems to me to be philosophically unsound , legally erroneous , socially harmful and ethically pernicious . JEROME ALEXANDER . New York , Dec. 8 , 1951 . U. N. Work With Refugees To THE EDITOR OF THE Ni3W YORK TIMES : Kurt R. Grossman , in his letter which appeared on your editorial page of Nov. 26 , thoughtfully ' summarized the work of the international organizations for aid to refugees . Apparently , however , Mr. Grossman has not been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United Nations in the Near East . It should be stated that . the United Nations Relief for Palestine Refugees was succeeded in December , 1949 , through action of the General Assembly , by the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East . U. N. R. W. A , P. R. N , E. took over the activities of the three voluntary societies assisting U. N. R. P. R. , maintained the relief operations for more than 865,000 refugees , and began to arrange work projects and investigate resettlement possibilities . The director of the agency at present is John B. Blandford Jr . of the United States . Because of a shortage of funds during the first year , the agency 's activities have been limited . With a larger , budget , a broader program looking to " homes . " and jobs " for all refugees is being drawn up for presentation to the General Assembly . Without prejudicing the rights of the refugees to repatria ? tion or compensation , the U. N. R. W. A. P. R. N. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrange that these hapless people can care for themselves and will no longer be a charge against the ? international community or the local one . A L. MALixorr , Liaison Office , U.N.R.W.A.P.R.N.1% United Nations , N. Y. , Nov. 29 , 1951 . Integrating Pension Systems Proposed Legislation Must Be Studied With Care , It Is Felt To THE EDITOR OP TEN NEW YORK Truss : ' R. A. Hohaus ' letter published in TRW TIMES of Nov. 25 makes some cogent observations in regard to the imply mentation of the recently adopted constitutional amendment ( No. 8 at the last election ) authorizing the Legisles ture to increase pensions of members of public retirement systems within the state , THE TIMES editorials of May 16 and Nov. 8 clearly pointed out the necessity for prudence in carrying out the proposal , and the wisdom of determining some means of integrating public pen .. scone with some of the benefits avail . able under the Federal Social Security Act . As Mr. Hohaus pointed out , to brint ? about any such result would require further amendment to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ benefits to have in addition thereto social security coverage . That such integration of public pensions and social security , benefits would be less costly to the states and municipalities is patent . In the meantime , implementation of the constitutional amendment will re ? quire carefully studied Because of this , patience on the part of those who are hoping to become beneficiaries of such increased pensions is suggested . The problem involver more than just actuarial computation of what any pension-increase plan might involve . There are other facets of the problem which beg considers .. tion , both philosophical and humane , ' as well as justice to both prospective beneficiaries and those who have td bear the cost  --  namely , the taxpayers , It is in the light of these factors that any proposed legislation for augment . ing the new constitutional provisiog must necessarily be judged . - The pattern which the original IW posal may take may have a profo effect on the future program of imple ? menting pensions for those heretofore retired  --  as well as the potential bane . fits hereafter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has rendered a valuable service in emphasizing the need for extreme care in carrying out the new nronosal . B. ELIOT KAPLAN . Albany , N. Y. , Dec. 3 , 1951 . Development of Guidance Services To THE EDITOR or The New YORK TIMES : I wish to call attention to a distortion in your article of Dec. 1 headed " Dr. Gans Attacks City School Board , " describing a meeting at the Women 's City Club of New York . Although the story did not contain misstatements it did misrepresent the purpose and general tenor of the talks of both Dr , Morris Krugman and Dr. Horns Gans . The statement that " progressive meas. ' ures " were often killed behind the closed doors of the Board of Education referred not to New York City but to boards the country over wherever modern educational methods are being attacked . The headline was particularly unfortunate because the main part of the talks was devoted to describing the development of guidance services in the New York City school system . The provision of specially trained person% first in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high schools , and most recently in the grade schools , for counseling with pupils and teachers is a great accomplishment , although still more are needed . It is only through such open discussions with administrators in our school system that citizens can appreciate the quality of their achievements . Consequently it is regrettable when such a meeting is represented by the press as on ottani ( on our Board of Education . ETHEL E. WORTIR President , Women 's City-Club of New York , Inc . New York , Dec. 6 , 1951.                     