@@717134

txt BEAME GETS FUND FOR RESEARCH JOB Estimate Body Shifts Budget Unit to Gulick , but Gives Director a Consolation By CHARLES G. BENNETT Budget Director Abraham D. Beame lost his thirty-man , $200 , - 000-a-year Division of Analysis to City Administrator Luther H. Gulick yesterday , but he won a consolation prize . The Board of Estimate approved transfer of the analysis division , giving Dr. Gulick a distinct victory in his struggle for power with Mr. Beanie . At the same time , the board voted $20,000 additional to Mr. Beanie to employ ten more men and set up a Research and Standards Development unit in his office . With five men to be translerred from other divisions of ' the Budget Bureau , the new Beame group will number fifteen . Much of its work will parallel work of the analysis unit . Mr. Beame , however , said the job of his new research unit would be " to review , appraise and refine existing cost data , work measurements and performance standards " in budget preparation . In acting yesterday , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transfer , approved by Mayor Wagner before he departed for Europe last , Sunday . For months the Mayor has sought to act as peacemaker in the Beame-Gulick controversy . Mr. Beame 's quick counter-move in winning board approval of his Research and Standards Development Unit , however , is believed to presage an intensification , rather than a lessening , of // the basic struggle for power between the City Administrator and the Budget Director . Mr. Beame has declared that despite the loss of the Division of Analysis he firmly intends to keep the budget-making process unimpaired and to go on appraising in detail the budgetary requests of departments and agencies . In another action yesterday the Board of Estimate approved a local law carrying out a request of Controller Lawrence E. Gerosa to create a stabilization fund . The fund , in effect , would create a reserve to enable the Controller in the future to be more realistic in his periodic estimates of the city 's general fund . City experts have called the stabilization reserve a " rainy day " fund  --  a limited surplus that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revenues failed to come up to estimates . The local law now goes to Mayor Wagner for his expected signature . The law would require the new stabilization fund to be built up to a minimum of $80,000,000 , or about 10 per cent of the city 's tax levy . The maximum , which in practical effect probably would rarely , if ever , be reached , would be $240,000,000 , or about 30 per cent of the tax levy . Creation of the new fund was opposed by John M. Leavens , executive director of theXitizens Budget Commission , a volunteer civic organization . He predicted that the Board of Estimate would be deluged with " all manner of demands for absurd expenditures " to be financed from the stabilization fund . Mr. Leavens called it a " temptation fund . " Countering Mr. Leavens ' argument Mr. Gerosa called the creation of the new fund " one of the most important steps in the city 's financial history . " He was supported by Otto F. Hochholz , chief accountant in the Controller 's office . The stabilization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of $23,000,000 that the city now has in a restricted tax appropriation reserve fund . In proposing the new fund Controller Gerosa noted that at ! present , without any such Cush- , ion , the Controller is inclined te underestimate the general fund . The result is that the city sometimes weighs taxes it finds mately it does not need , as in the case two years ago of the proposed but never enacted extension of the retail sales tax to certain services . The general fund is made up of a variety of special taxes , including the sales tax , and nuisance taxes the city collects , as well as money received as fees for city services and in payment for licenses . The tax levy is the amount collected by the city in real estate taxes . Made Studies For Board The Budget Bureau 's Division of Analysis , recruited largely from trained budget examiners , is the field staff that has made studies on items referred to Mr. Beanie 's office by the " Board of Estimate , including proposals initiated by Dr. Gulick 's group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As conducted by Mr. Beame , the Bureau of Analysis has been , intricately woven into the fabric of the Budget Bureau . Mr. Beame , then Assistant Budget , Director , organized the divisionl in 1949 at the direction of William O'Dwyer , then Mayor . Through the operation of the analysis unit , the Budget Director has investigated proposals of the Division of Administration and has recommended approval ) or disapproval of specific departmental expenditures within otal appropriations . Mr. Beame 's recommendations usually have ) been decisive with the Board ofl Estimate . The Board of Estimate also approved plans for a new $17 , - , 480,000 Federally aided housing project that will in effect be an extension of Vladeck Houses on the Lower East Side . The project is designated Vladeck II Houses . The area , which will include both the original Vladeck Houses and the new development , is bounded by East Broadway , Grand Street , Jackson Street , Franklin D. Roosevelt ( East River ) Drive , Montgomery Street , Henry Street and Scammel Street . 