@@712793

txt When the dust and scuffle of the latest Communist violence in France has subsided , there is good reason to believe that communism will be weaker among the French people and democratic government stronger . This time the French Parliament , under the leadership of Premier Bidault , is meeting the Communist tactics head on by making incitement to sabotage and acts adversely affecting the morale of the armed forces prison offenses . The violence of the incidents which the Communists have been provoking ? in Parliament , and in the strikes  --  are evidence , not of strength , but of weakness . They are evidence of fear that both economic and political recovery are making such solid headway that there will be too little the Communists can build on . The fact is  --  and this can be put down with knowledge  --  that Moscow has told the leaders of the Communist Party in France that they have n't been doing well enough and that if they do n't come through this time other leaders will be found to take their place . The Kremlin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having failed to undermine the Marshall Plan , the French CommuniSts have been told that at all costs they must wreck the North Atlantic Treaty by preventing American military supplies from reaching France . Moscow 's rebuke has been heeded . Hence the recent strikes , hence the blows and battered heads in Parliament as the Communists sought by force to prevent the passage of the antisabotage bill ; hence the threat to block the delivery of military aid . ' The : truth of the matter is that the COmmunist Party in France , its leaders and its followers , are becOming deeply ItOSCOE nnUMMOND restive and considerably divided by " Tito deviationism , " which is Moscow 's term for Communists who want to be loyal to their own country instead of to Russia . The French Communists are not less Marxist than they ever were , but the success of Tito 's declaration of independence from the Kremlin , it is evident , has caused wide intellectual and emotional ferment among the French Communists , including some at the top . IThe filibuster-by-force in the Assembly , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the announced violent resistance to the landing of supplies represent an attempt by the Communist leadership to prove its loyalty to Moscow and a last-ditch effort to blunt the North Atlantic Pact . The Communist leadership is putting everything into this lactic , and the government evidently is determined to reply without compromise . Until their propaganda wore thin and their ulterior political motives became so clear they no longer could be hidden , the Communists were able to capitalize upon the legitimate complaints and objectives of the French workers . Most of French labor has had no pay raises during the past two By a Staff Artist years despite the fact . that French living costs , in proporI ion to wages , have risen higher than elsewhere in western Europe . Wage controls now have been lifted , and collective bargaining is going on throughout the country . Thus , the Communists are in a position to use economic arguments to buttress their political strikes . But the French workers have become more knowing about the Communist slogans , and , time and again , they have seen the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stood in the way of Communist political purposes . This time Communist exhortations are falling on less willing ears . 1-In their effort to prevent the passage of the . antisabotage bill , the Communist deputies ripped up their desks , stormed the speaker 's rostrum by force , and tried to halt the parliamentary process . " You have n't seen anything yet , " warned one of the Communist deputies . " Wait until they try to land those arms ! " Now the Communist Executive Committee is appealing to the party 's faithful to follow suit . It is calling on the workers to match " the bravery and valor " of the Communists in Parliament by other acts of violence when the time comes . As usual , the Communists are trying to make it appear that their constitutional rights are being violated by a fascist-minded government . They are having increasing difficulty in persuading the French workers and the French people that this is , so because their ulterior loyalty to Moscow , which wants to prevent France from carrying out the North Atlantic Defense Treaty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a welcome showdown at : a time when new vitality ' is flowing through the veiriS'ot French ! democracy . 