@@718260

txt Letters . to The Times Testing Nuclear Weapons Possibility of Checking Present Bomb-Missile Race Is Discussed TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In trying to reach a decision as to continuing tests of large-yield nuclear weapons , we can distinguish two aspects of the problem . First , there are the more or less factual arguments pro and con ; second , there is the question as to what policy , in view otthe factual arguments , will best lead toward peace . The argument given by President Eisenhower for continuing largeyield tests is that the Soviet Union can not be trusted . Since the U. S. S. R. has offered to join in a nuclear test ban agreement , the argument is essentially this : we fear that under such an agreement the U. S. S. R. might continue to design new and " improved " weapons while we , presumably , dissolve the staff and momentum of.our weapons laboratories . Hence insistence on an agreement including " inspection . " The nature of the " improvements " and their importance are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a given destructive force could cut years from the total time required to develop an intercontinental missile with a thermonuclear warhead . If we regard the development of such missqes as desirable , then the development of bombs with " more bang per pound " should not be stopped . Contamination Produced The United States has advertised its recent Pacific tests as involving " clean " bombs ( although one must rebel at the use of the term " clean , " and , far more ; at " humanitarian , " as descriptive of large nuclear weapons ) . Indeed the stratospheric contamination produced in these recent tests was only a small fraction of that resulting from the 1954 explosions . The argument has been made that since we wish to have large weapons only for their deterrent effect , and since bombs with less fall-out hazard - are more effective as deterrents because there will be less moral restraint on their use , it then follows that the development of large-yield weapons should be continued at least until such relatively low fall-out bombs are carried through tests . The extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been examined by a number of independent groups of the highest competence . The magnitude of the effects has been described by the United States Atomic Energy Commission in quite optimistic terms . The independent groups generally agree with the Atomic Energy Commission that the genetic effects of tests conducted at a rate comparable to that of the last few years represent only a very small percentage increase over the hereditary effects long present from natural causes . As to the other important radiological fall-out hazard , the relatively long-lasting strontium 90 , there is much less agreement with the optimism of the commission . From the numerical data published by the A. E. C. itself , some independent ob ? servers have reached the conclusion that in certain areas of the world the strontium 90 hazard may have passed the danger point , to say nothing of the additional production of this material in further tests . In this connection it should be noted that whether our bombs are relatively fall-out-free or not , we have no control over the Russian tests , and high-altitude explosions , while reducing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of increasing the widespread global fall-out . Large-Weapon Development Turning to questions of policy , we find general agreement that a bona fide cessation of large-weapon development would improve civilization 's chance of avoiding a last and totally annihilating war . ( The completely unrealistic attempts to construct or portray a civil defense organization capable of dealing with thermonuclear attack do not help the public to an accurate appreciation of the almost unimaginable destruction such an attack would bring . ) If the development of bombs and missiles continues until push-button availability of intercontinental destruction is with us , we can expect that it will be infinitely harder for us to avoid the holocaust . In spite of our understandable fears about Russian reliability , we should not fail to pursue every possibility of reaching an effective agreement halting the large-weapon race . Whether the best prospect lies in working toward agreement for inspection  --  perhaps by neutrals ? of weapons laboratories , or instead , perhaps , in a decision to cease tests of large weapons but yet maintain for a time a limited program of design  --  these are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But there should be no argument that probably the most urgent problem in the world today is to find a means of stopping the weapon-missile race . W. SELOVE . Tinton N. Y .. Oct. 8. 1956 . Arabic Courses for Diplomats To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In his column of Oct. 1 C. L. Sulzberger mentions that " only three of our diplomats even speak the Arabic language . " Similar reports have appeared recently in other newspapers . These reports are erroneous . To set the record straight , I feel bound to point out that in the last , ten years alone the Foreign Service Institute , the training branch of the Department of State , has trained thirty Arabic language and area specialists . Thirteen more are noW in training . A good part of this training has been and is being carried out at a branch school of the institute set up for this specific purpose at Beirut , Lebanon . The rest of the training is carried out at the Foreign Service Institute in Washington . In addition , twenty-five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ language courses offered at most United States Embassies and Consulates in Arabicspeaking countries . C . era have received such training in the past . To those cited above should be added the Foreign Service personnel who have acquired a knowledge of Arabic on their own , either prior or subsequent to their entry into the service , frequently in conjunction with service in an Arabic-speaking country . HAROLD B. HOSKINS , Director , Foreign Service Institute , Department of State . Washington , Oct. 5 , 1956 . President 's Record Praised Victory Predicted , Based on His Stature and Experience TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Reading several newspapers daily and listening to much campaign oratory on other media , I have come to the conclusion that the Democrats are fast running out not of gas but ideas and real issues and that they are a long way from home . It seems to me that President Eisenhower , one of the greatest Americans of our time , by telling the people the truth and standing on his splendid record , is forging ahead of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presidency . One newspaper put it well when it said that the voters in November have the choice of voting for mediocrity or for experience and greatness . Certainly Mr. Stevenson and Mr. Kefauver ca n't make the varsity this year . They lash out in all directions like men raking leaves in a high wind and just about as effectively . My chief criticism of Mr. Stevenson is that in his desperation to get votes he is promising anything and everything . He is a smooth talker and there may be some people who believe that he can do away with the draft , an institution that has been necessary to us in raising armies ever since the Revolution . The world situation is too grave even to suggest the elimination of the draft at this time . It is said that Mr. Stevenson is a rich man , yet he seems to enjoy pitting the poor against the wealthy . Calling the Republicans the " Party of Wall Street " is hitting below the belt . His idea of ending our experiments with nuclear weapons is so silly that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a wicked thing If the American people did n't return President Eisenhower to the White House for another term after all he has done for us over the years . The voters must know the many wise and great deeds that our beloved President I ; done in over forty years in th , service of his country . Not all the slick talk in the world can impair his record . All we need to do is to work very hard , get out the vote and depend on the intelligence , loyalty and sense of fair play of the American people . HENRY SAGE DUNNING , M. D. Professor Emeritus , Columbia Urns versity . New Canaan , Conn. , Oct , 8 , 1956 . Stevenson 's Qualities Praised To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : C. W. Rodriguez in The Times of Sept. 22 compares President Eisenhower and Adlai E. Stevenson and finds the latter sadly wanting . With the single exception of military experience and judgment , my opinion would be the reverse of his relative to world experience and knowledge , character , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ability to rise above partisanship . Also , we have lost instead of gained in our world position as against Russia during the Eisen. hover Administration , by any realistic standard . What really amazes me as I read the opinions of those who favor Eisenhower is the sycophantic adulation that drips from their writings . As Stevenson said about the Republican convention , " I watched it on television and I was n't sure if I was watching a convention or a coronation . " America does n't need a king and we can admire a man without worshiping him . HERBERT MAZO . New York , Sept. 26 , 1956. Decision Opposed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I probably express the displeasure ' of many fellow Americans at the decision of the Secretary of the Navy in the matter of the Sergeant case . The punishment , if one can call it that , amounts to a severe slap on the wrist with the admonition to be a good boy . WM . S. O'CoNNoa . New York . Oct. 9. 1956 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TIMES : Fines do not seem to stop traffic violators ; perhaps better results could be obtained by impounding the offender 's car from one to thirty days . If these violators had to walk to work for a while they might wise up , WILLIAM R. SULLIVAN . Los Angeles , Calif. , Oct. 3 , 195g. ?                     