@@717673

txt Mississippi , which is not silent in the present racial situation , registered a net decline of population between 1940 and 1950 ( by a few thousand ) and had not a single city of a hundred thousand at the latter date . Rural Mississippi and other parts of the cotton country and cut-over timber country have been exporting people , including a substantial number of whites , to urban-industrial centers of the South , North and West . This human export includes a large proportion of active and productive person : between the ages of 18 and 45 . It leaves behind an unbalanced population to wrestle with an unbalanced economy , frequently without success . This is a condition , not a theory , that produces frustration . It is not conducive to harmonious race relations . It tends to breed a two-way prejudice , a two-way aggression . Signs of unshared progress guarantee no immediate relief for the emotional tensions of frustrated individuals in disintegrated communities of the kind which have been poignantly portrayed by MissisIsippi 's William Faulkner . Psychiatric adjustment may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an escape of emotional steam through attacks on minority or segregated groups . The civic disease and its drastic remedy are contagious . Political Situation It is unfortunate for  --  the cause of civic progress and the sense of moderation that in most Southern states a disproportionate and undeserved political power is exercised by static or declining counties and communities , where , incidentally , there is little or no Negro voting . This lopsidedness of power has a. technical basis in the lag in redistributing seats in the state legislatures , in spite of constitutional provisions for decennial reapportionment . Alabama has had no general reapportionment since 1901 , and Tennessee is still moving along as if there had been no population census since 1900 . Louisiana is rather modern with a heritage , only from a constitutional make-up of 1921 . Georgia is consistent in its backwardness with a county unit system for state primaries to bring the Executive branch in line with the Legislature as the product of , a lagging and rural-weighted constituency . This rural bias is not limited to the South . " Rotten boroughs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or Georgia . With few exceptions , urban people throughout the nation Ore under-represented ? in state , if not national , legislative halls . But the discrepancy offers striking manifestations in the South , where extensive urbanization is new and race cleavage is old . Status of Cities Birmingham , with a large Negro vote and labor vote , may have its county power in the State Senate balanced by the power of a constituency of less than a twentieth the population of the Birmingham metropolis . Its power in the lower house may be a little better but is distinctly fractional . Atlanta , with an elected Negro on its city school board , may have a healthy organized movement for interracial cooperation . But that city is just a fraction of itself in the Georgia Legislature . Nashville may have two Negroes on its elective City Council , a Negro on the School Board by appointment and real beginnings of desegregation in colleges and universities , including Vanderbilt University , once attended by the late Senator Bilbo . But the State Legislature cuts Nashville down to nineteenth- ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politics , party committees . and governorships . Many important economic interests adjust their political relationships accordingly , without battling for their urban deserts . They do not concern themselves for a Reform Act like Britain 's of 1832 . But urban Negroes can not go to the countryside for political justice . The city is their hope of democracy . H. C. NIXON . Clinton , N. Y. , Feb. 1 , 1956 . Moderation as Solution The writer of the following letter , whose latest novel is " The View from Pompey 's Head , " is the author of several books dealing with the South , and is a native of Louisiana . TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW Yoirc TIMES : Shameful and saddening as was the attack upon Autherine Lucy at the University of Alabama , it is not impossible that it can be productive of good . As you said in your editorial of Feb. 8 " Mob Rule at Tuscaloosa , " it is not surprising that there should have been this flare-up of violence . My point is that this very flare-up may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now ? I should first like to suggest that the first thing we do is to realize that even a Supreme Court ruling can not change a way of thinking that has persisted for generations . It is also my suggestion that we realize  --  and here the burden of realization falls on the South  --  that when a sovereign state yields to mob rule it no longer fits into the definition of a sovereign state . Atmosphere of Warfare In a letter which you published on April 10 , 1955 , in commenting upon a visit to the South I mentioned that the mood and temper of the section was one of secession . I have just returned from another visit to the South , and now I find that the atmosphere is one of open warfare . The segregation issue has more than got out of hand . What has happened over the past twelve months is that it has got into the hands of extremists on both sides . In one set of trenches we find those represented by the mob , which at least for a ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opposite set of trenches we have those elements in the North who would almost seem anxious , judging from certain questions put to Adlai Stevenson , to compel the immediate end of segregation by returning the bayonets of Reconstruction . to the South . It was Miss Lucy 's ? misfdrtune to be caught in the crossfire . I find it impossible to believe that she would have been so maltreated a year ago . 43ut just as the attack upon her must not be brushed aside as undergraduate irresponsibility , neither must the action of one mob be taken to represent the prevailing spirit of the South . Preventing Fear I may be disagreed with , and even proved wrong , but it is my conviction that once the South is rid of its fear that it will be required to reorganize the whole of its society within a few months or years it will begin noticeably to obey those impulses of decency , kindness and honorable behavior which , because of the statements of its extremists , would now seem to be blocked off . Moderation admittedly has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examine the decision of the Supreme Court , what we find is that the justices revealed a very clear preference for moderation . And here we would all of us , North and South , be well advised to follow the lead of the court . Extremism will get us nowhere . The answer is neither mobs nor bayonets . There indeed can be no answer unless it is provided by the moderate leadership of both sides , supported by equally moderate men and women who are able to join together in patience , tolerance . and mutual goodwill . If what happened to Miss Lucy helps bring this about , she will deserve our thanks as she now requires our apologies . HAMILTON BASSO . Weston , Conn. , Feb. 9 , 1956 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Times : In a letter published Feb. 5 the distinguished economist , Prof. Sey- ' mour Harris of Harvard University , argued that the recent great expansion of our economy was based on an excessive rise in mortgage and installment debts . I believe it can be shown that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harmful . The two criteria by which we can determine whether the growth of debt was excessive , are : ( 1 ) has it produced inflation and ( 2 ) , , has it been extended to people who lack the ability to meet the repayments ? Government statistics show that ' consumer prices have been stable ( up 1 per cent since 1952 ) and that the delinquency rates on mortgage and installment loans are low , even for a. period of prosperity , Thera are two main reasons for the debt rise : Almost five million homes ; have been purchased over the last four years and many families have shifted from renting to owning . While the shift from renting to owning . does not involve much change in the financial burden of housing it does normally cause a rise in mortgage debt . People , have been progressing from the under-$5,000 annual income bracket ( where only 45 per cent of families own their homes ) to the above-$5,000 bracket ( where about 70 per cent own homes ) . This progress in living standards results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burdensome over the long run than rental payments . The rise in installment debt has been due mostly to the rise in car purchases . Auto debt is up 76 per cent from 1952 , while car purchases rose 80 per cent in this period . If the rise in debt was bad it must be because the sharp increase in car purchases was bad . Few persons believe this . Consumer Spending There have been both advantages and disadvantages in the recent rise in debt . The advantage was that it promoted a rapid and complete recovery from the 1954 recession without producing inflation or a high delinquency rate on debt . The disadvantage was that the rate of debt repayment is now rising . This in turn is slowing the growth of consumer spending . I believe , however , that it is better to have slower economic expansion from a point of full employment than it would have been to experience a slow recovery from the 1954 economic recession . It is not possible merely to look at the growth in debt and over-all income to know whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be considered are the shifts by families from lower to higher income brackets and the resultant effect on their pattern of consumer spending . Shifts from lower to medium income brackets are quite apt to produce a new spending pattern which involves more debt . Healthy progress in living standards can be achieved in this transition which should not be arbitrarily denied the consumer THEODORE A. ANDERSEN. ? Hanover , N. H. , Feb. 7 , 1956 . Easing the Federal Estate Tax To THE EDITOR OF THE New YORK TIMES : A glance at the statistics ? of Internal Revenue collections as published in the new 1956 World Alma. nac emphasizes a point which has long seemed obvious to me but which so far as I know has seldom or never been publicly mentioned . The total Internal Revenue collections in 1955 , in round figures , were $66,000,000,000 . The sum collected in the same year from the Federal estate tax , likewise in round figures , was $850,000,000 , less than 1.3 per cent . The figures for 1954 are comparable . In fact , the percentage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collections was less in that year than in 1955 . While estates under $60,000 escape Federal taxation altogether , it certainly can not be said that the Federal estate tax is not burdensome to those who have to pay it . On a comparatively moderate net estate of $310,000 , if advantage is not taken of the marital deduction , the tax is e65,700 . On an estate of $560,000 , it is $145,700 . Nor is the direct cost of the tax in dollars the whole story . Its impact is so great that one can not afford to ignore it . It has , therefore , led to all sorts of complicated arrangements which would never have been made without it and which are not only expensive to work out but often undesirable in their practical working . The Federal estate tax is thus the exact opposite of an ideal tax . The ideal tax is one which produces the most revenue with the least burden to the taxpayer . The Federal estate tax produces very little revenue at the cost of a great burden to the taxpayer who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not go so far as to advocate the complete abolition of the Federal estate tax ; but I suggest that serious consideration might well be given to a drastic easing of rates . H. H. NORDLINGER . New York , Feb. 5 , 1956 . To Understand the South Race Problem Linked to Population Decline , Unbalanced Economy The writer of the following letter , Professor Emeritus of Vanderbilt University , is visiting lecturer in political science at Hamilton College . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORKTIMES : As a Southerner sojourningin the North , I should like to point out a collateral condition of race relations in my region which the press and commentators of different regions have tended to overlook in discussing the unfinished business of ending the inherently unequal treatment of the Negro in public education and other public services . The condition calls for sympathy . The recent election returns from Virginia on the segregation issue and reports of organizational activities in other Southern states in support of " white supremacy " indicate that there is a substantial minority support , including white support , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the South . The reports also suggest the generalization , not rigid or perfect in all particulars , that the most militant pro-segregation agitation is brought about by inhabitants or spokesmen of regions of relative or absolute decline in population and of unbalanced economy . The accounts of the Tennessee group calling on Governor Clement and urging him to jump into the fight against the Supreme Court decision noted that members from the western part of the state predominated . West Tennessee counties to the number of twelve or more lost population between 1940 and 1950 . Rise in Debt Examined Low Delinquency Percentage me Loaner Absence of Inflation Tiotesi The Writer of the following letter is Assistant Director of Research , the Amos Tuck School of Business Administration , Dartmouth College .                     