@@719736

txt How much can the Massachusetts 418-million-dollar budget submitted by Governor Furcolo be cut without seriously affecting essential state services ? That is a major question plaguing state fiscal experts , now that the withholding tax has been killed by the Massachusetts Senate . Senator Ralph C. Mahar ( R ) of Orange , chairman of the Senate Committee on Ways and Means , estimates 5 to 10 million dollars can be squeezed out of the program without serious Beacon Hill Views damage . Cut the budget more than that and such programs as education , mental health , and public health would suffer , he believes . Therefore , even with a 15-million-dollar cut new revenue must be obtained ranging up to 30 million dollars to balance the budget , if education , mental health , and public health programs are to be fully financed along with other state operations , Senator Mahar figures . Toomey Estimate Another estimate by Representative John J. Toomey ( D ) of Cambridge , chairman of the House Committee on Ways and Means , is that at least 20 million dollars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ balance , assuming other Furcolo-recommended tax action is taken . With the May 15 deadline for a committee report on the budget ' Mr. Toomey and his committee will work overtime in an effort to produce a balanced budget . Mr. Toomey believes the committee should trim the budget to fit the financial prospects of firmly anticipated revenues . Final action on the budget had been held up pending Senate action on the withholding tax orr which the Governor was counting for a 17-million dollar one-year windfall to help balance the spending program outlined . Even though Governor Furcolo is expected to revive the withholding tax issue through a special message , his action may not come for a couple of weeks . If the committee goes along with Mr. Toomey 's present thinking , the budget will be slashed heavily to produce a program balanced ' by anticipated available revenue : with explanation of the effect " of the cuts . If the Legislature then puts back slashed items , it would be forced to make tax decisions to back them up . It could be that the slashed budget wolild @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Democratic-controlled House to require the Senate to take action necessary to restore full appropriations to essential programs . Thus the Senate would have to face the task of financing an expanded spending program . Other Bills Pending In addition , the Senate Committee on Ways and Means has been sitting for weeks en a House - passed , Furcolo - recommended bill for a one-cent-apackage increase in the cigarette tax . In fiscal 1959 the Governor is counting on five million dollars extra from this increase . He had asked for the increase to be made effective March 1 of this year to pick up an extra 1.5 million dollars in the remainder of the current fiscal year . However , two months already have passed since March 1 and no Senate action has been taken . Senator Mahar indicated he favors making the increase effective July 1 . Still awaiting action are other Furcolo proposals for budget balancing . They include increased departmental fees and a tax on income of trusts having transferrable shares . These two sources would nroduce another five million dollars in annual estimated revenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action has been taken total 20.5 million dollars . Without them the budget will be that much out of balance , even if the withholding tax were passed . 