@@717013

txt The stock market has again entered a period of dangerous speculative activity , Senator J. William Fulbright , chairman of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee , warned last night . After a brief respite during the Senate hearings on the stock market last month , he said , stocks have resumed their movement into a boom-and-bust cycle . Prices on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday scored their sharpest gains in nine consecutive days of advance . The New York Times industrial average made a new historic high , and the combined average hit the highest point since Oct. 18 , 1929 . Senator Fulbright , Democrat of Arkansas , addressed a dinner of the Economic Club of New York in the Sheraton - Astor Hotel . He pleaded for private as well as public leaders to " break the hypnotic spell cast over them by the rise in stock prices . " Senator Fulbright drew a sharp distinction between the level of stocks and the rate of advance . It was the rate of advance , especially in the two final months of 1954 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good chance , to some observers then , that the boom might carry prices far beyond the ability of the economy to support them . But the Senator did not feel // that the danger was tow over . " As of . this moment , " he said , " I am of the opinion . that we are in fact experiencing the beginning of excessive speculative activity in our market . " I am not implying that I think prices are too high in the case of individual stocks or in the average market level . It would be improper for me to venture any such opinion in my role as chairman of the Senate committee . I think that no one , except the free market itself , can say whether a stock price is too high as long as buyers are willing to pay it . " The great danger , he said , lies in " the whole well-known cluster of things that traditionally go hand in hand with high-running speculative fevers . It involves the prevalence of tipsters , flamboyant advertising keyed to expectations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the tendency to avoid credit restraints , the tendency to resent and resist all warnings of caution , and the introduction into the market of a rash of new issues such as penny uranium stocks which are transparently speculative in character . " He also attacked . the " new era " idea , the constant assurance that the economy has so far improved that a depression such as that of the early Thirties is impossible . We are certainly on a firmer base now , he said , ' but we are not on a " sure-thing " basis .. Debt , Farm Lag Cited ' Among the dangers on the horizon , he said , are the excessive mortgage and installment debt- and the manner in which certain sectors of the economy ? notably the farms  --  are lagging behind the whole . ' Thus far , ' said Mr. Fulbright , the committee itself has been the principal gainer from the March hearings on the market . Its members have been educated . But the action of stock prices since the close of the hearings has offered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destroying confidence , as some ' people charged , stock levels are now at an alltime high , " the Senator said . " Despite the clear warnings sounded by experienced witnesses before the committee that the stock market is no certain avenue to quick riches , hopeful amateurs continue to pledge their life savings in the market in the expectation that they- will come back to them as a bonanza strike . " The Senator said that the committee and its staff were at work " reviewing a number of legislative and administrative recommendations affecting the stock market . " He felt that he should not air them until the committee had formally adopted them . Assails Complacency If responsible persons absorb the " new era " doctrine and refuse to consider safety measures , said the Senator , " then this negligence will in itself by a multiplier of danger . I do not say that we have been completely seduced into throwing all caution to the wind because of talk about a new era . I do say that there are marked signs in some quarters of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' the device of a hearing , can bring together relevant facts bearing on a standard of prudence . But they can not force individuals to rally to that standard if siren songs pull them in an opposite direction with promises of windfall , effortless joys and wealth . " . H. E. Humphreys Jr. , presidentof the club and of the United States Rubber Company , read . a salute to . Alfred P. Sloan Jr. , former General Motors Corporation executive , on his- eightieth birthday . It was approved by the membership .                     