@@715828

txt Police Lt. Louis Shoulders , who broke the Bobby Greenlease kidnap - killing case and then became the central figure in an investigation of possible irregularities in the handling of the case , turned in hnouldus his resignation today , saying , " They 've assassinated my character . " The 55 year old police veteran indignantly told newsmen that he did " notget the money " ? referring to the mysteriously missing-half of the $600,000 ransom that was paid by 6 year old Bobby 's father , Robert C. Greenlease , a Kansas City automobile dealer . Suitcase Stories Differ Shoulders recovered nearly $300,000 of the ransom from Carl Austin Hall , the confessed kidnaper and killer whom Shoulders arrested on a tip from taxi driver John Hager . Hall says he does n't know what happened to the rest of the money . The alleged irregularities in the handling of Hall 's arrest included a reported lapse of an hour between the actual arrest at an apartment Hall had rented and the time he was booked at the Newstead district police station . Another report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ransom were brought into the station later . Shoulders has insisted they were brought in with Hall . Hall implicated Mrs. Bonnie Brown Heady as his accomplice , and she was arrested . Both now are held at Kansas City under federal kidnaping charges . Tells Reason for Quitting " I got the kidnaper , " Shoulders complained . " I got the woman . I got the gun they used . What more did they want me to get ? " Bitterly he added : " I did not get the money ! " " Maybe I 'm making a mistake , " he told reporters . " But . . . I do n't intend to be subjected to the type of questioning that I had to undergo , by lawyers on the St. Louis police force and agent lawyers of the FBI . " In his letter of resignation Shoulders said : " After 27 years as a police officer , to be castigated and have my character assassinated-Non the heels of performing my duty with the highest seir- , ! of responsibility , is more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Shoulders ' resignation came after a mysterious flurry of police activity that included the midnight-routing of Hager from his bed for hours of questioning by the FBI . He was releasedvithout explanation of why he was quizzed again . The FBI also seized a man and a blonde in a room at the downtown hotel , but agents and police refused to say who they were or why they were picked up . One report was that the woman had heard another woman boast of having a " big bundle of cash in a west end apartment . "                     