@@717816

txt Trading With Soviet Russia Data Asked on Material Removed From Embargo List To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TTURS : In connection with your editorial " Trade vs . Aid " of March 31 perlhaps you are completely correct in your support of the Administration 's position that the relaxation in. the trade embargo with Russia was warranted . To reach that conclusion , however , complete but , most of ell , accurate facts ? should be available for study . Up to now we certainly have not received them . For instance , in December , 1954 , in the fifth annual Battle Act Report , Harold Stassen advised Congress on the results of the revisions of the International and Battle . Act lists . He informed Congress at that time that " minerals and metals of basic importance to the Soviet military power , such as aluminum , copper , nickel , molybdenum , cobalt , magnesium , tungsten and titanium , remain on the embargo list . " The facts as developed before our subcommittee prove this statement to he quite inaccurate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a number of aluminum alloys . Copper as a finished product in the form of highly strategic copper wire was removed from the embargo , as were nickel alloys up to 30 per cent , molybdenum alloys up to 20 per cent , magnesium and tungsten . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : A special dispatch to The Times from Bonn published March 31 described the eleventh-hour drive to run up a respectable total of immigrants to the United States under the terms of the Refugee Relief Act . The dispatch contained a piece of information which points up a paradoxical ? situation . Your correspondent reports that nearly 1,000 persons escape from the Communist People 's Republic of East Germany every day and that a large proportion of them are young , healthy and educated people  --  prime material for visas . Since the East German refugee total of one year alone is three times the number of refugees who may theoretically come from Germany to the United States on the basis of the emergency legislation enacted in the summer of 1953 , this writer is reluctant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a major factor in the meager progress made in refugee immigration until now . Yet there is another aspect of the East German refugee problem the importance of which transcends its impact on our refugee policies . In 1955 , 252,870 East Zone refugees were registered in the West German reception centers , of whom 153,693 entered Berlin . This means that close to 2 per cent of the entire population of the so-called East German Democratic Republic have fled to the West in a single year . Scarce Metals in Russia The removal of these items takes on particular significance in view of Hanson Baldwin 's report on the Soviet forces in The  --  Times of March 26 , where he stated that the Soviet Union suffered notable scarcities in such metals as copper , molybdenum , nickel and tungsten . Mr. Stassen advised Congress In this same report regarding electrical equipment that " revised electric power equipment group in the embargo list includes heavy power generating equipment which is significant to the Soviet bloc war potential but excludes such items as outboard motors , condenser tubes and smaller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Let us contrast this statement with what has been developed in testimony before our subcommittee . Electric generators up to 60,000 kilowatts and turbines up to 85,000 brake horsepower can ? now be shipped by our allies to the Soviet bloc , Their principal strategic uses are in the manufacture of fissionable atomic material . Electric motors up to 12,500 brake horsepower can now be shipped to the Soviet bloc . These motors are among the largest in the world and can serve all military needs . In addition , transportation equipment , such as Diesel engines , flatcars , well cars , tank , cars and even rails , were removed or downgraded from the embargo list . Yet Mr. Baldwin reported in the article mentioned above that transportation equipment shortages were a major weakness in the Soviet Union . Controlled Commodities The Administration has stated that the list of items that were affected by the relaxation of the trade controls in 1954 and agreed to by the Coordinating Committee in Paris should not be made public . However , I draw your attention to The British Board of Trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Trade With the Soviet Bloc : Lists of Goods Controlled for Strategic Reasons . " Preceding the seven-page list of items is a statement that this is the list agreed to after consultation with other countries . What possible explanation can there be for support of the Administration 's position of refusing to answer questions about items downgraded from the embargo list when the same information is public in other countries ? You state in your editorial that items only of marginal strategie I value have been removed from the embargo list . It is difficult for me to understand where you could have received the information on which to base that conclusion , as , according to the Administration , the list of items removed or downgraded from the embargo list is classified information and not available to the press or the public . Perhaps everything you state in your editorial is correct , but the American people and Congress should at least have the right to know what is known in other countries , including the Soviet Union . When we have the facts , then and only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ROBERT F. KENNEDY , Chief Counsel , Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations . Washington , April 7 , 1956 . Appointment of Teachers To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Taos : A few days ago you published a letter signed by four groups criticizing the action of the Board of Education in disapproving the Katzqzmcq#Gahan bill requiring the appointment of a pool of regular teachers sufficient to cover vacancies existfor more than a month . I am sure that the writers of the letter were not aware of the present situation . To the extent that we can get eligible lists , we have been doing the very thing which is proposed in. the letter  --  namely , appointing regular teachers to positions where other regular teachers are on leave of absence . As an illustration may I point out that at the present time there are approximately 1,000 elementary school teachers on the- rolls of the school system in excess of the number of authorized positions . In other words , there are almost 1,000 teachers filling the positions of other regular teachers on leave of absence or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vacancies that we are trying desperately to fill by means of an intensive program of recruitment . When the next list is promulgated in May , 1956 , we shall similarly appoint some 2,000 persons to fill leaves of absence in the elementary schools and actual vacancies in the junior high schools . This means that the purpose of the bill will have been accomplished in So far as eligible teachers are available . . Under the circumstances , the Board of Education opposes this legislation as unnecessary . The legislation will not give us one additional teacher . The Board of Education wants to fill vacancies and leaves of absence with regular teachers . That is why we have instituted our recruiting program . WILLIAM JANSEN , Superintendent of Schools . Brooklyn , April 5 , 1956 . Eastern Zone Exodus Noted Continued Flight Is Attributed to Repression Under Communists Unbearable Conditions What 's even more impressive than this naked figure , however , is the fact that the flight continued through the flurry of peaceful coexistence and that it shows no let-up in the present post-Stalinist phase of things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in East Germany continue to be found unbearable by a sizable segment of her population . People do not run at the drop of a hat , nor even at the drop of a police helmet . It takes a very provocative stimulus to make a family give up their home , jobs , friends and familiar surroundings . In 1955 more citizens of East Germany than in any previous year , with the exception of 1953 , voted with their feet . The answer of the East Zone Government to the continuing mass flight is terror . Armed with a decree against the " enticement of skilled workers , the intelligentsia and the youth to leave for West Germany and thereby to weaken the economic strength of the workers ' and peasants ' state " the people 's courts have swung into action and sentenced hundreds of refugees , caught before they managed to reach a safe haven , to long prison terms . In at least two cases ( Max Held and Werner Rudert ) death sentences were handed down . CHARLES STERNBERG , Director , Case Department , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1956 . For a Quiet Subway To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : While no layman will disagree with Peter Iselin 's wish for a silenter bus , in his letter to The Times of April 3 , there is a worse offender : the subway train . Millions of people are daily subjected to a noise level which makes conversation impossible and thinking difficult . The noise in the trains is caused by impact of iron wheels on steel rails . Can this condition be cured ? It can . The streetcars in Washington and some in Cambridge have done it by a wheel design which effectively deadens the noise . These streetcars run as quietly as a trolley bus . If the streetcars can do it , why ca n't the subway train , which is nothing more than a series of cars coupled together ? Take away your air-conditioning , take away your soft cushions if you must , but give us silence ! TAD ADAMOWSKI . New York , April 3 , 1956 . Name for Columbus Circle To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizen , riding through Fifty-ninth Street and Broadway , is convinced that " the Circle has now been squared " and that it should be given the name of " Columbus Square . " MANOLIS SAMIOS . New York , April 5 , 1956.                     