@@715629

txt DULLES PROMISES TO CONSULT ALLIES ON KOREA PROBLEM 1Bars Final Determination of U. S. Position Without Talks ? Off to See Rhee in Seoul BY The Associated Press . WASHINGTON , Aug. 2 ? Secretary of State John Foster Dulles , leaving for talks with South Korea 's President Syngman Rhee , assured the : United States ' other Allies today that there would be full consultation with them on the future of ' Korea . In a statement made just before he boarded a four-engined Air Force transport tor ? the long flight to Seoul , Mr. Dulles said the struggle for a " peace with justice " in Korea had entered its second phase , with the ending of active warfare by a truce agreement . " It is clearly appropriate , " he said , " that there should be a preliminary exchange of views with the Government of the Republic of Korea , which was the victim of the Communist aggression and ' which contributed so mightily to stopping that aggression . " " But the United States , " Mr. Dulles added @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the forthcoming political conference on Korea 's future and its ( procedure until we have had the benefit of wider consultation . " The Republic of Korea 's Na. - tional Assembly , meeting in Pusan , adopted unanimously , Monday , a resolution calling for a ninety-day limit on the political conference and otherwise backing President Rhee . Coordination of Policies Aides said the reference to wider consultation was a clear assurance to the other Allies in the Korean war , such as Britain and France , that there would be the fullest consideration of their views and an effort on the part of the United States to coordinate Fits policies with theirs for the political conference . This conference , recommended by the armistice agreement signed one week ago , must be opened by late October . The United Nations General Assembly will meet Aug. 17 to consider what nations should be included , but there appears to be no question that among the principal ones will be the United States and Communist China . Mr. Dulles took off with a party of diplomatic advisers and international experts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with him . The Senators announced that they were unable to go because of the delay in adjourning Congress . The South Korean Ambassador , Dr. You Chan Yang , like his Government outspokenly opposed to ending the Korean fighting without Korean unification , was on hand to bid Mr. Dulles Godspeed and congratulated him on the plans he disclosed yesterday for using United States forces in South Korea to assist in rebuilding the devastated land . Dr. Yang told the Secretary that he was especially pleased because it . meant that American troops would be busy in Korea for a long time and that great work could be achieved at lower cost . Mr. Dulles is scheduled to arrive at Seoul Tuesday noon , Korean // time . On the plane with him were Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. , United States delegate to the United Nations ; Assistant Secretary of State Walter S. Robertson , a Far Eastern expert ; Assistant Secretary Carl W. McCardle ( Public Affairs ) ; Kenneth T. Young , chief of the State Department 's Northeast Asian Division ; Arthur Dean , New York lawyer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Stevens was to ride with Mr. Dulles to McChord Air Force Base , Wash. , where he planned to board another transport plane to permit maximum rest on the transPacific flight . The only other planned stop for the main group was to be at Shemya Island in the Aleutians . The major purpose of Mr : Dulles ' visit to Korea at this time , as officially stated , is to negotiate with Dr. Rhee- on the wording of a security treaty that the United States has promised the Korean leader as a means of strengthening his country against the possibility of future attack by the Communists . He also will consult with Dr. Rhee on plans for Korea 's rehabilitation at a cost to the United States of nearly one billion dollars over a period of three or four years . Mr. Dulles has informed the Allied Governments that he intends to seek maximum coordination between United States and South Korean policies in the forthcoming political conference . This may prove to be his most delicate and difficult problem . Dr. Rhee has been threatening to quit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement on Korean unity , and to resume the war . The United States has declined to make any commitments beyond a promise to walk out of a " sham " political conference with the Reds after ninety days . It has also advised Dr. Rhee , according to informed officials here , that it will deny him any support if he himself starts shooting again .                     