@@713919

txt Senate and House Banking Committees yesterday continued working over extension of the Controls Act , but only the House Committee was able to report substantial progress . The Senate unit postponed until today a scheduled vote on a propoasl to extend the present Defense Production Act unchanged for one year . The House committee . meantime . knuckled down to specific provisions of the act , revising it as follows : Wrote in a restriction . however . against the resale of any commodity bought under - the law at less than ceiling prices . or at less than market prices if there is no ceiling price on the commodity . Tentatively agreed to extend the Government 's power to make and guarantee loans to private business to expand defense production , and to condemn property needed for national defense as well as requisition it . Struck from the present law a provision which limits the Government 's power to buy and resell for defense only " raw " materials . The lawmakers eliminated the word " raw " . giving the Government power to buy any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may not buy domestic farm products for resale unless the products are to be resold for stockpiling or industrial use . Ford Calls for Extension Meantime . the Defense Act received a note of support from the industrial front . Ford Motor Co. called for an extension of the controls law , including government power to set price and wage ceilings and control the flow of critical materials . In a statement received by the Senate Banking Committee Chairman Maybank ( D , S. C. ) , the auto firm noted that Defense Mobilizer Wilson 's program calls for a speedy U. S rearmament with a prospect that the country may be freed from controls in two years . " Ford Motor Co. fully supports this program and believes it can be achieved , " the company said . Ford 's testimony differs markedly from thatgiven to congressional banking commit . tees by a number of industrial organizations . ? inclduing the National Association of Menu ! lecturers and the U. S. Chamber of Conti merce . These groups had asked for an end to the price and wage controls section @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the Senate Banking Committee held its second day of closed-door discussion about what sort of controls legislation should go on the statute books after July 1 . While the Detroit firm gave its endorsement to the general mobilization objectives , it did not say it backs the more extensive requests for controls power now being sought by the Administration as amendments to existing law . Instead , the company cited some weaknesses in the present program and asked for changes that differ from the increased power requests of the Administration . Ford said the present controls administration is causing " serious inequities " to various seg- ments of industry . and noted there is an " unwarranted administrative zeal " on the part of federal officials toward more controls than are needed . Can " Hamstring Defense Effort " This tendency can " hamstring the defense effort as well as jeopardize the civilian economy for the future . " it said . One proposal advanced by the company for consideration by the Senate group would require the O.P.S. to raise ceiling prices to reflect boosts in labor and material costs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3.5. ; : - price increase has been allowed on passenger cars since pre-Korea. while labor costs have gone up and materials up 12 , -e . As for steel , the auto concern estimated 65 million tons should be available for civilian producers after defense needs are taken care of . or over 95 ? ' : - . of the pre-Korean level . Wih such quanities of steel available . " it stated . " it is certainly not necessary , we , think , for N.P.A. to allocate steel for civilian production . " The Senators took no official action yesterday on the Defense Production Act . even though the White House has been putting on the pressure for speedy action . A cause of delay yesterday was the fact the ranking Republican committee member . Sen. Capehart of Indiana . was late in arriving because his airplane flight was held up by bad weather . Mr. Maybank said he expects to get a vote today on the proposal of Sen. Robertson for a straight 12-months extension of the existing Defense Production Law .     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       