@@717700

txt The first agreement between American and British firms for the joint design and construction of nuclear power plants " anywhere in the free world " has been signed , approved by the two governments , and announced to the public . It brings us all a stride nearer common sense . But for business people the peaceful trans-Atlantic atom has a special and additional significance . For it dramatizes , as maybe no other event could , both the purposes and benefits of international commercial cooperation . What has happened ds this : AMF Atomics , Inc. , of New York , a subsidiary of the American Machine &; Foundry Company , has got together with the Mitchell Engineering Company , Ltd. , of London to offer atomic power stations , peaceful , practical and complete , to any country that needs them . This is the first agreement of its type in the atomic energy field . It is claimed to be " the first practical expression of the United Kingdom and United States policy of encouraging the peaceful applications of atomic energy at home and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interesting questions . But surely the most interesting is the simple question . Why ? Why did Mitchell Engineering go to the United States for help ? What did Mitchell offer AMF Atomics that made its cooperation so attractive ? And how come two governments that have been notoriously shy of cooperating with nuclear know-how at their own high level readily sanctioned commercial cooperation ? Mitchell ' Engineering , which is one of the great British names in the constructional side of power , probably went shopping for know-how in the United States for two main reasons . First , because industrially the future of nuclear pdwer here has been placed in the hands of a " consortium " of four big commercial teams acting in harness with the British Atomic Energy Authority . And while the consortium is not a closed shop it is complete in the sense that all the big firms in Britain . capable of building reactors have already teamed up inside it with other construction firms . Greece , India , Northern and Southern Rhodesia , Portugal , and South Africa . They are doing constructional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the largest of its new atom power stations , the plant at Chapelcross . Mitchell Engineering also has a construction operation headquarters in Montreal . This is to be used under the new agreement . AMF Atomics , incidentally , has a Canadian subsidiary in Toronto . Secrecy Considered AMF Atomics is to do all the work on the design and construction of the reactors and Mitchell will prepare the sites and build the stations . The question of secrets , if it arose , could be easily resolved . Theoretically it would be possible for AMF to produce its part of the power station without Mitchell knowing exactly how it worked . And in practice , of course , there is no need of this . The nuclear side of the program is anyway 100 per cent under the control of United States authorities . When plants arc erected , overseas engineers , after 12 weeks training in the United States , will be quite capable of operating the stations at all times . A specially trained team from the two companies , is to pay periodic visits to replace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plants for the fuel in countries where British and American authorities feel able to give permission . TwO of the biggest mining corporations in South Africa are already investigating the possibilities of buying atomic stations . These reactors could be operated on natural uranium of the kind which South Africa supplies to the United States in large quantities . The type of reactor that the Anglo-American group is offering at present is a closed-cycle , heavy-water unit . At 60 megawatts power capacity it would use natural uranium . At outputs below that it would use enriched uranium . Mobile reactors are being designed but are not yet past the early drawing-board stages . The AMF-Mitchell team expects to do a thriving trade in atom power . The cost of building a station would be rather more than that of an orthodox power station but the running costs would be lower . And there are many areas in the world where other fuels are scarce and where nuclear power would be by far the cheapest power available . The West is thus first in offering the world immediate and practical benefits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private enterprise . It is perhaps an interesting additional reflection that one of the first and most efficient expressions of that private enterprise requires the fuel of Anglo-American cooperation before it will run . Enriched Uranium ? Secondly , there may have been a hunch on someone 's part that the future lies in plants using enriched uranium . And the British firms are committed at present to reactors using natural uranium . So Mitchell Engineering went to talk business in the States . And what Mitchell could offer AMF Atomics was a ready-made worldwide organization for building and selling power stations and a constructional know-how second to none . It could offer also the very latest technical advances in heat exchangers . At the present moment Mitchell 's have orders on their books worth $100,000,000 . They have built power stations in Britain , Australia ,                     