@@715134

txt Yes , it was Christmas Eve , just about a year ago . It was snowing land inside the church the priests were just going for a bite of late dinner after hearing confessions all afternoon . Filing into the rectory , they left behind them the beautiful Christmas tableau near the altar . The church , empty except for two old ladies saying their prayers , glowed with the warmth of candle light and seemed to take on an even brighter hue In light of the season well upon the land . It was quiet and the candles flickered slowly .. He Sees the Angels Suddenly one of the great , high doors , opened and in came a gust of wind and a shower of snow accompanied by a little boy . The door closed behind him and he stood there silently for a minute before walking slowly down the cent er aisle . He genuflected , made the sign of the cross and knelt at the railing before the altar stairs . Never had he seen such beauty . 0 , he remembered it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now it seemed truly wonderful . And as he knelt by the railing , the thought came to him that he had no gift for his mother . That was what he wanted more than anything else this Christmas . And as he gazed at the wondrous tableau of the Christ child , Mary , the angels and all those who made up the ? scene , it came to him that here was the answer . Priests Leave Meal The two old ladies had left as silently as they had prayed and he was alone . He went thru the railing , up the altar stairs and over to the little crib . He picked the Christ child up in his arms and walked slowly out of the church . Soon the sisters returned to make ready for the evening ' confessionals and , as they worked , one of them happened to look dcwn into the crib . The excitement that followed brought the priests from their meal and soon they began telephoning everywhere for some hint as to how the loss had occurred. , No one knew . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of another likeness of the Christ child for the crib . Why , this had never happened , never could happen  --  it was unbelievable . And , then , amidst all the hubbub , there came a ring of the rectory doorbell . The nervous nuns hastened to answer it and there , in the snow before them , stood a lath boy with his young mother  --  and in her arms , still in His swaddling clothes , lay the Christ child . The gift had been given , and though it was not kept , it would never be forgotten , TIME : Christmas Eve , 1951 . PLACE : St. Mary 's church , Evanston . SOURCE OF STORY : Msgr . Hillenbrand , above church . AUTHOR : John C. Burkhardt , 1621 Summerdale ay .                     