@@719500

txt New evidence of dissatisfaction in the French Army has been brought into the open by the National Assembly despite refusal to debate charges of favoritism and political interference in the promotion of topranIsing Army officers . For the past weeks mimes of an " Army scandal " have been circulating in political circles , leading last weds In the demand by Gen. Andre Dulourt , Inspector-General of Artillery . that he be put on the inactive list . The general wrote an angry letter to Pierre Metayer , Socialist Secretary of State for the Army , alleging that M. Metayer had substituted several names of his own choice for those already on a promotion list . General Punished One of General Dufourt 's immediate subordinates , Gen. Jean Collignon , Commander of French Artillery Forces in Germany , approved General Dolourt 's accusations to the extent of inviting the officers under his orders to provide reports on reactions among officers generally in the command . General Collignon was then given 60 days ' - fortress arrest " as a punishment . It was against this background of discontent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the subject should be put on its agenda . the vote against being 247 to 325 . Accusations Hnrled The attack on M. Metayer was led by Andre Beaugitte , deputy from a small center party . He said that a high proportion of promotions had gone to officers serving in government offices , and charged that the Secretary for the Army had added 89 names to the promotion list . The debate then descended to personalities and insults , to the point where an anonymous voice from the back benches called for a " washing . machine to deal with all this dirty linen . " The Secretary of State accused M. Beaugitte himself of telephoning " more then 20 times " to obtain promotion for an officer , promotion which the Secretary for the Army had refused . He claimed that the whole discussion had been caused by " distorted facts and political exploitation . " The Assembly 's decision to postpone any large-scale debate on this whole matter will probI ably mean that the " scandal " will be quietly buried after a ; sad display of personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French Army is suffering from uneasiness . This was admitted in so many words by Jacques Chaban-Dolmas , former Gaullist Social Republican 11 . Iinister of National Defense . But he said firmly that " the civil authority most keep its leadership over the military . " According to M. Chaban-Delmas , French . officers were dissatisfied not so much with the question of the promotion list as with reasons which had nothing to do with the Assembly 's present discussion . He said that " since 1940 the Army has been subject to terrible trials , " and recalled the difficulty of knowing whether to obey Vichy or de Gaulle , the impression that the public was not too interested in the Army 's work of Indochina , and the fact that " in Algeria the Army is given missions to which it is not accustomed . " This last was a reference to the Army psychological and social groups that are trying to rally the Moslem population to the French cause . ' Climate of Treason ' Ex-Poujadist Deputy Jean le Pen inade an explosive contribution to the causes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is - that the Army is collecting defeats it has not deserved . .. ? The Army has the impression that a climate of treason reigns in the alleys of power . " M. lc Pen himself was a volunteer for Algeria , where he served for nearly a year . There is little doubt that a climate of dissatisfaction , growing through the loss of Indochina , Morocco , and Tunisia , as well as the lack of any obvious end to the Algerian campaign , is prevalent in the French Army . There is some reason to believe that successive governments and Assemblies have each a Certain secret apprehension of this group of highly trained and increasingly uneasy citizens . The short debate brought this out indirectly , as the latest in a series of incidents where the military has impinged on the political in i past months and years .                     