@@714727

txt Clipper , a large Chesapeake Bay retriever , loves his master , he proved to court bailifs and police at the Grand Crossing municipal court and police station yesterday . Troubles for Clipper and his owner , George Faust , 26 , of 4228 Oakenwald ay . began Sunday when the Rev. F. J. Quinn , pastor of St. Ambrose church at 47th st. and Ellis ay. , caused Faust 's arrest . Dog Stays Near Church It seems that Faust has been taking Clipper , who is described as being as big as =a pony , to ...... Clipper church with him . Clipper stayed outside the church with Faust but churchgoers reported he was in their way . So the police arrested Faust on a disorderly conduct charge . When Faust appeared in Grand Crossing court before Municipal Judge Harry Beam yesterday , he brought along Clipper . Because of Clipper 's size , everybody in the I ; court backed up . Judge Beam heard Father Quinn describe the antics of Clipper , " He 's as big as an elephant and has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , " but not before that . " Mental Test Ordered Judge Beam decided Faust should be held for an examination by the court psychiatrist , so when bailifs placed Faust in the court lockup , Clipper went right along . A dozen other prisoners voiced their objections until the bailifs , sent for help . Sgt. John L. Sullivan and Peter Rooney , the station lockup keeper , pitched in and after a struggle managed to get Clipper out of the bull pen . A while later Faust was placed in the station cell to await transportation to police headquarters . When Rooney started to close the cell door , Clipper scurried into the cell with his boss . Rooney sent for Sgt. Sullivan and the tug of war began anew . Whistle in the Bull Pen The day was hot and the struggle with Clipper went on for 20 li minutes . Capt . Patrick Groark , sitting in his office , heard the clamor in the lockup so he decided to investigate . " That 's a fine looking animal , " Groark observed . " What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We ca n't get him out of the lockup , " Sullivan replied . Groark gave a sharp whistle and Clipper bounded ont of the lockup and up to Groark . " You see , " said Groark , " they either like you or they do n't . " Later a brother of Faust called at the station and took Clipper home with him after the dog wagged a good-by to Groark . After passing mental tests , the dog ' owner was released for a hearing June 23. 