@@719729

txt The Soviet Union rejected today a proposal by the United States , Britain and France that their Ambassadors here should meet jointly with Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko to begin working out plans for a summit meeting . Secretary of State Dulles met in Washington Saturday with his top advisers on disarmament policy . Moscow said its formula of separate meetings between Mr. Gromyko and the Western envoys was the best one for preparatory diplomatic talks . If the Western powers insist on a joint conference of Ambassadors with the Soviet Foreign Minister , the Soviet Government said , the Ambassadors of Poland and Czechoslovakia also should take part . The Soviet position was set forth in separate but identical messages handed to the three Western Ambassadors today . Western Hopes Dimmed The messages appeared to spike Western hopes that preparations for a foreign ministers ' meeting and later a summit conference might be speeded up . The United States , Britain and France have said they see no sense in having their Ambassadors , call separately on Mr. Gromyko to discuss the same problems . Nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Czechoslovakia be given major-power status and join the talks , diplomatic sources here believe . These sources believe it would be a mistake to accept the Soviet formula that at any international meeting there should be parity between members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Warsaw Pact bloc headed by Moscow . In its earlier messages and statements Moscow has indicated that it would demand that parity both at a summit meeting and at the foreign ministers ' talks - that would prepare the way for the top-level conference . ' This parity formula would give new and heightened prestige to the Communist states associated with Moscow . In the opinion of informed sources here , the Western powers also are likely to decide that in terms of getting things done and limiting complications , it would be better for the United States , British and French envoys to go on meeting with Mr. Gromyko as they have rather than to extend the discussions to a formal six-nation conference . The Western powers have sougth to establish an atmosphere of informality in the preparatory talks , feeling ghat only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their differences with Moscow . The Western diplomatic community regarded the latest Soviet move as a step that could only further delay the holding of meaningful discussions . The opinion has grown here that the Soviet Government is not overly eager to get down to substantive discussions . What Moscow apparently wants a gathering of government leaders for which there has been a minimum of preparation . Result Would Be Veto In its aide-mdmoire to the Western powers today , the Soviet Government softened somewhat its former demand that the diplomats discuss only the time , place and composition of the foreign ministers ' meeting . However , it placed the same conditions on the diplomatic discussions it previously had demanded for those of the foreign ministers . The messages said " it is not excluded " that the diplomats as well as foreign ministers could exchange opinions on some questions proposed for inclusion in the agenda of the meeting of heads of government . They said those discussions should occur only " in case of necessity , and with general agreement . " It has been noted that if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any specific problem , it would mean that any of the participants could veto the suggestions of another nation or group of nations no matter how important the latter considered the questions to be . Moscow included in its latest proposal the charge that the United States , Britain and France were trying to " delay for an indefinite time " the holding of a summit conference . The Western powers have charged that the Soviet Government is delaying the preparatory work . The Soviet messages noted that the Western requests for joint meetings had not been advanced in any previous written statements . This plan , the notes today said , " can not be considered acceptable inasmuch as such a conference would signify in essence a conference of the four powers in which , on the one side , three states of the North Atlantic alliance would take part and only one state from the Warsaw Treaty Organization . " If the diplomatic talks take on the form of a conference , then " the principle of parity should be upheld , " Moscow said . The notes stated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fundamental principle for determining the composition of a conference on a high level . " Moscow said its principle of equal representation must be adopted for any meeting where the goal was " searching for decisions . " The Soviet notes said " only such an approach appears objective and justified . "                     