@@716535

txt In his first big speech made in the French provinces , Premier Pierre Mendes-France has declared a system of European armaments control is " essential to any peaceful European structure . " It is believed that the seven identical French notes to France 's associates in the proposed London conference opening on Sept. 27 , sent over the week end as well as a message to the United States , deal some length with this topic . The Premier , speaking at Nevers Sept. 19 , at the unveiling of a monument to French Resistance lighters , many of them tortured before being shot by the Germans , emphasized that the " construction of Europe remains among our principal preoccupations " and that " French-German reconciliation is a condition of Europe 's political stability , as it is of Europe 's economic and social development . " British Tie Stressed m. menses-'ranee gave no details on the government 's views as to how Germany should be rearmed , reserving this for his speech to the Council of Europe at Strasbourg , scheduled for Sept. 20 . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " implied a search for formulas acceptable to our British allies . " In what many took to be a reference to United States Secretary of State John Foster Dulles ' failure to pass through Paris on his lightning visit to Bonn and London last week , he said that France 's geographic position gives it a say in the organization of Western Europe , quite apart from its service to the free world . in two wars . " Our role does not have to be asked for or begged for as a favor or a sign of friendship , " he proclaimed , but reminded his attentive audience that on these terms " our liberty of determination does not carry the possibility of taking refuge in a general and indefinite negation . " The Premier was warmly welcomed at Nevers , a sign of the increasing popularity of a man who has tried to cut through the " immobilism " preceding governments . SnpDol't Fades But it is plain that M. MendesFrance , himself much more interested in the cenomic revival of France , will have a hard time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Only this week end , Louis Terrenoire , secretary-general of Gen. Charles de Gaulle 's Rally of the French People , made a speech at Lille advocating another attempt to reach agreement with the Soviet Union on arms control . This position makes the Mendes-France possible majority for any German rearmament proposals within the immediate future fade almost to the point of extinction , The Communists are wholeheartedly against such rearmament. and so are many Gaullists . The Socialists have announced that they refuse to consider entry of Germany into the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . The parliamentary situation at this moment is therefore no better than that which caused the postponement of the European army debate for so many months ,                     