@@713138

txt IN A FIFTH AIR FORCE PLANE , Over the Korean Front , Aug. ** is in flames below us , abandoned by United States forces withdrawing in the direction of the Naktong River line . The Eighth Army pulled out of Kumchon and a number of Korean villages today , not as a result of enemy pressure but to take up new positions on a new defense line in which the newly arrived American reinforcements of infantry and marines can be placed to fight the climactic battles of this war . As we flew over the entire battle area from the southern coast to the Kumchon area near twilight the roads below were filled with American vehicles , carrying troops , artillery and equipment heading to the new defense barrier . The Americans are pursuing a // scorched earth policy as they withdraw , leveling villages to the ground so that the enemy can not take advantage of houses or other buildings to camouflage his tanks , supplies and vehicles from the attacking United States Air Force in the daylight hours . When the Americans gave up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pulling back toward the Naktong line on which , today 's communique said , the South Korean First and Second Corps already had taken up positions in the eastern front sector . As the Naktong winds its way toward Taegu it comes within seven miles on the northwest and within fifteen miles on the southwest . When the First Cavalry Division quit Kumchon it did a thorough destruction , job . As we flew over the city at approximately 500 feet just after 8 P. M. ( 6 A. M. Eastern daylight time ) we could , see a score or more fires burning . We crisscrossed the town from north to south and from west to east and at 8:18 there was a tremendous explosion below us as the eastern span - of a railway bridge was blown up and collapsed beneath us . At this hour the highway bridge was still intact and there were a few American vehicles still visible inside the town that would be moved out before that span was dynamited . Spotted By Enemy Gunners Dense clouds of smoke rolled up , blotting out for minutes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to set behind the city . There was at least one indication of the enemy . Just as we made our last pass over the town there was a ? flash  --  unmistakably a muzzle flash of a heavy artillery or tank gun  --  pointed in our direction and we lost no time in putting distance between the town and our unarmed aircraft . There had been one major scare only a few , minutes before . Listening to the American radio directing the swift Shooting Star jet fighters and F-51 Mustangs working on the enemy vehicles and troop concentrations , one of our crew mistakenly heard a pilot mention in the area an LA-7 ( a Russian fighter ) and we dived suddenly to seek cover at a lower altitude in this rugged mountain terrain . Within seconds we found out that the talk had been about an L-17 , which is an American observation plane used for directing air strikes and quite harmless . Enemy guns were firing on the American convoys withdrawing from the city . From the air we deleted 47 lines Several villages were burning below @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ northward , the enemy dropped a salvo of phosphorous shells into one of the United States advanced positions just off the left wing tip . With Major James W. Ingram of Fieldon , Ill. , Fifth Air Force public information officer , at the controls of our four-passenger unarmed Beechcraft , we flew northward ' from the Chinju front along the Naktong River , which is a wide but not ' a deep stream running through a valley , flanked on both sides by rugged mountains whose approaches are steep and would be hard to climb in face of gunfire . Except on the southern sector where the line will be anchored on the sea somewhere between Masan and Chinju , and perhaps in Chinju itself if that city can , be retaken , the withdrawal of the American forces was general . As we flew over the area we could see truck columns speeding eastward . South and west of Taegu our plane turned westward for a brief period behind the enemy lines . Below us , Hyopchon , which the Americans lost two days ago , was aflame and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed from the air , that one main bridge near this town that had been scheduled for destruction by the American forces had not been destroyed . Earphone Conversations As we flew through the battle area I listened with earphones to conversations between American pilots and ground control officers representing both the artillery and the Air Force and got a momentary but impressive account of the Ifield day that the Air Force was enjoying against the enemy on a bright sunshiny day . Most of the talk did not specifically identify the town or areas in which the attacks were taking place , but herewith are some pertinent quotes from this overheard conversation : Pilot to ground control : " There 's deleted 48 lines                     