@@718140

txt President Eisenhower today killed a bill which would have authorized Illinois and the Chicago sanitary district to test for three years the effect of increasing the diversion of water from Lake Michigan into the Illinois waterway . The President vetoed a similar measure in 1954 , largely because of - objections by Canada to independent action on lake diversion by the United States . Mr. Eisenhower said in a memorandum of disapproval that the present bill was substantially the same in purpose and effect as the previously enacted legislation , in that it would authorize Illinois and the sanitary district to step up-the diversion rate from 1,500 to 2,500 cubic feet per second for the three year test period . Clean River Envisioned The present 1,500 cubic foot rate was fixed by the United States Supreme court in 1930 . Proponents of increased diversion contended it would speed the flow of sewage thru the Illinois waterway and provide a clean river downstate . Technically , Mr. Eisenhower did not kill the bill with an outright veto but withheld his approval thru a " pocket veto " as he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the President takes no action on a bill within 10 days after it reaches the White House for his consideration . Recalls 1954 Reasons The President recalled that when he vetoed the bill passed by the senate and house in 1954 , he said he couldnot give his approval because 1 all methods of control of lake levels and protection of property on the Great Lakes should be considered before arbitrarily proceeding with the proposed increased diversion , 2 the diversions are authorized without reference to negotiations with Canada , and 3 the legitimate interests of other states affected by the diversion may be adversely affected . The measure was sponsored by Sen. Dirksen R. , Ill. and Rep. O'Brien D. , Ill . . A " REAL DEFEAT " " The people of the Chicago metropolitan area have suffered a real defeat , " said Thomas H. Coulter . chief executive officer of the Chicago Association of Commerce and.Industry , when informed of the veto yesterday . Coulter took exception to the President 's vetoing the bill for the same reasons he gave in 1954 . He said the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ International Lake Ontario Board of Engineers , representing the United States and Canada , that diversion would cause only negligible loss in navigation and power .                     