@@718162

txt Indonesia 's neutralist Premier , Dr. Ali Sastroamidjojo , faced a political crisis today . Indonesian Army leaders ordered the arrest of a former Government official and were reported to have attempted to arrest the Foreign Minister . Rusian AbdUlzani . Government sources said two Army officers visited the Foreign Minister 's home ? before dawn yesterday to interrogate him after a senior Army commander had ordered an investigation into Mr. Abdulgani 's connection with a corruption case . One source said the two officers had orders to arrest the Foreign Minister , who was about to depart for the London conference on the Suez Canal . They left , however , after Dr. Ali had ordered the Army Chief of Staff , Gen. A. H. Nasution , to countermand their instructions , a Government source said . The Foreign Minister , who is a member of the Premier 's Nationalist party , departed for London later . It was announced today that the Army had arrested Sjamsuddin Sutan Makmur , Minister of Information in the preceding Government ; as part of an investigation of alleged Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with President Sukarno , Attorney General Supranto and other Cabinet ministers following the Army moves . A communiqu ? ' issued after a four-hour Cabinet meeting declared that the Government regarded yesterday 's " affair " as " very serious . " It said the . Cabinet had heard'a report from the Premier and " approved measures taken by him to overcome these developments . " A Government statement on the question was promised in Parliament for tomorrow evening . This developed after Parliament had approved a motion asking the Government to give it full details on the affair . It was a clash with the Army over the appointment of a new Chief of Staff that had led to the downfall of Dr. Ali 's Communist-backed first Government in July , 1955 . But the neutralist Premier returned to power last March after a September . general election , heading a coalition Government combining Indonesia 's three leading non-Communist parties . He then reasserted his determination to treat . both the West and the Communist world on the same basis . - The new military moves were revealed today with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spokesman said the former Minister of Information had been arrested on the orders of Colonel Kawilarang , commander of the West Java Military District , which includes Jakarta . This district is under s form of martial law because of rebel activities . The colonel issued a statement saying that he had ordered an investigation into Foreign Minister Abdulgani 's affairs yesterday . This was taken over by General Nasution , it was added , after consultation with the Attorney General . The investigation will be pressed " irrespective of persons or position , " the colonel said , and " appropriate action " will be taken . Both the arrest and the investigation were said to be connected with the earlier arrest on corruption charges of the deputy director of the Government printing house , Lie Hok Tai . Meanwhile , Colonel Kawilarang has been named - Indonesian military attach ? in Washington . The Premier today canceled a visit to Bandung to hand over the West Java command to the colonel 's successor . The Indonesian Army of 200 , - 600 has been kept on an active footing for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the nation 's political life .                     