@@716462

txt Republican leaders of the House'of Representatives said today they had drafted an amendment to the Senate-passed bill outlawing the Communist party that would meet the objections of the Administration. ? Representative Charles A. ' Halleck of Indiana , the Republican floor leader , said the amendment would not impair the Government 's present anti-subversives program , as Attorney General Herbert Brownell Jr . feared it would . The amendment will be offered on the House floor on Monday when the bill passed by the Senate on Thursday is- brought up for consideration . President ' Eisenhower was represented by aides again today as feeling strongly that the Senate version was unacceptable . Administration sources said the President felt that the measure would make martyrs of American Communists and would drive the party underground . Complete ? details of their amendment were not disclosed by the House leaders , nor would they say whether the Administration had indicated approval of it . The subject is sure to come up at the White House before the House meets , however , for Republican Congressional leaders are scheduled to hold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. M. Monday morning . Issue Called Nonpartisan Senator William F. jinowland , the Republican floor leader , told the Senate tonight he would tell President Eisenhower on Monday that Congress wanted a measure passed to outlaw the Communist party . The California Republican said he would be " very disappointed if there were returned to the Senate , legislation that does not contain a provision outlawing the Communist party . " He added the matter was not a " partisan " issue . The Senator did not go into Administration objections to the Senate-passed bill but said it was not the desire of the Senate to weaken the operation of present anti-Subversive laws . Senator Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas , the Democratic leader , told the Senate , meanwhile , that he was not in favor of nullifying the Senate-passed measure " in the guide of clarifying . " In discussing the proposed House amendment , the Republican leaders did say the object would be to strip from the measure , those provisions that might overlap or even destroy , in effect , the anti-Communist laws now on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provision in the Senate bill that would provide fines of up to $10,000 and jail ) sentences up to five years , or both , for anyone who " knowingly , willfully and intentionally " became or remained a party mem ber . It was the belief of some of // these leaders that this provision would render completely valueless provisions in the Internal Security Act of 1950 , which require that Communist organizations and their fronts register and supply membership lists and records . One of the questions raised by the House leaders was : How could anyone or any organization be expected to register and hence certify to criminal activity ? Another provision in the Senate bill which requires " proof of an overt act " in convicting anyone of Communist membership came under criticism by Republican leaders . This provision , they explained . would make it more difficult to prosecute Communists under the so-called " Smith Act , " which does not require proof of " overt acts " but merely proof of a " conspiracy " to teach and advocate the overthrow of this Government by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate provisions would " not strengthen the hand of the Government in its fight against communism nor would it add any legal weapon which the Department of Justice does not already have . " If they become law , he added , they would " wipe out four years of hard and successful work by the Subversives Activities Control Board , the F. B. I. and the Department of Justice . " Senator Homer Ferguson of Michigan , chairman of the Republican Policy Committee , who worked with Administration and House leaders in drafting the proposed House amendment , said the possible compromise might call for the elimination of the provisions making party membership a crime . Instead of flatly  --  outlawing the party , Senator Ferguson said , the measure might only take from the Communist party all its rights as a political party . This then would not make membership in itself a crime. , It is expected that one major provision in the Senate-passed bill would be retained by the House . That provision , which represents the original purpose of the bill , would deny bargaining services @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Subversive Activities Control Board that it was Communist-infiltrated . It was to this original bill on Communist-infiltrated organizations that Democrats Thursday night introduced the surprise amendments outlawing the Communist party and making membership itself a crime . As amended , the bill passed the Senate by an 85 to 0 vote . Republican leaders , fearful of being put in the position of blocking any anti-Communist laws of almost any kind in an election year , predicted House passage of the Senate-passed bill with the compromise amendment .                     