@@714285

txt Competitive position of Massachusetts industry is described as " very serious " in the controversial and long-suppressed Blanchard Report , the contents of which were made public today . John J. DelMonte , State Labor Commissioner , filed the report with the Legislature last night after defying the Senate order to make it public earlier , despite threats of being jailed for contempt . The survey , made for the Massachusetts Development and Industrial Commission by a New York marketing firm headed by Fessenden S. Blanchard , stated bluntly : " There is a widespread belief that the attitude of the Legislature and executive branches of the state government toward Massachusetts industries shows a lack of understanding , interest , and support . " In many cases , it is felt that even hostility to industry exists . Closer Contacts ' " Whether justified or not , the fact that this belief is held by so many of those whose decisions determine whether their companies are to stay in Massachusetts and expand or go elsewhere is of profound importance to the future welfare of the commonwealth . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and more frequent informal contacts between Massachusetts manufacturers and the state legislative and executive authority . " In addition , the report suggested " a moratorium on new legislation which would impose added competitive burdens Massachusetts industry . " Accompanying the survey was the annual report of the Development and Industrial Commission , which set forth that millions of dollars in annual payrolls are represented in new industrial plants and government laboratories started or announced during the year in Massachusetts . Three Copies Given Commissioner DelMonte handed out three copies of the survey which , according to advance reports , was supposed to have accused the Dever administration of being " hostile " to industry . The copies went to Governor Dever , Senator Richard I. Fur-hush ( R ) of Waltham . Senate President . and Representative Thomas P. O'Neill , Jr. , ( D ) of Cambridge . Speaker of the House . Goi7ernor Dever , after glancng through the 285-page report , and saying that he found no direct reference to him , added : " I am in agreement with many of its observations . This administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is growing in Massachusetts . " All said they wanted to look over the report more carefully before releasing statements to the press . Senator Philip G. Bowker ( R ) of Brookline said he still feels that Commissioner DelMonte should be cited for contempt for having previously refused to turn the report over to the Senate upon demand . Intent of the Law ' The State Supreme Court has been asked for an advisory opinion on whether the Senate has the power to cite the commissioner , but its decision has not been handed down as yet . When he filed the report last night , Commissioner DelMonte made the following statement : " ' When they finally let us alone , we carried out the intent of the law . In the future , we will make such reports required by law as will improve the competitive position of Massachusetts industry . " Critical as was the report of the legislative and executive authorities , the Blanchard Report did not spare industry either , citing that there was evidence that " Massachusetts industrialists have failed to do their part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Desirable ' Massachusetts ' advanced legislation , the report said , may be " socially desirable , " but has placed the state in many instances at a " serious competitive disadvantage " with some other states . " A rapidly rising state debt with its indication of the possibility of higher taxes , " the report added , " has lessened confidence in the financial responsibility of the political authorities . " " Industrial development is moving farther westward following the movement of the center of population and of markets , " the survey pointed out , adding that " this inevitably weakens the relative manufacturing positions of Massachusetts . " ikt the same time , the compilers of the survey said they had found " considerable evidence that some Massachusetts industries suffer from unprogressive , ultraconservative management . . . . " Recommendations in the report included the establishment of a Massachusetts Development Credit Corporation to encourage industries to give them " capital and credits beyond the usual banking aid . " Hiring of two additional field executives for " industrial contact work " in the Development and Industrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a full-time research staff .                     