@@718546

txt George Meanv is prepared to turn thumbs down on the latest plan for getting the International Longshoremen 's Association back into the main labor movement . The president of the American Federation of Labor and ConglTe5 of Industrial Organizations has made it clear to his aides tha t the ten-point- house cleaning program adopted by the pier union last Wednesday is not acceptable as a basis for affiliation with the merged labor movement . The I. L. A. was expelled from the old A. -F . L. ? in 1953 on charges of gangster domination . Mr. Means takes the position that . the exiled union can not return until it ejects the racketeers ' tvliosc malfeasance was exposed in the investigation by the New York State Crime Commission of waterfront corruption foul Yeats a go . llestrietionc field Likely Mr. Meany 's concern over the integrity of union officials was . echoed by key members o ! " ; he executive council of th " r , lerged , labor movement . It a p ) eared likely tonight that t:ie Nvoul d impose severe - estrictions. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in , congressiona invesrigations into labor ra cketi7e ! This iSS110 viiiserl by the reluctance of leaders of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters to answer qu'e ! stions before the Senate Permanent Subcom- ' mittee on Investigations in Washington last week . The program made public by the T. L. A. made no specific provision for the . ouster of any . official . However , it contained a number of proposals for reor. ? , anizing the union 's internal ' structure and it promised adherence to , he principles of the A. F. L.-C . I. 0 . constitution . This includes a strong condemnation of union racketeei Mg . Aimed at Port Strife Thc , program was drawn up by the Marithi ? Trades Department of the merged movement a basis for ending the jurisdictional strife that has plagued the Port of New York for three years . The department is made up of ten A. F. L.-C . I. 0 . maritime unions , including the two most bitter foes of the pier union . These are the International Brotherhood of Longshoremen and the Atlantic and Gulf @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the I. L. A. accepted the clean-up plan , the ma ritime department emphasized this implied no commitment that the ousted union would get hack into the labor movement . This position was affirmed here today at the midwinter meeting of the departrnen 's executive council . Harry E. O'Reilly , executive secretary , treasurer of the department said any position taken by Mr , Meany and the national leadership of the federation Would be controlling on his group . He stressed that the department itself had not officially endorsed the I. L. A. reform program . The department 's general attitude , he said , was that it was up to the I. L. A. to " show that actions speak louder than words . " Mr. Meany had nothing Officially to say on the plan . today . But he was not reluctant to reveal his opinion to associates . He told one that he considered the program a " lot of ba'oney . " To another he asked the rhetorical question , " Who 's kidding who ? " It was understood that he intended to reject the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not even put the matter before the A , I. 0 . high command for consideration in any form at its meeting in the Monte Carlo Hotel here next week . Mr. Meany never has made any secret of his distaste for such I. L. A. leaders as Thomas ( Teddy ) Gleason , the union 's chief organizer ; Anthony ( Tough Tony ) Anastasia , chieftain of the Brooklyn docks , and Harold Bowers , head of the " Pistol Local " on the upper West Side docks in Manhattan . All three were among the principal negotiators of the house-cleaning plan . The federation president is inclined to regard the new maneuver to restore the pier union as a fresh outcropping of the longstanding feud between the Maritime Trades Department , made up of former A. F. L. unions , and the National Maritime Union , chief waterfront affiliate Of the old C. I. 0 . Last October Mr , Meany had occasion to speak sharply to Joseph Curran , president of the maritime union and a vice president , of the merged labor group , for trafficking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a letter Mr. Curran had released to the press just before 22,000 New York and New Jersey longshoremen were to choose between the outcast union and its A. F. L.-C . I. 0 . rival in a National Labor Relations Board election . Record Is Cited . The . letter protested the support given by the International Brotherhood of Longshoremen . After the I. L. A. won , Mr. Meany accused Mr , Curran of helping hoodlums to keep control of the harbor and suggested . that he quit the Ethical Practices Committee set up by the federation . Mr. Curran , pointing to his long record of clean unionism in the C. I. 0. , insisted that his sole aim was to establish a foundation for action by the I. L. ' A , from within . The longshoremen to purify the whole issue is expected to subside here next week . A more difficult problem for the merged group will he a solution of the row between the Curran union and the Maritime Trades Department . This stems from the unionization of the coal-carrying fleet being I put together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coal industry . Mr. Meany will confer with officials of both factions in the next few days in an effort to halt the picket lines , court actions and Labor Board proceedings that have stemmed from rival organizing claims .                     