@@718327

txt Letters to The Times ALBERT SIMARD.RAPHAEL YAVNEH.SIDNEY GOLDBERG.ISIDORE LIPSCHUTZ.RALPH DELL'ABATE . Letters to The Times Clothing of School Children To THE EDITOR OF THE New YORK TIMES : I read with dismay both the article about the banning of " rough " clothes by the Southampton , L. I. , school and the letter of Marta Saubidet concerning it . Respect does n't have very much to do with the clothing one wears . Of late there has been too great an emphasis on form as opposed to content . Rough clothes are generally easier on the budget ( both in initial cost and in upkeep ) and are far more suited to the needs of chiidren in school . That a child is clean , warm and comfortable is of greater importance than what he is wearing . RAPHAEL YAVN Eli . New York , Nov. 6 , 1956 . Democratic . And senator Wayne Morse , the number one Republica* target , " the man that must be beat , en at all costs , " survives to face MI opponents with increased yip% Far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result such as thin merely points up the party weak . ness . If Congress can not be wort with the enormous momentum of President Eisenhower , what promise can there be for 1958 or 1960 , when the magic name no longer appear on the ballot ? SIDNEY GOLDBERG , Worcester , Mass. , Nov , T , 1955 . Our Policy Criticized Israeli-Arab Relations Should B. Examined , It Is Felt To THE EDITOR " OF THE NEW YORK Times : That the United Nations should be concerned with what is now occur ? ring in the Middle East is natural and imperative , for it truly affect " world peace and security . But the problem is not merely to judge Israel alone . Indeed this was not even part of the problem . What has to be done by the United Nations is to examine the entire question of Israeli-Arab rela ? tions . Unfortunately , our Govern . ment , which initiated action through the United Nations , distorted the real issues and gave the people the general impression that the Israeli move was all that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completely beclouds the basic issues at stake and this in turn precludes art equitable solution which would establish peace and justice among the countries of the Middle East . How can one explain the United States ' attitude ? Certainly it can not be due to a lack of information as to what has been occurring in the Middle East over these past years . The papers have been replete with the stories of Arab incursions into Israel . Nasser himself has shown no inhibition in his public statements denouncing Israel as an interloper . On one occasion he bluntly told the world " the only solution is Israel 's disappearance . " Why did our State Department continue to send millions of dollars worth of strategic material to Egypt in the face of Nasser 's brutal Oda &; ration of eternalwar against Israel ? , Was this action predicated on the hope that appeasement would mollify the Egyptian dictator 's predatory designs ? Certainly the history of Hitler and his blunt warnings in " Mein Kamp " should have dispelled all illusions on that score . Yet these portentous signs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a situation whereby we are sitting at the same table with Soviet Russia and cast our vote against our most reliable friends . Surely the American people deserve a better fate . IsmoRE LiPsCHUTZ . New York , Nov. 2 , 1956 . Backing U. N. Authority To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : From 1938 to 1944 I lived in the United States . During that time I heard a good deal of criticism of my country , some of it justified , some of it not , all of it painful . Now the censure incurred by the criminal folly of the British Government is agonizing but welcome to me and millions of my fellow-citizens , and I write to beg your readers not to spare us . Indignation at home and the sternest reprobation abroad may yet bring good out of this evil : there is profound misgiving even in the Conservative party . The old brash imperialism has few supporters now . Complete and ignominious defeat may prove its death blow . Most important of all : the crisis has awakened here , and I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the moral authority of the United Nations , under which we quiver with shame , must be backed by supranational force . P. H. SPENCE . Morwenstown , North Cornwall , England , Nov. 3 , 1956 . Keeping Subway Cars Clean To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I noticed a new poster on the Lexington Avenue local , showing cars being maintained " While New York Sleeps . " However it is quite appar ? ent that no one bothers to clean the window sills , floors or seats . The new red seats are practically black now and are often torn . With all the money the Transit Authority is spending on new cars , I hope that they do something about improving the design and materials , RALPH DELL'ABATE . New York , Nov . Li , 1956 . Nazism in Egypt Charged German Group Said to Serve as Key Advisers to Regime To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW , YORK TIMES C. L. Sulzberger 's column dealing with Communist influence and infiltration in Egypt ( New York Times , Oct. 29 ) was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public be made aware of the facts cited with regard to Russia 's effprts to encourage " Nasser to undermine the West . " However , there are other dangerous elements besides the minions of Moscow who are supporting and working with the Nasser regime . We have in mind the hundreds of neoNazis , Pan-Germans and war criminals who , shortly after World War II , found a haven in Egypt . They were able to infiltrate important positions in Egypt 's economy and military set-up . They served as key advisers to Nasser 's predecessors and , of course , they continue this role under the present Egyptian dictatorship . Career of Wilhelm Voss It is not without significance , we believe , that key German agents in Egypt are reported to be in close touch with the Bonn Government officials . For example , the former Nazi Wilhelm Voss , who held a leading position in . Hitler 's war economy , began his career in Egypt at the urgent recommendation of the German Federal Government in February , 1951 . Voss was appointed by General Naguib as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the chief adviser to the War Ministry in Egypt . More than fifty German military and armament experts have been employed under his command . The popular German magazine Der Spiegel in its issue of Oct. 26 , 1955 , discussing Voss ' relationship to the Bonn Government , noted that he kept in intimate contact not only with Adenauer 's chief , diplomatic aides , Dr. Blankenhorn and Professor Hallstein , but also with the highest officers in the Bonn Defense Ministry . Am under Hitler , German industrialists and militarists , have again ensconced themselves in Egypt , where they can fish in troubled waters to Germany 's advantage . Even Der Spiegel admits that " Adenauer 's leading diplomats have laid themselves open to the charge that they must share to a considerable extent in the tactical victory gained by the Bolsheviks in the Near and Middle.East . " In Mr. Sulzberger 's references to German activity in Egypt he characterized Dr. Johann von Leers , political adviser to Egypt 's information bureau , as an " East German professor fully approved by his own Communist regime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Goebbels ' trusted propagandists , was hired by the Nasser regime through the intercession of the exMufti of Jerusalem . As is known , the ex-Mufti closely collaborated with Hitler in the Nazis ' designs in the Middle East . He was also a key figure in the Nazis ' plans for the wholesale extermination of European Jewry . Activities of Mufti Before coming to Cairo from Argentina von Leers was the editor of the notorious German language monthly Der Weg in Buenos Aires , which is dedicated to the perpetuation of the Nazi brand of antiSemitism . It is noteworthy that the ex-Mufti welcomed von Leers to Egypt and thanked him " for venturing to take tip the battle against the power of darkness that has become incarnate in world Jewry . " It is a fact that von Leers ' past activities have been closely linked with those Germans who glorify Hitler 's Third Reich and its bloody deeds against humanity . We believe the American people would welcome a complete picture of the evil forces which are turning the Middle East into a caldron of hatred against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 , 1956 . Republican Weakness Seen To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I am amazed at . the jubilance displayed by the Republicans over the election results . Just what are they cheering about 7 What did they accomplish ? True , President Eisenhower was re-elected . But even Leonard Hall must admit that it was a vote for Ike and not for the Republican party . Where is the vote of confidence the Republicans are claiming ? In most other countries such an election result would automatically put into office the leader of the opposition party .                     