@@714228

txt Acting Mayor Joseph T. Sharkey sought yesterday to end the crippling four-day-old wildcat longshoremen 's strike as it assumed a semi-official aspect . This was caused by an announcement by John J. ( Gene ) Sampson , leader of Chelsea dock workers and a power within the union , that he would take over leadership of the strike . Mr. Sharkey ordered Daniel Kornblum , city labor relations director , to take swift steps to settle the unauthorized walkout and directed Police Commissioner George P. Monaghan " to arrest all hoodlums with criminal records on the waterfront " and prevent violence . Stressing the tie-up at the Army Port of Embarkation in Brooklyn , Mr. Sharkey told Mr. Monaghan and Mr. Kornblum : " Vital supplies for our . fighting men on the Korean front must move immediately . You have the full power of the City Administration behind you . Move swiftly and use all fa ' cilities to settle the dispute . " Later Mr. Kornblum said he had been in touch with the Army base 1 and that he would try to arrange for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hadl conferred also with union officials but did not disclose the results of these talks . Meanwhile , the strike continued and its paralyzing effects threatened to spread . Thirty-six piers Were reported idle , three more than on Wednesday , and thirtyfour ships , six of them passenger liners , were immobilized . Mr. Sampson 's entrance as champion of the striking dock workers was no surprise . Long a rival of Joseph P. Ryan , president of the International Longshoremen 's Association , A. F. L. , the boss of the Chelsea piers has directed four wildcat strikes in six years . He is considered the outstanding contender for Mr. Ryan 's position , even though Mr. Ryan holds a " lifetime " presidency . Mr. Sampson defended the strikers and assailed Mr. Ryan by in-ference , " I 'm sick and tired of these references to Communism that emanate from Ryan 's headquarters and elsewhere , " Mr. Sampson said . " These men who refuse to work are more patriotic than any of their critics . If the critics were half as patriotic and honest we would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was proceding , Mr. Sampson replied : " Fine . It 's spreading . We are having a mass meeting at 1 P. M. Saturday at Manhattan Center Eighth Avenue and Thirty-fourth Street and we 've invited all the strikers in both Brooklyn and Manhattan . " Two other developments followed Mr. Sampson 's statement . Harry Bridges , left-wing leader of Pacific Coast longshoremen , whom Mr. Ryan accused of inciting the Brooklyn walkout , announced that he would discuss the dispute at a press conference at 2 P. M. today at the Piccadilly Hotel . A short time later . Mr. Ryan issued a plea to the strikers to return to work . In a printed notice to all locals he called the walkout a " body blow at national economy and to the defense and security of our country . " Mr. Ryan said that thousands of copies of the notice would be distributed along the waterfront today . Anastasia Asked to Get Out A Brooklyn waterfront official said meanwhile that the notorious Anastasia brothers , Anthony and Gerardo , had been asked by Mr. Ryan 's office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end the strike . The walkout originated over dissatisfaction with a two-year contract ratified by a majority of the union membership last Thursday . The pact covers longshoremen from Portland , Me. , to Hampton Roads , Va . Most of the strikers are members of locals that voted against ratification . After a morning meeting between leaders of dissident factions in Manhattan and Brooklyn , six Hudson River locals held a joint strategy meeting at Pier 45 , Hudson River . The locals involved were 791 , 895 , 1,258 and 1,124 , These locals , as well as Locals 808. and 968 in Brooklyn , had voted against ratification of the contract , which was negotiated with 173 employing stevedores . Officials of the locals intimated that nothing short of reopening of the contract would end the walkout . The strikers , they said , in both boroughs would hold out for the demands made at the start of negotiations early iQ September . These included a 25-cent-an-hour pay increase instead of the 10 cents won in bargaining , the limit permitted by the Wage Stabilization Board formula ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the four-hour guarantee in the new contract , and greater vacation benefits , The basic pay rate is $2.10 an hour under thej new agreement . Of the thirty-six idle piers ? 1 nineteen were in Manhattan , 1 stretching along the Hudson River from Battery Place to West Fiftyseventh Street . The erratic nature ' of the walkout was indicated by the fact that locals , virtually all of whose members were supposedly on strike , were working some piers and bypassing others . The Norwegian America liner Oslofjord sailed at noon , as scheduled , from strikebound Pier 42 at Morton Street . However , office employes and company officials had to help carry luggage and handle the gangway . The American Export liner Constitution sailed from Pier 84 , but her berth was unaffected by the strike . passengers booked had been ap ? prised of the situation by telephone Farrell Lines , operators of the African Enterprise , which was to leave today for South Africa , still hope to get the vessel away on schedule . The Panama sailing was previously canceled , the Cristobal is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being made to move the Veragua . Twelve cargo ships have been diverted during the four-day strike to unaffected piers and half a dozen sailings have been canceled . In Brooklyn twenty ships lay idle at seventeen piers . Included were those at the Army base , Bush Terminal , Fifty-seventh Street and from Twenty-ninth to Thirty-fifth Streets . Despite the seriousness of the spreading walkout , at least twothirds of the piers in the port are still active . These include berths along the Hudson , the East River in Manhattan , and piers in Brooklyn , New Jersey and Staten Island . At the Army base six ships still lay idle and cargo continued to pile up , much of it described as " vital " and hound for military installations Abroad . Brig . Gen. Edward H. Lastayo , commanding general of the base , stressed that he had made no request for authority to use troops in moving the material . He said full use is being made of Army terminals in Staten Island and at , Caven Point , N. J. Meanwhile , amid rumors of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with 915 and 1,146 passengers respectively , are due in port today . The United States Lines announced that the America would be diverted to Pier 17 , Rosebank , S. I. , but that the Washington would be docked at Pier 61 , Hudson River , which is struck . The Argentine line Rio Jachal , scheduled to dock late today at Pier 25 , Hudson River , has been diverted to Pier 18 , Brooklyn , which is not struck . When the Navy transport Gen. M. L. Hersey arrived at Pier 10 , Stapleton , S. I. , with 1,370 displaced persons , their baggage , ninety tons in all , was unloaded . The passengers were transferred by ferryboat to the Liberty Street terminal of the Central Railroad of New Jersey in New York . The Gen. R. M. Blatchford , another Navy transport bearing 1,222 refugees and due here tomorrow , has been diverted to Boston . Passenger ships already immobilized include the Santa Paula , Veragua , Panama , Cristobal and African Enterprise . The Santa Paula was to have sailed today , but line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before Monday and that the 200 sible clashes , police strengthened their forces along the ' strikeboundi waterfront from South Brooklyn to Bay Ridge . A hundred uniformed men and detectives were sent into the area yesterday morning . A late tally showed the number of locals now involved in the strike to be nine . They were locals 791 , 856 , 895 , 1124 and 1258 in Manhattan and 327 , 388-1 , 808 and 968 in Brooklyn . The Post Office removed mail ' from eleven additional strikebound vessels and admitted that there was a growing backlog of overseas mail , which is being diverted to unaffected ships as rapidly as possible .                     