@@713704

txt WASHINGTON , March 14 ? The Air Force , short of second lieutenants , announced today that it would order to active duty all Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps students graduating from college this year . These will total about 8,100 . In other military manpower developments the House Armed Services Committee today decided to make eligible for the draft , and for universal training eventually , men with only wives as dependents . The military manpower bill passed by the Senate last week contained a similar provision . House committee leaders said that progress had been so slow in reporting a bill to the House that it was unlikely that the manpower measure could be passed before the Easter recess starts on March 22 . Congress will resume sessions April 2 . Emphasizing the need of younger officers , from a long range planning standpoint , Air Force spokesmen said all seniors in the R.O.T.C. program would be commissioned and ordered to active duty within 120 days after graduation . Air Force R. 0 . T. C. students who were graduated in January and February @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between ninety and 120 days of grace after their commissioning , which in most cases follows graduation closely . Students who complete the four-year Air Force R. 0 . T. C. course and who are graduated in May and June will receive ninety days . All R. 0 . T. C. second lieutenants will be encouraged to volunteer for flying training or for a limited number of training opportunities for one-year graduate courses in meteorology . Those students who volunteer for flying training or the advanced meteorology study will be required to serve for three years of active duty following completion of training . Air Force spokesmen asserted there were virtually no second lieutenants on the . Reserve rolls , and even though there were Reservists in flying status waiting to go oh active duty , planners had to consider the advancing years of Reservists . At a short session today , the House committee considered questions of deferment in the manpower bill . The committee approved its previous decision not to adopt t4 Senate provision under which a maximum of 75,000 specialized students in engineering , medicine , research and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basic training , during each of the first three years of the proposed new Selective Service System . Instead , it would retain the language of the existing draft law , under which the President may defer " any category or categories of students for such periods of time as he may deem appropriate . " The Senate bill would place the selection of the 75,000 in the hands of a special commission of educators . The House committee took the position that , by placing discretion on such students in the hands of the President , it would be exercised in effect by the local draft boards . The committee members appeared to have more confidence in selection of students by the boards than by a Federal commission ? sitting in Washington . ' The committee decided today to authorize deferment of high school students until they had been graduated or had attained the age of 20 , or had ceased to pursue their studies satisfactorily , whichever was earliest . College students , on the other hand , could only be deferred until the end of the academic year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be granted only under special Presidential regulations . In the case of all deferments , the man would remain legally liable until the age of 34 to complete his required military service .                     