@@717571

txt Senator Estes Kefauver announced today that he would enter the New Hampshire primary . He challenged Adlai E. Stevenson to oppose him there . The Tennessee Democrat , who announced his candidacy for the Democratic Presidential nomination Friday , also said he was looking into the possibility of meeting the former Illinois Governor in the Minnesota primary . So far the two are scheduled to engage in only one primary showdown . This is in the contest June 5 for California 's sixty-1 eight convention votes . Mr. Stevenson , the Acknowledged front-runner , has announced plans to run in Illinois , Pennsylvania and Florida as I well as Minnesota and Cantor- , nia . Test Viewed as Unlikely Political observers here consider it unlikely that he will accept Mr. Kefauver 's challenge in New Hampshire . If he did he would run the risk of being beaten in a state where Democrats in 1952 gave the Tennessean more votes than former President Truman . The New Hampshire primary is the first in the nation . It will I be held March 13 . At his news @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been reached whether to enter the New Hampshire test . But he added that his political associates knew how much he liked it up there . He also hinted that he might enter the Florida primary . On the Columbia Broadcasting System 's program " Face the , Nation " the Senator said today , he " definitely " planned to go into tke state an5i hoped " Mr. Stevenson aid anyone else will not be prejudiced against the cold and snowy water " there . He thereby replied in kind to Mr. Stevenson , who in effect had challenged Mr. Kefauver to primary tests with his comment , after the Kefauver announcement of " Come on in ; the water 's fine . " As for the Minnesota primary March 20 , Mr. Kefauver said he thought he had a " fighting chance " there although the state party leadership was declared for Mr. Stevenson . " I have been receiving a lot of calls and a lot of letters from Minnesota that they want me to come up and they will support ime , " he added . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resent a little- bit the fact that all of the organized political machinery did come out for one person , which makes it very difficult for the voters . to have a choice , because that kind of freezes the other people nt . " He said he planned to talk to Minnesota . politicians tonight and tomorrow before deciding wheth1 er to enter the primary there . In the mealtime , Senator Barry Goldwater , Republican of Arizona , said Senator Kefauver would be the most difficat Dem ocrat for the Republicans to beat . On the National Broadcasting Company 's program " Youth Wants to Know " the chairman of , the Senate Republican Campaign Committee said that Mr. Kefauver was closer to . the " conservative view " adopted by the country since President Eisenhower had taken office . In another development the Republican National Committee announced plans to hold Salute to Eisenhower dinners Jan. 20 in fifty-one cities . The committee said the dinners would be linked by a closed-circuit telecast lasting one hour . They will start Republican fund-raising efforts for the 1956 campaign and mark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President of Americans for Democratic Action said the organization would welcome the candidacy of Chief Justice Earl Warren for President on the Republican ticket . Joseph L. Rauh Jr. , appearing , on N. B. C. 's " Meet the Press , " said that if Mr. Warren ran against Mr. Stevenson , Governor Harriman or Mr. Kefauver it would be a most difficult choice for A .. D. A. He said it might back one of the men , neither , or both . The A. D. A. , which describes itself as a nonpartisan , antiCommunist organization , usually has suported Democrats . In his television appearance , Mr. Kefauver said he felt that President Eisenhower would be the strongest candidate the Republicans could have . He said that if the President decides to retire but delays his announcement until " just before the convention " such action would work to the interest of Vice President Richard M. Nixon . The senator said he favored increasing personal , income tax exemptions from the present $600 to $700 to give some tax relief . The Treasury estimates such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether he would favor the admission of ComMunist China to the United Nations , he said he did not think the Pieping regime had shown evidence of being a " decent member of the family of nations or entitled to our support anywhere along the line , at this time . " He also asserted the repudiated Dixon-Yates power contract should be presented to a Federal grand jury to determine whether the criminal code had been violated .                     