@@716117

txt Boston social agencies see a great need for paid recreational directors to help combat juvenile delinquency in public housing projects . The biggest obstacle to securing such directors , according to the agencies , is the Massachusetts law which prevents the Commonwealth from granting funds to private agencies . Social workers want to see this law repealed . Both private and public organizations are eager to send extension workers into the housing developments but do not have the money needed to hire the additional staff . These and related matters are being discussed by representatives of Red Feather , public , and private social agencies at the first conference of the Recreation , Informal Education and Group Work Division of United Community Services . The conference began yesterday and will conclude today . Fertile Ground for Gangs These findings of Boston social workers follow testimony last January before the United States Senate subcommittee investigating juvenile delinquency which held hearings in the city . Frederic B. Taylor , chairman of the Boston Citizens Fact-Finding Committee on Juvenile Delinquency , told the Senate subcommittee that some of the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its public housing developments . In entryways which house perhaps 52 children , he said , " you have ready-made gangs . " At the hearings District Attorney Garrett H. Byrne urged that state and federal funds be made available for adequate recreational facilities and leadership for public housing projects . Service Projects Cited Yesterday Miss Ann Comerford , of the Boston Housing Authority , told a workshop meeting of the conference that there is considerable social service activity in the developments . She said Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts , girls ' clubs , tenant associations , men 's groups , and women 's groups are meeting in the project . " But is this enough ? " she asked . The Boston Housing Authority lends its moral support to all these activities , Miss Comerford reported , and makes available to tenants lists of active agencies and maps indicating nearby social service centers . The conference was told that in some housing projects in New York City social agencies , under contract to the state and with state funds , provide professional group leadership in recreation centers . Lack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the state pays recreation directors to work in public housing projects both day and evening on a shift basis . . Mark Fortune of the Cambridge Planning Board reported that the principal difficulty in the projects was the lack of privacy for the individual . Crowded into apartments where virtually every inch of space is used for living , children and adults , he said , " have little opportunity for quietude and meditation " either indoors or outdoors . The public housing projects , Mr. Fortune said , are densely populated with young families , many of whom are on public welfare rolls , and many of whom have court records . The rate of juvenile delinquency in the projects is " extremely high . " he said .                     