@@713887

txt Letters to The Times GEORGE F. BAUER , MARTIN W. WILMINGTON , T.K. BAGRATION , ISRAEL KORAL , A.R . SURITZ .... Letters to The Times Money Revaluation Opposed rA Setback for World Commerce Feared if Stability of Values Is Improved To THE EDITOR OF THE New YORK TIMES : In connection with your editorial entitled " Currency Revaluation , " allow me , as one engaged in foreign trade , to parallel the stand taken by Secretary of the Treasury Snyder and your newspaper in opposition to upward revaluation of monetary units as recently proposed by the United Nations Economic Commission . A money unit , to be helpful in international commerce , must be a stable measure of values . It can not be a short ruler one moment and a longer ruler shortly thereafter . A gold standard must be fixed ; a standard of values , for purposes of world commerce , needs to be fixed in terms of a definite quantity of gold . Otherwise no one can calculate with any certainty in what kind of a unit a business transaction is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time of payment . Not so long ago the Canadian dollar was devalued . Suddenly those in the United States to whom Canadian dollars were due possessed money units each of which was worth only 90 cents in United States currency , although commercial calculations may have been made previously on the basis that it was to be worth one United States dollar . Here , then , was a loss of 10 cents on every Canadian dollar held by a United States firm . Surely such experiences do not warrant investments of long-range caliber and of vital importance in development of world commerce on a sound basis . Now the reverse is proposed without recognition of the effects on the conduct of commerce . It is planned to increase the values of certain European currencies when expressed in United States money by some percentage not as yet specified by the U. N. E. C. If the appreciation were to be 10 per cent , European holders of American dollars , as a result of credits extended to importers of goods to our country , would find , through no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent less . of European currencies available than was originally calculated . The International Monetary Fund sets forth a more praiseworthy objective in the form of fewer exchange restrictions . While it is vital for a sound and efficient conduct of world business to have exchange restrictions removed as among Government agencies of various countries , it is even more vital that individual business men as potential lenders be relieved of restrictions on their rights to exchange currencies on the basis of respective gold contents . It is through the multiplication of efforts by millions of individual business men to buy and exchange all units of money on the basis of fixed gold content in order to engage properly in long-term transactions that a sound development of world commerce without constant inroads into taxpayers ' money will be achieved . The International Monetary Fund has an excellent opportunity of aiding in that endeavor by bringing about the establishment of currency units that entitle all holders to definite amounts of gold . GEORGE F. BAUER , Vice Chairman , New York Board of Trade . New York , June 7 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NEW YORK TIMES : The letter of A. Seidl to THE NEW YORK TIMES on the Iranian Oil issue illustrates the confusion caused by the misuse of the term " nationalization " for certain acts of economic nationalism in Asia . The parallel between nationalization in Britain and what you rightly called expropriation in Iran is irrelevant . In its commonly accepted usage , nationalization involves the transfer of private enterprises in a specific country to Government ownership , usually for the reason that private operation allegedly is contrary to the public interest . The issue in Iran and other countries of Asia , however , is the transfer of industry from foreign to native ownership . The fact that the state is the transferee is merely incidental and is explained by the fact that in Iran , like in most other countries of Asia , there is no entrepreneurial class able and willing to shoulder the responsibilities heretofore carried by foreign capital . The use of proper terminology would greatly help the discussion of issues such as the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company case . I suggest that the term " naturalization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transfer of foreign firms to native control , at least where mutual agreement I of all parties exists , as in the case of Argentina 's purchase of the Britishcontrolled railroads . In the case of outright unilateral seizure , which the Iranian policy exemplifies , a word no milder that " annexation " best conveys the nature of the action taken , especially for those familiar with the vocabulary of international relations . MARTIN W. WILMINGTON1 Instructor of Economics and International Relations , Pace College . New York , June 3 , 1951 . Report on Soviet Georgia Questioned To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The report from Moscow " Tension Is Absent in Georgia , " by Harrison E. Salisbury in THE NEW YORK TIMES of June 6 , is not helping the purpose of giving good information on the Soviet Union . We have no doubt that what is related in the article is true . But it is not the whole truth and induces innocent readers to reach the conclusion suggested by the title . Obviously new buildings in Tiflis are modern and could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twelfth century . Certainly Mr. Salisbury never lacked " food and wine , " since for Georgians " every guest is given by God . " Why does n't Mr. Salisbury say that he could contact only secret police agents , since Soviet citizens are forbidden to have any contact with for-eigners ? Soviet citizens must work from sunrise to . sunset for their living ; two months for a coat and two weeks for a pound of meat . They must vote for the designated Communist candidate and they live under the constant terms of the ominous knock on the door in the dead of night . More than one million Soviet ( lit ? zens preferred to vote with their feel against the Soviet regime and take refuge in other countries . They cer ? tainly disagree with Mr. Salisbury and undoubtedly so do those who live undo Soviet domination . Knowing that a foreign correspond . ent living in the U. S. S. R. can not give a truthful report on events in the Soy viet paradise , would n't it be better 1.4 wait for Mr. Salisbury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? ' I ' . K. BAGRATIoN , President , Georgian-American League Inc . New York , June 11 , 1951 . Protecting Public Employes Creation of Labor Relations Board for Civil Service Advocated To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In your editorial of June 8 " The Ure rewarded Meek " you make the point very effectively , that the Condon-Wad ' lin Law , forbidding strikes by govern ' mental employes , morally implies 1 corollary  --  namely , the employers ( the people , the government ) must behave with " scrupulous conscience " toward their employes . However , I submit that you do nor go far enough in asking the Mayor t " appoint a citizens ' committee that would give , from time to time , a sym. pathetic hearing to city employes , pub . lish its findings and submit them si ' multaneously to the Board of Estimate for action . " The way in which Mayor Impellit. teri has treated the report of the Meyer committee on teachers ' salaries shows the need of a body with more authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . What is needed is something that would de for the public employes what the Nay tional Labor Relations Act has done for employes of private business . Nothing has depressed the morale and degraded the dignity of public ern. ployes so much as the contrast between the respect with which the representatives of labor . unions are treated by both employers and public officials and the shabby treatment given to representatives of organizations of public employes by their employers , the government . Witness the case you mention , the refusal of the Mayor to see the spokesmen of the High School Teachers Association . We should have set up by law a Civil Service Labor Relations Board with powers paralleling those of the N. L. R. B. In cases of dispute its recommendations should be presented directly to the Board of Estimate . But , unlike a voluntary citizens ' committee , it would not go out of existence after making its report , thus making it easy for the Mayor to ignore it . ISRAEL KORAL , Chairman , Mathematics Department , Boys ' High School . Brooklyn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Seen To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The dog-eat-dog sales tactics of the giant retailers may cause manufacturers to turn joyful somersaults , but we must remember that the factories supplying the brand-name goods have not reduced their prices . What happens to the thousands of small retailers  --  or does the fate of these hard-working merchants become of no concern to the public ? The small merchant is the backbone of the distribution system of our country . Without him the factories can not run and the farmer can not market his products . Are the price-cutting actions of the multi-million-dollar stores in the best interest of our country ? I firmly be. , lieve these methods will plant the seeds of depression , What happens to bit prestige of the brand-name goods ? think every merchant should write to the manufacturers whose products and goods will have been damaged by the reckless price war brought on by the merchant princes , asking them to refuse to make delivery of their goods to those stores indulging in these unfair Bales practices , A. R. SIJRITZ . Rock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Islands of the Pacific To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : What 's all this nonsense about some island in the far Pacific being vi.435 to our defense ? While the Second World War was in progress , at one period Japan had practically every island and group of islands in the Pacific : Formosa , the Philippines , the East Indies , Gilberts , Marianas , etc . Let 's have some straight thinking . CHARLES HOGAN . New York , June 11 , 1951.                     