@@713635

txt A little more than two months age as President Truman prepared to declare a state of emergency we vigorously opposed such a step . We think the time has come to review what has grown out of that declaration . We now have price and wage controls . We have ever-increasing regulations en the use of materials for industrial production . And what else bas happened ? We have suffered a productiondestroying railroad strike , ended only by drastic Army order . The nation lives in fear that any day : side " workers may again prevent the transportation wheels from turning . Last Friday many thousands of workers did n't show up at woolen and worsted mills . They want pay increases which ca n't , be granted under the wage control regulation and even if they could the mill men ask : How can we pay such wages without raising prices which are frozen ? So orders for Army uniforms and blankets go unfilled , as do those for civilian goods . How many more such strikes may come in the weeks ahead , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And the giant United Auto Workers-C.I.O. has warned that strikes will happen if wage control efforts get in the way of contracted-for pay increases . The whole wage control mechanism . in fact . was short-circuited when three labor'union leaders quit as members of the Wage 3d6 on Board . They ai n't like time terms for thawing the wage frees . But that is not all In their abortive effort to hold down prices , the amtrailers left free at the farm level the biggest segment of any family 's espensee  --  tha cost of food- And why ? Farm voters must not be annoyedThere 's no way to measure how much confusion and waste man-hours have been caused by Washington 's attempts to control our economy . Two carpet makers have halted sales until they can get official approval of higher prices . Imports of some goods have been halted . And faced with a " state of emergency . " price and wage controls that would n't control , and endless materials regulations , the whole country has been whipped into a frenzy of buying . Manufacturer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buying has soared . What else was to be expected ? Two months ago there was no national emergency . But since then , as all this experience shows . we have had a lesson in how to synthesize one .                     