@@718287

txt United States leadership of the free world as well as an expanding United States econ : - omy will be better able to maintain its dynamic forward movement in a climate of tariff reduction than in a climate of tariff increases , according to a report submitted here to Congress by the Committee for Economic Development . American tariff policy is now " inextricably involved " in our foreign ' policy , according to the report submitted by James D. Zellerbach , president of the Crown Zellerbach Corporation and chairman of the CED board of trustees , to the House Ways and Means Committee . ary tariff policy , of the United States a step further . After tracing four past " phases " it declares that the United States has now reached a summit of economic and international power where a fifth phase must be pushed both to aid domestic self-interest and the interest of the free world . ? Western allies ca n't buy all the United States goods they want because they ca n't get the dollars t they need from selling their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out . The report implies that the United States ' commanding ' ' economy now calls the tune for the free world with trade liberalization as the key note . Lead Awaits ? US . " The United States is the strongest nation of the free world , and as such it has the responsibility to take the lead in lowering import barriers and freeing world trade , " the report says . This would help the United States ' own economy , the report insists , and would raise United States wage levels and living standards . Sales of foreign goods in the United States largely pay for the purchases of . United States goods abroad . The world ca n't buy our farm surpluses unless we buy something in return . Furthermore , says the report , major allies of the United States are more dependent on foreign trade than we are . American imports make only 3 per cent ' of our own gross national product , but for France the percentage is 10 per cent , for Japan , 11.5 per cent , Italy 12 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent . " The future economic growth and health of many countries depend , in considerable part , on expanding their trade with each other and with us . " Specific Action Asked The report is specific on what should be done . " The ' first " requirement , it says , is to " minimize uncertainty " about the course . of United States tariff policy . Clear assurances of downward direction should be given . The CED does n't advocate free trade . It says some protection of some industries is needed . But it advocates : Ex.twsion ' . the Presiderit 's trade agreements authority ( the right to make ' reciprocal tariff concessions ) to " at least five years , " instead of the present three years . Unused presidential authority to lower tariffs ( now fixed at 5 per cent a year ) should not expire at the end of the year , but should be extended . Presidential discretionary authority should be extended in other directions . The CED declares that recent legislation has " stiffened , rather than liberalized " tariff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clause provisions ( amendments written into the reciprocal trade act by Congress ' to prevent hardships to specific industries ) . - This trend is in the wrong direction , the CED charges . Of 38 members of the CED research and policy committee on tariff policy making the report , Mr. Zellerbach said , only two disiented and one was absent .                     