@@718174

txt Vice-President Richard M. Nixon urged delegates to the Republican National Convention to study his record and " look at the facts " in choosing President Eisenhower 's running Mate . " As far as campaigning goes , " he told the Minnesota delegation , " I 've done my campaigning in the past ** years . " After counseling delegates to examine his record , Mr. Nixon said the convention should select the most qualified man . Other convention news : President Eisenhower will leave Washington at noon ( edt ) Aug. 21 and arrive at San Francisco 's International Airport at 6:30 p.m. ( pdt ) . Voting will not begin until the following day . Gov . Theodore of Maryland looked for word from the White House on whether to challenge Vice-President Nixon for the No. 2 spot on the Republican ticket . The Maryland Governor , who nominated Mr. Eisenhower at the 1952 Republican convention , was willing to let his name go in nomination against Mr. Nixon if Mr. Eisenhower made it clear either ( 1 ) he was willing to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an open-convention choice could be made . He is to confer with presidential aide Sherman Adams . Former Gov . Thomas E. Dewey of New York said he could not imagine any circumstances where he would accept the vice-presidential nomination . He said he was supporting Mr. Nixon because " nobodg has ever done so well as Vice-President . " ' In the face of the campaign by Harold E. Stassen to dump Mr. Nixon , the Vice-President 's associates said they had received a , surances that Mr. Eisenhower will submit neither publicly ner privately any list of men he regards as qualified and acceptable to him as a running mate . The assurance was described as having come from an intimate presidential associate not in the White House . It was said by authoritative sources to have come in direct response to an inquiry from a voluntary group of friends set up to work for Mr. Nixon 's renomination . Leonard W. Hall . Republican national chairman . said that if there was any such list " I do n't know about it and I would . " White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question " with 16 if 's in it . " The Nixon team , maintaining close contact with top White House staff members , was organized Aug. 19 to fight for Mr. Nixon 's nomination on the bare chance that Mr. Stassen 's campaign results in a serious challenge . Members said the team will continue on an informal basis to hold itself in readiness for a battle on the convention floor if Mr. Eisenhower should change his mind and not remain silent about a running mate .                     