@@718161

txt A new Democratic Party is being fused by the trial of forces at Chicago . Unless unexpected events supervene , it will be a party from which many old faces and influences will have been cut away or minimized . The South . despite its great roie in Longress , will not be a dominant element in this new Democratic Party . Harry S. Truman is the negative architect of the new party . Without his interventions , Adlai E. Stevenson would have been nominated on the first ballot with substantial support from practically all elements inside the old party . The lines of cleavage would not have been drawn . There are many elements in the new composition of forces here which are reminiscent of the old . Sidney Hillman , so to speak , has been replaced by Walter Reuther . Thus organized labor remains close to the driver 's seat . Ed Flynn and Tom Pendergast , two dominant bosses of the old party . have been replaced by Jacob Arvey in the new . But there are very great differences , even in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to operate the kind of controls in Chicago that Messrs . Flynn and Pendergast operated in the Bronx and Kansas City . The role of the big-city machines is infinitely smaller today than it was in the twenties , the thirties , or the forties . k ? ? Labor is just as strong . or stronger . today but it is labor with a deeper maturity and political judgment . Mr. Reuther is willing to espouse moderation in civil lights and social policies . And Mr. Stevenson never would say : " Clear it with Walter . " Governors Meyner of New Jersey , Leader of Pennsylvania , and Ribicoff of Connecticut are typical of the new party and the basic support of Mr. Stevenson . They are men of mid-century , unschooled even in the tactics of the New Deal . They are not radicals or social reformers . The contrast could not be made more vivid when you place cleancut young Governor Meyner up against the late boss Frank Hague of Jersey City . Both were Democrats , but the word is almost the only resemblance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic Party may be undergoing in this decisive week the kind of change President Eisenhower is manfully trying to bring about in the Republican Party . That is to say , the leadership and the power will have changed . To complete the job , in either party , will take a lot of work and a great deal of further evolution in public opinion and practical politics . But the Democrats seem to be well on their way . There are important regional divergencies . Massachusetts , for instance , is led by Senator John F. Kennedy  --  a very different figure from James M. Curley . Yet within the Democratic Party in Massachusetts there are many lesser leaders more typical of the old than the new . The same is true elsewhere . But there is enough change to indicate that Republicans can not rest on their shields as they face this formidable Democratic phalanx . They , too , need to carry forward rebuilding from precinct to city hall to state house to Congress . They , too , need to carve away some of the vestiges of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with all its differences ? between Harry S. Truman and Harold E. Stassen . Each has tried a bold political venture , and each seems doomed to resounding failure . We shall see at San Francisco whether the Stassen undertaking can possibly do , negatively , for the Republicans what Mr. Truman has done for the Democrats here . The decisive votes which began to appear for Mr. Stevenson as Tuesday wore on into the evening came from the fading of favorite-son candidacies in the northern and Midwestern states . The South did not turn the tide . That is why the South is not kingmaker in Chicago this week . That is why Mr. Stevenson is freer than many nominees have been in the past . Oddly , this is all taking place in a party which is not really very enthusiastic about Mr. Stevenson himself , which would prefer a more orthodox and magnetic politician , which still distrusts his cleverness , and is n't certain just how well he will run in November . Through it all , Mr. Stevenson doggedly and cheerfully handshakes and backslaps on , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spurring his weariness . That he can still see the bright side of things , even if he does curb the bon mot , may be his salvation in the end . He is certainly a far more competent campaigner than in 1952 , even if Mr. Truman . in the company of Republican chairman Leonard W. Hall , should turn out to be right about the number of states he can win . And win or lose , the Democratic Party has a chance to consolidate genuine long-range gains . It can emerge from 1956 a new and better instrument than it has been for some time .                     