@@713476

txt The Interstate Commerce Commission today called on the trustees of the Long Island Rail Road to extend the automatic cab-signal system to nine miles of its line between " Harold " and Hillside , Queens , and to add a new automatic traincontrol system on that line and another 411 miles of track on several branches of the road . " Harold " is the designation for the signal tower near Harold Avenue in Long Island City , Queens . It is at the eastern limits of the Sunnyside Yards and marks the dividing line where trains coming out of the East River tunnel begin using their own trackage . West or the tower and through the tunnel into Pennsylvania Station the tracks are those of the Pennsylvania Railroad . The cab-signal system causes trackside signals to register inside the engineer 's compartment . ' Virtually all electrically driven trains of the Long Island now have these cab signals but they are inoperative in the nine-mile stretch from Sunnyside to Hillside because the necessary track circuits have never been installed there . Operates With Cab Signals Automatic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a speed exceeding twelve miles an hour a signal block occupied by another train . It operates in conjunction with cab signals . The trustees got thirty days in which to advise the commission that ' the recommendations would be complied with . After that time , the commission said , consideration would be given to instituting proceedings under a section of the Interstate Commerce Act that empowers the commission to require such installations , with penalties for failure to do so . The recommendation for additional safety devices followed the accident on the Long Island at Richmond Hill on Nov. 22 , when a train struck the rear end of the train ahead , resulting in the death of seventy-seven passengers and the engineer of the following train , and the injury of , 352 passengers and eleven of the railroad 's employes . ? The commission " recommended " that the Long Island install a train-control system not only on the Harold-Hillside track but on 44.1 miles of the line where an automatic cab-signal system is now in service . Track Involved Within 30 Miles The 44.1 miles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now have cab signals , embracing the Montauk branch , the Hempstead branch and the Port Washington branch running to Great Neck . Generally they take La stretches confined within an area of thirty miles from the city , excepting the nine-mile stretch between the Sunnyside Yards and In New York a spokesman for the Long Island Rail Road said the recommendations , which had not been received last night , would be carefully studied by the present ' trustees , David E. Smucker , who is also the chief operating officer , and Hunter L. Delatour . Maj. Gen. William H. Draper Jr. , designated as their successor , told the newly formed Long Island Citizens Railroad Committee at a meeting in Merrick , L. I. , that he also would study the I. C. C. recommendations . The spokesman pointed out that the commission 's report contained recommendations but was not an . order . The recommendations , he said , " will be given every consideration . " He added that of course the railroad would inform the commission of its intentions within thirty days . Since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the commission after a hearing in New York Nov. 25 , 26 , 27 and 28 , had to reconstruct what happened . On the evidence of members of the train crew , the commission said that the following train was stopped at Signal C , at the beginning of a signal block , with the next signal , 114 R , 4,337 feet ahead . The commission pointed out that Signal 114 R is on a signal bridge that spans the four tracks of the Long Island and can be seen from the operating compartment of an east-bound car at any point between Signal C and Signal 114 R. After the leading train stopped at Signal 114 R it moved forward and cleared the block . This , said the commission , caused the indicator of 114 R to change from " restricting " ? requiring a speed of fifteen miles an hour and readiness to stop , to " approach , " permitting a greater speed . A member of the crew of the following train said that after the train passed Signal C its speed was at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the vicinity of the station at Kew Gardens , 1,960 feet west of the scene Of the accident , there was a noticeable increase of speed that continued until the train As moving about thirty-five miles an hour , when the brakes were applied " in emergency . " It was too late to stop the ap-1 proaching train and the collision occurred a few seconds later . The commission assumed that the engineer of the second train had observed the change in the Signal 114R , assumed that the train immediately preceding his had cleared the block , and immediately increased the speed of his train . Wreck Held Avoidable " If a cab-signal system had been in use on the line where this accident occurred , " said the commission , " a restricting aspect would have been displayed continuously in the engineer 's compartment of No. 174 the following train after it passed Signal C , which would have indicated that the preceding train had not cleared the block , and the accident might not have occurred . " The commission said that if automatic train-controls , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excess of twelve miles an hour is called for when a block is not clear , had been in use on the line , the train speed in this accident , and in one at Rockville Centre last February , would have been automatically restricted and the accidents either would have been averted or their severity greatly reduced . Therefore , as a means of providing for maximum protection of the dense traffic on the line , said the commission , steps should be taken at once by the railroad to install an automatic-control system " which automatically and continuously will enforce compliance with the requirements of automatic block-signal and cab-signal indications . "                     