@@719664

txt Can Massachusetts taNnay OFF afford further liberalization of the already liberal public employee pension system to provide S 1 00-a-month minimum benefits for widows of relatively short-term workers ? The Massachusetts Legislature is confronted with this serious question at a time when the cost . of the pension system is mounting rapidly . Such benefits are provided tinder a bill now before the House Committee on Ways and Means after a favorable report from the Legislative Committee on Pensions and Old Age Assistance . The latter committee is strongly inclined toward pension liberalization , despite the cost factor . The Ways and Means Committee must weigh the costs in terms of the present and the future , Behind the legislation are the Massachusetts State Employees Association , the Massachusetts Police Association , and the Massachusetts Association of Contributory Retirement . Boards . The ' employees association bill , providing for the $100 minimum , was reported favorably by the pensions committee . The retirement board plan called for an $80 minimum and the police measure a S75 floor . Pressure Traced Opposed to the legislation , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it may lead to in the future , are the Massachusetts Federation of Taxpayers Associations , Representative Charles H. Anthony ( R ) of Haverhill , recognized legislative expert on the public pension system , and others . Pressure for the liberalization comes from the fact that under the present pension law benefits for survivors of employees who pass on relatively early in their civil service careers are very small . Under the measure favored by the pensions committee , a widow of an employee who passes on after at least five years of creditable service would receive $100 a month . The benefit would be Widow Aid $150 monthly if there was also a surviving child under 18 years of age , or over 18 if physically or mentally disabled . For each additional such child there v. ? ouid be an additional $35-amonth benefit . The measure also makes provisions for dependent children , if there is no surviving widow . Rejection Urged Norman , executive director of the taxpayers federation , in a memorandum to the Ways and Means Committee , urged rejection of the legislation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " represents a potentially expensive innovation in the Massachusetts retirement law , with long-range consequences which should not be enacted without more thorough study of the need , the application , and the long-range consequence than have yet been given it . " This measure has been advanced on the argument that the State of Massachusetts should put . into its retirement plan a social insurance measure to provide income for widows and children of employees who die from nonservice-connected accidents or illnesses . " It should be pointed out that the additional cost for this additional benefit would be paid entirely from public funds because the employees ' contributions at present only supply one-fifth to one-quarter of the average retirement allowance . No estimate of the additional obligation to be incurred through the enactment of this bill has been made . " Future Demands Seen Mr. asserted that the measure would lead to other liberalization demands , particularly in regard to comparable disability allowances for employees forced to leave the public service in the early years of their employment because of illnesses or accidents not connected with their jobs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for disability benefits as a result of an illness or accident not related to an employee 's job unless the employee has served 15 years , or 10 years in the case of a veteran . Chief among , the proponents are John E. Coyne , legislative counsel for the Massachusetts Association of Contributory Retirement Boards , and Lt. John Buckley , representing the Massachusetts Police Association . Mr. Coyne said the legislation is the result of growing agitation among some public employees for inclusion of public employees in the social security system . The move , he said , is partly clue to the survivors benefits provided under social security . He added that it was felt by him and others that ? the approach to survivors benefits for the family of a worker who passes on early in his civil service career should be through the state retirement system as least costly to the state and employees . Report Quoted Mr. Coyne said studies have shown that the cost would be no more than $15,000 extra a year for state employees covered by the state 5 per cent contributory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all public employees covered by contributory systems . He quoted a report of the Legislative Research . Council on a study of extension of social security to state employees , pointing out that the council stated : " There can be no denying the inadequacy of the state plan in cases of employees who die relatively early in their civil service careers , leaving behind them wives and children . The State Retirement Board estimates that in all local retirement systems associated with the present . 5 ' per cent state plan , including state employees and teachers , no more than 100 people annually die early enough in service to exclude their families from receiving substantial retirement benefits . "                     