@@713127

txt LONDON , ' July 26 ? Britain 's immediate additional contributions to the defense of Southern Korea and reinforcements of Western Europe were announced today . As expected , Defense Minister Emanuel Shinwell announced in the House of Commons that " effective land reinforcement , " - including " infantry , armor , artillery and engineers , would be sent to Korea to assist the United States forces " as soon as possible . " He also said that the . Government would spend . an additional ? 100,000,000 $280,000,000 to increase the equipment of the military services , more than half of it going to the Royal Air Force . About 1,000 officers and men of // the Royal Navy and the marines , mostly specialists , will be retained in service after their terms of enlistment , or will be recalled from the reserve and retirement . Corresponding measures will be taken for the army and the Royal Air Force if necessary . These measures seemed meager in comparison with the $10,000 , - 000,000 that President Truman proposes to spend , but more substantial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister Attlee told the House that a comprehensive inquiry had been made into pay and conditions in the regular military forces and was being considered by , the ministers with a view to encouraging career men to remain in the forces and also with a view to ? attracting more recruits . " Further expenditure beyond all this will in all probability be required next year to enable us to play our full part in the North Atlantic Treaty , " Mr. Shinwell informed the.House . Much larger sums also would be required for equipment if Britain 's forces were to be put in state of readiness , the Minister said . Later , Mr. Attlee gave a " very clear warning " that Britain 's part in defending the West would involve sacrifice and " very difficult economic problems .. " In the meantime , Britain 's initial exertions certainly seemed moderate in comparison with the United States program . They seemed particularly puny in face of the massive strength of , the Soviet Union which Mr. Shinwell described as a " potential danger . " Having met last week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powers to review the availability of forces for defense , Mr. Shinwell frankly told the House that the " forces at present available , or in sight , fall a long way short of the requirements estimated on even the most conservative basis . " Estimates Soviet Strength On the other hand , he asserted that the Soviet Union ' was spending at least 13 per cent of its national income for military purposes and was maintaining 175 active divisions , a third of them mechanized , and a force of 25,000 tanks . An " appreciable number " of tank formations were in immediate readiness in the Soviet zone of Germany , he reported . The Soviet Union had 2,800,000 men under arms and could double that number with mobilization , Mr. Shinwell said . These men were supported by 19,000 military aircraft and " considerable " naval forces , he added . Nevertheless , Mr. Shinwell declared that there would be no doubt of the outcome of a struggle with the Soviet Union for the resources of the North Atlantic Treaty countries and the British Commonwealth far exceeded those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hear a commentary on these questions from Winston Churchill . But the wartime Prime Minister did not discuss either the world military situation or the Labor Government 's program in detail . He reserved his criticisms for the second day of the defense debate tomorrow in the hope that the Government would yet consent to a secret session . Mr. Churchill 's deputy , Anthony Eden , complained that the House was not much wiser at the end of Mr. Shinwell 's speech than at the beginning . Later , The Times of London commented that there was nothing like President Truman 's sense of speed . and urgency in the Government 's program and that it did not " rise to the measure of events . " ' Ca Shock to Complacency There was . very little to give the ordinary , citizen and taxpayer ' . a shock to his complacency . There was no extension of the eightee months ' period of service for military conscripts and no general call up of the reserves . There was no tax increase and no new appropriation bill . ' - Under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it needs and bring in a bill for the ' current fiscal year next February , thereby ' postponing the evil day . Nevertheless Government quarters regarded the additional spending as substantial , particularly in light of the fact that Britain , despite her economic handicaps ; so far has been spending more for defense than any of her North Atlantic Pact partners , including the United States . Before today 's additional authorization of ? 100,000,000 the defense budget was ? 780,000,000 . That was 108 per cent of the figure for 1938 , when ' Britain was facing the threat of Nazi aggression , but " relatively no larger , " Mr. ShinWell said . The additional ? 100,000,000 will be used to accelerate the production of technical equipment and to buy and overhaul a wide variety of weapons and stores , he said . The reconditioning of the reserves of 6,000 tanks was receiving high priority , he added . The minister disclosed that the new Centurion tank , a forty-eight-1 ton monster mounting a 20-pounder gun , was now in full production and was being used " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said , would accelerate new construction and the modernization of existing ships , particularly anti-submarine forces , while the R. A. F. would speed up construction and repair work and acquire additional fighters and overhaul its reserves of wartime piston-engine planes . One of the biggest items in the new program would be ' for reserve fighters , he said . Size of Force Not Disclosed Nothing about the size or present location of the force to ? be sent to Korea was disclosed . Mr. Shinwell said only that it would be a self-contained and effective force for use under orders of Gen. Douglas as United Nations commander . Such a force can not be sent at a moment 's notice , he said , but " will be prepared without delay and will be sent to Korea as quickly as possible . " If necessary , Mr. Shinwell stated , conscripts would be used to supplement regulars in the force . Remarks to the effect that it would be unwise to reduce Britain 's strength in Malaya and Hong Kong and that the Korean force would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reports here yesterday  --  that the outfit would come from some place other than the Far East . For longer-term purposes Mr. Shinwell indicated that the Government would try to keep ? the standing Army  --  as distinguished from conscripts and reserves ? . from running down . He said that if the present trend continued , the Army 's strength would decline from 184,000 today to 150,000 by 1952 and the R. A. F. would be stabilized at 118,000 over the next few years . He declared that conditions of service would have to be made attractive enough to check that trend . He asserted that machinery for calling reserves to the colors , if they were needed , was ready for use . The minister declined to discuss the rearmament of Germany , saying that that was a decision for all the Western Allies and that , in any case , weapons should go first to the North Atlantic Pact forces .                     