@@714623

txt The twelve-day-old key strike of 10,000 equipment installers , members of the Communications Workers of America , C. I. 0. , in fortythree states and the District of Columbia against the Western Electric Company , manufacturing subsidiary of the Bell Telephone System , ended early today when the disputants reached an agreement on a new one-year contract . The new contract is subject to a ratification vote by the union membership , which a union official said would be held within thirty days . The settlement , achieved after three months of negotiations , was announced at 2:30 A. M. by Walter A. Maggiolo , chief counsel of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service . Mr. Maggiolo has coordinated a five-man Federal mediation team working on the dispute . Distributors Unaffected Mr. Maggiolo said : " We are happy to announce that the dispute between the Western Electric Company and Installation Division 10 of the Communications Workers of America , C. I. 0. , has been settled subject to ratification by the members . " He added that it was his understanding the negotiating committee would recommend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 6,000 distributors and warehousemen , who also went out on strike at 6 A , M. , April 7 . The new contract calls for a basic wage increase of 14.1 cents an hour . This will raise the average basic pay rate to approximately $1.81 an hour from the present $1.67 hourly rate . The company also granted the installers 17 cents an hour in fringe benefits for a total pay rise of 31.1 cents hourly . In commenting on the new contract , A. T. Jones , vice president of the C. W. A. , said : " It is the largest pay increase ever to be negotiated between the union and the company . We consider the settlement a major accomplishment , made possible because of the thousands of phone workers who walked the picket lines , and the many more thouH sands who respected them . This victory is theirs . " Earlier in his statement , Mr.1 Jones said : " In the past few days of negotiations the company has increased its basic wage increase offer by over 3 cents an hour and upped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hour . " These two were the main items in dispute during the past week . Travel and transfer payments are major items in Western Electric installation , since this group is highly mobile . " At the time the strike started the union had announced a wage increase demand of 23 cents an hour . The company , before yesterday 's into-the-night negotiations started , had made offers ranging from 12 to 17 cents an hour . Pickets at Phone Offices The settlement would remove picket lines by Western Electric strikers from offices of the Long Lines Department of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company in various parts of the country , including this city . Yesterday there were pickets at 32 Avenue of the Americas , here , and before long lines traffic centers in Philadelphia , Pittsburgh , Cleveland and Chicago . There are fourteen such centers altogether in the country . Hopes fell , meanwhile , in regard to peace in the walkout of 31,000 employes of the Western Union Telegraph Company , now in its seventeenth day , as the Commercial Telegraphers Union , A. F. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The collapse of the Western Union negotiations , which were under Government sponsorship , took place in Washington . On Thursday the company had suggested a return to work for sixty days while further bargaining took place . There were to be no changes in wages or working conditions during the truce period . The union considered the proposal on Thursday and yesterday rejected it . No Further Talks Set W. L. Allen , international union president , informed the company that the plan , if accepted , would be an admission of defeat . He called it " silly " and " ridiculous " and in turn proposed that all issues be referred to arbitration . The company rejected this . No further talks were scheduled . J. L. Wilcox , Western Union 's Ivice president in charge of labor relations , issued the following statement : " The union has said that the company will not offer ' one red cent . ' in confirming this the company has again explained to the union that it can not agree to increase wage costs without first knowing where the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western Union to increase wages , now averaging $1.63 an hour , by 16 cents an hour and to cut the work week from forty-eight to forty hours with no loss in take-home pay . It seeks other contract changes . The company said the full union program would cost 50 cents an hour or $50,000,000 a year . Again yesterday , the company reported new service restorations , saying that workers at fifty-two new communities had returned to their jobs and that telegrams , cables and money orders could be sent from 1,220 communities , including all major cities . The union disputed this report . 