@@720175

txt President Eisenhower nominated Norman P. Mason . today as Administrator of the Housing and Home Finance Agency . If confirmed by the Senate , Mr. Mason will succeed Albert M. Cole , whose resignation was announced yesterday . Early indications were that there would be little or no oppositioa to his confirmation . Since early 1954 , Mr. Mason has been Commissioner of the Federal Housing Administration , a constituent agency of H. H. F. A. whose principal role is to insure mortgages . Previously he had operated a lumber business in Chelmsford , Mass . Mr. Mason also will be in charge of these agencies : The Public Housing Administration ; the Urban Renewal Administration , which operates the slum clearance program ; the Community Facilities Administration , which runs the Colege Housing Program and the program of loans to Small Communities for Planning and Public Works , and the Federal National Mortgage Association , which buys and sells mortgages . Mr. Mason faces a major batt'e almost from the day he takes office . A highly controversial housing bill now seems certain to be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Today it was announced that the Senate Banking Committee would hold an abbreviated fiveday hearing on an omnibus housing bill starting Jan. 22 , with the aim of getting a bill to the floor as soon as possible . The urgency comes about in part because the omnibus bill last year was defeated in the House in the last days of the session , leaving some programs short of funds . Quick Action Asked The Administration has asked for quick action on a bill adding to the depleted Mortgage Insurance Authority of F. H. A. and adding $100,000 , - 000 each for the slum clearance and college housing programs , pending action on an omnibus bill . The Democrats are certain to want to go well beyond the Administration recommendations in these and other fields . Senator John J. Sparkman , Democrat of Alabama , his party 's leading housing spokesman , has re-introduced last year 's bill with a handful of updating changes and urged quick passage . In a number of features it differs from the Administration 's proposals . One possibility seen today was . that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adding enough to the F. H. A. Mortgage Insurance Authority to last until the end of the present fiscal year , thus allowing more time for the controversial omnibus bill . However , the details of the Democratic and Republican strategy had not yet been completed . On the House side , Representative Albert Rains , Democrat of Alabama , said he had the assurances of Democratic leaders that a new housing bill would be the House 's first major piece of legislation . Mr. Rains , chairman of the Housing , subcommittee of the House Banking and Currency Committee , seeks new mortgage insurance authority , loans and grants for additional housing programs , larger mortgage allowances and partial Federal insurance for private home loans .                     