@@717072

txt President Eisenhower said today he was ready to " meet with anyone , ' anywhere " in the hope of advancing world peace . With the President 's endorse . ment , the United States ' promptly joined Britain and France in an invitation to the Soviet Union for a two-stage Excerpts from the President 's speech are on Page 7. conference " at the summit " and at the foreign ministers ' level in the near future . The outcome was a victory for Sir Anthony Eden 's Conservative Government in Britain , whose Laborite opposition in the May 26 general election has made a popular issue of face-toface meetings with the Russians at the highest level . President Eisenhower 's own preference had been for a Foreign Ministers ' conference before there was any parley of the heads of government . It was only last night , on the advice of Secretary of State Dulles , now meeting in Paris with Harold Macmillan , British Foreign Secretary , and Antoine Pinay , French Foreign Minister , that the President yielded on this point . James @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morning published reports on the President 's modified attitude toward a meeting with Sir Anthony , Edgar Faure , Premier of France and Marshal Nikolai A. Bulganin , Premier of  --  the Soviet Union . " The President has always stated that such a meeting was a Possibility , " Mr .. Hagerty said : " Of course , . the Secretary . of State is familiar with the President 's views and if it seems feasible and userul that such ; a meeting be held , . the Secretary . has full power to arrange for it on behalf of the President . " ' The Administration 's shift of position had a inbred reaction on Capitol Hill . The ' Right-Wing Republicans were clearly unhappy and some Democratic leaders at least reserved. - But , the President received an ovation from the Republican Women 's National Conferencewhen he spoke of going anywhere in the world to work for peace . " We stand ready to . do any. , thing , to meet with anyone , anywhere , as long as we may do so in self-respect r ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ furthering this great cause of peace , " President Eisenhower said . " We will not stand on minor questions of protocol or any other inconsequential question , if that opportunity of advancing the cause of peace is presented and there is the slightest chance that it may bring for our children and those that come after us a better world in this respect . " The challenge to the West is to bring about freely a unity stronger than the enforced hege- ' mony of the Communists , the ' President continued . " They have unity , " President Eisenhower said . " It is the unity that is achieved by force-7a knife in the back . People must conform or they are eliminated . " The free world 's answer must be a " community of interest that brings about the spontane ous unity that we want , " the President continued . He added that there must be " a great spiritual basis , an intellectual basis , a material basis , that ) leads peoples and nations toi want to hold together and oppose this evil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its foreign aid programs for mutual security , wanted to make certain the people ' everywhere could " make a living , " satisfy their " natural human wants " and understand " what they are working for . " He explained the recent appointment of Harold E. Stassen with cabinet rank as his special assistant on disarmament policy . The President said that he wanted a " man of national stature " to look into all aspects of the disarmament question . The Congressional reaction to a Big Four meeting was decidedly warmer among the controlling Democrats than in the ! ranks of the President 's own ; party . Senator Walter F. George , vet- , eran Georgia Democrat who is : chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , said the West-I em proposal " sounds very reasonable to me and I 'm very glad things are moving in that direction . " He expressed the hope that events would progress steadily toward a top-level conference ' . Mr. George said , however , that in his view advance agreement on a " reasonable agenda " was vital to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Senator Mike Mansfield , Democrat ; of Montana , said the President should be . " bOrnrriended " ' for hia.Willitignees to ? sit down ' with the ' Russians . Another Democratic Senator , ViWilliam Fulbright of A rIcan-i sas. endorsed the idea of high-I i level talks , while warning that 1 " great harm " would result if I , Lhey ended without any construetive results . Representative James P. Richares of South Carolina , Democratic chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee . said ' he did not see how the United ' States could refuse to talk with the Russians . Among the Republicans . Senator Joseph R. McCarthy of Wisconsin described himself as " deeply disturbed " at the President 's willingness to meet with Marshal Bulganin . Senator Styles Bridges , Republican of New Hampshire , said he was " certainly not . enthusiastic " about a conference unless there were " definite assurances from RUssia " that the meeting would not be a waste of time .. He said . however , that it was " perfectly proper " to explore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator William F. Knowland lof California , Senate Republican leader , did not criticize the President 's decision , although he had long assailed the Administration 's Far Eastern policies as - soft toward the Chinese CornmUnists , ? After a meeting of Congressional leaders at the White House , Senator Knowland was asked whether members of Congress might go along with the President to the conference . Mr. Knowland indicated the President was thinking in terms of a small , informal meeting . Bringing congressional representatives along , " would defeat the purpose , the President has in mind , : ' he said .                     