@@718664

txt Secretary of State Dulles , in a joint statement with Mrs. Golda Meir , Israeli Foreign Minister , reaffirmed today that the United States stands " firmly by its hopes and expectations " on developments in the Middle East . This did not answer the question that Mrs. Meir had flown here to ask . She wanted to know what the United States was doing and was planning to do to honor a moral commitment it had assumed in the Middle East . This commitment , as the Israelis see it , is to try to prevent the return of the Egyptians to the Gaza Strip , and to try to insure Israeli right of free passage in the Suez Canal and the Gulf of Aqaba . Israelis See Some Gain j Israeli officials none the less j did not regard the three hours ' Mrs. Meir spent at the State Department this morning as wasted . They felt the joint statement had removed doubts as to what President Eisenhower meant in his letter of March 2 to Israeli Premier David Ben-Gurion about the expected course of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's statement had removed the impression that Israel , in withdrawing , might have been operating on false assumptions . Mr. Dulles , according to the joint statement , reaffirmed a statement made before the United Nations General Assembly March 1 by Henry Cabot Lodge , United States delegate , and President Eisenhower 's letter to Premier Ben-Gurion on the following day as the basis of current United States policy . U. S. Expectations Cited I He said the United States I still sought " peace and tranquility " in the Middle East . The particular " hopes and expectations " the United States stood by were for the " exercise of the responsibility of the United Nations in Gaza , " freedom of passage through the Strait of Tiran leading to the Gulf of Aqaba , and settlement of the Suez Canal problem " in accordance with the six principles adopted by the . United Nations Security Council and accepted by Egypt . " These positions were presented in the statement as Mr , Dulles ' reply to Mrs. Meir 's expression of " deep concern " over the return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations control . This development , she said , according to the statement , was " contrary to the assumptions and expectations " expressed by her and others in the United Nations General Assembly on March 1 . She also expressed " anxiety " at ; reports that Egypt would continue to restrict Israeli shipping in the Suez Canal and Gulf of : ? Aqaba and would maintain belligerency . Mrs. Meir , who arrived at 10 : 15 A. ' M. , talked with Mr. Dulles for hour and fifty-five minutes and then conferred-an hour and fifteen minutes with other United States officials about the wording of the joint statement . Accompanying Mrs. Meir were Israeli Ambassador Abba Eban ; Reuben ? . Shiloah , Minister of the Israeli Embassy , and Gideon Rafael , a , member of the Israeli delegation to the United Nations . Mr. Dulles had with him alnioSt the entire ' team of State Department Middle East experts . They included Assistant Secre , tary William Rountree ; Herman Phleger , legal adviser ; Francis , Wilcox , Assistant Secretary for United Nations affairs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afternoon Mrs. Meir to New York . Ambassador Eban will continue consultations with , the . State Department here . Dulles Sees Senators , At an executive session of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee during ttfe afternoon , Senator J. William Fuibright , Democrat of Arkansas , was understood to have asked Mr. Dulles whether the United States had made any commitments to Israel other than those publicly reported . Mr. Dulles replied that there were none . As Mr. Dulles left the committee room , reporters told him the joint statement with Mrs. Meir did not answer the question whether the United States would do anything to fulfill its hopes and expectations . " I am.attirry , " he replied , " we do not answer all questions in communiqu  --  s . " Statements by United States officials indicated that there was a misunderstanding between the United States and Israel about the nature of the moral commitment to Israel . As the Israelis see it , President Eisenhower made a moral commitment to them in his March 2 letter when he called Israeli assumptions and expectations " reasonable " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they would " not be in vain . " U. S. View Differs But United States officials said today the United States was under moral commitment to the Israelis only to try to see to it that their withdrawal did not work to their long-term disadvantage . In their public statements , the officials complained , Israeli leaders have tried to make the United States partisan in Israel 's quarrel with Egypt , whereas the United States actually meant merely to support a position in international law that would enable the Israelis to withdraw in compliance with United Nations restitutions . The officials acknowledged at the same time that the United States hope that Egypt would not exercise her right to return to the Gaza Strip , and would permit United Nations administration there for an indefinite period , had been frustrated by Egypt 's swift return to the strip . In all its communications to the Egyptian Government , they added , the United States has warned the Egyptians not to press their admitted legal rights so far that they would sacrifice sympathy here and in the United Nations.  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          