@@715632

txt With swift military precision the exchange of Korean war prisoners began today . The first American freed immediately related that the Communists only two days ago had sentenced some high United States officers to special prison terms for " instigating against peace . " Maj. John Daujat of Richmond , Cal. , an officer of the Korean military advisory group , told his story as the first of 400 8th army prisoners on today 's exchange list were handed over by the Chinese and North Korean Reds . The first group of 100 to cross the line into this neutral zone promptly at 9 a. m. 7 p. m . Tuesday , Chicago time included 35 sick and wounded Americans out of 70 being released today . Throw Down His Garb Daujat , who looked well , shouted out his name to correspondents before the communist truck had stopped rolling . There was hollow coughing from at least one other prisoner . Another threw his Chinese blue vest and white scarf to the ground in angry eagerness to be rid of his garments of captivity . Daujat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Maj. Gen. William F. Dean , highest ranking officer held by the Reds . He mentioned a lieutenant he said had gotten a year 's term on the Reds ' charges , but did not give his name . Gen. Dean , a prisoner for three years , was not in the first day 's group . The first three jeeps to arrive carried two North Koreans and one Chinese officer each . Turkish prisoners were first over the line , cheering loudly , Reds Provide Names The third truck , bearing the blue clad prisoners , drove up to a reception tent . Two American soldiers and a Chinese driver untied a blue ladder and placed it against the back of the truck . Marines standing by awaited orders from Maj. B. Forsythe of St. Louis , in charge of the receiving team . The major conferred with Chinese officials , who handed him a roster containing the names and other identification of the returnees . The order finally came down for the first POWs to leave the truck . One truckload of Turks was luickly unloaded . Then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " gate to freedom " erected for their welcome . Stretcher Cases Arrive Following the three trucks came two rattletrap communist ambulances . There were four stretcher cases in them . In each vehicle was a Chinese medical officer . There were 15 men in the first truck . The 12th man to climb out dramatically and angrily threw to the ground his blue communist vest and a white Chinese scarf . Unloading of the first two trucks was complete at 9:14 a. m . All the ' vehicles were marked " Molotov Motor Plant . " Second Group Arrives At 9:21 a. m. the second contingent of POWs arrived in the reception center . It contained no Americans and some South Koreans were so weak they had to be helped from the trucks . At the northern end of the center , the stretcher cases were being moved into the tents for quick medical check . In charge of the sickbay for possible emergency cases was Comdr . H. Todde Stradford of Gastonia , N. C. The stretcher patients were hoisted by United States marines and taken quickly into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light blue blankets with Chinese lettering . The South Korean prisoners had light blue cotton jackets and trousers and tennis shoes shn ? filar to those worn , by Red soldiers . They also had Chinese caps that resembled American baseball caps . Show Little Emotion The third truck in the second anegingent held mostly ailing douth Korean soldiers , who were helped down by marines . The men showed little expression , in striking contrast to the demonstrativeness of the American and other sick and wounded , who managed smiles . As the American and other ailing were taken into . the medical tents a marine officer told them , " We 're glad to have you back . " Corp . Gerald Cavagnaro of West Newbury , Mass. , said , " I 'll be glad to see a doctor instead of a hack . I do n't mind my picture being taken now . Up , there . we had lots of pictures when they gave you something ! ' Then a lanky figure stepped from the truck . Ile was Warrant Officer Dwight E. Coxe . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cigaret held in a long ivory holder . He grinned and posed happily for the photografers before going into the receiving tent . Chinese Moved North Six more trucks then moved into the reception center , led by two more Russian built jeeps . The Communists were working ahead of schedule . In the trucks , hands and arms waved in gestures of welcome and happiness as the machines moved in . In the entire second group there were 25 British returnees , 10 Filipinos and the rest South Koreans . While the prisoners came in , American trucks carrying North Koreans and Chinese able bodied war prisoners began rolling to the communist reception center at 9:45 a. m . At 9:46 a. m . American ambulances began moving swiftly from the center with the first returnees to go to Munsan on the first leg of their journey home . The first group reached Freedom Village , 12 miles from Panmunjom , at 10 a . In . South Korean Angry A South Korean returnee broke into an angry speech against an American newsreel photografer who tried to take his picture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Korean . An interpreter told the newsmen that he only now understood that he had been liberated . He screamed : " They loaded us onto trucks . They did not tell us what they were going to do with us . It is only now that I understand that we have been freed . " His impassioned speech from the truck brought nods of agreement from his fellow repatriates . A Chinese guard stood impassively by and frowned . Another South Korean soldier broke into tears in a reception tent , bit the end of a finger , and wrote in blood , " The Communists never defeated us . " Reds Are Disorderly When the second convoy of American trucks with Red prisoners passed the reception center , prisoners inside the trucks recognized the uniforms of Chinese and North Korean soldiers taking part in the exchange and waved to them , excitedly . The communist soldiers waved back . Korean Communists sang Red songs at the top of their lungs and gestured with clenched fists toward the north . They waved homemade North Korean flags . The Red prisoners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were riding to make a better show of their demonstration . Tear Off Their Clothes The Communists tore their clothes , bellowed and hurled epithets at the Americans who accompanied them to the exchange point . One North Korean made a long speech as he emerged from an ambulance , and ended it by thrusting a petition in front of an Am e r i c an officer , who turned disdainfully away . The petition was finger-printed in blood . Other Communists stepped out of the ambulances , tearing their . clothes and throwing them at American " medical attendants . Communist guards stepped in to restrain t h e m . The prisoners were still chanting and singing when they were transferred from the American ambulances to the communist trucks and taken to the north . T h r e e covered communist trucks approached the reception center at 10:55 , led by two Russian jeeps . The line of communist returnees moved down the road for them to pass and stood silently waiting . However , a second convoy of North Korean returnees , coming up from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reception center . The communist prisoners were all young , strong looking soldiers . They were singing in cadence and waving their flags . As the convoy before them had done , this group had also ripped the tops of their trucks and were standing as they sang . South Korean 's Reply In a retaliatory measure , South Koreans from the latest contingent , which had passed a singing North Korean convoy , burst into defiant songs of their own . They came into the reception compound waving white towels , shouting and singing ' , marching songs , an impromptu performance of happiness . As they dismounted , each one carried a little kit bag and a light blue cotton blanket . Some of the Koreans had to be supported as they gave their names to the checking officer . T h e y we r e taken immediately for a medical checkup . When a South Korean correspondent started a conversation with one of the returnees , the American officer in charge broke it up , saying , " There will be no interrogation at this point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that . " One man at a time left the truck . Each carried a small 3 a c k of personal belongings . They smiled as they realized they had reached freedom . An American in a bleached blue blouse sat at the rear of one truck looking about unbelievably . 4 Minutes to Unload It took about four minutes to unload the first truck , and then it pulled away towards the north . It had contained 17 Americans . A Negro soldier from Greenville , N. C. , shouted , " We 're all Americans in this truck . " The British . Red Cross official told the boys in the truck , " You 're all right now , we 're going to take good care of you inside . And down below you 'll get your meal . " The prisonee exchange will take five weeks to complete . The Communists informed 8th army officers that the second day 's return of war prisoners tomorrow , starting at 9 a. m. 17 p. m . Wednesday , Chicago time will total 392 . This total , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 70 Americans , 250 Koreans and 72 others . Forty-two Disabled Americans The first group will include 42 sick and wounded Americans , two of them litter cases , and 50 sick South Koreans , the Reds said . The 10 a. m. return will include ' 50 South Koreans , 3 able bodied Americans , 25 British , 10 Filipinos , 7 Colombians , and 5 Australians . Twenty- five Americans , 25 Turks , and 50 South Koreans will be delivered at 11 a. m. ; and the last group at noon will ' consist of 100 South Koreans .                     