@@718138

txt President Eisenhower tonight summoned Democratic congressional leaders from their party convention for a White House conference on Sunday with Republican leaders on the Suez crisis . The President returned to his White House office during the dinner hour to have aids issue a special announcement of the unusual Sunday sessien he was calling State Secretary Dulles orig. inally had invited the congressional leaders to meet with him at the state department ? at 3 p. m . Sunday , but this was expanded and switched to a noon meeting at the White House after Dulles conferred with Mr. Eisenhower at the White House this afternoon . Nixon , Radford to Attend The President 's announcement said Vice President Nixon and Adm . Arthur Radford , chairman of the joint chiefs of staff , will join Dulles and the President for the conference . The President 's decision to confer personally with the congressional leaders came after he had met with the national security council , his top advisory body on military and diplomatic affairs . Congressional leaders invited to the meeting include Senate Democratic Leader Johnson ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the foreign relations committee ; Senate Minority Leader Knowland Cal . ; House Speaker Rayburn D. , Tex . ; House Minority Leader Martin R. , Mass.1 , and members of the foreign relations committee in the senate and foreign affairs committee in the house , and armed services committees of both houses . Cancels Week-end Plans The President , apparently acting from concern over developments in the Suez crisis during the last 24 hours , canceled plans to spend the weekend on his farm at Gettysburg , Pa. , to remain at his White House desk and prepare for the Sunday session . Sen. Johnson , mentioned as a compromise candidate for the Democratic Presidential nomination in case of a party split over civil rights , has agreed to leave the Chicago convention activities to attend the conference . Speaker Rayburn , permanent ehairman of the Democratic convention , also has accepted the invitation to the conference . Acceptances also have been received from Sen. Knowland , Sen. George , and Rep. Martin . Seek to Fix Stand State department officials had revealed earlier a primary objective of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on , . he stand the United States should take at the 24 nation Suez conferonce which Dulles will attend in London Thursday . The White House meeting is timed to start a levi hours after Egypt 's president , Camel Abdel Nasser , holds n news conference in Cairo to announce his government 's newest views on the dispute over Egypt 's seizure of the Suez canal . . The administration is expected to poll the congressional leaders for guidance in case Nasser rejects internationalization of . the Suez , and Britain and France decide to resort to ' military force to protect their interests in the Suez . Dulles Leaves Tuesday President Eisenhower told g news conference yesterday that he would deplore the use of force in the Suez crisis , " certainly under conditions as we know them now . " The White li ... ) use also invited ranking members of the senate foreign relations committee and the house foreign affairs committee to the unusual Sunday session , but it was not known how many of them will be able to attend . Dulles plans to leave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the state department said . He is flying to New York tomorrow to confer with Dag Hammarskjold , United Nations secretary general .                     