@@719937

txt Key Nations- in Crisis Still Await Outcome of New Negotiations Jordan . and Lebanon are the two nations whose critical situation produced the recent Mideast tension . Here are reports from Times correspondents in Amman and Beirut . JORDAN STILL WARY By RICHARD P. HUNT Special to The new York Times . AMMAN , Jordan , Sept. 6 ? Jordan spent this week loudly hoping for the best and quietly preparing for the worst . King Hussein 's Government and diplomatic corps kept eyes fixed on President Gamal Abdel Nasser of the United Arab Refi public for some sign of what was coining  --  a truce or a siege . The 4,000 British soldiers in this country were equally eager to find out . To them it means the difference between seeing something of Jordan 's bitter winter or going back to the sunnier climates of Cyprus or Aden . High officials of the Government and editorial writers for the Jordanian papers spent much of their time telling anyone who would listen or read that they had faith in the Arab resolution passed by the United Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arab states anew to non-interference in each others ' affairs and instructed Secretary General Hammarskjold to make practical arrangements leading to the withdrawal of the West 's troops . But it was pointed out here that the resolution did not answer a question that Jordan considers essential : which comes first , the chicken or the ' gg ? Premier Samir el-Rifai takes I-1.1%.FLD TO SOLVE Justus In The Minneapolis Star the position that Jordan , which in his view is the injured party , can not ask the British to leave until she is assured by deeds that her Arab neighbors are no longer hostile . It was felt here that if President Nasser insisted that the British must leave before he had given any assurances , Jordan in her present mood would probably , refuse and would go back to the United Nations saying the Arab resolution had failed . It was against that possibility that preparations were being made for the worst . There were indications that the Government was marshalling its moral arguments and using the lull during Mr. Hammarskjold 's Middle East tour to bolster its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scrupulously avoided attacks on the other Arab states and even began broadcasting news about the United Arab Republic .. In the moral sphere , Jordan appeared to be getting ready to ( tell the United Nations General Assembly , if necessary , that she had lived up to the spirit of the resolution but her neighbors had not . On the practical level , the country has made some progress in preparation for a Beige , if that is to come . Four American experts have been making headway in reorganizing the decrepit Hejaz Railway system to carry a heavy volume of traffic to Amman from Aqaba , Jordan 's only port . It will be needed if Jordan is blocked from using Mediterranean ports . At Aqaba itself another team of advisers has been gradually sorting out the tangle of transport and storage that piled up 25,000 tons of goods on the docks as a result of a sudden flood of emergency shipments . The British here are in about the same position as the Jordan Government . Until a basic political decision can be made , no one can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Possible Replacement British Army sources are frank to say it is wasteful to keep the paratroopers tied up on the Amman airfield , when the job could be done equally well by units not so expensively trained and equipped as these shock troops . Thus there is increasing talk that the paratroopers might I be replaced by other units if the British military presence here develops into a long-term operation . The question is also arising whether the soldiers have to be issued winter equipment . But neither action would be necessary if the troops could leave soon . Speculation was stirred further by the visit here of Brig . Fitzgeorge Balfour , commander of the British Guards units stationed on Cyprus . A few units of his force have been in Jordan for some weeks . It was considered possible that Brigadier Balfour was looking over the situation to see what equipment the Guards would need if they moved in to replace the paratroopers . But that did not indicate that such a decision had necessarily been made . It all appears to depend on President Nasser . If he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely the British could begin moving out altogether within several weeks . If President Nasser does not , observers believe the British would be wise to start getting their overcoats out of mothballs.                     