@@715125

txt Action on a backlog of 12,000 payincrease cases was apparently assured today as the Economic Stabilization Agency prepared to put interim wage-control machinery into operation tomorrow . Roger L. Putnam , Economic Stabilization Director , was returning from his home at Springfield , Mass. , to initiate the interim program and renew efforts to re'activate the crippled Wage StabiIlization Board . Lawyers , meanwhile , worked into the night to prepare documents for the tempoirary changeover . The stop-gap measures were authorized by President Truman last I ( night after the failure of weeklong efforts to recruit representatives of industry to fill vacancies on the Wage Board , the agency I designated to handle petitions for Government approval of wage contracts . The vacancies were created Dec. 6 by the mass resignation of the ' tripartite board 's industry members in protest against President Truman 's approval of a full $1.90 rise in daily pay negotiated by John L. Lewis for his United Mine Workers Union . The labor and public members of the board , with industry members dissenting , had authorized an increase of $1.50 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what Mr. Putnam called a " boycott " by business , the President last night authorized , him to take the wage program into his own hands pending further efforts to recruit industry representatives . Labor Members To Stand By The new plan calls for Mr. Putnam , in turn , to delegate the authority to the four public members still on the Wage Board . The labor members are expected to stand by to advise the panel and to resume their full duties whenever the industry vacancies can be filled . Nine of the fourteen regional Wage Boards , likewise hit by mass resignations of industry members , will function the same way , according to Charles C. Killingsworth , chairman of the national board . The five others , at New York , Philadelphia , Kansas City , Atlanta and Richmond , will continue to operate as usual . Officials , meanwhile , considered the advisability of giving the Wage Board 's staff authority to clear some pending cases as a ( means of expediting disposal of the huge backlog . The proposal entails the delega . Ition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fringe " benefits such as vacations , holidays and other concessions not directly involving wages . Also being weighed , as a possible long-term solution of the crisis , was a plan to bring to the national board one industry member . from each of the five regional boards that had not been crippled , by the wave of resignations . This suggestion was said authoritatively to have been " looked into " with , out any conclusion having been reached . Silent on Boycott ' Charge There was no comment meanwhile from spokesmen here for the National Association of Manufacturers and the Chamber of Commerce of the United States on charges by Mr. Putnam that the two organizations were responsible for an industry " boycott " of the wage board . Mr. Putnam made the accusation in a letter to President Tru ! man suggesting establishment of the interim machinery . " Earlier this week , " he wrote , " several persons had agreed to serve on the board as industry representatives . During the last few days , however , a. number of these persons have withdrawn their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were responsive to the publicized statements made by these organized groups calling , in effect , for a boycott of the board . " Both the N. A. M. and the Chamber of Commerce have been urging abolition of wage , price and rent controls . In statements last week , they endorsed the mass resignations and declined to submit names of possible successors . Mr. Putnam has said repeatedly that he has the power to handle the Wage Board 's duties himself , but would do so only as a last resort . The Wage Stabilization Board , under terms of the Defense Production Act , is an +advisory body . The Economic Stabilization Administrator , under jurisdiction of the President , has authority over both wage and price controls .                     