@@716393

txt The Senate Foreign Relations Committee voted tentatively today to halt military and other aid to France and Italy Dec. 31 unless by that time they had ratified the treaty for the European Defense Community or an acceptable Alternative . Any alternative , it was emphasized , would have to be approved by other countries of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . This decision would be final , it was indicated by Senator H. Alexander Smith , Republican of New Jersey and acting chairman , unless the State Department proved it would cause " dire trouble . " French and Italian delay in action on the European Defense Community has caused much concern in Congress . Similar cut-off action was taken by the House of Representatives last month , but it was not so drastic as the Senators ' proposal today . While the House amendment to the foreign aid bill called for stoppage of aid as of July 1 , it would have no immediate effect on the flow of material under programs reaching back to 1951 . The Senate proposal would shut down even these " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Senator Smith declared , " is to indicate that the ratification of E. D. C. or something of the sort ought to be sped up if aid is to be continued . " Whether this action would please John Foster Dulles , Secretary of State , Mr. Smith said he did not know , but he promised to get the answer to the question at the earliest opportunity . This was taken as confirmation of a widely held conclusion at the Capitol that the Senate committee was posing its foreign aid restrictions independently , not under spur by the State Department . The instrument for the voicing of the Senate committee position was the $3,338,000,000 foreign aid bill that the House approved June 30 . The House had struck $109 , - 500,000 from budget estimates . The Senate committee voted to restore these cuts but suggested that the whole authorization be reduced to $3,100,000,000 . This would be a cut of about 10 per cent from an already tightly reduced budget of $3,477,608,000 . With more than $8,000,000,000 of unexpended balances in the : Tutual Security account , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the friendly nations should not feel ' that they were being " let down " 1 by the proposed cuts . There had been previous Congressional talk of reductions by $1,500,000,000 or more . The bill remains in tentative stage on the Senate side . Final action by the Foreign Relations Committee is expected Monday . Knowland Proposal Approved Today the committee gave formal approval to a revised proposal by Senator William F. Knowland of California , the Republican Leader that admittance of Communist China to the United Nations be a signal for definite United States action . Originally Mr. Knowland had served notice in the Senate that he would resign his leadership in the case of such admittance and fight for withdrawal from the United Nations by the United States . Mr. Knowland said this afternoon that this declaration still stood . However , his amendment to the foreign aid bill called only for a recommendation of foreign policy relative to the United Nations if Red China achieved a seat in September , when the showdown is slated . The decision would rest on a Presidential recommendation . President Eisenhower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United Nations but has not decided what the United States might do if the Chinese Reds got a seat . Senator Knowland indicated he believed the Presidential stand was a sign that he did not have to depart from his original position . There was no comment from the White House . In other tentative actions , the committee voted : That the President retain his usual power to transfer or reallocate funds appropriated for certain purposes to other areas if emergencies call for such action . ilThat the committee , on further consideration , still wanted the total of authorizations held down to $3,100,000,000 but would not recommend such a cut formally until staff experts had shown by Monday where they could be made , item by item , without endangering individual programs .                     