@@716670

txt Premier Pierre Mendes-France appealed to the United States today for greater financial help in holding South Vietnam against communism . In a meeting at the State Department this afternoon , the French Premier laid down his Government 's estimate of the grave problems in Indochina . At the same time he indicated that ' continued United States-French cooperation would safeguard the countries not now under Communist control , informants said , The French spent about $1,000 , - 000,000 a year in Indochina before the settlement last summer , but United States officials said they do not know what the cost to Paris was now . They indicated the United States would want some firm idea of France 's own intentions before Washington would commit itself to a specific aid program . This was the first day of official business for the French leader , who arrived last evening for a brief visit designed to strengthen United States-French relations and to advance the unity of the two Governments on foreign policy issues . In a television interview in the evening , M , Mendes-France said he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Criterion for Peace " The French people understand that there will be no peace in Europe unless the French and German peoples cooperate , " he said . " I do hope we will come to some very precise ways of coop-eration , " He described the French as " anxious to get solutions " of such long troublesome problems as the discussion in their North African territories , European unity and their own economic difficulties . Asked whether the events since he had taken office as Premier had strengthened the spirit of the French people , M : Mendes-France said the nation 's morale had improved . He remarked that it had been a constant disappointment and frustration during the post-war years to run up against the same obstacles time and again . The French now are encouraged by the gains that have been made and eager for further progress toward solving the remaining problems . The afternoon meeting at the State Department was devoted exclusively to Indochina , with M , ' Mendes-France presenting a long statement of the French position , ; officials said , Consultants at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary of State ; C. Douglas Dillon , United States ' Ambassador to France ; H. Struve Hensel , Assistant Secretary of Defense ; Harold E , Stassen , Director of the Foreign Operations Administration ; Livingston T. Merchant , Walter S. Robertson and Carl W. McCa'rdie , Assistant Secretaries of State ; Douglas 2d , State Department Counselor , and Frederick E , Nolting , special assistant to the Secretary , Earlier , from soon until a little before 1 P. when he lunched with President Eisenhower , M. Mendes-France discussed problems of European security with the President , Secretary Dulles and other foreign-policy officials , The White House talks were said to have centered on the London and Paris agreements for West German armament and sovereignty . Neither meeting produced any conclusions , informed sources said , but it was understood that enough progress had . been made to justify expectations of a firmer understanding ' between the Mai Governments by the time the conversations end tomorrow afternoon . A communiqu ? will be issued on the discussions , but whether it will be tomorrow or Saturday has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ // derstood to have asked United States officials about reports from Saigon that the United States will undertake the training of . the South Vietnamese troops . Gen. J. Lawton Collins , now on a special Presidential mission in Indochina , said in a statement there yesterday that the United States " will soon take charge of instructing the Vietnam Army in accordance wih special American methods which have proved effective in Korea , Greece and Turkey , and other ' parts of the world . " This statement apparently caught France by surprise . Washington has long asked for the right to train the native forces in Indochina , and France has resisted . Until General Collins ' statement appeared , it was assumed here that the issue ' still was unresolved . M. Mendes-France was understood to be seeking to determine whether General Collins was re flecting accurately a decision by the United States , or whether the statement about the imminence of a United States training program might have gone beyond the intentions of officials here . United States authorities themselves declined to comment on General Collins ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reports and did not have the text of the general 's remarks before them , The French Premier went directly from his State Department conference to the Senate , where he was welcomed by Vice President Richard M. Nixon , Senator William F. Knowland of California , the Republican leader , and Senator Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas , the Democratic leader . The Premier was given a-standing ovation when he entered the chamber , again when he was introduced by the Vice ' President , and for a third time at , the end of his remarks at the Senate rostruin . Later the Premier met for about twenty minutes with mem7 hers of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and the Senate Armed Forces Committee . Members said they were " very favorably impressed " by his Approach to World problems . United States officials have been cheered by the French Premier 's unflagging support of the London and Paris agreements and his rejection of talks with the Soviet Union at least until the agreements have been ratified . It is ' understood the Premier approached President Eisenhower on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cold war . " M. Mencl  --  s-France has taken ' a firmer hold than any of his predecessors on the problem of France 's domestic economic problems , and it is said to be his belief that economic progress in France would be a powerful weapon against the Communists . The French Premier will take his case to the people of the United States tomorrow when he addresses a luncheon meeting of the National Press Club .                     