@@716563

txt The Department of Justice has ruled that the proposed merger of Bethlehem Steel and Youngstown Sheet and Tube would be a violation of the anti-trust laws . Other attorneys who have made a business of studying the anti-trust laws think that the merger would not be a violation ; obviously the able men who advised the two steel companies concerned did not interpret the law as did the Department of Justice . Indeed it is altogether conceivable that a different set of men in the Department of Justice might have reached a conclusion wholly different from that reached by the Attorney General and his aidet . And with due respect to the legal acumen of all concerned we submit that in the very nature of things neither those who favored nor those who opposed it could know whether or not competition would be adversely affected . Given the present management of the two companies concerned , it is probable that the merged company would compete avidly with other steel producers . It is wholly conceivable that a different management under different circumstances would act otherwise . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrangement of companies in an industry will result in competition and that a different arrangement will result in monopoly . Size is not a criterion of monopoly . Nor is a multiplicity of producers a guarantee of competition . Thus two companies dominate the automobile industry at present . Certainly that is an ideal situation for the entrance of agreements on such things as improved models and the restriction of production . ' Yet these two companies are in fierce competition . A great many of our " liberal " contingent think that when a half dozen companies dominate an industry , that in itself is evidence of monopoly . They point to the farm machinery industry . But from personal experience , we can testify that if it becomes known that a man wants to buy a tractor , there will be several salesmen on his doorstep immediately . We certainly do not intend to imply that Mr. Brownell has misinterpreted the law . That is a question on which the layman is hardly competent to pass . But it takes no expert to appreciate the difficulty in drawing up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past combinations have been formed with the idea of suppressing competition . So they put legal safeguards around combinations and it is up to the courts and the law enforcement officers to decide when those safeguards are transgressed or likely to be transgressed . Experience is the only criterion that the law makers have . But the fact is that arrangements which at one time and under one set of circumstances resulted in monopoly at another time and in other circumstances will not have a similar result . At this time the anti-trust laws are under study with the idea that they will be revamped and it seems to us that the committee in charge of that work would do well to keep in mind that competition is a fact . Either it exists or it does not . And it can exist under the most unlikely conditions . Or it can be stifled under the most favorable conditions .                     