@@720698

txt Senate-House conferees came close today to resolving their differences on the labor reform bill . While " the last two obstacles , boycotts and picketing , are the most difficult , and may still defy compromise , at least one of the conferees was full of hope . Senator Barry Goldwater , Republican of Arizona , said : " I really think by tomorrow night we 'll have this thing worked out . We 'll know tomorrow . " The conferees have tentatively agreed on the Federal-state jurisdiction ( no man 's land ) is- sue , though this has not been nailed down by a vote . ? Fine but vital points on the remaining two issues still separate the groups , but members said that if these were resolved the Federal-State issue would be disposed of quickly . Kennedy Not Optimistic Senator John F. Kennedy , Democrat of Massachusetts , and Senator Goldwater appeared in agreement on the points that have been settled and the points that remain . Senator Kennedy , however , displayed none of his Arizona colleague 's optimism about a final @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and one of the sponsors of the House-passed Griffin-Landrum bill , also displayed little optimism . He said boycotts were the major area of disagreement . Senator Kennedy has been forced to move more and more toward the Landrum-Griffin bill , which Senator Goldwater prefers on all Taft-Hartley issues , such as boycotts , picketing and Federal-state jurisdiction . The solution for the latter issue is the compromise proposed by four Senate Democrats yesterday . It is essentially the House bill with a limitation . That is , the state courts and agencies would be permitted to move into the " no man 's land " of smaller labor-management cases provided that this area was not permitted to become larger . The National Labor Relations Board now declines to process cases that fall below standards of size set by the board itself . The compromise provides that the board would not alter these standards and thereby widen the states ' jurisdiction . The board 's standards are based on the annual gross receipts of the employer . For example , it accepts cases involving retail establishments and hotels where the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ varies according to the type of business . Amendment Dropped The conferees agreed to strike out a Taft-Hartley amendment that would have legalized labor-management agreements before actual hiring of employes on constriction projects . The law ' provides no practical representation *achiAery in the construction industry . The standard employe representation elections used in factories . for example , are inapplicable in construction because jobs are finished before an election can be held . The building trades unions still hope to save a more important amendment that would permit what is known as common sites picketing . That they want the right to picket an " unfair " employer at a building site even though ' other subcdhtractors on the same site may be penalized by the effect of the picket line . Senator Goldwater said he believed this kind of picketing and certain traditional practices in the ladies ' garment industry could be immunized against secondary boycott charges without writing an - amendment into the law . His proposal is to use legislative history , such as statements in the conference report and on the floor , which he believes the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is subcontracting by jobbers . Sometimes a subcontractor is a nonunion " sweatshop " that moves too fast for the union to catch up . The tradition is that the union induces the jober to agree that he will not subcontract work to any but union contractors . To induce a jobber to make such an agreement might be held to be a secondary boycott unless there was some legislative protection . The Senate Democrats also want explicit protection for consumer boycotts that might otherwise be construed as unlawful secondary boycotts . Such boycotts would be designed to persuade customers not to patronize certain stores , or certain products in those stores without interfering with deliveries to or from the stores . Picketing for purposes of union recognition or organization also remains an issue . The Senate had already approved picketing bans for nine months after an employe election and when the employer had a contract with another bona fide union . The Senate Democrats are unwilling to accept a House bill provision to prohibit all picketing for organizing purposes unless the union could prove that it had the support of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was agreeable to dropping that if something else was put in . He said the House bill proponents had suggested substitute language but he would not say what it was .                     