@@718778

txt Letters to The Times BRADY 0 . BRYSON.WILLIAM VOGT.BERNARD GELLES.SYLVAN L. HANAUER. pg . 34 Letters to The Times Exempting Disability Pay - ? Tax Decision of Supreme Court Is Declared Sound To THE EDITOR OF THE liEW YOP.K TIMES : There has been much discussion recently on the subject of the income tax exemption of employes ' sickness disability benefits resulting from the decision of the United States Supreme Court in the Haynes case . I participated in the Haynes case as counsel micas curiae . Although the decision is thoroughly sound as a matter of law , I believe the Government was surprised at losing the case and , further , that in many quarters the decision has not been well received . This reaction is unfounded and seems worthy of comment . The concern commonly expressed is the same as that reflected in a recent editorial , in which you took the view that an employe " can make a financial profit , at his employer 's and Government 's expense , by staying home sick from his job " ; that he will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federal Provisions This viewpoint does not take the whole situation into account . The subject was carefully reviewed at the Federal level in 1954 when the Internal Revenue Code was overhauled . Meticulous statutory provisions now govern the treatment of sickness disability benefits for Federal income tax purposes . These provisions contain ample safeguards against abuse , including dollar limitations on the amount of excludable income , waiting periods designed to eliminate relief in cases of brief and casual illness , and other limitations similar in purpose . What the Supreme Court has said , in effect , is merely that Congress in 1954 refined by statute a set of rules for the application of a basic tax exemption which has been in the law since 1918 , so that in years prior to 1954 sickness disability benefits were also tax exempt . It is true that the safeguards and limitations presently in the law do not apply for years prior to 1954 . But it is also true that there need be no concern about the Haynes case opening the door to " abuse " in those years . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the number of refund claims is sharply restricted by the statute of limitations which expired in the ordinary case on March 15 , 1957 , or earlier . The real pity is that thousands of taxpayers for many years paid tax on income which was in fact tax exempt , and will be unable to recover the excessive taxes they paid . So far as New York income tax is concerned , the controlling fact is that the tax rates are quite low as compared with Federal rates and the tax is also deductible for Federal purposes . The net effect is to make the tax impact , and therefore any tax relief , relatively insignificant . It would , however , be a relatively simple matter to bring the New ' York statute in line with present Federal law . Employe Benefits There is also prevalent a basic misconception winch is implicit in your editorial suggestion that an employe may " live wholly tax free on income for which he had not done a stroke of work . " The time has long since passed when employes worked for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so-called " fringe benefits , " and bargain for many of them fully as intensely and effectively as for take-home pay . For some forty years or more certain employment arrangements have included income-protection during periods of prolonged disability due to nonservice-connected accident or illness as well as the usual workmen 's compensation coverage . These benefits and various kinds of economic protection are not " free " ; they are paid for with services . Today it is an accepted fact that a paid vacation is not a gift from an employer , although the employe does not do a " stroke of work " while he is away . So also a paid absence enforced by illness where the employment contemplates such benefits in advance . In the Haynes case the taxpayer had been employed for more than twenty-five years as a workman for a telephone company . His annual salary was $2,100 . He became seriously ill and was away from his job for a year . Amounts equal to his weekly paycheck were disbursed to him regularly throughout the year pursuant to his employer 's disability benefit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his medical costs consumed much of these payments , and one should not have to argue too strenuously in support of the policy of relieving him of a $318 income tax thereon . When these facts are understood , most if not all objections to the court 's action in the Haynes case are dispelled . BRADY 0 . Beysess Westminster , Md. , May 7 , 1957 . Foreign Aid Queried To THE EDITOR Or THE NEW YORE TIMES : Your recent report from Arden House that a State Department representative had outlined " a $500 million economic aid program " should alert every American to this persistent nonsense of the Administration . We have spent more than $60 billion on foreign aid , yet in many of the countries where we have distributed anything from tens to hundreds of millions of dollars more people have less to eat than ' they had pre-war , unemployment is greater , per capita medical and hospital facilities are less , and illiteracy IS racing ahead like a prairie fire . In many coluitties  --  the notable exceptions are some of those that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ internal situations that are most hospitable to communism . Our foreign aid pro ? gram has been handled by both post-war Administrations in such A way as to defeat the will of the Congress and the people . These criticisms are based on cone tinuing studies of foreign aid active ities and seven years in the so ? called " underdeveloped " countries . WILLIAM VVOGT . New York , May 10 , 1957 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Federal farm price supports are creating new difficulties for the Administration and placing additional burdens on the taxpayers . The Department of Agriculture recently reported that it had lost four billion dollars in price support operations , and inventories since the inception of the Eisenhower Administration. - The wrong diagnosis had been made of the farm problem . The farmer has a grievance because he does not get a fair return on his product in relation to farm production and living costs . He buys his goods in a protected market , and sells a good portion of his wheat and cotton in a free market ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power between what he receives and pays iS causing him all the trouble . The Hoover Administration endeavored to cure this difficulty in 1929 by stabilizing prices through the Federal Farm Board . Its activities ended with a tremendous loss for the taxpayers . From year to year other methods to help the farmer have been adopted , finally culminating in price support . As a result of these operations the United States Department of Agriculture accumulated in 1956 inventories and price-support investments amounting to eight billion dollars . Restrictions Defeated Meanwhile the use of mechanized equipment , fertilizer , insecticides and technological improvements increased the yield per acre , especially in cotton , thus defeating the restrictions which have been imposed upon production by means of reduction in acreage . In spite of production controls large surpluses have been accumulated . On the other hand , storage , insurance and interest charges on Government inventories soared to millions of dollars a month . . The soil bank authorized by Congress in 1956 is an attempt to reduce surpluses , increase farmers ' income and provide for conservation of soil , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over many years furnished a price umbrella for other countries . While we were thinking hard how to cut our production , our competitors were working hard to expand theirs . Gradually the United States lost its markets abroad . The 1935-1956 cotton exports were the smallest since 1871-i2 . The attempt to regain the United States ' share of the world cotton market frightened foreign growers and dealers , who began to liquidate their stocks with the result that world prices collapsed . To meet this situation tile Secretary of Agriculture began selling for export at 25 per cent below domestic prices . This operation costs the taxpayers of this nation 300 million dollars . For New Plan The Government should cease all price support operations . A new farm Om should be formulated consisting of the present soil bank costing 1.2 billion dollars to be increased by custom receipts amounting , . to 400 million dollars . The custom receipts which include duties on goods that farmers buy should be apportioned among them , in the ratio to their production . This would compensate farmers fairly for the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be cut to $311 , billion . It would save one billion dollars covering losses on sales of surplus products to foreign countries plus carrying charges and administrative expenses on these sales estimated at , 300 million dolla ? s , making a total saving to taxpayers of 11 , S billion dollars . BERNARD GELLES . New York , May 9 , 1957 . A Reminder to Motorists To THE EDIToR T E NEW YoRK . TIM ES : I read with interest your editorial " Summer Car Care " in The Times of May 13 . It is indeed a timely and needed reminder to motorists at this time of year . Another reminder , needed all year round , but particularly in the hot season , is that each motorist should check his exhaust pipe to see that it is not smoking , Not only is such smoke  - -  whether black , blue or white -- an air pollution problem of serious dimensions , but it is an indication that the motorist is wasting gasoline and oil and losing money and engine power . A timely check of the emissions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will do much to reduce air pollution from this source and will save our citizens a good deal of money , as well as annoyance front smoke and fumes . SYLVAN L. FL N A I TIZ , Deputy Conunissioner , Department of Air Pollution Control , City of New York . New York , May 13 , 105T.                     