@@718595

txt Communist China may be running into serious economic difficulties in trying to pay back a , whopping aid bill reportedly now being levied from Moscow . Although nothing has been published by Peking on the matter , a continuous flow of reports reaching here indicate Moscow has asked its Peking ally to start meeting its loan obligations , which aside from publicly announced credits totaling some $430,000,000 since 1950 , are presumed to total several times more in undisclosed military aid . Facts relative to the situation include reports of a recent Polish trade &gelation; to Communist China which quote top Peking officials as having said that they must start meeting Moscow 's bill during the current year . There are also reports from Western businessmen to the effect that Peking is beginning to cut back hard-currency earning exports to Western markets so that these can be diverted to the Soviet bloc . Appeal . for Cotton Some measure of the problem facing the Peking government , moreover , is seen in an article in the Peking People 's Daily Feb. 19 , appealing to farmers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ article pointed out that . cotton  --  one of the bigger export commodities which would help pay Soviet bills ? is being withheld by farmers in order to make quilts and handmade cloth to sel ? in the more lucrative free market . The exact amount which Communist China owes the Soviet Union , meanwhile , is virtually impossible to estimate because of the " iceberg " nature of Soviet aid . On the surface , Moscow has extended two credits ? one in 1950 , the other in 1954 ? totaling some S$430,000,000 . Under the terms of the 1950 agreement Peking in 1955 began paying back 5300,000.000 I per cent interest in 10 annual instalments . Terms of the 1954 agreement indicate Moscow extended a further loan of S130 , - 000.000 . Time and credit terms of this second loan were never disclosed . But it is presumed that it would provide Communist China with little more than what it would take to service the earlier loan . Significance of the entire loan can be seen in fact that over a period of 10 years Moscow has given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what the United States gave South Korea in the last year alone . Below-Surface Pay merits And considering that the best Western estimates ? set annual two-way trade between Peking and Moscow at something close to two billion dollars  --  this exclusive of Peking 's trade with the satellites ? it can be seen that the obligation to repay a mere $30.000,000 yearly for a decade presents no extraordinary problem . Below the surface of the Moscow-Peking aid and payments situation , however , is unquestionably a huge bill which ever since the Korean war has been built up through Soviet aid and support of Communist . China 's land , sea , and air forces . It is almost impossible to arrive at the figure involved in Moscow 's furnishing infantry NV a ports , submarines , and late-model jet bombers and lighters . And only the slightest hint of the figure could be obtained by trying to equate Soviet military aid to Communist China with United States support of the Sou th Korean Army which is far smaller than that of Commun0 China but which costs the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sway military aid during the Korean war . But it is fel ' here that since then modernization of the emire " People 's Liberation Arnie ' , " plus a turnover of at least a dozen submarines and unward of 2.000 jet planes . has chalked up a debt of conHderable proportions . Di ffi en It Time If , as reported , Peking now is being pressed to begin repayment , it comes at a difficult time . Not only is the Communist China Government experiencing etbacks in cotton crop purchases but also in other vital export items such as pigs . Export trade credits on pigse-ie of the biggest barter items ? is suffering heavily because Peking has been forced to cut its export quota by nearly 50 per cent . This fact alone  --  aside from military aid figures ? inclines analysts here to believe that Peking may have built up an unfavorable trade balance which would be added to - what is already owed the Soviets .                     