@@716503

txt Bay State : Auto Insurance Rates Lower Tentative rates for 1955 compulsory automobile liability insurance in Masachusetts are lower in every community by amounts varying from 50 cents to $7.50 . Page 2 . Europe : Subs Reported Seen Off Sweden Four Swedish destroyers are on the alert for unidentified subInarines reported seen in the southern Stockholm archipelago Sept. 9 . East German police reopened three roads from the Soviet zone to West Berlin and prepared to open three more . Greek civil war hostages taken by Communists and now in Czechoslovak hands will be released , authoritative sources in Athens said . About 520 are to be returned . Satz Kilicoglu , leading Turkish opposition newspaper publisher , was sentenced to six months in prison for " inciting public opinion , " after a nine-month closed trial . Asia : Refugees From North Vietnam Mount Refugees from Communist North Vietnam already have mounted to 261,000 , and may reach half a million by May , Vietnamese Information Minister Bui Kieu Tin said . First soldiers of the United States 25th Division to leave Korea boarded ship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of four divisions to be withdrawn from Korea this year . Americas : Ousted Guatemala President Leaves Ex-President Arbenz of Guatemala flew into Mexican exile today as threatening crowds screamed " assassins ! criminals ! genocides ! " at his departure from his homeland . The ousted pro-Communist President was accompanied by his wife , their two young sons , and 17 of his supporters . National : Assassination Assignment Cited A professed former Puerto Rican revolutionary testified in Federal Court in New York that he had been assigned by National Party leaders to assassinate Representative Fred L. Crawford ( R ) of Michigan when the latter visited Puerto Rico in 1950 . This statement was made by Guillermo Hernandez Vega , a government witness in the sedition trial of 13 Puerto Ricans . Sefior Hernandez said he and another Nationalist reported to their superiors they had been unable to locate Mr. Crawford . The Immigration Service was reported today to be working on a plan for a mass naturalization of new citizens in all parts of the country on Armistice Day , Nox. 11 , to dramatize the naturalization ceremony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of bar silver bound for the United States Mint in Philadelphia was due to be unloaded today from the Holland American steamship Amsteldyk . The 4,203 bars of silver represent a partial payment by the Netherlands Government of a United States loan . Testimony on home repair swindles in the New Orleans area was expected to hold the spotlight , today at the third and final session of hearings on alleged abuses of Federal Housing Administration loans . President Eisenhower , FBI Chief J. Edgar Hoover , and Attorney General Brownell will discuss the home-front battle against communism Sept. 12 in advance of a conference of the National Security Council on world problems created by communism .                     