@@719066

txt A few years ago there was a lot of talk about currency convertibility in Europe as an imminent prospect . Then the talk died and so , it seemed , did the issue . Now West German Economics Minister Erhard has at least revived the discussion . Mr. Erhard suggests a limited period of world-wide free convertibility in which each currency would attain its natural level . To soften any adverse impact , though , the nations could set limits to the flexibility of their money rates . Mr. Erhard 's hope , undoubtedly , is that the period of convertibility would become permanent . It may seem to many people , at this stage , that currency convertibility can hardly be as important as Mr. Erhard and other free traders insist . After all , Europe  --  and most spectacularly West Germany itself  --  has been prospering without , it . What difference does it make whether moneys are or are not freely exchangeable ? One answer is that goverrimentpegged exchange rates are artificial and so produce weird distortions . ? A notable type in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commerce . To deal with this the West European nations finally had to devise the complicated and cumbersome European Payments Union . Thus , in the absence of convertibility , something achieving some of the benefits of convertibility had to be invented . But no elaborate device like the E.P.U. can prevent distortions in the exchange rates themselves , as long as the rates are arbitrarily fixed , The French are currently struggling with " camouflaged " devaluation because the franc has been long overvalued . The West German mark , in contrast , is so hard it is probably undervalued , because Germany , unlike some of its neighbors , has followed sound financial policies . The overriding argument for convertibility is that it would promote a greater flow of international trade and hence a greater degree of prosperity . All the help the United States has given Europe , Mr. Erhard says , will not reach " full fruition " until convertibility is achieved . It stands to reason that the freest flow of trade is impossible without freely fluctuating exchange rates . Everyone concerned knows this ; Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yet the nations refuse to take off the shackles of inconvertible currencies because many of them are still terrified of temporary competitive disadvantages as a result of their own past financial folly . The long-term advantages of convertibility have so far failed to overcome that fear . It is unlikely that Mr. Erhard 's latest appeal will overcome it either . But even to revive the talk of convertibility is useful . Perhaps if enough common sense is talked long enough , the nations will one day stop the idiocy of cutting off their noses to spite their faces .                     