@@717032

txt On the eve of a crucial senatorial test of his liberal trade policies , President Eisenhower has appealed to the American press to spread the " economic truth " that two-way international trade will lead to a " golden era of peace and prosnerity . " But it looked from the sequence of topics in the President 's speech as if he would much rather have made his topic his continuing fervent search for world peace . For in the early part of his address , the Peedrient divulged plans for the first American-developed atomic-powered merchant ship . He disclosed plans for sending the ship , when built , to all parts of the world " carrying to all people practical knowledge of the usefulness of this new science in medicine , agriculture , and power production . " Amendments Fought The President 's disclosure of plans to build the atomic ship was made in connection with renewed declaration that " the untiring search for a just peace " will continue to be a main objective of his administration . " The spirit of this search , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administration ; it affects every solution to problems of the moment . " But the big " political " subject was foreign trade . The President spoke out at the annual Waldorf-Astoria luncheon of the Associated Press in an effort to save from damaging amendments legislation extending the 21-yearold Reciprocal Trade Agreements Law . In Washington , the administration , meanwhile , was putting direct pressure on senators to beat down unexpected opposition to its trade program from a coalition of Republican and Democratic senators from industrial areas , " Either we foster flourishing trade between the free nations or we weaken the free world and our own economy , " the President told more than 1.000 newspaper executives gathered here for their annual series of spring meetings . The precarious situation surrounding the major trade legislation forced him into the warning : To abandon our program for the gradual reduction of unjustifiable trade barriers  --  to vitiate the administration proposals by crippling amendments ? would strike a severe blow at the cooperative efforts of the free nations to build up their economic and military defenses . It could result in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to widespread trade restrictions and a sharp contraction in * ? orld trade . It could mean a retreat to economic nationalism and isolationism . It would constitute a serious setback to our hopes for global peace . " Twin Goal Outlined He said a twin goal was " an expanding American economy whose benefits , widely shared among all our citizens , will make us even better able to cooperate with other friendly nations in their economic advancement and our common prosperity . " A $500,000,000,000 economy is in sight for the United States by 1965 , the President said , but it " can only be achieved within the framework of a healthy and expanding free world economy . " The President defended his reciprocal trade agreements program against the sudden attack that has been launched against it in these words : " Reductions in tariffs and other trade barriers , both here and abroad , must be gradual , selective , and reciprocal . Changes which would result in the threat of serious injury to industry or general reduction in employment would not strengthen the economy of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have recommended to the Congress were prepared in recognition of these facts . Trade Plea Pressed In his request to Congress in January for extension of the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act for another three years , the President asked for an increase in his rate-cutting powers . At that time the President put forth his argument , repeated here in New York , that further increases in trade were essential to sustain the prosperity of this country and to strengthen economic bonds between it and the rest of the free world . Against opposition developed not only from traditionally high-tariff Republicans but froth southern Democrats whose districts have recently become industrialized , the measure was pushed through the House under strong leadership of Speaker Sam Rayburn ( D ) of Texas but now has run into similar opposition in the Senate Finance Committee . In pressuring for revision of the measure , protectionists have cited unemployment and declining business figures to bolster their argument that American industry can not compete with cheaper foreign products . Trade-aid battle looms in Congress : Page 13. 