@@718366

txt Despite some misgivings , the British Government has decided to seek its policy objectives in the ' Middle East through the United Nations , Britain 's primary objectives in the area are guaranteed settlements of the conflict between the Arab states and Israel and of the dispute with Egypt over the Suez Canal . A Foreign Office spokesman emphasized tonight that Britain supported the General Assembly 's resolution of Nov. 7 on the formulation of a United Nations force to achieve the objectives set forth in previous resolutions concerning a ceasefire in the Egyptian fighting and the withdrawal of foreign forces . A resolution of Nov. 2 urged Egypt and Israel to withdraw all of their-military forces be- hind the armistice line of 1949 . Such a withdrawal would mean that Israel troops would leave the Gaza Strip . The Government- yards this withdrawal as a necessary pre ? requisite to a general settlement in which Israel would present her territorial claims , including those to the Gaza Strip . The decision to work through the United Nations represents an important change in British policy . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to act outside the United Nations and ultimately acted in defiance , , orthe world body . The principal " reason for the change adyaribed In official quarters is that t ) ie ' United Nations , through- the ? organization of an international force ' for Egypt , has proved not'only- its desire for a settlement  --  this was never in doubt , here  --  but its will to create conditions under which a settlement can be reached . Misgivings spring from the fear that President Gamal Abdel Nasser of Egypt , with the help of the Soviet Union , magi be able to prevent the entry of the United Nations force and thus prolong the present crisis in the Middle East . Current British worries about the area are political rather than military , it was emphasized . Soviet and Egyptian reports indicating that Russian " volunteers " may be sent to Egypt are treated with proper concern . But high-level opinion seems to be that the Soviet-Union will not now defy world opinion by helping Egypt reopen the conflict either against the British and French forces or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question of Egypt 's willingness to accept British help in clearing the canal of blockships is a source of more immediate concern to the Government . Viscount Hailshlm , First Lord of the Admiralty , ' announced tonight that Britain had prepared the " largest possible " salvage fleet to clear the canal . He also reduced , by five the estimate given yesterday by a War Office spokesman of the number of ships scuttled by the Egyptians in the canal. , He put the total at twenty-seven . The British Government 's willingness to go along with the United Nations in political matters apparently is not fully extended to the technical job of claaring the canal . Lord Hailsham made this clear in a speech in Chester . " The unblocking of the canal is a technical problem and you can not deal with , a technical problem by importing political prejudice , " , he said . " The problem is so large that all available salvage organizations will be required . " " Our organization is at the disposal of the United Nations , " he added . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substance at the moment to the Laborite Opposition 's assertion that popular disapproval forced the policy change on the Government . A public-opinion poll published today shows that for the first time in twelve months the Conservative party has gained the political lead . The same poll shows that the personal position of Prime Minister Eden has been greatly strengthened in the last twelve days . Officials emphasized that while the Government is relying on the United Nations , it remains convinced that the world body can operate most effectively if there is agreement between the United States , Britain and France on the type of settlements to be reached in the Middle East . British policy , it was said , remains based on the , rather general suggestions for a settlement between Israel and the Arab states stated by the Prime Minister Nov. 9 , 1955 , and later amplified by him in the House of Commons : The principles to guide a Suez Canal settlement put before the Security Council of the United Nations Oct. 13 of this year also remain Government policy . Sir Anthony offered his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ArabIsraeli quarrel in a speech at the Guildhall in 1955 . During this speech Sir Anthony urged the Israelis and the Arabs to compromise their boundary claims . He noted that the Arabs had said they were willing to discuss terms with Israel on the basis of United Nations resolutions . Consultations between the British and French Governments are continuing . Albert Gazier , France 's Minister for Social Affairs , flew to London today for a talk with Sir Anthony . and Foreign Office officials . ' He was deputizing for Foreign Minister Christian Pineau , who is at the United Nations meeting in New York . It is understood that the discussion today dealt with the timing of the withdrawal of British and French troops from the Port Said area in Egypt . The policy of working through the United Nations has been agreed to by both Governments and the work of implementing that policy is now to be left to M. Pineau and British Foreign Secretary Selwyn Lloyd in New York . Anthony Nutting , former Minister of State in the Foreign Office , completed his temporary withdrawal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resign his seat in the House of Commons as Conserva ? tive member for Melton , it Leicestershire . Mr. Nutting resigned from the 1Government Oct. 31 because he could not support its policy or Egypt . He represented the con. stituency for ' eleven years .                     