@@719877

txt DE GAULLE URGES SUMMIT MEETING OUTSIDE THE U. N. EUROPE FAVORED But France 's Premier Does Not Rule Out a Parley Here Text of de Gaulle 's letter is printed on . Page 6 . By ELOUERT C. DOTE Somiar to The Mem Work Times PARIS , July ** Charles de Gaulle proposed today to separate the summit conference from Security Council procedure . He sent his Foreign Minister to sound out other European states on the idea . In a new note handed to Soviet Ambassador Sergei A. Vinogradov at 7:15 P. M. , the French Premier , without ' rejecting the idea , stated his reservations concerning the efficacy of a summit meeting in a Security Council setting . He said such a meeting " v:ould have no relation with the conference at the summit that we had envisaged and vtich I have , in ? principle , agreed to attend . " Fears Unwieldy Parley He pointed out that there were eleven members of the Council and that the conference would be unwieldy with the addition of India and the Arab states and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " For my part , I believe that it is preferable that we hold to our initial project , that is to say , a conference of chiefs of government of the principal interested powers , " he continued . " It seems to me also that it would be better that the meeting take place in Europe . " Premier de Gaulle suggested Geneva , Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev 's original preference , or " any other city of our Continent " as the locale of the parley . The French leader did not specifically reject the idea , already adopted by President Eisenhower and British Prime Minister Harold Macmillan , vaiereby the Security Council would hold a special session to consider procedures for a summit conference . Suggests Outcome But he suggested that even though Security Council procedure were followed , the great powers would be led " sooner or later " toward a meeting of chiefs of government " in reason and calm , " a quotation of Mr. Khrushchev 's words . Foreign Minister Maurice Couve de Murville left Paris today for Rome to confer with Amintore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , tomorrow . He will go to Bonn on Tuesday for talks with Dr. Heinrich von Brentano , the West German Foreign Minister . Explaining M. de ' Murville 's travels , General de Gaulle ' said in the note that his Government placed the greatest importance on careful preparation of an eventual summit conference , and added : " It is with this objective that the French Government is going , beginning now , to seek agreement on the question of the Middle East with other states ? notably European ? which are interested in it and whose way of thinking could not fail to be taken into account in the position that it will adopt itself on the substance of the problem . " General de Gaulle recalled that last Tuesday he had suggested that solution of the Lebanese problem be sought first in the then pending Security Council action but that Council had failed to reach any positive result . Pushes Preparations " I am thus entirely disposed to proceed without delay to the preparation of the ' conference at the summit ' and to take part in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gaulle wrote Khrushchev . " But your letter of July 23 brings me a proposition profoundly different from that you formulated the nineteenth . " Mr. Khrushchev 's first note , a week ago , proposed an urgent Tuesday meeting in Geneva with the chiefs of government of the Western Big Three , India and Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold of the United Nations . His second note accepted an idea first advanced by Prime Minister Macmillan of transferring the- conference to the Security Council at New York . Mr. Khrushchev 's acceptance of change of time and place , General de Gaulle suggested , indicated that the Soviet leader believed the urgency of Midde Eastern problems had somewhat lessened . Although the French note Was prepared in close consultation with London , Washington and other North Atlantic Treaty Organization allies , it expressed markedly different concepts of precedure if not of substance . To most observers the whole ' French course in the crowded ' week of diplimacy since the first Khrushchev note was expressik7e of General de Gaulle 's determination to reassert French initiative and agressiveness in foreign affairs instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States as he has accused predecessor governments of doing . In the first exchange General de Gaulle was the only Western leader to " welcome " Mr. Khrushchev 's original proposal for a summit meeting outside the United Nations framework . His sharp retort to Mr. Khrushchev pn the latter 's criticisms of French policy , however , removed any suspicion that General de Gaulle sought to placate ? Mr. Khrushchev at the expense of his Western allies . The semi-independent course he has followed is unquestionably popular in France . Public opinion here is hypersensitive to any indications of a BritishUnited States " directorate " of the Atlantic alliance . The decisions by Washington and London to land troops , respectively , in Lebanon and Jordan July 15 and 17 without consulting Paris , pressed on this exposed nerve . French noninvolvement in the Middle East intervention gives General de Gaulle an opportunity to play an independent hand that helps-to assuage injured French pride . All this does not mean that General de Gaulle would be in a mood to break Atlantic solidarity on any fundamental issue . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taking an inflexible position against Security Council procedure or threatening to boycott the session if it were held by the Council . He did , however , recall that a Security Council meeting would be completely different from the private discussions in " objectivity and serenity " with the limited number of participants that he had agreed to attend . General de Gaulle 's decision to send M. de Murville on a scouting expedition to Rome and Bonn was interpreted by some observers as another sign of the Premier 's desire to transform France 's position within the big ' three . Hereto fore preoccupied with maintaining that position on a purely French basis , France could not match , in economic or military power or it4luence her two Anglo-Saxon partners . If France served , however , as the delegate within the Big Three at the other ; European powers , this would serve to redress the bale ante to some extent and give France a larger role . This , it was believed , was the significance of General de Gaulle 's invocation of the interests of the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determination to formulate a French position ienstsconformity with those inter " As much as anyone you will certainly understand the significance of the consultation to which the French Government is proceeding , " General de ' Gaulle wrote Mr. Khrushchev , " because Russia , like France , knows that the fate of the Middle East engages in a direct way that of all Europe . "                     