@@716241

txt The Administration is prepared to act to dispose of Government-held stocks of surplus food and fiber . It will soon create the machinery for disposing of its billions of dollars ' worth of surplus farm products and will put this program under the direction of an appointed official with experience in merchandising programs . He will have wide latitude in pushing the disposal of surplus commodities , with emphasis on foreign trade . The new disposal machinery will be established within the Department of Agriculture directly under the Secretary , Ezra Taft Benson . It will include experts in the merchandising of various products , and will work closely with the Departments of Commerce and State . The head of the new unit , who probably will be named as an assistant to Mr. Benson , has been chosen , but na announcement will be made until the details are worked out . President Eisenhower apparently has accepted the suggestions of his new adviser on the disposal problem , Clarence Francis , former chairman of the General Foods Corporation . Mr. Francis suggests that a full-scale merchandising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Administration has recognized that a man with high standing among merchandising executives must be employed and must have a relatively free hand to deal with the problem . There has been growing sentiment among Administration leaders that ordinary Government operations will not solve the surplus question . This view was emphasized in the appearance of John H. Davis , Assistant Secretary of Agriculture in charge of foreign operations , before the House Agriculture Committee last week . He told the committee that " the magnitude of our . agricultural surpluses is such that we can not afford to be complacent over any obstacles that stand in the way of moving them into domestic and foreign outlets . " This was further emphasized in the conference the President held last Thursday with Mr. Benson and Mr. Davis ; and with Senator George D. Aiken of Vermont and Representative Clifford R. Hope of Kansas , chairmen of the Senate and House Committees on Agriculture . The project was discussed in the hour 's session at the White House . The President 's farm program includes a flexible price support system for major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defeat a flexible system , though , and retain the present high , rigid supports that the Administration blames for the surpluses now in Federal storage , The Government investment in farm commodities totals $6,250 , - 000,000 . Overseas Deals Sought The merchandising effort to move surpluses at competitive world market prices will be geared to private trading , an additional reason for having men of high reputation in trade circles . Mr. Davis said that " bold , imaginative , and new steps must be taken by both private trade and Government to pave the way for such trade efforts . " Under such an approach , private traders would be encouraged to scour the world for advantageous disposal deals and for revitalizing American foreign trade . Mr. Davis mentioned at least one change that might have to be made in private trade practices . This was a wider acceptance by the Government of foreign currencies for American surpluses . The Assistant Secretary suggested that the Commodity Credit Corporation , the price-support agency , be authorized to use its funds for the costs incurred in making commodities available under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on board vessels in United States ports . This is a new step , and trade circles were awaiting clarification . It was said that foreign traders would be able to make better deals abroad if the Government absorbed the costs of delivery to ports . The President would have extremely broad authority under the suggested program to make farm surpluses available to any country or organization of countries friendly to the United states . The program would aim at disposing of $1,000,000,000 worth of surpluses over three years at a rate of $300,000,000 or more each year . Sales under the program would not be at prices that would disrupt those prevailing in foreign markets , officials said . The President also would have broad authority to dispose of farm products to Iron Curtain countries if he deemed such action important to foreign policy objectives . Toward this end , the disposal recommendations include the use of up to $100,000 , - 000 worth of surplus commodities regardless of the friendliness of Governments . On disposal at home , the Administration has suggested some broadening of Government authority , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accomplish this . Suggestions have been made for a food stamp plan to make ' more surpluses available to lowincome families and the unemployed . The Administration proposes that experimental operations be conducted before a country-wide plan is adopted to resolve the operating difficulties ,                     