@@718804

txt Very few of the other member nations will he in a position to contribute any of these things . Yet their votes can control the distribution of our contributions . This might lead to consequences that would startle American public opinion , to say the least , There is nothing to prevent the Agency , by majority vote , from admitting Red China to all the benefits of have-not membership . Nor is there anything to prevent part of the 11.000 pounds of enriched uranium , which the United States has already promised to make available to the Agency , from being shipped to the Soviet Union , to Red China or to any Soviet satellite state . Grotesque Position It is somewhat grotesque that this country simultaneously imposes so many restrictions on exports of strategic material to the Soviet bloc and to Red China and leaves such a large loophole open for the shipment of uranium , surely the most " strategic " material of all . Second , the difficult if not impossible profit/7m of control is not clearly solved under the terms of establishment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has already promised to make available is supposed to be for non-military use . But it is scientifically possible to convert uritnium of this type into fissionable niaterial for A-bombs . The only safeguard against this would be a system of continuous close inspection to which Communist nations have been extremely allergic in the past . Nothing less than such inspection would afford any gutira lit ee ! hat the . United States was not supply ? mg its enemies with the deadliest kind of It unitions . Third , the sanctions which can be invoked in the event of breach of the agreement seem inadequate . All the Agency can do in the event of Violation is to cut off the supply and report the affair to the United Nations . There have been many occasions when itwas impossible to get a clear-cut decision from the United Nations . The Agency could do nothing if the nation guilty of violation should seize the material and throw out the Agency 's inspectors . Fourth , the establishment of an International Atomic Agency could seta precedent for other international bodies , dealing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost any foodstuff or raw material under the sun . In any such body the United States would have the same unfavorable position of a " have " among the " have-nots . " What makes United States membership in the International Atomic Energy Agency still less desirable is that there is an entirely safe means of realizing the benefits which are supposed to flow from the Agency . The United States has already concluded almost 40 bilateral agreements with friendly countries looking to cooperation in atomic research and in the construction of power reactors . Chance to Choose The advantages in the bilateral approach are that the United States is in a position to choose which countries may he helped without risk to American national security and to impose safeguards which seem adequate in the judgment of the men charged with responsibility for America 's own atomic program . Both these advantages would he forfeited if the United States should enter the International Agency , which maintains complete control over all the fissionable material it receives . An International Atomic Energy Agency of the type now proposed might well be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduced to a minimum , where there was no fear that some nation or group of nations might have the design of using the terrific destructive power of nuclear weapons to achieve world domination . This is not the situation at the present time . It is a very curious sense of relative values that makes the Administration throw as many roadblocks as possible in the way of American newspapermen going to Red China and haggle with other powers over what is permissible for export to China and the Soviet bloc and at the SAme time support a scheme which could result in the transfer of such a vital nuclear material as uranium to Communist countries . If this is not possible tinder the constitution of the Agency , it is the obligation of its Administration sponsors to explain why it is not possible . Speed in Moscow The suggestion is now being made that the recent Soviet ratification of this plan should hasten its approval by the United States Senate . But it could certainly be argued with equal plausibility that any scheme accepted with such unusual speed in Moscow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because there has been so little advance discussion of the International Atomic Energy Agency , every detail of the project should receive a thorough going-over at the hands of independent-minded Senators . The apparent defects should at least inspire sonic sweeping reservations , if it is not decided that they warrant the scrapping of the whole project .                     