@@714034

txt Deportations of Budapest non-Communists to country districts are continuing at a rate of about 3,000 a week , Reuters reports from Vienna . Some ' 24,000 to 40,000 persons are estimated to have been evacuated in the eight weeks since the deportations started . Britain has told West Germany it will not agree to the abolition of the Ruhr Authority until the Germans have fulfilled their agreement to deliver scrap to Britain . Italy has invited members of the Council of Europe to an international conference aimed at pooling the air transport facilities of Western Europe . The plan would be similar to the Schuman Plan for pooling Europe 's coal and steel resources . French paratroopers jumped from American C-82 " Flying Boxcars " over Dijon , France , in the biggest mock parachute assault since Allied defense training began in Europe . Bay State : Farm Leader Scouts Paid Holidays Paid holidays for agricultural workers , proposed by the International Labor . Organization at its recent conference in Geneva , are scouted by Massachusetts farm leader L. Roy Hawes of the Grange , who served @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4 . Tension over Massachusetts ' now famous graft charge case involving a high state official continues to mount as the House - Rules Committee prepared to issue its probe report Thursday or Friday . Page 4 . Washington : Field Gave IPR Around $60,000 Frederick Vanderbilt Field , New York millionaire , was described as a one-time " sugar daddy " for the Institute of Pacific Relations at Senate hearings by Edward C. Carter of New York , a trustee of the IPR . He said that Field 's contributions to the institute totaled " around $60,000 . " National : Costello Indicted on Contempt Charge Frank Costello , named by the Senate Crime Investigating Committee as the top man in the nation 's underworld , was indicted by a federal grand jury on a charge , of contempt of the Senate . Gambler Joe Adonis ( Joseph Doto ) and confessed bookmaker Frank Erickson were indicted on the same charge , stemming from their refusal to answer questions at the widely publicized Senate Crime Committee hearings in New York last March . Three players from the University of Toledo 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scandal , District Attorney ' Frank . S. Hogan said . Toledo became the sixth major college power to be brought into the mushrooming scandal  --  the biggest in college history . Earlier developments : Page 141 Tile Mississippi River churned past Cape Girardeau , Mo. , at crest or near-crest , and there is a feeling that the worst is over Army engineers do not exnect any serious flooding downstream from Cape Girardeau , which is more than 100 miles south of St. Louis . Page 6 . ) , Canada : Television Network Contracts Awarded Contracts have Wen awarded by the government-owned Canadian Broadcasting Corporation for the provision of television network service linking Toronto , Montreal , and Buffalo , t  --  i.Y . Television stations in Montreal ' and Toronto are scheduled to be in operation next year .                     