@@718088

txt Governor Harriman declared tonight that the eradication of racial discrimination ' Wwas vital to the country 's security and leadership of the free world . The New York Governor came here at the invitation of the Young Democrats of North Carolina . They have extended similar invitations to other candidates for the Democratic Presidential nomination . To an audience that considers questions of civil rights and the integration of Negroes into , the public schools of top interest , Governor Harriman declared : " Tonight in North Carolina I am the same man I was yesterday in New York . The goals I believe in , I believe in not just for New York but for all our country  --  not just for New Yorkers , but , for all our people . And I believe they are the goals of all Americans of good will , wherever they may live . " Referring to the Supreme Court 's segregation decision , Mr. Harriman said that " governmental authorities ? Federal , state and local  --  have the obligation to go forward in accordance with these decisions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is complied with . " Mr. Harriman 's trip here was his first visit to the South since he avowed his active candidacy for the nomination last June 9 . He was greeted at the Greensboro Airport by Representative Harold D. Cooley , chairman of the House Agriculture Committee , and Harry Hall Wilson , president of the North Carolina Young Democrats . As the Governor motored forty miles from Greensboro to Asheboro , press conferences were being held by Governor Luther H. Hodges , in Raleigh , and by Thomas Pearsall , in Asheville , to explain a legislative program to circumvent the Supreme Court 's school segregation decision . Mr. Pearsall is chairman of the advisory committee that drafted the legislation . The North Carolina General Assembly will meet July .23 to consider the legislative program . The two key proposals would amend the Constitution to allow tuition grants for children not wishing to attend mixed schools and to allow local school boards to close schools in " intolerable " situations . The pending session of the Legislature has aroused interest in the desegragtion issue to a high level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ referendum in September . Governor Harriman took pains today to emphasize that he had no intention of using Federal troops to enforce the Supreme Court decision . At a picnic luncheon at Asheboro Country Club , he said : " Anyone who said I would send troops down South lied . " In his speech tonight , the Governor attributed the suggestion to the use of troops to " the present emotional atmosphere . " " Nothing , " he added , " could be farther from the truth . " Mr. Harriman talked informally and answered questions to to a crowd of fifty at the picnic . Among them were fifteen of the state 's seventy-two delegates to the Democratic National Convention . The delegation , which will be led by Governor Hodges , is expected to cast 551/2 votes on the first ballot for Adlai E. Stevenson . A half-vote is expected to go to Senator Estes Kefauver of Tennessee . Despite the pro-Stevenson sentiment among his hosts , Governor Harriman was well received on friendly terms . Considerable resentment was voiced by young Democrats because . of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They coupled this with a distaste for the sympathy that Governor Hodges appears to be showing toward the move by Gov . George Bell Timmerman Jr . of South Carolina for a Southern bloc at the national convention .                     