@@719531

txt A year ago Representative Sam Rayburn ( D ) of Texas , Speaker of the House , stepped down from the Speaker 's platform and said it was high time to probe into the administration of the federal regulatory agencies and see whether 1they were behavirig themIselves . He made sure the subcommittee on legislative oversight was allocated a $250.000 budget , and he personally interviewed Dr. Bernard Schwartz. director of New York University 's Institute of Comparative Law , before he was named chief . counsel . But the probe was in difficulties from the start , and now Washington has witnessed the dramatic but unhappy spectacle of a " take over " by the parent committee 's chairman , Representative Oren Harris ( D ) of Arkansas , and the refocusing of the inquiry on Dr. Schwartz himself . It has been evident all along that many congressmen , including some members of the subcommittee , were apprehensive that the inquiry would illuminate all too brightly what is common knowledge in Washington : that members of Congress i themselves frequently have pulled wires in attempts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agencies . A A A These regulatory agencies have tremendous power over the American economy , and sometimes ill-defined power . The agencies range from the granddaddy of all , the Interstate Commerce Commission , to the Federal Communications Commission and Civil Aeronautics Board ( those currently under investigation ) and to others such as the Federal Power Commission and Securities and Exchange Commission . They decide freight rates and telephone rates . They determine whether a multimillion dollar television license shall go to a powerful newspaper or ? in the interests of encouraging competition ? to some fledgling syndicate . They determine airline routes which can mean millions of dollars to airline profits . Congress , which establishes the agencies ( after which they operate within the executive branch with power of appointment of board meenbers lodged with the President ) , has attempted rather halfheartedly to make them quasijudicial . But , being subject to the obvious pressures of businesses and lobbies which are n't willing to confine their pleas to regulated appearances before a panel of commissioners or examiners  --  the agencies have by no means always displayed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course , neither have those who sought to bring the pressures A A A Almost any regulatory agency could produce scores of letters from members of Congress which , while often not asking outright preferential treatment for somebody in some pending case , brought a degree of pressure merely by expressing " interest " in the outcome . Undoubtedly similar inquiries have been received from the executive branch . This sort of behavior  --  this attempt by members of Congress , by government officials , by businessmen or pressure groups such as the natural gas lobby , could stand a searching , painstaking , patient investigation . The tragedy of the current probe is that Dr. Schwartz though zealous and highly intelligent , became emotionally involved to the point where he made charges which were not supported by evidence so far produced . He obviously had become so incensed at the roadblocks he was encountering that he sought to break through by explosive tactics . A A A National attention has been called now to the " hush-up " efTorts inside the subcommittee . Whether public indignation has been aroused sufficiently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not so certain . The pity is that no one is talking very much about the essential reforms which are required . A high Justice Department official recently remarked that the remedy for Deeper and Deeper the regulatory commissions was to make them " completely judicial . " that is , to clothe the commissioners with the probity and security which surround the nation 's judges . This would require safe tenure in office ? some now may be removed at the President 's pleasure . It would require salaries which would make commissioners less prone to accept expense accounts . speech fees , and favors from the very industries they are supposed to regulate . It would require fewer political-plum appointees . This upgrading of the agencies would not be easy . The commissioners ' everyday tasks are legislative and administrative as well as judicial  --  they can not he as detached as judges . And often when they quit their commissions they move up to better-salaried jobs in the industries they have regulated . But the problem of inducing a Caesar 's wife integrity into the regulatory agencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than to set up a bipartisan commission of disinterested Americans to study the whole complicated picture and suggest improvements .                     