@@715311

txt When the only woman in a school of 600 men walks into class , you might expect a barrage of wolf calls and whistles . But when Mary Brown walks into class at the Greer . Technical institute , 2230 Michigan ay. , the men are more likely to tip their hats respectfully . Miss Brown , 72 and , gray haired , is more interested learning ' how to take an automobile engine apart and put it back together again than she is in men . Will Work In Summer She came here from Minneapolis ' to enroll in the school Jan. 19 and in a couple of weeks will return to Minneapolis to work thru the summer as a housekeeper and dressmaker . She will return to 1Greer in the fall to finish her 20 week course in auto mechanics . She has to know something about machinery , she explained yesterday , because in a year or so she will move to the family home ' stead near Marietta , Minn . Her brother , Emil , is in failing health and she thinks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " . Men are getting scarce on the If arms , " she said . " Emil complains he has to work with the engines . I may go out this summer and see how they 're getting along . " Sees Nothing Odd in It Miss Brown ' does n't see anything odd about a woman enrolling in an auto mechanics class . She tried to enroll in a Minneapolis trade school 10 years ago but was turned down . She was told she would have to go to Chicago or New York to get in such a. class and eventually she came here . " Women should learn , about riachinery so they can help , " she said . " The ' war is n't going to end and women are going to be needed . Lots of them are working with tractors and threshers now and there will be more at it all the time . " When she arrived at Greer , Suet . Hugh Harshbarger showed her thru the building . She saw a ' storage battery and , Harsh barger recalls , remarked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a battery . " Galled Good Student Harshbarger and his teachers say Miss Browil likes mechanics and learns quickly . She can tear clown a car engine , but has n't tried putting one together again . She will get to that part of the training in the fall . In Minneapolis this spring and summer she hopes to work on an old car which a friend may buy . She once had her own car , but it was stolen . Working with farm machinery appeals to Miss Brown . Of Norwegian parentage , she left the farm more than 40 years ago , but " never did take much to city life . "                     