@@713095

txt Plans to this effect are now being drawn up by the Economic Cooperation Administration in collaboration with the Italian Government . This program should represent a long and perhaps decisive step in coping for some years with the problem of . Italy 's constantly increasing population . Sardinia has an area of 9,400 square miles and a population slightly in excess of 1,000,000 . The island of Sicily , with almost exactly the same area , has a . population considerably above 4,000,000 . It is therefore considered reasonable to suppose that Sardinia could accommodate 1,000,000 more persons in could take a total of 1,000,000 , the island could absorb the remainder of a five years ' population increase . The public works necessary to enable Sardinia to support that many additional persons , however , will take several years to complete . The first step taken by the E. C. A. to carry out its plan has been to entrust the Rockefeller Foundation with the task of making a thorough survey of Sardinia to determine how many settlers it can absorb and what works will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On the basis of this survey , the Ital // ian Government and the E. C. A. will later settle the details of the settlement plan and devise a means to finance it . Sardinia has become a place to which the surplus population can be sent , thanks to the work done by the Rockefeller Foundation in extirpating malaria . Its populaticin ? has been comparatively low , because of the ravages of malaria , but it can be greatly increased now that the disease is disappearing . The E. C. A. for the last two years , has constantly urged on the Government the necessity to develop Sardinia , but it is only recently that its views have been accepted . The Government has now undertaken to back the Sardinian project to the fullest . Good progress is being made , meanwhile , on two other projects that E. C. A. officials consider essential for Italy 's industrial recovery . They are a reform of the taxation system and a reorganization of the mechanical industries . The reform of taxation seeks to shift the emphasis from indirect to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and collection closely modeled on that existing in the United States . It aims , particularly , at relieving industry of the present 3 per cent turnover tax levied every time a raw material or semi-processed article changes hands . Industry has found the tax burden crushing . It is hoped that Parliament will pass the tax bill in time for it to become law and be put into effect by the end of the year . Some time will pass before the new tax law is enforced efficiently , and the plan is to reduce indirect taxes step by step , as revenue from direct taxes increases . Meanwhile , industrialists will receive a refund of the turnover tax paid on goods for export . The reorganization of the mechanical industries , which give work to about 4,000,000 men , is also considered urgent .                     