@@714042

txt Letters to The Times HAROLD FIELDS.MICHAEL WALPIN.BENJAMIN P. SANDLER , M.D.ROBERT L. BLOOM.ARMEN B ... Letters to The Times Proof From Russia Asked Soviet Deeds , It Is Said , Would Provide Evidence of Good Faith To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIDIES : Every American is eager to see the realities of peace restored to the world . At the same time , however , every realistic American is suspicious as to the sincerity of Russia 's invitations and proffers . Such doubt is logical because of the belligerent attitudes she has pursued , the misstatements about the United States her representatives have hurled against us , and her actions toward other nations . Czechoslovakia , Greece , Berlin , Germany , Korea  --  the list of her acts that belie friendliness between her and other peoples and nations , acts that confirm policies of aggressiveness , are too numerous to be set aside by a quick acceptance of peace offerings . Yet today , more than ever before , Russia is extending the olive branch to the United States and the United Nations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good faith . But good faith must be based on more than mere words ; it must have a solid foundation in deeds . And if we could find the deeds that Russia would be willing to execute as evidence of good faith we might listen more attentively and less suspiciously to her pleas for peace . For instance : If the Soviet Government were to open its doors to free travel by Americans , just as do all the non-satellite countries of Europe , allowing tourists to travel where they would , that might indicate that she was no longer seeking to hide anything . Or : If she were to permit freedom of movement to our consular and diplomatic representatives so that they were accorded the same privileges that we enjoy reciprocally with Great Britain or France , we might have more faith in her willingness to cooperate honestly . Or again : If she were willing to insist that all articles in Pravda about the United States and Americans were carefully documented , and were to insist on the suppression of the grossly distorted and untruthful stories of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its readers , we might believe her . And again : If she were to allow American newspapers , magazines , books and other sources of information to be disseminated freely within her borders  --  with broadcasts from the United States as we allow foreign broadcasts here  --  that , too , might be convincing . There are other criteria of sincerity . Give back the boats that were loaned to her under the Lend-Lease Act and that she refuses to return . Send back to their homes the Japanese prisoners of war she still forces to remain in her territory . Let Soviet Russia execute these and other like acts , and Americans may believe her to be sincere . And America has the right to impose these conditions , for she herself has been recognizing them in this country  --  even where Russia is concerned . In other words , when the Soviet raises the Iron Curtain and becomes a part of the nations of the world in their social and political relations rather than standing aloof from them , those of us who are suspicious of her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . HAROLD FIELDS . Brooklyn , July 30 , 1951 . Primary System Questioned To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The Primary Election Law was enacted to take the final official nominating power from the hands of the party leadership and put the choice of the candidates into that of the party enrollment . This choice was to be expressed by the required number of signatures to the petition to place such individuals on the primary ballot . However , we now see how the entire system has become practically a farce . Year after year admitted figureheads are put up for the necessary signatures , only to have them decline after the closing date for filing the petitions . Then , with the power of filling the vacancy , the party leadership can and does substitute any name desired without opportunity of approval or disapproval by the enrolled party membership . If deals are to be made , why not before rather than after the petitions are drawn up ? If the law is to be effective , the final approval should and must be kept in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That was the purpose for which the primaries were enacted . That is the way they must be preserved . MICHAEL WALPIN . New York , July 31 , 1951 . Injustice to Landlords Charged To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Recent criticism regarding rents charged service personnel is wholly unfair , particularly as it applies to New York . We , and a number of other owners , have been compelled to carry apartments empty for the past two years because we do not have funds to paint or maintain them . The law in New York State prohibits us from renting except on terms we are financially unable to meet . It further denies us any reasonable or adequate means of earning money needed to maintain buildings properly . To illustrate , the Congress has passed a law which allows owners to increase rents by 20 per cent to meet maintenance and operating costs , which have risen very substantially since 1939 . Yet New York law is so arranged that it permits no increase whatsoever , in the vast majority of buildings , to compensate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this despite the fact that we furnish more services to tenants Advancing Language Study Children 's Aptitude for Mastering Foreign Tongues Cited To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The article on the Education page of THE TIMES of July 29 describing the interesting experiment of fifth graders learning French points up a phase of elementary school education which has been completely neglected in our city , This neglect is serious in an ever-con. tracting world in which nations are within hours of one another . It is particularly distressing to note that in New York City , which is now the political and economic hub of the world , so little attention has been given to making foreign-language instruction an effective and worth-while part of the educational program of the ale . mentary schools . In several states the study of foreign languages from the first grade can id now required of all pupils . In still othet states individual communities have made foreign-language instruction an integral part of their elementary school program . The method of instruction employed in these schools corresponds to that followed in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the elementary schools of New York City is possible and profit . able was fully demonstrated at a recent meeting of the Modern Language Section of The New York , Society for the Experimental Study of Education . Pupils of P. S. 208 in Brooklyn gave a convincing demonstration of what could be achieved in the third and fifth grades in the learning of French and Spanish . The consensus of the teachers of the Vance School bears out the con. elusions of both the principal and teachers of P. S. 208 . Of special inter . est is the conclusion that pupils did better in other areas of study as a result of their participation in the study of foreign languages . However , it must be stated here that foreign-language Instruction in P. S. 203 is not given on the initiative of our Board of Education . Enlightened and interested parents of the community who recognized the psychological ad ? vantage of children beginning the study of foreign languages at a very early age are paying the salaries of the teachers . This is a financial and educe .. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York . Current international developments have given us ample evidence that our political , social and economic welfare is inextricably bound up with that of other nations . Now more than ever are we in need of intelligent leadership which possesses a knowledge of the languages as well as the cultures of other nations . The acquisition of a foreign language is a long process . This process should properly be begun when the child is devoid of inhibitions and still has a mobility of speech which enables him to master foreign sounds with relative ease . It is hoped that the City of New York will not be long in emulating not only the Parent-Teachers Association of P. S. 208 Brooklyn , but also the numerous communities of the United States where foreign languages are taught in the elementary schools . MAX A. LURIA . Brooklyn , N. Y. , Aug. 4 , 1951 . Consideration From Smokers Urged To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I am afraid that John Newstead 'S plea for legislation against smoking in public conveyances in his letter pub . lished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fellow-sufferer who usually finds herself headed into New England instead of upper New York State , I should find legislation from Albany of little use . If there is no great hope of enforce .. able regulations through the country , may we perhaps ask the cigarette , and even more the cigar , manufacturers to accept their responsibilities and devote some of their advertising space and time to educating their consumers back to a decent consideration of the rights and safety of others ? The smoking habit has become so accepted that many smokers are apparently honestly surprised when anyone objects to their lighting up in a non-smoker . I am sure that far too many of them remain quite unaware of the fire hazard of habitually throwing away lighted cigarettes , in spite of periodic editorials in THE TIMES and elsewhere . THERESA BLAKE . New York , July 29 , 1951 . Confidence in To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : There was a time when I would have thought it foolish for a layman to take exception to a college professor 's opinion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taking exception to Prof. Elton Atwater 's letter of July 23 to THE TIMES . The professor 's gripe with General 's Boston address is " * ? the stratagem of half-truths " which he accuses the General of using " in order to support his position and discredit his critics . " While I can see the pro . fessor 's idea , I think he has drawn such a fine bead that he has missed the vital point . Actually , if General is using half-truths , I might say that I have more confidence in his half-truths than in all the stuff the Administration is handing out as the whole truth . WILLIAM SCHUETTE Jr . New York , Aug. 3 , 1951. than is given in any other section of the country . Many of our vacancies were long ago offered to area commanders for use of service personnel , providing proper arrangements could be made within the requirements of state law . Is these same buildings in which we , the fee owners , are forced to carry apartments idle , present tenants rent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five times the amount of rent they pay us . Again , because we do not have adequate funds we are unable to do anything to stop these unfair practices . Attempts by fair-minded owners to take action against them are brutally discouraged by state and municipal agencies and the courts . THOMAS H. DoYLE . New York , July 23 , 1951 . Course of Meat Consumption Increased Use Attributed to Stress on Nutritional Value To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In your editorial " Better News About Beef " on July 30 you state that " perhaps the most cheerful bit of news published in this newspaper yesterday " was a report on the mounting meat supply in the United States . I heartily agree that this is cheerful news . For all of us it is cheerful because it hints of cheaper prices for meat . For those concerned with human nutrition it is cheerful because an abundance of meat in the daily diet is the best thing that could happen to preserve the nation 's health , especially in a time of tension . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our per capita meat consumption declined and that after 1939 it climbed again . You further state , " One reason for the rise was that real wages were increasing  --  more families could afford more and better cuts of meat . " Is it a fact that the average American had less real wages in the prosperous Twenties than after 1939 ? It is difficult to believe that meat consumption fell during the Nineteen Twenties because of inadequate buying power . I believe that the increased consumption is due largely to the education of the public regarding the importance of increasing the protein content of the daily diet , especially in the form of meat . This educational process has been carried on by many different agencies , such as nutritionists , writers on nutrition in daily papers and weekly and monthly periodicals , syndicated health columnists , advertisements by meat packers and trade associations like the American Meat Institute , etc . The family doctor has been pushing proteins , too . It is important to establish the exact " causes of the rise in meat consumption because , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge about the nutritional value of meat , it is evident that a sustained high level of beef production is essential and that a steady rise in beef production should be planned for by the livestock producers with the advice and guidance of federal and state health authorities . As for the future , there is no doubt that less cereals will be eaten by humans , more cereals will be eaten by cattle , and humans will eat more meat . The nutritional value of meat compared with that of cereals is so much greater that it is not necessary to argue for more meat in the diet . Meat-eating is also a much more efficient ( and enjoyable ) source of energy , especially since a steer must eat about fourteen pounds of vegetable matter ( hay , grass ) to produce one pound of meat . BENJAMIN P. SANDLER , M. D. Oteen , N. C. , Aug. 1 , 1951 . Spain 's Defense Role Queried To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your correspondent John J. Miller fears that the exclusion of Spain from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us in the " Mediterranean basin " by a failure to utilize and safeguard " the only practical route to the countries of the eastern Mediterranean . " , It seems to this armchair strategist that Mr. Miller is unduly alarmed . Spain 's hostile attitude during the last war failed to prevent communication with the eastern Mediterranean , and I am not aware of any event which has appreciably increased Franco 's power to pose a greater threat . What reason is there to believe that his regime would desire to obstruct any move on the part of Western European nations to protect'the Near East from possible Soviet aggression ? I find our State Department 's position in courting Franco not only slightly ridiculous , but positively dangerous in its possible repercussions on public opinion in Western Europe . If this be " emotional or parochial thinking , " it still requires more light than Mr. Miller has shed upon it . ROBERT L. BLOOM . Gettysburg , Pa. , Aug. 7 , 1951 . Preventing Niagara Falls Deaths To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : As far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women who have dared the powerful forces of Niagara Falls . The majority of these human lives have been taken by the falls , and those who live claim they have achieved a victory . Now another life has been lost . I think this useless and unnecessary form of suicide should be outlawed . It would seem that the lives of these men and women of such great courage would be much more valuable in combating the sins facing the world today . I believe it is about time that Niagara Falls be outlawed as a suiciders ' heaven . Legislation to this effect must be forthcoming to steal from the jaws of Niagara those lives it takes which could contribute more profitably to humanity . ARMEN BOGOSSIAN . Brooklyn , Aug. 6 , 1951.                     