@@719897

txt Opponents of controversial legislation designed to beef up efforts to curb obscene publications are building up for a last-ditch Beacon Hill battle against the bill criticized as leading to censorship and defended as an enforcement weapon . The measure to set up a seven-member **26;827;TOOLONG commission has already passed both branches of the Legislature by substantial margins , although even many of the legislators who voted for it privately labeled it a bad bill . But with the September primaries and November election directly ahead , they feared political reactions to an adverse vote . Unless the measure is rejected on a motion for reconsideration in the House on Monday or is killed in either branch at the enactment stage , it will go to Governor Furcolo for his signature . While he undoubetdly will be under considerable pressure from both sides on the issue , his approving signature is anticipated if the bill reaches his desk . The bill would set up the proposed seven-member obscene-literature commission to assist the Attorney General in enforcing laws against obscene literature . The particular aim of the legislation is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asked The commission would be composed of representatives of the Protestant , Roman Catholic , and Jewish faiths , an educator , and three private citizens , all appointed by the Governor . The commission would advise the Attorney books it able and Lion . Represerptive William F. Otis ( R ) of Boston , a leading opponent of the measure , has moved for reconsideration of the House vote on the bill . The test comes Monday . Over the weekend , the opposition is seeking to build up its campaign . Only a spectacular switch could block the bill , however , because the House roll-call vote passing the measure was 128 to 57 . Earlier the Senate , on a 21-to-17 roll-call vote , passed the measure , although last year it killed an identical bill . Among the organizations opposed to the measure are the Massachusetts Council of Churches and the Civil Liberties Union of Massachusetts . The Rev. James H. Burns , director of the social-relations department of the Massachusetts Council of Churches , pointed out that the council regards the legislation as " an unnecessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Urged William Homans , counsel to the Civil Liberties Union of Massachusetts , today called for support of the Otis reconsideration motion " by all legislators who resent the intrusion of government censorship into literature . " Two aspects of the bill are particularly pernicious . First , since the duty of the commission is to advise the Attorney General as to prosecution of sellers and publishers , the very existence of the commission must surely result in the preparation of lists of books and the ' clearing ' of books with the commission prior to publication or being placed on the market . " These are more appropriate functions for Communist or Nazi governments than they are for ours . " Second , the bill requires representatives on the commission froth the Protestant , Jewish , and Catholic faiths . This puts religion in government and violates the fundamental principle of church-state separation respected by all of us . The proper place for the establishment of good standards of literature are in the home , school , and church .. " Up to now a few persons representing the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what we should read and should not read . We should not allow this to happen now . " Censor Threat Denied On the other hand , proponents of the proposed legislation insist it is necessary to ensure proper enforcement of the antiobscenity statutes now on the books . They assert the measure will not lead to censorship but rather will ensure enforcement and will protect the young of the state . The impetus for the legislation is the publication and sale of lurid comic books and other publications featuring sex and crime . Mr. Otis and Representative Sumner Z. Kaplan ( D ) of Brookline , another critic di the bill , are loud in their insistence that it would produce practical censorship . Mr. Otis also questioned the advisability of requiring that the mrigin include representat ? three religious faiths . Ba , said ' it the commission  - -  ft set up , its members ' Mould serve as citizens and not as representatives of particular faiths.                     