@@712718

txt With new rail service cuts ' in prospect and thousands of industrial , workers joining the jobless lists , striking soft coal miners asserd last night that no amount of fines in Federal contempt of court proceedings would force them , back to the mines without a new contract . Rank-and-file spokesmen for the 370,000 strikers reiterated their determination to boycott the pits on the eve of the opening in Washington today of the Government 's contempt action against the United Mine Workers . Motorized pickets were mobilized to shut down mines that have signed new agreements With the UMW , as well as nonunion operations . ? The strike brought the first public school curtailment in this city . The Board of Education announced that evening session classes for 2,877 students at the Brooklyn Technical High School would be suspended after tonight 's session . Two hundred and ninety veterans will be transferred to other schools . The other evening session students will have to wait until the strike is over to continue their education . Technical High has an elevenday coal supply for its day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attend the day sessions . School authorities made it plain that ? the closing did not herald any widespread suspension of school services along the lines that many other communities have had to institute for lack of coal . The Brooklyn Technical High School is the only city high school that can not use straight anthracite coal . No other day or evening closings are contemplated at this time , officials said . The possibility of further curtailment of steam service on the nation 's railroads was indicated by Col : J. Monroe Johnson , chairman of the Interstate Commerce Commission . He reported that railroad coal stocks had dipped to an average of slightly over thirteen days and that the situation was becoming " increasingly dangerous . " The advisability of further cuts will be considered by the ICC at its next meeting in Washington tomorrow . The commission has already ordered steam passenger mileage cut 50 per cent and steam freight mileage cut 25 per cent . The country 's ' two largest steel producers ? United States Steel and Bethlehem - - will appraise their coal reserves today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make in production and employment . More than 40,000 steel workers have already been laid off because of coal shortages . Short work-weeks or enforced cancellation of overtime have been instituted by Ford , General Motors , International Harvester , General Electric and many other large industrial concerns . Most industrialists said they believed they could avert a complete shutdown so long as steel and electric power remained available . Both are largely dependent on coal . Bertram D. Tallamy , State Solid Fuels Administrator , is scheduled to receive today the findings of a state-wide survey ' of soft coal stockpiles . . The survey will provide the basis for an order limiting the heat permissible in all public and private buildings using soft coal , except hospitals , homes for the aged and private residences . Syracuse University ended all extracurricular activties last night because of a fuel shqrtage . The university heating plant supplies four hospitals in addition to university buildings . A sudden cold snap in the Southeastern states spread alarm about the adequacy of coal for household use . Charles M. Farrar , spokesman for coal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only enough coal for two or three days in their yards and that many had no coal at all . In the mine fields the tightening of the pinch on major industries increased the confidence of the strikers that they would soon get a contract . At Amigo , W. Va. , the wives of thirty miners organized an auxiliary to help their husbands hold out for an agreement . Mrs. Haynes G. Hayworth , president of the group , told the Associated Press that the women had decided to borrow a leaf from Lysistrata 's book if their husbands weakened . " The wives will leave all the nousework for the men to do when they come home from the mine , " Mrs. Hayworth said . " That 'll keep them in line . " Communists , seeking to make capital out of the miners ' resistance to two injunctions , got no welcome from the strikers . Five men were chased out of Nemacolin , Pa. , when they sought to distribute copies of The Daily Worker , carrying stories extolling the miners . There was some talk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miners compromised on burning up their papers . Three dynamite blasts wrecked a non-union mine thirty miles south of Birmingham . In Pennsylvania and Ohio , state police cars patrolled highways to prevent interference with the movement of coal from the few mines still operating . John Marchiando , president of the Progressive Mine Workers , an independent union that is also on strike , announced that members of his union would dig coal for St. Louis hospitals , orphanages and homes for the aged . 1,200 Illinois Miners Working SPRINGFIELD , Ill. , Feb. 26 ( UP ) ? The Progressive Mine Workers , an independent union , whose 10,000 members went on strike in Illinois last Tuesday , reported today that about 1,200 diggers were back at work under thirty-day contractextension agreements . The union is scheduled to resume talks with operators here tomorrow . It is demanding higher wages and increased welfare fund payments . Chicago Cuts Electricity Use CHICAGO , Monday , Feb. 27 ? Chicago and Illinois joined other communities throughout the country today in observing a 25 per cent cut in the use of electrical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Voluntary restrictions , in effect for several days , will grow tighter . The Illinois Commerce Commission 's order , covering nineteen of the state 's twenty-three utility companies , went into effect at 12:01 A. M. Chicago public schools will operLate only four days this week , closing on Friday . High school classes have been canceled.                     