@@719607

txt go to the Department of Health , Education , and Welfare and its myriad activities . Tax Cut Possible On Capitol Hill , Republican and Democratic leaders are cornpeting for a " me first " position . While Democrats argue for a $3,750,000,000 income tax cut , the new appeal of Republicans  --  Senator Clifford P. Case of New Jersey as spokesman  --  is appealing on a " first things first " basis for an extension of unemployment compensation payments for the jobless . Many have exhausted their unemployment compensation ouota and others are rapidly nearing the end . This , above all , Republicans contend is the first step to take . The administration is not ruling out a tax cut , but is waiting before taking such irrevocable action to see whether there is a spring upturn in employment . It does n't intend to panic  --  yet . Democrats , with nothing to lose , particularly at the polls in November , look with favor on a sweeping , across-the-board cut in income taxes now . Their ideas of how to corhbat the recession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these may be fine in purpose , but feel it will take too long to bring them into being . Hence Senator Case 's argument that an extension of unemployment compensation benefits would put money immediately into the pockets of the jobless . Wages , Salaries Drop The administration 's hope of a spring upturn in business and employment has received a setback in the continued rise in unemployment and the filing of new claims for unemployment insurance . Not so surprising , perhaps , but equally disturbing is the fact , just reported , that the income of Americans dropped at a 1.8 billion dollars rate last month . The cut in wages and salaries , represented in this income slump , was considered severe . Although the drop in the number of unemployed reported by the Labor Department was comparatively small , it indicated that business was still sagging and that the hoped-for spring upturn is still around the corner . Looking on the brighter side , it shows that the rate of increasing unemployment has slowed . Administration officials have been waiting for the March jobless figure as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to drop througnout the month , it is almost certain that the White House will hesitate no longer to urge a tax cut . Housing Bill Delayed The Labor Department report is being studied carefully by the President and his adv'sers . It shows that layoffs continue to be concentrated among metals producers , machinery , electrical equipment , and automobiles . One of the administration 's first moves toward reversing the siump is the $1,850,000,000 emergency housing bill which the Senate passed quickly and unanimously . The House has yet to take up the measure and has been chided by Republicans for not putting a " rush " tag on the legislation . But the apprehension of the housing industry that it , alone , might he expected to turn the recession tide was indicated when Nels G. Severin , the president of the National Association of Home Builders , called a special press conference to warn that the housing industry can not he expected to accomplish this single-handedly . Rash ' Moves Opposed takes two to tango , as they coy , and a three-way effort , at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , according to Mr. Severin , who emphasized that defense building and public works programs should go handin-hand with legislation to spur home building . Talking with reporters after his election as the new president of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States , William A. of St. Louis said he believed the recession was about " half over " and will be cured " primarily in the market place rather than on Capitol Hill . " Frowning on " rash " or " panicky " cures which might be inflationary , he called for labor and management to get together and " put an end to this wage-price spiral " and suggested a 3-billion-dollar cut in individual income and corporate taxes to give business some incentive to risk expansion and to increase the " creative energies " of the people .                     