@@718684

txt Secretary of - State Dulles took a slightly sterner attitude today toward Gamal Abdel Nasser , President of Egypt , but denied any United States-British " agreement " for dealing with him . The Secretary , in his first news conference after the Bermuda conference , emphasized what he regarded as the limits to the Egyptian President 's ability to disturb the Middle East peace . The United States does not believe President Nasser has legal authority for exercising belligerent rights , Mr. Dulles said . Exercising belligerent rights means for President Nasser blocking Israeli shipping from the Suez , Canal and the Gulf of Aqaba . In Cairo , Dag Hammarskjold , Secretary General of the United Nations , was reported to have gained some Egyptian concessions on proposals for operation of the Suez Canal . Questions Nasser 's Right ' Mr. Dulles also questioned President Nasser 's authority to expel the United Nations Emer ? gency Force " arbitrarily " from the Gaza Strip and Sharm el Sheikh on the Gulf of Aqaba . The Secretary said it would he de : , irable for Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the 1949 armistice line . I-ic did not . however , suggest that the State Department would press the reluctant Israelis to do so . As for a common United States-British policy for dealing with a recalcitrant Egypt , Mr. Dulles suggested that conversations in Bermuda had produced no agreement . The Bermuda talks increased the probability of a common policy on the Middle East , but there were so many unforeseeable courses of development there that " it seemed to be rather unprofitable " to strive for formal agreement in each contingency , he said . Resort to Court Planned The Secretary also confirmed earlier reports that the United States hoped to settle the dispute about navigation in the Gulf of Aqaba by having the United Nations obtain an advisory ruling from the International Court of Justice in The Hague , the Netherlands . Mr. Dulles said that he had heard nothing from Dag Hammarskjold , United Nations Secretary General , about his talks in Cairo and had received only incomplete reports from the United States Embassy there . The Secretary said the press could safely describe his attitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of " cautious optimism . " " Cautious optimism " toward Egypt has been the State Department attitude for some time but today Mr. Dulles tempered it with hints of sterner policy in the offing . The most urgent questions still unanswered in the Middle East concern the role of the United Nations Emergency Force in the Gaza Strip , and in Sharm el Sheikh and Israel 's shipping rights in Egyptian-controlled waters . In the past the State Department view has been that the United Nations forces in the Gaza and the Sinai Peninsula would be legally compelled to leave on President Nasser 's demand . It has generally been understood that before the exit the question would be put before the United Nations again , but there never has been . serious thought that an Egyptian order to leave could be effectively challenged . Today , however , Mr. Dulles said he doubted that Egypt could expel the United Nations force until its original mission had been accomplished . The Secretary 's definition of the original mission was somewhat vague , but at one point he seemed to suggest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There still is " a chance of hostilities breaking out again , " unless both sides show restraint , Mr. Dulles said , adding : " I would not say that the initial role of the United Nations Emergency Force was exhausted until there is more assurance than there is today that belligerent rights may not be exercised if it should wholly withdraw . " I do not think that there is assurance of tranquillity which would indicate that the initial mission was wholly accomplished . " Once a nation consents to establishing a United Nations force on its territory , he said , " a good argument can be made that the consent can not be arbitrarily withdrawn , frustrating the original project . " " And we would question , certainly , whether Egypt has the right arbitrarily to alter and change a consent once given until the purpose of that consent has been accomplished , " the Secretary remarked . President Nasser is said to want the United Nations force stationed partly on Israeli territory rather than entirely in the Gaza Strip . The United States , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have been rebuffed by the Israelis and decided not to press the point , Israeli Reply Is Withheld Mr. Dulles said he had discussed with Mrs. Golda Meir , Israeli Foreign Minister , the question of " some slight , sitioning " of United Naions troops on the Israeli side of the line . He would not reveal Mrs. Meir 's reply , but the Israelis are known " to object to the presence of United Nations troops on their territory . They insist that the stationing of forces on their territory is irrelevant to the major Middle East issue . They say this is Egypt 's insistence on asserting belligerent rights . The contention that Egypt remains technically at war with Israel is President Nasser 's legal justification for blockading Israel shipping from the Suez Canal and the Gulf of Aqaba . Secretary Dulles said today that under the 1949 Palestine Armistice Agreement there was no authority to exercise belligerent rights . The United States took this position in 1951 when voting in the United Nations against Egypt 's blockade of Israeli shipping in the canal , he recalled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held , " he remarked .                     