@@715173

txt As the events of the past week recede in history , the warning delivered to the Soviet Union by the retiring President of the United States , probably will stand out increasingly as a major event in the course of the great power struggle . The warning was set in the framework of President Truman 's final address on the state of the union . It was an official disclosure that the United States had detonated a hydrogen bomb of enormous destructive capacity . It was coupled with the fascinating political argument that the Russians should discard , their theories deriving from Lenin on the ground that " Lenin was a pre-atomic man , who viewed society and history with pre:atomic eyes . " Simply because all this came from a defeated and retiring President , it received scant notice in the United States itself . Yet it had far more significance in the broad context of the power struggle than it could have in the context of American politics . Risk Avoided Mr. Truman 's graphic description of the new American atomic weapon , of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relationship to history said something which needed urgently to be said but which could be said only by a President about to leave office . Mr. Truman could not have said it at an earlier pdriod in his presidency without running the grave risk of being misunderstood . The incoming President could not say it on taking office without running the same risk . A departing ' President speaks with knowledge , but without authority . This , which was said , had to come from knowledge without authority . That Mr. Truman should do something at the end of his administration which may prove of enormous value to his successor needs to be explained . Mr. Truman is two individuals . He is the ruthless partisan who indulged during the election campaign in questionable personal attacks upon the candidate of the opposing party . But he also is a man who at times is aware of the continuing responsibilities of the - ! presidential office .  --  ' ! No Ultimatum He spoiled an old personal re , lationship with Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower by his campaign re , marks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seeking to sup ? port and sustain the institution ? of the presidency , which will pass shortly into General Eisenhower 's hands . Thus Mr. Truman has recommended to Congress changes in the law which will increase the financial independence of the new President . This change could not be ' made constitutionally before the inauguration . It must be made , if at all , at once . The warning to Russia must go in the same context. ? The outgoing President can , at the present moment in history , deliver both a powerful and a safe warning to Russia . The delivering of it inevitably strengthens the position of his successor . It was done not out of affection or personal regard for the successor . It was done for the sake of the office . Big Stick in U.S. Hand The essential point of the matter is that of many dangers in the world , one of the gravest is the danger that Russia might make a mistaken estimate of Inc power of the United States . But when power is disclosed , it mist be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of threat or ultimatum ; for among nations a threat or ultimatum tends to be the precipitating agency of war . Great nations do not bow to threat or ultimatum . They fight . Had Mr. Truman disclosed the full power of the new hydrogen bomb at an earlier stage when he still possessed authority , his action might have been construed by the Russians as an invitation to war . Were the same move to be made by his successor , the Russians might make the same mistake . But they can not make that mistake when the disclosure comes from a man who loses even his titular authority in a matter of two weeks . The disclosure calls attention to the big stick in the hand of the United States . It is not the new President who has disclosed it . The new President may do the " talking softly " which should always be the accompaniment of the big stick if the purpose is peace , not war . May Balk Soviet Mistake But the existence of the strength and the power is there in the hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Truman was saying to Joseph Stalin : " Be warned and be wise , my successor will poSsess enormous power ; listen to him when he talks - *pea ce , b e WSW e- of Pushing him toward . ruin for all mankind . " The importance of the warning lies in this quality of being a ground-clearing operation . Stalin plainly made a gross and most dangerous miscalculation when he unleashed the North Koreans in war . There can be no doubt ay this time that Moscow anticipated a - quick , easy , cheap , and unresisted victory . Moscow did not anticipate American intervention . It anticipated American acquiescence . That miscalculation on Stalin 's part very nearly brought on the big war . Western strategists fear another Stalin miscalculation far more than they fear a deliberate act of war by Stalin . Their constant preoccupation is to help to save Stalin from a fatal miscalculation . It was the strategists in the background , men who will remain in office during the new administration , who , of course , put the warning into Mr. Truman 's speech @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a major and necessary move on the vast stage of the power struggle . He was a vehicle which could be used for this particular purpose only at this particular moment . It was as a President , not as a partisan politician , that Mr. Truman made himself available for a task which makes it possible for his successor to offer peace without fear that the offer will be taken as a sign of weakness . Churchill Visits Friends Also this week Prime Minister Winston Churchill conferred with the new and old Presidents of the United States and the French achieved a new cabinet , There was in none of this anything which Moscow could regard as success . Stalin has been deprived of three opportunities which at one time must have seemed prospectively promising , He must have hoped to find an opening for his purpose between the old and the new administrations in Washington , Mr. Truman and General Eisenhower will probably never again regard each other as personal friends , but they have succeeded in bridging the gap of the transition of authority at the White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uses . Stalin also must have hoped for new breaches between Washington and London . The greetings Mr. Churchill received , and the affection and attention bestowed . upon him both in New York and Washington , close that gap and remove that danger . A French Government crisis is merely standard opportunity for Moscoti : ' The formation the new government in Paris W2.5 tedious and delayed . However , it was accomplished , and the French move ahead again under familiar hands . The net effect was primarily a slight further shift in the center of political gravity in France toward the right .                     