@@714127

txt Allied intelligence reports that Communist European satellites are sending troops and technical experts to Korea are taken here to mean that a sudden enemy offensive in Korea ' which always has been a possibility ? is even more likely to occur now . It also does much to explain the strange happenings at the Kaesong armistice conference . The new support may well be the result of a split believed to exist between the North Koreans and the Chinese at the Kaesong parley  --  and between the ? Chinese and Russian leaders at a higher , level . The long-suspected ? difference of opinion - between- - the Chinese Communists and the Kremlin high command has had a counterpart on a lower level at Kaesong . Drain on Troops There the Chinese are believed to have been anxious to obtain a successful armistice that would release their troops from the terrific drain of fighting the hard-hitting , well-balanced United Nations army . Moreover , the Chinese are believed to be reluctant to clash in another costly all-out offensive with the Allied war machine . Most Communist fighting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by North Korean units . The latter are believed to be more firmly under Moscow 's control - which is exerted through Moscow-trained leader Kim II Sung . Since their one objective is to unify Korea under communism 's banner , they have little to gain from an armistice that leaves Korea divided  --  and , consequently , more to gain by continuing the conflict . Russian communism likewise has more to gain by a renewal of all-out war in the hope of complete victory than by permitting it to halt . Core of Difference This difference of opinion on continuing the fight lies . at the root of the split between the Koreans and the Chinese . An armistice at Kaesong seems more desirable to the Chinese than to the Koreans . The Communist high command 's problem has been to reinvigorate China 's enthusiasm for ' fighting in Korea . ? And it knows exactly what the Chinese want . One of China 's great complaints has been Russia 's failure to supply air and mechanized forces to augment China 's huge masses of infantry in their offensives . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were ? told of stockpiles of planes , tanks , and armored equipment that would be thrown into the fray to smash the Allies . But such reinforcements never appeared , and the Chinese attacks splintered before the United Nations firepower . Guarantee Asked ? With this memory still fresh . the Chinese leaders may well have refused to launch another offensive ? against the western powers in Korea  --  unless guaranteed major air and mechanized support from Russia . The threat of acceptance of a truce at the Kaesong parley in sense may have been their bargaining point wash Russian Prime Minister Josepli Stalin . Thus , while ? outwardly the Communists were negotiating with the Allies , the true purpose of Kaesong ? may have been to settle an internal Communist dispute of major proportions . If this theory is correct , the answer is now becoming apparent . The Chinese may have lost a chance for an armistice at Kaesong  --  but in its place they evidently have won the Russian support they demanded . ? Viewed in this light the long arguments between the Communist and Allied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At first the Communist disguise was elaborate and a unilied front was maintained . But as the Allies kept demanding action and knocking down excuses , the disguise wore thin . Time began to run out for the Communists . Talks Had to Continue The battle behind the scenes had to be met . . Since ftilfillment of the terms would take time the Kaesong talks had to continue . Thus in recent weeks the Communist aim may have been to prolong the conference . under the excuse of neutral-zone violations but not permit it either to succeed or fail . In the interim the Communist high command set about providing required technicians , equipment , and air power . Whether or not all the above presumptions are correct , even the UN command here confirms the enemy build-up in North Korea includes large numbers of Caucasian Soviet satellite troops  --  accompanied by artillery , tanks , and armored cars . It adds that in Manchuria a satellite air force of 1,000 fighters , light bombers , and ground-attack aircraft is availble . ' Reports Sifted Moreover , the new " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are composed largely of specialists and technical personnel which are just what China lacks . The mere fact that Allied intelligence not only releases such statements but comments that an offensive may be in the offing shows how seriously the reports are evaluated . A total of 70 enemy divisions is mentioned as ready for combat in line and reserve . Since the average Communist division includes about 7.000 men , this would indicate that upwards of a half million enemy troops are poised for action . But in the past , manpower alone has not been enough to win the battle for Korea . So now the Communists may intend to throw in air power and mechanized weapons to back up their well-rested troops ? if the Kaesong talks break down .                     