@@713915

txt Secretary of Defense George C. Marshall asserted today that although tough Chinese Communist forces in Korea had been " ripped to pieces , " the Reds were still determined to drive United States forces out of Korea to be in a better position to attack Japan , if that was necessary in their planning . General Marshall declared at a press conference here that he could not conceive of the Korean war " going on for years " but that the United States was acting on the assumption that considerable international tension might continue for a long period . General Marshall left Tokyo 's airfield on his return flight to the United States at 3:11 P. M. , Monday , Japan time , or 1:11 A. M. , Eastern daylight time , The Associated Press reported . Categorically General Marshall denied all ' speculation about peace feelers in connection with his visit to Japan and Korea . He emphasized that his purpose in Korea and Japan was to see the Eighth Army and to study rotation plans . Any hint that he had come here with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commander , or to become . involved in peace talks was completely fabricated , he asserted . Although he refused to comment on General of the Army Douglas 's criticism of his Chinese mission . General . Marshall made it clear that he felt it was unfortunate that the Army had been forced " to expose every thought , whereas nobody can tell us anything about the enemy . " Only once did General Marshall permit himself to be drawn into speculation about peace . This was when he said that even if peace feelers were ' being prepared or even offered , he doubted that if the United States would reduce its pressure against the enemy during such negotiations . At present , he said , the United States was concerned with strengthening and rotating the men in Korea and , if possible , getting more troops from its allies . He said that the United States would like to see more soldiers from the British Commonwealth but has not asked for an increase because it knows that the Commonwealth has other commitments . In building up United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Army is to sustain itself and " prevent the penetration of South Korea by North Korean and Chinese troops . " 50,000 Fresh Troops a Month After disposing ' of unwarranted speculation concerning his stay in Japan and Korea , he revealed that by the end of the summer the United States would be in a position to have available 50,000 fresh troops a month , as compared with the situation early this year when , he said , " we had to cannibalize our units everywhere " to meet the Korean ts emerc'ency . Reservists , he stressed , would be released within the legal time limit . The only hitch he saw in rotation concerned non-commissioned officers who were highly trained specialists in fields such as electronics . To replace such specialists , he said , would require more time since the substitutes might have to undergo perhaps a year of training . General Marshall took pains to explain to some correspondents why a Secretary of Defense should travel across the world to study a rotation plan . This subject , he stressed , was " of tremendous concern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only the A. my but also the Navy and Air Force involved in the Korean war . A considerable number of Navy personnel was now drawn from reserves , he said , and when their time was up the Navy would have been forced to put ships in mothballs if it had insufficient personnel replacements . There is no longer any doubt that there will be adequate manpower to keep ships in action , he said , adding that the Air Force had a similar problem that was now under control . Asked if during his five days in the Far East he had taken up the matter of a Japanese peace treaty , he indicated that while he had discussed it , the subject had not been dealt with at any length . General Marshall looked rested and at ease during the hour-long press conference .                     