@@720162

txt The Massachusetts Senate is shaping up as the chief battleground for Governor Furcolo 's withholding tax . But passage of the measure , by which the state would pick up a 50-million-dollar one-year windfall , appears likely , despite its defeat three times in the Senate in 1958 . Senator John E. Powers ( D ) of Boston , President of the Senate , sees eye to eye with the governor on this issue . And he is expected to maintain sufficient control over his Democratic Senate majority to ensure an early withholding-tax victory . Despite the fact that in 1958 the vote was 25 to 15 against the withholding tax , several of the Democratic votes cast against it would have swung over to the Powers side if the vote had been close enough to really count . Therefore , the margin of defeat was actually less than it appeared from The roll call . Now the Senate is 24 to . 16 Democratic whereas last year it was 21 to 19 Republican . Hearing , Scheduled Little difficulty is anticipated in the Democratic-controlled House , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Speaker of the House , maintains firm control with a 146 to 92 , with two seats still unfilled because of disputed elections . The Legislative Committee on Taxation is due to hold a public hearing on the withholding tax on Tuesday , Jan. 20 . It is anticipated the committee will act on it swiftly . Then it will go to the House Committee on Ways and Means , where a quick favorable report is practically certain . While there may be some battle in the House to slow clown the bill 's passage , it undoubtedly will be steam-rollered through swiftly and sent on to the Senate . The Governor in advance has doomed amendment attempts to failure by the parliamentary maneuver of asking its passage in the precise form he offered it . Thus a point of order would lie against any amendment to provide a forgiveness clause to eliminate overlapping payments or to send some of the windfall revenue to the cities and towns . In the bill 's favor is the fact that municipal officials have not risen in protest against the state plan to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Forecast In some circles it had been anticipated that state use of all the windfall rather than sharing it with the cities and towns , as was planned under the 1958 measure , would produce a municipal storm of objection . Thus far that storm has not developed . One reason for the calm municipal reception of the plan may be the fact that the state would use 10 million dollars of the 50 million dollars as a make-up payment to the municipalities on state reimbursements due them . Furthermore , the Governor has presented a good case for state use of the windfall , pointing out that the state now has an anticipated , 25-million-dollar operating deficit for the current fiscal year , not counting the 10-million-dollar make-up payment to the municipalities . Most fiscal experts agree completely that the Governor has not overstated the deficit prospects facing the state in the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1959 . There are some persons who view anticipated early passage of the withholding tax , retroactive to Jan. 1 . 1959 , as possibly leading to defeat of the sales @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chances for a sales tax are 50-50 at best , even though , and perhaps because , the Govnor 's own party is in full control of the Legislature , Therefore , with the state needing substantial amounts of new revenue in the fiscal year 1960 , begining July 1 , 1959 , the anti-salestax forces will be looking round for a convenient alternate vehicle . The withholding tax could be that vehicle , because paying the state income through weekly payroll deductions rather than in one lump sum will be relatively painless financially . Thus with a withholding tax in effect it would be politically easier to boost the income tax in various ways to produce the revenue the Governer says is needed . The Governor himself has warned that the alternative to a sales tax is a big income-tax increase , which he strongly opposes . The Massachusetts Chapter , Americans for Democratic Action . has proposed an income-tax program designed to produce 118 million dollars extra , about the same amount the Governor anticipates from the proposed 3 per cent limited sales tax . Under the ADA plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $600 , the present allowed state income tax credit for federal income tax payments would be eliminated , and rental income would be taxed . As yet , however , the ADA plan has evoked no enthusiasm among legislators . But it may serve as a basis for later action if the sales tax is blocked and if efforts to slash the budget heavily produce only minor results .                     