@@715044

txt The nation 's capital cheered and shouted its welcome this afternoon to Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower as the President-elect toured the downtown government and business district for thirty minutes on his way to his appointment at the White House . The smiling , hatless , waving General was seen by an estimated total of 500,000 persons as his mo1torcade passed on a roundabout route from National Airport to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue  --  his address after Jan. 20 . The crowd estimate was that of Police Chief Robert W. Murray ; unofficial estimates put ( the figure somewhat lower . General Eisenhower made his , Victorious reappearance in the capital in an open-topped red-brown Cadillac convertible . Sometimes seated on the folded top , as often 1standing in the rear of the car , the ( General pumped hisarms in greeting.throughout th ? route . To larg- , er concentrations of the crowd he frequently raised both arms , above his head in a " V " gesture . In his three hours and twenty-1 eight minutes in the capital before reboarding his chartered plane to continue his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local citizenry , met with President Truman and some Cabinet members at the White House and had a thorough military briefing at the Pentagon by the nation 's highest ranking military leaders . General Eisenhower arrived from Augusta , Ga. , where he had been vacationing , at 1:10 P. M. after a two-hour and thirty-two minute flight . His chartered Constellation departOd at 4:38 P. M. General Is Serious Except as he greeted crowds when he - flashed his famed broad grin , General Eisenhower 's mien struck most observers as a serious one . This was especially noticeable when he left the White House conference to deal with one of the most chaotic informal press sessions ever held on the steps of the White House office building . The future First Lady played only a small part in the welcoming ceremonies . Soon after the motorcade left the airport , at the point it circled the Lincoln Memorial , Mrs. Eisenhower 's car was detached from the column and sped to Walter Reed Hospital , where the General 's wife underwent a checkup . Mrs. Eisenhower was first out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wore a blue suit , the skirt accordion-pleated , a small blue hat , blue pumps and grayish-blue hosiery . Over her shoulders she wore a silver fox scarf . On the lapel of her suit were pinned two fanshaped gold clips . The General looked casually civilian in a double-breasted brown suit under which he wore a vest . He wore a brown figured tie and a well-worn brown felt hat pinched in the center . Crowd at Airport The welcoming party at the airport , where several thousand persons had gathered , was headed by Joseph C. , Republican leader in the District of Columbia and Chairman of the Inaugural Committee . Among the greeters were Senator Henry Cabot Lodge Jr . of Massachusetts and Representative Joseph W. Martin Jr . of Massachusetts , prospective Speaker of the new House of Representatives . While the Army Band , garbed in golden blouses used for state occasions , played softly , General Eisenhower announced to the airport greeting party that he and Mrs. Eisenhower were " astounded " by the welcome . He said that he would be in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he declared with a smile , " sometime about Jan. 20 . " Senator Lodge , who has been the President-elect 's chief liaison man with the outgoing Administration , took a seat in the car with the General and the party left the airport ten minutes after arrival of the plane . As the motorcade passed along Memorial Drive several thousand persons enjoying an extended lunch hour at the Pentagon lined the drive . Many officers of the armed services were in the crowd . The crowds picked up in size from Lincoln Memorial as the motorcade , passed into the area of large Government buildings . The fifteen-car motorcade was preceded by a wedge of motorcycle police . More than a dozen bands were spotted along the parade route , some with drum majorettes and teen-age contingents who did football stadium cheer-leading acrobatics as the cars rolled past . A Holiday Scene Government workers were also out by the hundreds on vantage points of Washington 's heavily balconied and decorated buildings . Many took rooftop seats . Street lampposts were decked with bunting . On Constitution Avenue near the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House the District Fire Department had erected a bunting-decked arch by bringing together two aerial ladders . Suspended beneath was a " Welcome Ike " banner . Bursts of improvised confetti started to pepper ' the cavalcade as it moved northward up thirteenth Street and turned into Pennsylvania Avenue . Ticker tape appeared from some of the brokerage windows along Pennsylvania Avenue and Fifteenth Street , . The demonstrativeness of the crowds appeared to pick up in the business sections . Ranked smartly on both sides of Pennsylvania Avenue before the White House gates were Army , Navy , Air Force and Marine Corps honor guards . General Eisenhower , who has successfully put the salute aside , waved several times to this guard . Truman in Background Arriving at the White House Executive Office entrance at 1:50 P. M. , the General posed briefly for photographers and then was greeted at the steps by William D. SimMons , White House receptionist . President Truman made no public appearance with his successor but did agree to a single photographer 's taking a picture of the General and himself at his desk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Secretary of Defense Robert A. Lovett on the other the motorcade took off at a fast clip for the Pentagon , a stop not previously scheduled . The Pentagon had offered the General a briefing if he wished one . The Eisenhower car dipped into a subterranean chute at the Pentagon river entrance and the General then went directly on a private elevator to Mr. Lovett 's offices . There General of the Army Omar N. Bradley met General Eisenhower and escorted him one floor below to the guarded precincts of the Joint Chiefs of Staff . Penatgon sources said that for about forty minutes General Eisenhower received a complete rundown of the world situation , area by area . On hand were Mr. Lovett , Gen. J. Lawton Collins , Army Chief of Staff ; Admiral William , M. Fechteler , Chief of Naval Operations ; Gen. Nathan F. Twining , Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force , and the Commandant of the Marine Corps , Gen. Lemuel C. Shepherd . The Marine Corps Commandant is now considered a consultant to the Joint Chiefs of Staff councils @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            