@@712582

txt House Speaker Rayburn committed a " boner " today and disclosed that President Tru ? man 's spending budget for the 1951 fiscal year will be " a little above " 42 bitlion dollars , or a reduction from Rayburn this year 's record spending figure . The size of the federal budget for the new fiscal year beginning July 1 had been a closely guarded ? Vhlte House secret until Rayburn 's inadvertent leak at a news conference . Aids in the speaker 's office tried unsuccessfully to kill the story . The budget message will not go to congress until next Monday , ( iota Off the Question Rayburn was asked today for comment on Mr. Truman 's state of the Union message shortly before it was delivered to a joint session of congress To the amazement of reporters , he talked freely . Instead , about the President 's proposed spending for the coming fiscal year . Rayburn and other Democratic senate and house leaders visited the White House yesterday and with Mr. Truman went over the state of the Union , budget , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Apparently . Rayburn contused the state of the Union and budget messages . There are no 1951 budget figures in the state of the Union message . Three Billion OR Arms , Aid The house speaker said at his news conference that the President had cut the new budget " about I billion 800 million dollars " below the current 1930 budget . He said Mr. Truman and his budget advisers had trimmed national defense and foreign aid spending 3 billion dollars , but that new domestic spending pro-1 posals would offset about 1 billion 200 million of this reduction . Rayburn 's figures did not tally with the latest budget bureau estimate of the present year 's budget ? 43 billion 500 million dollars ? and he offered no explanation of this discrepancy . The 1 billion 800 million dollar cut he mentioned %you 'd bring the 1931 budget down to 41 billion 700 million instead of the " little above " 42 billion announced to Rayburn . Separate Revenue Message Asked about the President 's estimate of , federal revenues for the 1931 fiscal year . Rayburn said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revenues and taxes . He said in connection with the 1 billion 800 million dollar reduction in the new budget that " I hope congress will allow this to be done and will go along with the President . " Meanwhile , the senate appropriations committee took an unprecedented step and agreed to handle all government appropriations for the 1931 final year in a single " one package " bill instead of the usual 10 or a dozen money bills . The single appropriation bill , which sponsors have said will promote economy , was approved by the senate last year but no formal action was taken by the house . Rep. Cannon ID. , ** chairman of the house appropriations committee , has said , however , that the house will use the " one package " procedure .                     