@@719117

txt Federal District Judge Ronald N. Davies has ordered the Little Rock School Board to admit eight Negro pupils to Central High School . He has repeated his order , but the national guardsmen , reported to be acting under a ? direct order from Governor Faubus , has turned therm back . . On Sept. 5 , 200 Arkansas guardsmen still stood guard at Central High School under orders to repulse nine Negro students if they make a ' second try to enter the school . Governor Faubus called the situation " explosive . " At the same time , Mayor W. W. Mann of Little Rock expressed resentment at what he called " the wholly unwarranted interference with the internal affairs of this city by the Governor . " He said Governor Faubus called out the guard to put down ? n , hon none existed . Newsman Approached Armed national guardsmen tried to break up a New- York newspaperman 's interview with individuals in a shouting segregationist crowd estimated at 500 outside the school . None of the nine Negroes who were turned away by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fine , New York Times cOrrespOndent , said that . while he was interviewing several persons an unidentified colonel approached and told him that he would " have to leave " if he continued his interviewing . ' Newsmen were warned that they would be arrested and fined if they did anything that might be considered " inciting a breach of the peace . " Six Negroes identifying themselves as students at Arkansas Baptist " College were escorted from the area . They said they had come to see what was going on . Other incidents occurred in the South : In Arlington , Va. , eight Negro pupils were refused admittance to all-white Arlington County schools Sept. 5 . There was no trouble . White pupils stood quietly as Negro applicants walked to the principal 's offices at high schools there . 1Decision Appealed The proposed enrollment of the Negroes was expected and the school officials had been directed not to admit them under Virginia 's pupil assignment law , which has been held unconstitutional by a federal district court . However , an appeal is pending . In Sturgis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classes at Sturgis High School in the third day of nonviolent integration . However , a crowd of about 50 whites heckled as the Negroes drove up in private cars . Two pickets carrying anti-Negro signs and a shouting man were arrested as eight Negro pupils entered two Easton , Md. , integrated schools . In Charlotte , N.C. , a ? crowd of white students attacked a Negro girl , Dorothy Counts , Sept. 4 , as she was leaving Harding High School ' after attending 10th-grade classes . The Charlotte integration , where four Negro students were set to enter four separate schools under the Charlotte School Board 's voluntary integration program , came after what has appeared at first to be a peaceful acceptance of the first of several breaks in the solid segregation wall set up by public schools in the Southeast . In Winston-Salem , N.C. , Police Chief James I. Waller warned unauthorized persons to stay away from the white Reynolds High School Sept. 5 where a Negro girl planned to enroll for classes . The police chief cited laws barring picketing around schools and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ N.C. , a 15-year-old Negro girl used a rear entrance to enter Reynolds High School without incident , avoiding a crowd of white students awaiting her arrival at the front of the building . Police Chief James . I. Waller had warned unauthorized persons to stay ' away from the school where the Negro girl is the only one of her race enrolled . Plainclothesmen and patrolmen were stationed in the area . In Dallas , Federal Judge William T. Atwell on Sept. 5 ordered Dallas public schools ' to start integration at mid-term , after the Christmas holidays . The schools started their present term on a segregated basis Sept. 4 . Previously Judge Atwell had ruled the school district should be allowed more time to study the problems of desegregation . He was reversed by the circuit court of appeals in New Orle.nnc Moving Gingeily A move had been made by the parents of three small Negro children of Dallas to enroll them in a white elementary school . The bid was rejected by Dallas school authorities carrying out specific instructions of Dr. W. T. White , superintendent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? , structions frOm the Dallas School Board , which has ordered segregation policies continued during the new school session . The Dallas School Board , as have other school boards throughout the state of Texas , is moving gingerly between a conflict of state and federal legislative and judicial fiats . The Texas Legislature recently enacted laws forbidding the integration of public schools unless approved first by a referendum of voters in the district . The referendum can be called only by petition . Violation of the state law makes a district liable to lose school financial aid from the state and puts school officials in jeopardy of legal action . Reports Prepared Dallas school officials have been preparing a , series of reports on the potential effects of integration and indications are that the speed of integration in the city public schools are geared to the studies . The Dallas court case stems from an attempt by 21 Negro children to enroll in white schools two years agd . By William H. Stringer Chief of the Washington Newi Bureau of The Christian Science Monitor Washington There is considerable chagrin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ R.I. , " summer White House " ? that Gov . Orval Faubus of Arkansas chose to call out the National Guard to defeat a federal court order for school integration at Little Rock . . The danger , as seen here , is that the Arkansas Governor 's action may upset the new mood of North-South conciliation developed . when Congress passed the compromise civil rights bill ; that it may upset the gradualist pace toward desegregation expected in the non-Deep South states , and that once again extremism will be in the saddle . Nothing Drastic Planned The Eisenhower administration is intending nothing drastic to force Governor Faubus into compliance with a federal court order . The White House says he is incorrect in reporting ? as he did in a telegram to President Eisenhower  --  that fed : - eral authorities were discussing a plan to take him into custody . White House Press Secretary James Hagerty said it was unlikely that Mr. Eisenhower would reply personally to Gove  --  nor Faubus ' telegram which referred to the improbable report that there had been a meet-in of federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ custody . The chief Executive does not normally reply to communications given 1 , o the press before delivery to the President. , Speculation in Washington turned on the question whether Governor Faubus was serving as spokesman for several southern Governors who might adopt the same course of calling out the militia , or whether his strategy was purely his own . There was reluctance td credit the Governor 's claim that the summoning of the National Guard was necessary to preserve " peace and ? order . " Attention was ' called to the statement of Little Rock 's ? Mayo ? , . Woodrow W. Mann , that " after almost a week of sensational developments brought about by his Governor Faubus ' own action , the Little ' Rock police ' have not had a single case of interracial violence reported to them . " ? Contempt Case Possible The disposition at the Justice Department is to keep the Arkansas situation strictly within the confines of a legal courtroom . Following this path , Governor Faubus could be enjoined by Federal Judge Ronald Davies , who ? issued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scheduled school integration . Then , unless he withdrew the National Guard , the Governor would be cited for contempt . But whether this legal action would have the desired effect of getting the militia , withdrawn , or whether it would only stir further resentment among Southerners , was the question troubling administration officials . President Eisenhower , as recently as his last press conference before going on vacation , espoused the cause of gradualism and said that not laws and statutes but a change in men 's hearts must forward the cause of civil rights in the South . There is no intention of using federal troops or National Guard units of any other state against Governor Faubus , although the President has such power to enforce Judge Davies ' integration order and never has actually required a new civil rights statute to give him authority to enforce the laws of the United States . Investitzation Launched So far the administration has been active mainly in setting in motion an official investigation of the events that have blocked school integration . In response to a request by Judge Davies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Herbert Brownell , Jr. , has ordered the Federal Bureau of Investigation , the United States marshal , and the United States attorney in Kansas to cooperate in collecting information for the local federal court . This information , when collected , might be persuasive in supporting the view that there was no peril of riot or violence and that Governor Faubus had acted mainly to frustrate a federal judge 's integration order . The administration hopes to avoid a direct showdown with a state Governor . Attorney General Brownell , who is keeping President Eisenhower informed by daily telephone calls to Newport , is aware , of course , that on several occasions in the last 25 years Governors have called out the National Guard in attempts to flout the federal government . This happened , for instance , when Gov . Phillips of Oklahoma in 1940 called out the guard to halt construction of Grand River Dam . The United States obtained an injunction against such use of the guard . This was set aside by the Supreme Court on a technicality . Meanwhile the dam was completed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @           