@@717900

txt Letters to The Times BREWTON BERRYCONSTANCE R. MERRALL.W.A . BENDER.ALFRED McCORMACK . Letters to The . Times To Ease Racial Bias Proposal Made to Aid Migration of Negroes to Various States The writer of the following letter is Professor of Sociology and Anthropology , Ohio State University ; a member of the Governor 's Advisory Committee on . Refugee Relief . He is the author of " Race Relations . " To THE EDITOR OF THE NEw YORK TIMES : A few days ago T. R. Waring , editor of The Charleston ( S. C. ) News and Courier , proposed in a speech in Cleveland that the explosive race problem , which now threatens to blow up in our faces , might be solved by the migration of large numbers of - Negroes from the South to the North . He is , of course , by no means the first to make such a proposal . So often nowadays , however , those who make such suggestions are regarded with suspicion , since they are already clearly identified with the proponents of white supremacy . Nevertheless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I am writing , therefore , in hopes of promoting serious consideration of it and also to suggest how it might be carried out . It is apparent that the degree of racial prejudice and discrimination which prevails in any region is highly correlated with the relative size of the groups involved . For example , there is more anti-Semitism in New York than in Alabama ; there is more anti-Japanese feeling on the Pacific Coast than on the Atlantic ; antipathy for French Canadians is greater in New England than in Georgia , and hostility toward Mexicans is more conspicuous in Texas than in Vermont . Areas of Resistance The greatest resistance to school desegregation and extension of the franchise arises in those areas where the size of the Negro population approaches , or exceeds , that of the white . Therefore , a wider dispersion of the Negro throughout the United States would certainly alleviate the problem of conflict and discrimination which so disturbs our consciences and so injures our prestige throughout the world . How might this be done within the framework of our democratic and humanitarian principles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The answer is to be found in our experience with the problem of refugees and displaced persons since World War II . Under the provisions of the Displaced Persons Act of 1948 and the Refugee Relief Act of 1953 we in this country have participated in the resettlement of approximately half a million refugees from communism , and the whole undertaking llas been eminently successful . We have here , then , both a pattern and a precedent . Plan Outlined It is my proposal , therefore , that Congress enact legislation of a similar nature to enable Negroes in the South who wish to do so to migrate to the North and West . Funds ought to be made available to them in the form of loans , and an agency ought to be established to administer the program . The Governors of the Northern and Western states , and the Mayors of the cities and towns , might appoint commissions ( similar to those we now have for the refugee program ) charged with the responsibility of promoting the migration and assisting in the adjustment of the migrants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clubs , etc. ) would play the same prominent role under this plan that they currently play in the refugee program  --  securing sponsors , assuring housing and jobs and facilitating the adjustment . It is my belief , furthermore , that the South itself , faced with the mass exodus of its labor force , would of its own volition proceed to improve the racial situation so as to make the region more attractive to its Negro citizens . BREWTON BERRY , Columbus , Ohio , May 7 , 1956 . Prayer in Westminster Chimes To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In your issue of May 3 there was an account of a " musical triumph "  --  the Westminster Chimes on the Bank for Savings at Third Avenue and Seventy-second Street are to be permitted to ring . This is pleasant news to all bell lovers . But it occurs to me that if more people knew what those bells are saying as they ring it might give them real pleasure . They tell us that the bells of St. Clements say " Oranges and Lemons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chimes of Westminster say at every hour : " Lord , through this hour , be Thou my guide . So by Thy power , no foot will slide . " CONSTANCE R. MERRALL . Lawrence , N. Y. , May 7 , 1956 . For Humane Slaughtering To THE EDITOR OF THE NEVI Yom TIMES : The United States is one of the backward countries as regards the slaughtering of meat animals , Several countries of Western Europe have for years made livestock insensible to pain before they are bled and slaughtered . This has come about by law and there are a number of practical ways in actual use that eliminate the rather crude and barbarous practice in our slaughterhouses . For example , for three years one large Minnesota packer of hogs has been gassing these animals with carbon dioxide before they are hoisted and stuck . SenatOr Humphrey and Representative Griffiths are respectively sponsors of bills to require similar civilized treatment of our meat animals , S. 1636 and H. R. 8540 . These bills are moderate in that they allow time for the act to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to assist the Secretary of Agriculture in questions that arise . The number of animals slaughtered is incredible , in the hundreds of millions each year , and I am , I believe , reliably informed that no notable imp:ovement in their treatment has come about in fifty years . This adds up to what is probably the greatest amount of casually inflicted and unnecessary suffering in the world today . W. A. BENDER . Bloomfield , N. J. , May 8 , 1956 . Rewarding Our Scientists Payment to Cryptanalyst Considered to Be Grossly Inadequate The writer of the following letter was first deputy chief of Special Branch , War Department G-2 , and later iCam director of intelligence , Military Intelligence Service . To THE EDITOR OF THE New YORK TIMES : David Kahn in your letter columns of May 9 pays a warm tribute to " Colonel Bill " Friedman , the Army 's " principal cryptanalyst " to whom Congress has recently voted an award of $100,000 . While the propriety of writing about such matters as the " cracking " of the machine cipher of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while Bill Friedman would be the last to claim credit for anything without mentioning his collaborators , including unsung heroes in the Navy  --  I would not detract one iota from Mr. Kahn 's tribute , The country owes Colonel Friedman a great debt for unique services . Most of us are replaceable . William F. Friedman never has been . But Mr. Kahn 's letter may have led readers to think that a grateful Government has made a cash award in tribute to Colonel Bill for the lives he saved , Nothing of the sort has happened . Compensation for Property The payment that Congress has voted is an award for the confiscation of property which Friedman owned . He made a number of notable inventions in cryptographic machines and methods , and under the law he owned the commercial and the foreign rights . He was forbidden by secrecy orders to exploit them ; and so he was entitled to " just " compensation . At least the Fifth Amendment says so . Such rights are difficult to evaluate , but this writer has no doubt that , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dollars . Congress now after twenty years and more  --  has decided to pay $100,000 for them , without interest ; and no lawyer can say for sure whether the Treasury will content itself with a 25 per cent share under the capital gains tax , or attempt to confiscate the award in large part through income and surtaxes . And of course the attorneys who worked over five or six years to get Congress to attend to the problem must be paid . Life-Saving Inventions If we owe Bill Friedman a debt for lives saved by his skill as a cryptanalyst , we owe him at least as great a debt for lives saved by his cryptographic inventions , which played a very large part in our own communications security during World War II and afterward . The $100,000 award does not . diminish either debt ; it is grossly inadequate even to pay for tile property that was taken from Friedman without compensation . The Russians , it appears from the press , have learned the social and economic value of high prizes for individual achievement . We have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the ranks of science , where by and large the incentive is income , while we maintain a Federal tax structure that is designed to make it virtually impossible for a professional man to attain wealth through income , If Congress had voted Colonel Friedman a million dollars , tax free , it would have been none too much . The award that has been made will not stimulate others to follow the difficult , lonely and sometimes heartbreaking path that ; ed him to the ton of his own field of science . ALFRED MCCORMACK. slew York , May 10 , 1956 ,                     