@@715404

txt North Atlantic Treaty council ministers have accused the Soviet bloc of " still promoting aggressive war in several parts of the world . " The ministers , who did dot comment on Moscow 's latest Pravda and Investia articles on peace , said the council would welcome any genuine efforts aimed at reducing International tension , but declared the western defense buildup must continue . By the Associated Press Moscow The Soviet Union has agreed to businesslike discussions with the West on the great controversies troubling world peace , but has flatly rejected what appeared to be some conditions laid down by President Eisenhower . The Russian ' agreement was outlined in a statement carried across the entire font pages of Moscow 's principal newspapers ? Pravda , the organ of the Soviet Comdiunlst Party 's central committee , and Izvestia , the organ of the Supreme Soviet , " The Soviet Government will welcome any step of the American Government or any other gum nment if it is directed at the friendly settlement of dn . cult questions , " the statement said . " This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ readiness of the Soviet side for serious businesslike discussions of outstanding problems . " The statement added that the Russians would participate In direct conversations and , when necessary , in negotiations through the United Nations , Reply to Eisenhower Although it was unsigned and entitled solely " On the Address of President Eisenhower , " it seemed clear from the wording that it was correct to call the article a statement by the leadership of the Soviet Union . It was clearly and definitely an answer to President Eisenhower 's April 16 speech . The Soviet statement sharply attacked some things Mr , Eisenhower said and many things that United States Secretary of State John FosteeDulles has said since the President made his appeal in speaking before the American Society of Newspaper Editors , Referring directly to Mr. Eisen. hower 's remarks , the Soviet statement . accused him of trying to threaten the Soviet Union with atomic war , The Soviet statement fully agieed with Mr. Eisenhower'z plea for a lessening of tension and building peace but it accused him of not being very consistent in his remarks . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President of the United States for some reason considered it possible to connect his proposals a peace with a whole series of preliminary conditions presented by him to the Soviet Union , although these claims are not reinforced by corresponding obligations from the side of the United States . " Making is pertectly clear that it dui not subscribe to or agi ce to many of these " conditions , " the Soviet statement pointed out that Russia , too , has claims and ideas about what should be done . The statement also took up Mr , Eisenhower on his remark that deeds , not words , are needed today by saying it is impossible not to agree with the President . In other words , the Soviets say they wants some deeds in addition to words from the United States to show It wants peace , Question Hurled Discussing the apparent condi. fifths Mid down by Mr. 2ise ? - bower , tile statement said the President asked : " What IS the Soviet Union prepared to undertake or do ? " " It is well known , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Union always manifests readiness to discuss and solve in a friendly manner international questions on condition that proposals on the solution of these questions , no matter who shall make them , are in some degree acceptable and are not counterposed either to the basic Interests Of the Soviet people and the interests of other peace-loving peoples . " " We , do not intend to enter into a discussion with the President on his rather strange declaration about some sort of an end of a definite era in Soviet policy , " the statement declared . " Hut we can not accept without surprise his conclusion that alleged the Soviet Government must renounce its heritage of foreign policy , the correctness of which is proven by the entire course of international development . " Referring to Mr. Dulles , the statement declared : " We can not pass by in silence the claim of Mr. Dulles that the alleged call of Soviet leaders for peaceful ' settlements was made under the pressure of the so-called firm policy of the United States . " It is , however , known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not by consideration of the ' firmness ' or ' softness ' of the policy of one or another country toward the U.S.S.R. but based on the interests of the Soviet people and world security . " On Mr.gisenhower 's disarma. ment proposals , the statement said the Soviet Union could agree to these items but found them too general .                     