@@718840

txt Value of the 1958 Republican nomination for Governor is shooting upward with each apparent political fumble of the Furcolo administration on Beacon Hill . Even with the state party conventions more than a year distant , gubernatorial ambitions in the Republican Party are stirring . Charles Gibbons of Stoneham , chairman of the Republican State Committee , encouraged by the slump in the Furcolo stock , is acting more and more like a candidate for Governor . His close friends report he will resign as party chairman around the first of the year to announce his gubernatorial candidacy . Other PrOSpeCiS But he will I find the field far from clear . Attorney General George Fingold is already talking like an avowed candidate for the top spot . He is constantly shooting at Governor Furcolo 's operations . He is getting around the state . A Grbbons-Fingold battle for the Republican State Convention endorsement for Governor would be the most stirring in GOP circles in many years . The convention would be lifted out of its usual cut-and-dried status . In 1952 Christian A. Herter ha , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1954 he was re-endorsed without a contest . Lt. Gov . Sumner G. Whittier in 1956 was unopposed for the gubernatorial endorsement . There are other gubernatorial prospects also being discussed in GOP circles . They include Bruce Crane of Dalton , former member of the Executive Council , and Mayor Howard Whitmore , Jr. , of Newton , among others . Publicity Gained Mr. Crane , an independently wealthy paper manufacturer , was approached in 1956 to run for Governor but he desired to return to his business and leave the field clear for the then Lieutenant Governor Wh But he has long been interested in the top spot . Mayor Whitmore has gained considerable publicity in his running battle with the Massachusetts Turnpike over whether the road into Boston from the Weston terminus of the east- west toll road should be a freeway or a toll road . Some persons feel the controversy may serve as groundwork for a gubernatorial campaign . At the moment , however , the likeliest prospects to run against Governor Furcolo in 1958 appear to be Mr. Gibbons and Mr. Fingold , with Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ develop . Mr. Gibbons is now engaged in the task of revitalizing and expanding the Republican . organization at the town and ward level . He reports , on the basis of trips around the state , a reawakening of party confidence for 1958 as a result of the first 4/4 months of the Democratic Furcolo administration . Among party workers in ward and town committees Mr. Gibbons is stressing Furcolo administration " mistakes . " By personal visits and by letter he is assessing the Furcolo record for party workers as a means of sharpening interest and spurring optimism as far as GOP 1958 prospects are concerned . Contact Maintained His work keeps him in close contact with party workers and leaders who will make up the bulk of the delegates to the 1958 state convention . Meanwhile , Attorney General Fingold is far from inactive in party circles . He has a working organization . Furthermore , his political stature was increased in the party by the fact that in the 1956 state election he was the only GOP statewide office candidate to win . Mr. Fingold is definitely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is not interested in another term as Attorney General . He is now serving his third term . He can go in one of two directions , up toward the governorship , or out of politics and into private law practice . The former is his present choice . The Attorney General does not hesitate to point td his Jewish-American background as a major political asset . He argues that to win , a GOP candidate for major office must attract a substantial segment of Democratic as well as Republican votes . He believes he has demonstrated his ability to attract Jewish-American votes , which he , estimates are 80 per cent Democratic in this state now .                     