@@719438

txt The Army was ordered today to develop a solid-fuel ballistic missile to replace the liquidfuel Redstone . Neil H. , Secretary of Defense , announced that recent advances in technology made it possible to start the new project without delay . The new weapon , yet to be named , would be " smaller , lighter and even more mobile than the Redstone , " he reported . Word of the decision was relayed to the Senate Preparedness subcommittee shortly before the Secretary 's announcement . Senators expressed gratification and were assured that sufficient funds would immediately be allotted to start the project . Submarine Threat Confirmed The subcommittee , meanwhile , released testimony officially confirming reports that Soviet submarines were now capable of hitting American cities with nuclear weapons from more than 200 miles offshore . Rear Admiral Hyman G. Rickover , assistant chief of the Navy Bureau of Ships for nuclear propulsion , testified to that effect at a closed hearing Monday . He called it " an immediate threat to this country . " Pentagon sources spoke of a major technological breakthrough that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Army 's missile requirements . They also predicted that the order would result in lifting the 200-mile limit on the range of missiles assigned to the Army . The 200-mile limitation on missiles for Army use was established in November , 1956 , by Charles E. Wilson , then . Secretary of Defense , in a memorandum outlining roles and Mis ? sions of the services . Army leaders have objected strongly . It meant that the Army 's 1,500-mile Jupiter , recently ordered into production , ' would be operated by the Air Force . The Army also had plans for a medium-range 500-mile ballistic missile such as Soviet forces in Europe are equipped with , according to intelligence reports . More Than 200 Miles Informed sources said that ' the expected range of the new weapon would be more than 200 miles arid possibly up to 800 miles . The range of the Red-1 stone is 200 miles . " The new solid-propellant missile will provide the Army a more versatile and flexible weapon with which to discharge its role on the battfied of the future , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hydrocarbon fuel , such as kerosene , which is combined with an oxygen supply , such as liquid oxygen . In solid fuels , the hydrocarbon and oxidizing elements are combined in a solid compound . In the Polaris missile , for instance , the propellant is a compound closely resembling synthetic rubber in composition . The Defense Secretary thought it so important that he telephoned Maj. Gen. John B. Medaris , chief of the Army 's Redstone Arsenal at Huntsville , Ala. , who was testifying at the Capitol . He asked the general to inform the members of Senate Preparedness Subcommittee of the decision . The Redstone is cylindrical with a conical nose . It is sixtynine feet long with a diameter of seventy inches and is transported by truck with its launching equipment and fuel . The weapon , which has a selfcontained guidance system , is assembled at the site by a ninety-foot crane and launched from a standing vertical position . As it rises , the controls cause the missile to tilt and head toward the target . Solid Fuels Safer Liquid fuels have been used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thrust and the accuracy of the supply controls . However , scientists have pointed out that solid propellants were safer and easier to handle and required less equipment . The Navy pulled out of its joint efforts with the Army in developing the liquid-fuel ' Jupiter because the Navy required a solid-propellant missile , such as the Polaris . President Eisenhower 's request to Congress for $1,260 , . 000,000 in supplementary appropriations for the current fiscal year is understood to provide for three Polaris-armed nuclear submarines . However , reliable sources at the Pentagon indicated that the expectations of developing the Polaris for operational use by , 1960 were so high that actually nine such ships were contemplated with additional funds . The announcement of plans for a successor to the Redstone I has not been distributed to combat crews , although three such battalions are in training . The decision followed by only a week an announcement of a $21,800,000 contract to the Chrysler Corporation for the 1958 Redstone program . A Defense Department spokesman said that the contract would be carried out without a ( cutback General Medaris @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However , Pentagon officials said a changeover would take some time . Rickover Cites Threat Admiral Rickover , who directed development of the first nuclear-powered submarine , cited the Soviet submarine threat in calling for " more anti-submarine war measures . " " We know , " he testified , " they ( the Russians have at least a 200-mile missile , and if they put an atomic warhead on that missile we know they can , probably get in . " Does that mean we know they have it and it is capable of being launched from a sub ? " he was asked . " Yes sir , " was the reply . " You think they are geared together , the submarine and the missile ? " " Yes , definitely . " The Russians probably have missiles that can be fired farther from submarines , " but I was being conservative in saying at least 200 miles , " the Admiral said . The transcript did not indicate whether such missiles were , of the ballistic type , but Senators said they understood the reference was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States submarines are now equipped with the Regulus an air-breathing guided missile with a 600-to-S00 mile range . Others now being converted will carry the Regulus II , a faster air-breathing missile with a range of more than 1,000 miles . Admiral Rickover said sixteen nuclear - powered submarines were under construction or had been authorized in addition to the three already commissioned . However , he added , " I certainly think we ought to have many more . " New Submarines Slower Admiral Rickover also disclosed the following : 9The four nuclear submarines of the Skate class now under construction , are slower than the Nautilus and Seawolf , despite his recommendations to the contrary . He explained that " the Navy wanted them cheaper so we could have more of them . " 9The Nautilus , first of the nuclear submarines , will travel a distance " about 80 per cent greater " on her new nuclear core than the 62,000 miles travelled on her first fuel unit . " We may go even further than that with future cores , " he reported . 9The Navy is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will permit nuclear submarines " to stay subMerged almost indefinitely . " The Air Force , meanwhile , published a contention by Maj. Gen. Bernard A. Schriever that the Air Force could , if authorized , increase production of ballistic missiles far beyond present schedules . General Schriever 's statement was made before the Preparedness subcommittee at a closed hearing yesterday . The Air Force could deploy twice as many operational intermediate-range missile squadrons by 1960 if production schedules were raised by the Pentagon , he said . They would be equipped with ' the Thor , a 1,500-mile weapon recently ordered into production , along with its Army counterpart , the Jupiter . He also called for doubling the authorized production rate for the Atlas , 5,000-mile intercontinental ballistic missile . In addition , he testified , the Air Force can equip twice the number of Titan squadrons indicated by currently approved schedules . The Titan is an advanced version of an ICBM . " It would be a colossal blunder , " he asserted , " if we were net to plan beyond the point of matching every Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no fixed , final and frozen solution to the problem of national defense , any more than there is any ultimate weapon . "                     