@@716133

txt Warnings yesterday that the Port of New York faced " six months of labor chaos and a permanent loss of its commercial pre-eminence " marked the sixth day of the outlaw dock strike . The warnings came from ship ping executives as disgruntled longshoremen kept the harbor tied up in defiance of court orders , a $100,000 contempt action and back-to-work appeals from their union leaders . Police details on . the Brooklyn waterfront were reinforced in anticipation of a fresh shutdown of the borough 's piers today . These were the only ones of the port that operated normally yesterday , but Assistant Chief Inspector David A. Condon was informed last night that the 4,500 dock workers in Brooklyn would join the walkout this morning . Scores of ships were diverted to Philadelphia , Boston and other Eastern ports for unloading . There were mounting reports , however , that members of the old International Longshoremen 's Association in those ports might classify the diverted vessels as " hot ships " ? and refuse to handle their cargoes . One ship line said it had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not work vessel originally destined for New York : Some difficulties were reported in Boston , but locals in Baltimore , Norfolk and Hampton Roads interposed no objections . The tie-up hampered , but did not halt , the passage of giant luxury liners . The United States liner America docked at Pier 86 , Hudson River , with office workers securing her lines and helping her 905 passengers with their luggage . The Cunard liner Queen Mary is due in tonight , and the - French liner Ile de France and the Cunarder Mauretania are scheduled , to sail during the day . A rank-and-Zile committee of // seventy L L. A. members ' bobbed up yesterday as sponsors of the strike . Members of the commit tee refused to identify themselves for fear they would be black listed by the Waterfront Commission of New York Harbor . In an interview conducted under conditions of virtual military secrecy , seven committee members said the group had been elected by ballots conducted in thirty-five I. L. A. locals , without participation by the locals ' regular officers . They asserted the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. was certified as official bargaining agent for the port 's 24,000 longshoremen . They charged that Governor Dewey , the National Labor Relations Board and the courts had combined to destroy the I. L. A. and build up its American Federation of Labor rival . " For six months we have been working without a contract , waiting for the labor board to certify our union , " one committee mem .. 1 her said . " We won an election held last December ; we waited , out an eighty-day injunction ' under the Taft-Hartley Act . Now we are being told we will have to wait months and months more while the board investigates . " This strike shows that we have the overwhelming support of the men behind us . If the A. F. L. is so strong , , why ca n't it work the port now ? It has told the longshoremen to work , but no one is working . We are not going to work the piers till we get certified or get a contract , no matter how tough it ' gets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asserted that I. L. A. locals in other ports had offered to walk out in sympathy with the New York strikers . The word that went back was that no coastwide shut , down was wanted , but that there should be no handling of diverted ships . One hundred and twenty-five I. L. A. strikers picketed the regional offices of the labor board for an hour and , a half yesterday morning . Many had been in the group that marched outside the United States Court House in Foley Square twenty-four hours earlier while a judge was signing a contempt order against their union and three officers of its West Side locals . Both picket lines were formed to protest a petition submitted to Federal Judge David N. Edelstein by Charles T. Douds , regional director of the board . The . petition asked that the union , the three officers and eight New York and New Jersey locals be fined or jailed for wilfully violating an injunction issued a week ago by Judge Edward J. Dimock . Hearing on Tuesday Judge Edelstein gave the union and its officers until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ punished for civil and criminal contempt . Mr. Douds sent a report on the picketing of the N. L. R. B. offices at 2 Park Avenue to the board 's Washington headquarters . The Taft-Hartley Law makes it a crime for any person to_the seek to intimidate or coerce the board 's agents in the performance of their duties . Despite the rank-and-file committee 's insistence that it was operating independently of the I. L. A. high command , Mr. Douds said his staff was gathering additional affidavits to show that union officers were spurring the strike . A telegram sent . to all I. L. A. locals on Tuesday night by Capt . William V. Bradley , the union 's president , had no discernible effect in getting any one member to work . A back-to-work plea by John Dwyer , general organizer for the new A. F , L. dock union , appeared equally ineffective . Five gangs of federation longshoremen helped to load two American Export freighters at Pier F , Jersey City , and a maintenance crew of fifteen men worked on Pier 45 of the Grace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Tough Tony . ) Anastasia , cargo operations proceeded normally on fiftythree ships , including eight at the Army Base in Bay Ridge . The only other activity was at Army piers in Staten Island and Newark . There were hints that a. showdown between the A. F. L , and the I. L. A. on working the port might come today . One informant said members of the new union might attempt to work four Manhattan piers of the United Fruit Company this morning . Anastasia. who has been making a one-man effort to keep his section of the I. L. A. at work , was reported wavering last night . Lieut , John J. Boyle of the Police Waterfront Squad reported that " Tough Tony " was likely to instruct his men not to answer the work whistle this morning . This would touch off a new conflict with the A. F. L. , which has the bulk of its strength in Brooklyn .                     