@@715153

txt DULLES WELCOMES ANY ' CONCRETE ' IDEA STALIN MAY SUBMIT ' But Discourages Face-to-Face Talks  --  Suggests U. N. and Diplomacy as Substitutes VOICES EISENHOWER VIEW Truman Would Be ' Pleased if Any Agreement Can Be Reached ' to Attain Peace By W ? ALTER H. WAGGONER Special to TEE NEW YORK TIMES . WASHINGTON , Dee . 26 ? The incoming Administration of Gen. 1Dwight D. Eisenhower promised serious and sympathetic reception today to any " concrete proposals " Eby Premier Stalin for easing , world tensions , but at the same ' time it discouraged prospects for a face-to-face meeting of Chee : President-elect and the SO%-et leader . John Foster Dulles , Secretary of State-designate , issued a. statement to that effect after consulting by telephone with General Eisenhower , who is in New York , Inn Premier Stalin 's Christmas Eve , answers to four questions put to him a week before by James Reston , diplomatic correspondent of THE NEW YORK TIMES . Mr. Dulles ' statement , thus personally sanctioned by the President-elect , represented , associates said , all that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moment . Commenting on the Stalin replies , President Truman issued a one-sentence statement ; " I would be pleased indeed if any agreement can be reached with Stalin which would achieve world peace . " Views Read ' With Interest ' , The Dulles statement follows : " I have read with interest the published account of Mr. Stalin 's ' , views , If these mean that Mr. Stalin has concrete proposals to make to the new Administration after it takes office , he can rest assured that they will be seriously and sympathetically received . " Diplomatic or United Nations channels of communication are always available for such purposes and for exchanges of views designed to find ways to promote peace and international goodwill . " The most provocative of Mr. Stalin 's replies were to questions as to whether he would welcome diplomatic conversations with the new Eisenhower Administration " looking toward the possibilty of ' a meeting between yourself and General Eisenhower on easing world tensions " and whether he would cooperate in a new diplomatic approach designed to end the Korean war . Mr. Stalin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the , second , he said he would agree to cooperate because the Soviet Union was interested in " ending the war in Korea . " Mr. Dulles ' suggestion that established diplomatic channels existed to handle any exchange of views or proposals that Mr. Stalin might have in mind is identical with the stand taken in recent years by the Administration of President Truman . Foreign policy experts here are not only skeptical of the general ' merit of meetings of heads of ' State but are also convinced that Stich talks are likely to be . a far more effective propaganda forum for the Soviet Union than for West . This is due in part , it is felt , to // the ease with which the Soviet leaders can speak of peace while acting aggressively . And the Soviet Union can act alone , While the Western leaders  --  the United States , Britain and France  --  must consult on policy . Therefore the Kremlin can mor4 effectively employ its tactics of trying to divide the West . Officials in Washington have opposed from the beginning any proposal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations or to a special political conference . Under terms volunteered at the outset by the Soviet Foreign Ministry itself , the talks at Panmunjom , Korea , have been military in character , and , to avoid prolonged , inconclusive talks involving the whole Far East , the United States has so far insisted that the truce talks continue to be held at the military level . Embassies a Possible Route The State Department has repeatedly called attention to the existence of the embassies of the United States in Moscow and the Soviet Union in Washington , and also to the opportunities for easy Contact at the United Nations , should the Soviet Union wish to make proposals for ending the MI , rean war or discussing broader problems of East-West cdnflict . A. similar view seemed to dictate ' Mr. Dulles ' reminder of " channels ' of communication " that are " al- , ways available " for the transmission of ideas or inquiries , A warning against possible " treachery " by Mr. Stalin in any meeting he might have with General Eisenhower was issued , meanwhile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society of Americans of Italian origin . ? Leonard H. Pasqualicchio , national deputy of the organization , opposed an Eisenhower - Stalin meeting " at this time " and suggested that acceptance of the United Nations proposal introduced by India for ending the Korean war should be the first test of the Soviet Premier 's sincerity and peaceful intentions , and a Stalin visit with General Eisenhower in Washington the second . Dulles Returns to New York John Foster Dulles arrived at La Guardia Airport at 8:30 o'clock last night from Washington and went to his home at- 72 East Ninety-second Street . He told reporters he had no further comment on Premier Stalin 's statement and that he had no plans , while in New York , to see General Eisenhower " or anyone else . " He said he would return to Washington Monday morning . Asked why he had come to New York , he replied that it was simply because his home is here . Asked whether he thought Mr. Stalin 's statement would prove as fruitless as other Russian expressions for peace , Mr. Dulles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ injured her chest in a fall in Washington Thursday evening . She was taken to Doctors Hospital in Washington ' yesterday for X-rays to determine the extent I of her injury . She will remain at the hospital for a few days .                     