@@717444

txt The Eisenhower administration , with the President participating from Denver , is moving to widen the nation 's prosperity and ? simultaneously ? to improve the Republican Party 's political outlook for 1956 . Administration leaders are keeping a wary eye on the momentum which the Democratic presidential campaign is gaining , a year ahead of election and with the Republican standard-bearer still absent from the White House . Aware of the Democratic challenge , the administration is coming forward with two programs . One would spread national prosperity still more widely by adopting a kind of " domestic Point Four program " to rehabilitate the nation 's depressed areas  --  New England textile communities and West Virginia coal towns . Dr. Arthur F. Burns , chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers , and Dr. Gabriel Hauge , White House economic adviser , described this program to Mr. Eisenhower in a Denver conference Oct. 24 . Benson to Present Plan The administration is also moving fast to develop a revised agricultural program which will counter Democratic denunciations of the Benson flexibleprice-support program . On Oct. 29 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disclosed , will confer with the President at Denver and outline the farm program which the administration will back at the next session of Congress . Dr. Hauge indicated , at a Denver press conference , that this would not call for abandoning the Benson flexible-pricesupport scheme . Instead it would contain additional programs , but not " any discredited ideas " ? which might be taken to mean either the Brannan Plan , the rigid price-support formula , or both . If this administration strategy were to become completely successful , the Democrats would be largely deprived of two major and vote-winning issues in the Associated Press Dr. Arthur F. Burns 1956 campaign : the farm-price decline and the " depressed areas " argument  --  the fact that areas of serious unemployment exist in the midst of general prosperity . As long as West Virginia has a coal depression , for instance , it is likely to vote Democratic . Democrats Make Hay Administration political strategists are aware that the Democrats are very busy politically  --  that they are making some hay while the sun shines and while the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year , or perhaps beyond that , will the Republicans know whether President Eisenhower will seek a second term . Meantime , the President can not take part in the developing campaign , and the administration and Cabinet must not seem to step out too far ahead ' politically  --  even in support of the President  --  until he himself has spoken . But the administration can give the actual and factual impression of activity to maintain the national prosperity and to correct the decline in farm prices . Prosperity , along with peace , is the GOP 's most impressive issue . The farm problem must be solved if the GOP is not to suffer serious losses in the Midwest . Secretary Benson continues to deny any Cabinet rift on the farm issue , but GOP politicians are anxiously waiting to hear what plans he will propose to President Eisenhower to rescue the stivation , and what the President 's reaction will be . Dr. Hauge said the Presiednt was very interested in the agricultural picture and anxious to hear Mr. Benson 's ideas . Approved by President President Eisenhower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Economic Advisers Burns and Hauge for extending " good times " to depressed parts of the country . Dr. Burns said the project would be included in the legislative program sent to Congress in January . Briefly , it calls for establishment of a new federal agency in either the Department of Labor or the Department of Commerce . This agency would aim at reclaiming industrial communities which , " in spite of the good times we have been having , still have persistent unemployment and depression , " in the words of Dr. Burns . The agency would coordinate relief work now scattered through many agencies . It would render technical assistance to the depressed communities  --  New England mill towns or West Virginia mining areas . Communities would be appraised , new " economic potentials " discovered , and new programs planned . Participating Loans Most important of all , the agency would grant federal loans where needed for " industrial development projects worked out on a local level and approved by the state industrial board . " The federal government would make loans on a participating basis ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also giving financial assistance . The federal money would help to " stimulate ' growth and development , " but private enterprise would be heavily relied upon as well , Dr. Burns said at Denver . This is the Eisenhower " partnership " concept applied to a new phase of industrial development . Dr. Burns said he found the President well informed on the stock-market decline . James C. Hagerty , White House press secretary , reported recently that the President had not seen a newspaper since entering the hospital , but he has been kept informed on economic news by Presidential Assistant Sherman Adams . All recent visitors report how well Mr. Eisenhower looks and testify that his interest in news and administration plans , his intellectual alertness , his enthusiasm , and his sense of humor are all very much in evidence .                     