@@720048

txt The Administration is drawing up a new civil rights legislative package designed to divide the Democratic party and pick up Negro votes in the North . Attorney General Rogers disclosed the proposed legislation is under consideration but made no promise it would bo sent to Congress . The package , he told a press conference . may include proposals to deal with school integration , bombings of schools and churches and the problem of " hate " mail . If the Administration goes through with its plan , it would mark an about-fate on civil rights from the cooling-off period decreed by Mr. Rogers when he took office a year ago . The Attorney General now says recent bombings and the resistance to desegregation made it necessary to reconsider civil rights policy . White House to Decide It 's understood the White House is leaning toward sending the legislative package to Congress , despite the reluctance of some top officials to stir up the controversy again . That reluctance , which is reported to have been the reason for President Eisenhower 's refusal to speak out on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by arguments the Administration willbe forced to take a stand anyway . Whether the Administration takes the lead or not , however , civil rights is certain to become one of the major issues during the next Congress . Northern Congressmen. buoyed by the liberal gains at the polls , are sure to push for new legislation . Their first move will be an attempt to overhaul the Senate rules to curtail filibusters through which Southerners have blocked such legislation - in the past . Democratic moderates , led ? by Sen. Johnson ( D. , Tex. ) , are expected to urge that all civil rights legislation be put on the shelf until the Civil Rights Commission makes its report in September . 1959 . Forced to Take Stand This political tug-of-war will , of course , force the Administration to take a stand on civil rights at some point . Though the President may decide not to send specific recommendations to Congress , Administration spokesmen clearly ca n't oppose new legislation proposed by Republican lawmakers . Attorney General Rogers seemed to recognize this prospect when he said last year 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was unrealistic to think Congress would peas any legislation . This year , he said , the situation has changed . Mr. Rogers refused to elaborate on the proposals being studied but promised a decision before Congress convenes in January .                     