@@716249

txt Senate Investigators today ordered Secretary of the Army Robert T. Stevens to submit the names of Army officials responsible for giving Maj. Irving Peress ? described by Senator Joseph R. McCarthy ( R ) of Wisconsin as a " Fifth-Amendment Communist " ? an honorable discharge . The action came on a ruling by Chairman Karl G. Mundt ( 11 ) of South Dakota of the Senate investigation subcommittee looking into the McCarthy-Army dispute after the group postponed until later in the day a showdown on the question of cutting short public hearings . Once the argument over trimming down the hearings was laid aside , Roy M. Chine general counsel to Senator McCarthy 's subcommittee , began questioning Mr. Stevens ? now in his 13th day on the witness stand . Mr. Cohn demanded that Mr. Stevens give the committee the names of officials named in an inspector general 's report as having had a hand in the promotion and honorable discharge for Major Peress . Major Peress , a New York dentist , was honorably discharged from the Army : ast winter after refusing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had Communist affiliations . Ray H. Jenkins , special counsel for the inquiry committee , protested that the Peress case was " irrelevant " to the charges exchanged by Army officials and Senator McCarthy . These turn on Army contentions that Senator McCarthy and his aides brought improper pressures for preferred treatment for Pvt . G. David Schine , wealthy New Yorker who was an unpaid consultant to the McCarthy subcommittee before he was drafted last fall . Senator McCarthy said Maj. Gen. Kirke B. Lawton , commander of the Army 's Fort Monmouth , N.J. , radar laboratories , had testified that the . suspension of 35 employees as possible security risks " would not have been possible " except for an investigation by Senator McCarthy 's subcommittee . By Richard L. Strout Staff Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor Washington Republican senators feel the McCarthy-Pentagon row is doing such harm to national unity and their party that they must force a quick conclusion in the face of Democratic protests . Senator Everett M. Dirksen ( R ) of Illinois , member of the Senate Investigations subcommittee , who is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moved that public sessions end after Senator Joseph R. McCarthy ( R ) of Wisconsin has taken his place on the witness stand after the 13-day grilling of Army Secretary Robert T. Stevens . Special Army counsel Joseph N. Welch promptly charged that the Dirksen plan would " do violence to justice and equity . " He wants all principals called . Republican senators deny they are seeking to " sweep the inquiry under the rug . " Demo crats announced they would hold Republicans responsible if " ground rules are changed in the midst ' of the hearing . " Seaator McCarthy agreed to the Dirksen proposal if a time limit on subsequent executive sessions is included . He said he wants to get back to investigating " some 100 or 130 alleged Communists " in defense plants and reports of " fraud , graft , and corruption " in Alaska . He also mentioned " Army intelligence . " Them are five separate interest groups deeply concerned in whether the McCarthy-Pentagon hearings should be ended before all " principals " are called . Mere enumeration of these groups discloses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States . 1 . Radio and TV audience : Words like " amazed , " " fascinat ed , " " disgusted , " " terrified , " " entertained " and " bored " describe the reaction of the startled spectator public . The TV shows generally come in the morning and early afternoon when they displace soap operas for the housewife , which are not the best TV fare anyway . The radio rebroadcasts come in the evening and give millions the nuances and snap and crackle of the original by shrewd editing . The hearings affect different persons differently , but it is hard to be neutral . The commonest phrase about Senator McCarthy 's power is , " How long has this been going on ? " ; some listeners are n't interested ; others ca n't tear themselves away ; it 's a dominating subject at social gatherings . Perhaps the chief disclosure is the power and , force of Senator McCarthy and his domination of the show . For the first time in four years the public is really coming to comprehend the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Democrats : Senators McClellan , Henry M. Jackson ( D ) of Washington and Stuart Symington ( D ) of Missouri oppose ending the hearings till all principals are heard . Here is a spec tacle with an all-Republican cast that does Democrats no harm and does Republicans injury . They argue that the man really on trial is President Eisenhower for a policy of " appeasement " which Mr. Stevens put into effect . Few senators really like Senator McCarthy . Democrats have previously rationalized their failure to attack him by arguing he is " the Republicans ' problem . " Now there seems less fear on the Democratic side . 3 . Republicans : The four Republicans . except Senator Henry C. Dworshak ( R ) of Idaho , worked with Senator McCarthy on the subcommittee and cooperated with him in the past . They are eager to close the hearings for it does neither their party , the administration , nor themselves any good . In a sense they are also on trial . Senator McCarthy has assailed Senator Dworshak . The others know they may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less certainty that Senator McCarthy is a political asset . All , patriotically , want subversives . uncovered but the subcommittee has tended to be a one-man affair . 4 . Senator McCarthy : The Senator 's tactics support his argument that he wants the hearings ended . He has made startling accusations against Democrats Symington and Jackson , and to a less extent Senator McClellan . He has not spared Senator Dworshak . At one time he scorched committee counsel Ray H. Jenkins . He attacks the Pentagon 's motives . He has included Attorney General Herbert Brownell , Jr. , in his wrath , and inferentially the White House . Senator McCarthy has warned inferentially that if monitored calls to the McCarthy staff go into the record , no senator 's calls are safe . He has indicated that he will reveal other senators ' efforts to get preferential military service for constituents if the Pvt . G. David Schine case is pushed . 5 . The " fifth force " : A powerful outside group , composed of publishers , some military men , presidential advisers , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the present hearings be continued . Pro-Eisenhower publishers are represented as telling the White House that they can not carry on what they regard as the administration 's fight against Senator McCarthy 's encroachment on executive power without White House support . They have been assailed by Senator McCarthy as " pink " or " Communist , " and argue that the public is now getting its first real understanding of a difficult situation . Unsavory though the affair is , they . argue it would be unwise to have the Republicans now take the responsibility of calling it off .                     