@@719462

txt The Government announced today that it had arrested a nation-wide band seeking to reconstitute the long - banned Communist party in Spain . Gen. Camilo Alonso Vega , Minister of the Interior , took the unusual step of calling Spanish newsmen personally to his office to read a cornmuniqud . This was an indication that the Government wanted the fullest publicity for its action as a warning to the nation . Forty-four persons have been arrested so far here , in Saragossa and in Valencia and other arrests may follow , the Minister indicated . The arrest of Javier Pradera Cortazar , an associate law professor at the University of Madrid , evoked widespread comment in political and social circles . Senor Pradera Cortazar , 24 , is a nephew of  --  the Spanish Ambassador to Syria and a grandson of a prominent monarchist leader who was shot by Republican elements early in the Spanish civil war . He has been taken Into custody for his anti-regime political activities on previous occasions and was prominent among those arrested early in 1956 following student disturbances at the University @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those now under arrest attended the Moscow youth festival last August and returned to Spain under orders to infiltrate into responsible positions in University and syndicate ( trade union ) organizations . He did not specify who these were . They were under orders , the Minister continued , to organize a " Day of National Reconciliation " as a form of nation-wide protest against the regime of Generalissimo Francisco Franco . The plan was to dis- ' runt public services and virtually paralyze the nation as a show of strength , he said . Drive Called Intensive Since the return of these persons from Moscow , he continued , an intensive propaganda and recruiting campaign has been under way . Duplicating machines were acquired as well as furniture in which to hide them and a " copious " correspondence was maintained with Communist centers abroad . General Alonso Vega declared . Twenty-seven of the arrested men were active here , thirteen ! in Saragossa and four in Valencia , he said . In addition to the official announcement , the Spanish Goveminent took another unusual step to give the arrests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ released through Spanish news services a " background " summary of the clandeStine activities that it contended had first put the ; Spanish police on the trail of ; those now under arrest . The youth festival in Moscow last August was attended by 193 Spaniards , this summary , stated . Of these 103 were not . resident in Spain but were either sons of exiles or students holding Government or Falange scholarships abroad , it was added . The ninety living in Spain were invited to the festival by personal letters that carefully avoided any discussion of politics and that is fact intimated that it would be preferable if the recipient were not a Communist party member , according to the summary . The ninety resident Spaniards traveled to Paris normally with their passports " in order . " the summary went on . There . it said , they were met by a " Coordination Committee . " which took charge of their passports and sent the Spaniards to Moscow , where they were luxuriously housed , fed and entertained for a week . They attended lectures , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ i On returning to Paris , the summary added , this group of Spaniards had their passports returned to them , with no indication that they had been in the Soviet Union , and they were informed that an " instructor " would arrive later in Spain to advise them further . Meanwhile the Spanish police kept " fully informed " about these activities , the Government summary said , and they began inquiries in Madrid , Barcelona . Saragossa and Valencia that led to the arrests . According to documents seized in recent weeks , other anti-Franco political elements besides Communists have also been implicated , including monarchists , republicans , socialists and members of the banned Confederation National de Trabajo or National Confederation of Labor . According to those in a position to know , the question of the arrests was brought to the fore within the last fortnight by a series of openly anti-Franco ? postcards and letters sent to in- ; individuals in Spain by Miguel : Sanchez-Masas. 32 , who is Senor ' Pradera Cortazar 's brother-ini law . Senor ? Sanchez-Masas now lives in voluntary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Communist sympathizer . Members of his family contend that he is anti-Franco but not pro-Communist.                     