@@712758

txt Six solemn faced men and six visibly nervous women were granted temporary seats today on the jury which will decide the fate of Robert E. Bednasek , 24 year old University of Iowa psychology student on trial for the Judge Gaffney strangulation slaying of his co-ed sweetheart , Margaret Gee-Gee Jackson , 20 , in a men students ' rooming house here last Dec. 11 . Indications were the defense may claim accident or attack by an unidentified assailant in Miss Jackson 's death . The tentative jurors are four housewives , a woman school board member , a pretty editorial assistant in the University of Iowa 's information office , four farmers , a newspaper compositor , and a male bank teller . Some May Re Replaced Attorneys explained , however , as the first day in this college town 's most sensational trial drew to a close , that several of these temporarily seated jurors will be replaced before selection of a jury of 12 unbiased persons is completed . Each of the prospective jurors called for examination today admitted that he or she was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jackson girl at the climax of an evening which started with a lobster and burgundy supper for two in a dilapidated rooming house ironically called the " Empty Arms . " From there the couple went to a dance A Bednasek's. fraternity house , and then returned to the rooming house for drinks and more dancing to a record player . Spends 2 Weeks in Hospital Bednasek , who has spent the two weeks immediately preceding his trial in a psychopathic hospital under observation , told police a disconnected story of how he de monstrated to Miss Jackson how a person could be choked . Suddenly , he told police , she was on the floor and no longer breathing . The first hints of how this case will be handled by prosecution and defense attorneys came as County Prosecutor Jack White and Clair Hamilton , chief defense attorney , indulged in lengthy examination of prospective jurors . White made no attempt to qualify jurors for the death penalty ? hanging in Iowa ? but confined himself to asking each jury candidate this question : " . Are you willing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case should he ? " Hints Defense Plea When one juror , a farmer , proclaimed himself against capital punishment , White tentatively allowed him to he seated as a temporary juror without objection . Hamilton , in his questioning , indicated over and over again that the defense plea may be that death was accidental or that a mysterious assailant may have slain the co-ed . " You understand that because Margaret Jackson received injuries which resulted in her death , and that because Robert Bednasek was apparently the last person to see her alive , it does not necessarily follow that he was responsible for her death ? " Hamilton asked each jury candidate . Hamilton also asked each prospective juror whether he had any prejudice against university studroning technicalities , Bednasek sat calmly beside his attorneys , alternately staring at prospective jurors thru his thick lensed glasses and covering his eyes with his hand . Occasionally he glanced in apparent bewilderment at the crowded press tables-31 newspaper men and women are covering this trial . A few feet behind his chair , huddled by themselves and apparently equally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ents , Emil and Olga Bednasek of Cedar Rapids , Ia . Neither the elder Bednasek , a retired employee of the Quaker Oats company , nor the defendant 's mother , who wore a green hat and dress and an air of resignation , made any attempt to communicate by word or look with their son . The slain co-ed 's parents  --  Mr. and Mrs. William E. Jackson of Burlington , Ia. ? were not present . Jackson is an attorney and member of the Iowa state parole board . Warning to Press Presiding Judge James P. Gaffney of Iowa 's 8th judicial district created a sensation before the trial properly was under way by Issuing what he termed " a written warning " to newspaper representatives . Ihe judge , a white haired veteran of 17 years on the bench , presented copies of his " warning to correspondents , " which read in part : " Most of our daily press and radio are doing much to demoralize the people of our nation , especially the youth . Sensationalism and front page glorification of tragedy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destructive influences upon the welfare of the nation . " Society and everyone in it would be much better off were the press and radio not to mention this case . " It is now ordered , from this time on , until the completion of this case , whether court is in session or not , no picture or pictures of any character are to be taken in this courtroom or in the hall or halls adjacent to it . No picture will be taken of the defendant in the building unless he consents thereto in writing . A violation of this order will be punished in contempt proceedings . "                     