@@715268

txt Rudolph Halley , City Council President , called yesterday for a public inquiry to learn whether Police Commissioner George P. Monaghan did or did not enter into a secret agreement with the Department of Justice regarding investigations of alleged police brutality in this city by the Federal Bureau of Investigation . Mayor Impellitteri promptly said he felt no city inquiry was necessary at this time . A Congressional inquiry into the same matter will begin today in Washington . Representative Kenneth B. Keating , Republican of upstate New York , announced that the House Judiciary subcommittee I he heads would start open hearings today and expected to call Commissioner Monaghan as a witness next week , Demands were made yesterday by several local and national office-holders for a full public airing of the controversy over whether the New York police had received favored over those in other cities in cases where the Department of Justice investigated complaints of civil rights violations based on police mistreatment of suspects or other persons . Council Inquiry to Be Asked Councilman Earl Brown said he would offer a resolution at Tuesday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that body of a five-man committee to conduct an inquiry , which also would look into the policies and practices of the Police Department in hart , dling complaints of citizens about ( police brutality . The committee would be directed also to find out the cost to the city in damages awarded by the courts to victims la police beatings . Commissioner Monaghan has denied there ever was an agreement with the Department of Justice concerning civil rights investigations in this city , despite reiteration by James , Special Assistant to the Attorney General , that there had been such an agreement . Borough President of Manhattan Robert F. Wagner Jr . called . for a " full report " on the situation to the Board of Estimate . He declared that unless it were shown that civil rights statutes were enforced equally in all parts of this country , " Radio Moscow will blare forth that we have legalized lynching right here in New York City . " Representatives Adam Clayton Powell Jr. , Democrat , and Jacob K. Javits , Republican , both from Manhattan , demanded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They and Repre- sentative Francis E. Dorn , Republican of Brooklyn , will testify at today 's public hearing of the Keating subcommittee . Mr. Halley , in a statement issued at City Hall , said a secret agreement on civil rights investigations , if there was one , was - vicious . " " Under the circumstances , " the Council President said , " we ? can not let the matter drop . I believe that both Commissioner Monaghan and Mr. should welcome the opportunity to seek vindication of their side of the case . This should be done at an open hearing where the witnesses are under oath . " At the very least , every citizen of New York should know whether the F. B. I. made an exception here in police cases involving alleged violations of civil rights . On the other hand , we must strongly avoid criticizing a whole department , and we must wait until the facts are brought out and any responsibility is placed where it belongs . " , Mayor Gives His Views Mayor Impellitteri , asked for , comment on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grand jury that is investigating a specific case of alleged police brutality here " would have broader powers to conduct an orderly , dignified and comprehensive investigation . " Twice during his press conference the Mayor indicated his opposition to a public hearing here . The grand jury 's deliberations are secret . Asked how it could be determined whether Commissioner ' Monaghan or Mr. was telling the truth , Mayor Impellitteri said : " I 've read in the papers . There 's , a Federal grand jury proceeding pending . It has broad powers of investigation , and I would assume that the grand jury would have full power to inquire into the whole situation . " United States Attorney Myles J. Lane said the Federal grand jury , which heard witnesses for the third successive day here , was investigating only one case , that of two Negroes who were said to have been beaten in the West Fiftyfourth Street station last August while handcuffed together . " We 're interested in finding out whether or not a crime has been committed as charged , " Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ca n't see how either Mr. Monaghan or Mr. can shed any light on this issue . " Mayor Impellitteri released copies of a letter lie had sent to the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , which had asked him to demand Commissioner 's Monaghan 's resignation on the basis of the alleged secret pact . The Mayor wrote to the organization that he had been " informed that the Police Commissioner has stated unequivocally that no such arrangement ever existed . " The Mayor said he had been so " informed " by Commissioner Monaghan over the telephone on Tuesday . Asked what he thought of the conflicting statements by Commissioner Monaghan and Mr. , the Mayor replied : " I 'm merely pointing out what the Commissioner of Police has reported to me . " The Mayor was asked whether he would ask Mr. Monaghan to resign if it developed there had been such an agreement or understanding between the police and the Department of Justice . He said : " That question is improper and premature at the present time . " Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his letter to the N. A. A. C. P. , that he was " absolutely against any possible ' agreement ' between the Police Department and the Department of Justice that the F. B. I. refrain from questioning policemen in cases involving civil rights . " " I am sure you will recognize , " the letter continued , " that my position has long been clear that I will i not tolerate interference with civil rights on the part of any city department or agency . " On Monday , when Commissioner Monaghan and Chief Inspector Conrad H. Rothengast were in Washington conferring with Justice Department officials , Mayor Impellitteri said he did not know they had gone to the capital . The conference purportedly concerned the secret agreement , which former Attorney General James P. abrogated when he learned about it last month . Mr. Lane said " two or three " witnesses appeared yesterday before the Federal grand jury investigating the alleged beating of Jacob Jackson and Samuel Crawford . He denied that any new complaints had been received by his office . It was learned , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been received by Mr. Lane 's office on Tuesday and several additional ones , were made yesterday , all of which were referred to the F. B. I. for investigation . Leland V. Boardman , head of the New York office of the F. B. I. , said that " some complaints " had been received this week at his office . He would not say whether they had been referred by the United States Attorney 's office . The N. A. A. C. P. said it was re-examining seventy-five to a hun ' dred complaints of civil rights violations received in the last thirty months . Edward R. Jacko , head of the association 's legal redress bureau here , said twenty-five " substantiated " cases had been taken to the police or the courts in that time , but in onlytwo cases were the policemen involved suspended from duty . A meeting will be held at 11 A. M. today at the N. A. A. C. P. national office , 20 West Fortieth Street , by white and Negro representatives of twenty-five civic , religious and other groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minister of the Community Church and chairman of the Coordinating Committee on Police Practices , said Ne was " shocked by the immoral practices revealed concerning the denial of fundamental rights to American citizens by the inhuman action and conduct allegedly committed by police officials and allegedly condoned by our highest police officials as revealed in the Public press . " He proposed establishment ' of a permanent city-wide committee to investigate allegations of misconduct by policemen in their relations with the public . Councilman Brown , who declared it was difficult for the Police Department to conduct a disinterested investigation of charges of civil rights violations by members of the force , said : " Although the Police Department cleared Patrolman Donald , Mullen for fatally shooting Herman Newton , a Negro , on Memorial Day , 1949. his widow was awarded $50,281 damages by a jury in Supreme Court . On Feb. 16 , 1951 , John Harvey Brown , also a Negro , was awarded $60,000 damages by a jury for injuries suffered at the hands of Officers John Tyson and Jerry Hogan . He will be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1951 , James Harris , a Negro , was awarded $58,500 by a jury in the same court for the same reason . " The Corporation Counsel 's office released figures showing that ten legal actions brought against the city by persons complaining of injuries from police beatings were disposed of in court in the 1951-52 fiscal year . Five resulted in verdicts for the city , four in verdicts against the city , and one in a settlement . The city paid damages totaling $200,000 in those cases . The War Resisters League , a pacifist group , asserted in letters to Mayor Impellitteri and Attorney General Herbert Brownell Jr . that Richard Kern , a member who was arrested last Sept. 30 for distributing leaflets , had been beaten by the police " in exactly the same manner as Jacob Jackson . "                     