@@716533

txt The " why " of youthful crime is getting more attention these days . What a young offender has done is becoming less important than why he did it . This is an idea both expressed and implied in the formal talks and informal workshop sessions of the National Probation and Parole Association 's annual convention , which opened at the New Ocean House here yesterday and will continue through Wednesday . For the first time , the national group 's meeting has been planned to coincide with that of a regional body , in this case the New England Conference on Probation , Parole , and Crime Prevention . Both groups are merging their talents in a vigorous combination of speeches and grass-roots discussions ? an idea that brings together , as never before , recognized national authorities and probation officers on a level I closely touched by everyday problems . Groundwork Laid Youth has come in for a large share of attention of the law-enforcement officials from all parts of the United States judges , district attorneys , pro , hation and parole officers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work ' ship meeting , two speakers dealt earlier with the subjects of treatment needs of adolescents and the theory behind the Federal Youth Correction Act . Joseph A. Shelly , King 's County ( New York ) Deputy Chief Probation Officer , described the former . George J. Reed , chairman of the Youth Correction Division , United States Board of Parole , told of the federal act . Mr , Reed said the act defines treatment as " corrective and preventive guidance and training " designed to protect the public by helping the young offender develop better habits . " A punitive system ist interested only in what an offender has done . " Mr. Reed said . " A treatment system wants to know why he or she committed the offense . So the Federal Youth Correction Act directs the division and the Federal Bureau of Prisons , through its institutions and diagnostic centers , to explore the personality and life experiences of every new commitment ' forthwith , ' 150 Committed " Diagnosis must determine youngster 's IQ , his academic achievement level , and his areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anticipate his strengths and weaknesses  --  intellectual or manual  --  that can be built up . " Unlike the Federal Juvenile Delinquency Act , which provides for special handling of an offender from the time of arrest until disposition by the courts , the Youth Correction Act contemplates regular criminal procedure and may be invoked against all offenders between the ages of 17 and 22 , Mr. Reed said . Under the Youth Correction Act , he said , an offender will usually be sent first to the new Federal Youth Center in Ashland , Ky .. where a complete clinical study of the individual is made , So far , he added , 150 youths have been committed during the eight months the act has been implemented . Fifteen have been committed for 60 days ' observation to supply courts with additional information as to whether they will benefit from treatment at Ashland . A psychiatrist heads the clinical team . Mr. Reed said . " He is aided by a psychologist , social workers , medical officer , educational director , recreational director , chaplain , associated warden , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all youth offenders , This same team , plus the total institutional staff , is available to carry out the treatment program at Ashland . " Deal With Youths At the original hearing before the youth division , Mr. Reed said , the law " gives very great latitudes to the division and the director of the Bureau of Prisons in determining the proper type of treatment . The youth can be : 1 . " Released immediately on early parole to his home , foster home , or other locale. 2 . " Transferred to one of several fedele youth institutions for vocational educational training . " Mr. Shelly said that because many youthful delinquents are largely the result of parental mishandling , it might appear that the solution to many supervision problems would involve dealing directly with the parents . " But in most cases , In dealing with the older adolescent offender , the most realistic approach seems to be that of working directly with the youth himself . During adolescence he is attempting to break away from the family emotionally and should be directing his interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will stimulate personal development . "                     