@@712591

txt The three remaining fugitives of the convict quartet that escaped Saturday from the Tucker prison farm after killing a guard were captured tonight after a gun battle during a sleet storm in North Little Rock . Two of the convicts , who elected to shoot it out with police in a shed behind a restaurant , were struck by several bullets and were taken to University hospital here in a semi-conscious condition . No police officers were hurt in an exchange of more than 100 shots , The third fugitive surrendered without resistance when cornered in a nearby private garage . The fourth member of the gang had been captured Monday in a rural area near here . Posse in " Mistake " Killing The escape started one of the most determined manhunts in the state 's history . During the five days of the search one man was killed when members of a posse fired into his house by mistake , believing him to be one of the fugitives . A member of the posse was wounded in this encounter . The wounded convicts were James @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and James Rheuark , 22 , of Sapulpa , Okla . The one who surrendered meekly was David Dyer , 28 , of Oklahoma City . The trio had dropped out of sight Monday night after wrecking and abandoning a stolen car about 9 miles east of here . They reappeared tonight at a Negro home where they demanded overcoats . They left this home with a quantity of stolen clothing . The Negro family notified police and within a short time more than 40 officers from North Little Rock and Little Rock reached the area . First shots were fired by Harold Hunter , North Little Rock police captain , who spotted the fugitives trying to steal a car from a drivein restaurant . Hunter , alone in a squad car , began firing at the men . Two ran in one direction and one in another . . " Como and Get Us " Hunter chased the single man into a garage four blocks away . This man , Dyer , shouted ? from the garage that he was ready to surrender and tossee out a .45 caliber pistol @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , described as ringleader in the prison break and actual slayer of the trusty guard , took refuge with Rheuark in h nearby shed . Police said the fugitives answered " Come and get us " when asked to surrender . This challenge precipitated sever al bursts of gunfire from police . Officers said the convicts answered the fire but that firing from inside the shed ceased after a few minutes. ; Another demand for surrender brought a response , " We ca n't come out ; we 're all shot to pieces . " The guard slain in the break Saturday was Bill Bohannon , 36 . The convict recaptured Monday was Odus Eaton , 25 , of Stillwell , Okla.                     