@@713812

txt A. P. BUREAU CHIEF JAILED BY PRAGUE Government Discloses Arrest of Oatis , U. S. Reporter , for Acts Hostile to the , State BY The AssoclAted Press . FRANKFORT , Germany , April 26 ? The Czechoslovak Government has jailed William N. Oatis , one of two American correspondents remaining in Prague , on charges of hostile activities and spreading I secret information . Mr. Oatis was chief of bureau in Czechoslovakia for The Associated . Press . His arrest became known today , almost severity-two hours after he disappeared . Three Czechoslovak agents seized Mr. Oatis Monday night while he was putting his automobile in a garage . The Government , announcing it had witnesses to prove the charges against him , indicated he would face a Communist trial . The Government announcement came after United States Embassy // Counselor Tyler Thompson had asked for an urgent inquiry into Mr. Oatis ' disappearance . Mr. Tyler , when told Mr. Oatis was in jail , demanded first orally and then by formal note to be permitted to interview the correspondent . The Czechoslovak Foreign Ministry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ request . The American correspondent is 37 and served in the United States Army during World War U. Before his disappearance , Mr. Oatis had complained to the United States Embassy that he was being followed twenty-four hours a day , presumably by secret agents . But he had written nine days ago to his New York headquarters that he hoped to return to Prague following his home leave this summer . The two remaining . Western correspondents in Prague  --  Russell Jones , an American representing The United Press , and Robert Bigio of Reuters  --  were informed that the Ministry of Information would hold a " very important news conference tomorrow . " Four other employes of The Associated Press  --  all Czechoslovak nationals  --  have disappeared during the past month . Two of them are reported under arrest in Prague 's grim Pankrac ? prison , where Mr. Oatis also may be held . It is believed that these men , may be used as witnesses against Mr. Oatis . The Foreign Ministry informed Mr. Thompson the charges against Mr. Oatis were : 1 . Activities hostile to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secret by Czechoslovakia . 3 . Spreading malicious information regarding the . Czechoslovak state through illegal news organs , for which purpose he misused Czechoslovak citizens . Charges Are Sweeping Such broad charges , as brought ' , in Communist countries , can mean ' almost anything the Governments there want them to mean . The Reuters correspondent said a Foreign Ministry official in Prague Was asked to explain the third ' charge . The official stated " that this charge did not refer to Mr. Oatis ' work for The Associated Press . " These was no further explanation . Mr. Oatis went to Prague last June to replace Associated Press correspondent Nathan Polowetsky , who- had been expelled on unspecified ' charges of unobjective reporting . Mr. Oatis is a native of Indiana ' and has worked for The Associated Press since 1937 . Western sources in Prague said his arrest might be designed to set the Stage for the trial of Vladimir Clementis , former Communist Foreign Minister now- in jail on charges of anti-Moscow Titoism and spying for the West . Mr. Oatis is the first Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years ago .. Dana Adams Schmidt of THE NEW YORK . TIMES left Czechoslovakia last May after his name had been mentioned in an espionage trial of Czechoslovak nationals . He said he had been tipped off that the Czechoslovak authorities were about to arrest him , but denied knowing any of those on trial . Several other . Western correspondents have been expelled from Czechoslovakia . Embassy Seeks Details WASHINGTON , April 26 ( 1D ? The State Department said today the ' United States embassy in Prague had asked that an embassy official be allowed to confer with William N. Oatis . In a note to the Foreign Office Ambassador Ellis 0 . ' Briggs expressed astonishment at hearing of the accusations made against Mr. Oatis and requested a formal statement of the charges . Statement by Starzel Frank J. Starzel , general manager of The Associated Press , issued the following statement yesterday on the arrest of Mr. Oatis : " The Associated Press is moving promptly with all the resources at its command to obtain Oatis ' release . We have full confidence in his integrity as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him . " The charge that Oatis gathered and disseminated ' information considered secret by Czechoslovakia ' is completely baffling to us . He reported only legitimate news , much of which was of routine character . Further , the entire operation of The Associated Press into and out of Prague was openly recorded and at all times available to the Czech Government . " The charge of ' spreading malicious information regarding the Czech state through illegal news organs ' is equally mystifying . The Associated Press serves no publications directly in Czechoslovakia . The Associated Press news report is distributed by Ceteka ( C. T. K. ) , the nationalistic agency , with which there has been an exchange arrangement for a number of years . " The Czech Ministry of Information informed Oatis in September , 1950 , that his accreditation would not be renewed at the end of that month . The Associated Press immediately requested that the Ministry furnish specifications and documentation of its objections to Oatis ' activities . The requested data were never supplied and the charge presumably dropped since Oatis eventually was reaccredited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was renewed until June 30 . " The Associated Press will give Oatis all possible and appropriate assistance . "                     