@@720201

txt The issue of racial integration in Virginia 's public schools -- a question that unified a discordant Byrd - machine " a few years ago- is now shaking the Old Dominion 's political ruling structure to its foundations . The problem of how to deal with desegregation has set one follower of Senator Harry Flood Byrd. who heads the dominant Democratic organization , against another . It has marred the facade of unity between the Senator himself and Virginia 's Governor J Lindsay Alniond , Jr . And it has created at least the strong suspicion in Virginia that Mr Almond is intent on taking into his own hands the state political power that Mr. Byrd has held so long . On the one side of the school issue are the hard-core segregationists , including the Senator ; they would have prefer red closing down the public schools to any bleak in the segregation barriers a bicak that came on Monday with token integration in Arlington and Norfolk . Against them were  --  and still are - ranged the more " moderate " Virgin . ians , including the Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all . Though a segregationist at heart , Governor Almond took the position that both he and the state legislature weie powerless to resist further a beginning of integration Mr. Byrd has kept his silence dining the final skirmishing that led up to a crack in the segregation walls . But his friends say his sentiments lie with those who wanted to block integration at any price ; and his closest friends in the General Assembly at Richmond lined up against the Almond administration 's program The harsh words that passed between long-time Byrd men in the General Assembly . the enmities that have sprung ? up between former friends , promise to grow more heated in the months ahead , when the Assembly meets again in less hurried circumstances this spring to ( haft a long-range program to hsold race-mixing to a minimum . In self defense , those wise in the ways of Virginia politics figure . Mr. Almond may be forced to try to take over the By rd machine , or at least carve out a role as leader of any new political grouping that may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do little else , it 's reckoned , now that he 's split with the Byrd organization . " This is the worst crisis in recent Virginia history . " sums up a former Virginia governor with friends on both sides of the current struggle . The split now widening in the Byrd organization is n't something freshly created The breach caused by the school integration issue reflects a rift that has plagued the Byrd organization on and off for years . That amorphous structure known as the By rd machine , or organization , it may be noted , is not a political machine In the usual political sense . There 's no formal mechanism to speak of . Rather the Byrd machine , since its founding three decades ago , has been a loosely knit group of men who sh , are Mr Byrd 's conservative philosophy of government . What machinery does exist is centered in the " courthouse set . " men put into local power by Mr. Byrd and his lieutenants ; in Virginia , local- judges have the power to appoint courthouse officials responsible for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Byrd give direct orders to his followers or handpick candidates for office . Rather , he may exercise veto power or act as final arbiter in any tough dispute . But in Virginia , as in most other states , growing urbanization has brought with it a less conservative point of view on many legislative matters . However , the Byrd machine ' absorbed most of the new moderates as long as they hewed to the basic policy of fiscal soundness The strains of the uneasy alliance quickly became evident . Senator Byrd'a candidate for governor in 1953 , Thomas Stanley , never quite drew the approval of the moderates . He lost 455- of the vote to popular Republican Ted Dalton , an unusually high percentage In traditionally Democratic Virginia . A few years back , some members of the House of Delegates rebelled against the perennial bill returning budget surpluses to taxpayers and managed to earmark some of the funds for mentalshospitals ; the next year the tax return law was chopped . But then came the Supreme Court 's 1954 desegiegation decision , an event that Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Other state leaders were ready to adopt a local option plan , under which individual communities could conceivably allow some integration . But the Senator , sensing the mood of the voters , stepped in and set the machinery in motion that ultimately produced the celebi sled " massive resistance " laws aimed at preventing any desegregation at all . The organization again showed signs of strain soon thereafter When the Senator announced he would retire from Congress early last year . his organization immediately split into two factions , each headed by an aspirant for his Sen'ate seat -- former Governor William Tuck , an ardent aegregationist now serving in Congress , and a somewhat more moderate ex-Governor . John S. Battle . In response to widespread demand , but also to heal the new fissure , Mr. Byrd changed his mind and decided to stay in the Senate Now that the courts have tossed out the massive resistance laws , the Byrd organization shows signs of stress once more And Governor Almond , who had tried to the last to preserve the faltering unity of the Byrd organization , was in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Almond has never quite been in the organization 's inner circle . Though a chief architect of the massive resistance laws as Virginia 's attorney general , he once got in the Byrd doghouse by saying some kind words about an anti-Byrd Virginian nominated to the Federal Trade Commission by former President Truman . Taking no chances , Mr. Almond traveled the countryside years ahead of time for support of his gubernatorial bid in 1957 . He had the Democratic nomination sewed up before Mr. Byrd could exercise his veto power , even if he had wanted to . Almond 's Future Whether Mr. Almond has been aiming all along to take over control of Virginia 's Democratic power , no one knows for sure . But now , political observers say , he has no other course but to form a moderate coalition of his own . if he 's to stay alive politically . Virginia 's chief executive in the months ahead may even try to win over the segregationists by convincing them his long-range plan to build up a private school system as an alternative to integrated public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even if it might allow some Negroes to go to white schools . But the bitterness toward Mr. Almond displayed by some lawmakers in the recent special ; session does n't bode well for the chief executive . Virginia 's political experts doubt that Governor Almond will ever prove to be a permanent leader of a new coalition , though for a while he may well rival or even surpass Senator Byrd as Virginia 's most powerful single political figure . And all the talk about the breakup of the Byrd machine could prove premature . It would be difficult to find a knowledgeable Virginian who - could confidently predict the end of the organization The Byrd machine often has been written off as on the way out , only for the astute Senator to pump new life into it . Some Virginia politicos think the Senator may ultimately decide to side with Governor Almond as tee only way to keep the organization together . Or he may publicly throw all his considerable weight into the current fray and try to win back some in the ranks to the side of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization once again , it may never be the same . " The moderates have tasted success , " says a longtime observer of the Byrd organization , " and even if they do n't take control this time , their latest success will embolden them to try again and again . "                     