@@715570

txt This is a week in which the leadership of the Eisenhower Administration will be put to severe tests in Congress . By the time the week is out we will have a much better idea than we now have whether the President is able to exert sufficient influence within his party to override , in combination with many Democrats , the Neanderthal wing of the G. 0 . P. that threatens to upset so many facets of his own program and of the Republican platform . The domestic political issues that are now coming to a head are important . Decisions have to be taken on them which will do much to determine the character of this first Republican regime in twenty years . Senator Taft has said that the next session of the Eighty-third Congress would have a full-time job writing the Republican record for 1954 . That is undoubtedly true , but the current session of the Eighty-third Congress is also busy writing the Republican record both in what it does and what it does n't do . The next few days will be revealing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet been taken is the proposed six-month extension of the excess-profits tax . Tomorrow the Ways and Means Committee will meet ; and it is expected that , over the last-ditch opposition of the redoubtable Mr. Reed , it will vote to report the ExcessProfits Bill . This measure is now not merely a budgetary necessity , which it has been ever since the fight began . It is also a test of Administration leadership and prestige . Much as we do not like the tax itself , we believe it essential that it be extended for a half year , until a revised tax program can be worked out . This country has just completed a fiscal year with the largest peacetime deficit in history ; we can not afford to throw away $800 , - 000,000 to satisfy Mr. Reed . On the other side of the Capitol the Senate Judiciary Committee tomorrow will vote on the bill to admit an additional 240,000 immigrants to the United States during the next two years . This , too , is an Administration proposal , reinforced with a special letter from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been unconscionably delayed , in large part through the maneuverings of Senator McCarron , who apparently believes he is still chairman of the Judiciary Committee . We wish to remind Senator McCarran and those who think like him that a document widely read in this country every year on the Fourth of July denounced a certain monarch because : " He has endeavored to prevent the population of these States ; for that purpose obstructing the Laws for Nationalisation of Foreigners ; refusing to pass others to encourage their migration hither * * * , " etc . Though quite revolutionary , this document is still highly esteemed in the United States and we think it would do Senator McCarran and others good to reread it once in a while . The one-year extension of the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act is now in conference , . having passed both houses , but with a major disagreement over the size of the Tariff Commis-. sion . This is no minor matter , for the Senate would retain the six-man . bipartisan commission , while the House would add a seventh member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to control the commission with a four-three majority . It will be all to the good if the Customs Simplification Bill passes the House as expected within the next few days . The way these questions are resolved will indicate just how serious the United States is about a truly reciprocal trade program . Another important measure in conference is the bill . granting the Fed-1 eral Government power to develop ( through private companies ) the undersea mineral resources of that part of the Continental Shelf beyond state boundaries . The Senate bill is entirely superior to the House version for a number of reasons , not least because . the Senate adopted the Hill ' amendment providing that federal royalties from offshore oil be used in aid to education in - the states . The use of these funds for educational purposes is in line with the American tradition and would be of inestimable value to the nation 's har &pressed; schools . We should like to see the Administration make a fight on behalf of this proposaL , .. In addition to all these matters decisions have , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European aid authorization , which is in conference , and on the remaining appropriations bills . It is evident that action has been postponed until the next session on statehood for Hawaii , on revision of the Taft-Hartley Act and on other important matters . In view of this decision it is particularly puzzling that the leadership may agree to let the Senate waste time at this session on such an unnecessary and potentially harmful measure as the Bricker amendment restricting the constitutional right of the President to conduct foreign affairs . We are in favor of a full discussion of the Bricker amendment , no matter how silly it may be ; but somehow there seems to be a good many other more urgent matters for Congress to consider if it is going to insist on getting away from the heat of Washington by the end of this month .                     