@@718544

txt Carmine G. De Sapio disagreed yesterday with t he analyses of sonic prominent fellow Democratic leaders on the causes of t4e Democratic defeat in the last Presidential election and what they should do about it . One of the influential leaders -- of his party in ; he nation , he offered in an interview these points for fellow Democrats : f:Tho same thing happened to them that happened to Republicans for twenty years  --  they were victims of a candidate 's unusual popularity . Just as the Republicans could find no way to combat the popularity of Franklin D. Roosevelt at the polls , the Democrats could attribute the defeat of Adlai E. Stevenson to the popularity of President Eisenhower . cHostile wings of the party should get , together at once , partly by means of monthly meetings of the Democratic National Committee , to solve their problems , compromise differences and plan for 1960 without waiting for a reckoning with rivalries and issues at the quadrennial Presidential nominating conventions . The views of Mr. De Sapio , Democratic National Committeeman from New York and the leader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of the Northern liberal wing of the party as Thomas K. Finletter , former Air Force Secretary , and former Senator Herbert H. Lehman of New York . Contentions of 2 Liberals In the political soul-searching among Democrats since the election , Mr. Lehman has charged with other Northern urban elements of the party that conservative Southern leadership in Congress was largely responsible for Mr. Stevenson 's defeat and for the party 's failure in supposed industrial strongholds . Mr. Lehman has suggested that the Democrats hold a national convention each year to discuss issues and shape the party 's policy and legislative program . He has urged a break with Southern Democrats , if necessary , to avoid " pussyfoot ' ing " on the controversial civil rights issue . Mr. Finletter has attributed the Republican victory largely to the " juggernaut " of ' Madison Avenue ' " propaganda and advertising techniques . He has urged that the National Committee assume h , more active role in bringing out issues and party policy . Mr. De Sapio explained that while the personal popularity of President Eisenhower was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factors . Of them he said : " These include the unsettled and troubled affairs and problems that arose in the Middle East in the last two weeks of the campaign and that instilled fear in the minds of many people who were content to leave well enough alone and not change horses in midstream plus the consideration that many voters believed the present President , being experienced in world affairs , was best able to cope with these problems . " The slogan of " peace and prosperity " also militated against the Democrats , he added . What Happened Within Party He said he did not believe that what Mr. Lehman charged was an overwillingness to compromise and " temporize " by Southern Congressional leaders was responsible for the Republican Presidential victory or the Democratic Congressional victories . The nation is predominantly Democratic , he said , and many Democrats felt that the President was more a Democrat than a Republican . " Where national issues are concerned , affecting the voters ' personal security and welfare , they are paramount and therefore guide his conclusion , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " he went on . But , in his view , the combination of precinct work by party members and the predilection of the majority for the Democratic party accounted for the Democratic Congressional successes . He rated Republican use of mass communication media and " Madison Avenue techniques " as negligible and " purely mechanical " elements of the campaign . He saw little merit in the proposal for an annual national convention . He considered it an unnecessary expense . He regarded national conventions as an opportunity for individuals to " bicker " and compete for prestige . Instead he proposed a more intensive role for the National Committee . " It should meet more often , " he said , " perhaps at least once a month so that members , whol are leaders from all the states , may have an opportunity long in advance of conventions and elec- , tions to discuss important issues ' of the day so that the necessary time is available to solve the problems without waiting until the last moment . " Its role should be greater than " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presidential election , " he added . Keeping South in the Party Opposing any break witn Southern Democrats , he said : " There is n't any issue that can not be worked out with . reasonable people . You have to have a frank discussion and eliminate political hyprocisy on both sides . " While Mr. Lehman has said the civil rights issue should be pressed even if this meant driving southerners from the party , Mr. De Sapio said " frank discussion " long in advance of a Presidential election could solve the " Southern problem . " " You can compromise on a problem and course of action without compromising a principle , " he said , adding that the principle of civil rights must be defended . He urged a cooperative working arrangement between the National Committee , Democratic Congressional leaders and the newly proposed advisory committee to be composed of highlevel Democratic leaders to shape legislative proposals and chart party programs . If it was a candidate 's pop : - ularity that largely accounted for the election result , what should the Democrats do about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ popularity of both the late President Roosevelt and President Eisenhower was exceptional and that " building up " candidates was a normal process within Democratic ranks in individual states . The appearance of a candidate with a dominant personality and wide appeal was a providential phenomenon of nature and beyond the powers of a political party , he declared .                     