@@717706

txt While it is still doubtful whether Nikita S. Khrushchev after his 50,000-word speech to the 20th Congress of the Soviet Communist Party has emerged as Stalin 's successor , it is evident that he acted as the authorized spokesman of the Kremlin . It also is certain that the ebullient First Secretary of the Soviet Communist Party must have exercised decisive influence on the formulation of Soviet Union 's domestic and foreign political program which he unveiled Feb. 14 . With a confidence that at times became plain boastfulness , Mr. Khrushchev served notice on the world that : ! ; The Soviet Union has reached a position of strength  --  not only in the military field but in its over-all material accomplishments , their stability , and their prospect for further advances . Agreement on coexistence between Communist and capitalist countries can be reached and the threat of war between these two camps can be eliminated . The Soviet people can look forward to an improvement in their living standards . There will be no return to the one-man rule of the Stalin period but strict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Familiar Phrases Basically , there is nothing new in any of these four theses . Similar statements could be heard from Soviet leaders several times over the last 20 years . Soviet strength , the promise of coexistence , improvement of living standards , and collective leadership  --  they all have been used time and again in the Kremlin 's domestic and foreign propaganda since the days of Lenin . Whether their emphatic reiteration by Mr. Khrushchev can be taken more- seriously than their earlier proclamations seems doubtful . Doubts may be all the more justified if Mr. Khrushchev 's chief program points are not considered isolated from the main body of his speech but in their context . If that is done , it turns out that each of them is coupled with conditions that may be difficult to fulfill or that they presuppose complete acceptance of Soviet terms . Mr. Khrushchev 's coexistence , for instance , is based on the assumption that it will make possible the rise to power of Communist parties in non-Communist countries either by parliamentary means or even by some unparliamentary ones . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inevitable and that the Soviet Union is ready to refrain from further hydrogen-bomb tests is coupled with the demand for Western acceptance of the Soviet blueprint for disarmament . By the same token , the improvement of Soviet living standard is clearly made dependent on a still more thorough penetration of all aspects of Soviet life by the party and its various affiliated organiza-tions , One of the most significant features of Mr. Khrushchev 's six-hour address was his direct as well as indirect appeal to the Socialist parties . He not only used the terms " socialism " and " socialistic " more often than " communism " and " communistic , " but he also used them as if they were identical terms interchangeable at will and as if not since Lenin 's days had Moscow denounced the Social Democrats as the most despicable opponents of communism . Mr. Khrushchev spoke regretfully of the " split " in the working class of many countries . " Cooperation with Socialist movements adhering to other views than ours " is " possible and necessary , " he declared . This was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist leader , President Tito ; it was a series of bows -- in the direction of India , Burma , and all of Western Europe . It was an invitation to all the Socialist parties anywhere to let bygones be bygones and help in establishing " popular fronts " that would soon be powerful enough to take over the government In their respective countries . Seeds of Dissension Perhaps Mr. Khrushchev really believes that the memory of what has happened to the various popular-front governments that were formed with Soviet " help " in Eastern and Southeastern Europe has faded . Perhaps he hopes that the present phase of " economic competition " will prepare the ground for Communist-Socialist cooperation . It seems more likely , however , that his appeals to the Socialists had primarily the objective of fostering dissension in the ranks of the Socialist parties and thereby strengthening the Commuist parties . Mr. Khrushchev may also have hoped that by speaking so friendlily about the socialists he would stir up suspicion against the ranks of the bourgeois parties , increase internal tensions in a number of democratic countries , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profit . What Mr. Khrushchev promised to his own people  --  increase of pensions in the bottom brackets , a seven-hour work day , and strict observance of due process of law  --  are targets to be reached within the next years . Similar targets , incidentally , were proclaimed three years ago , after Stalin 's passing . Which shows that Mr. Khrushchev has not composed a new tune ; he has played an old one with more brass . Khrushchev bid tied to expediency : Page 4.                     