@@716872

txt R. A. Butler , Chancellor of the Exchequer , plunged the British economy in a tub of ice-cold water on Feb. 24 . He did this partly to wake it up . But he did it also for another reason . He wanted to tell the world of a decisive change of policy  --  to give the neighbors confidence that modernist methods of " discipline " are out as far as he is concerned and the ( to disciplinarians ) good old-fashioned ways are back . What happened was that the Bank of England raised the bank rate , key money rate in the kingdom ; Mr. Butler simultaneously put curbs on hire purchase ( installment buying ) ; and then he gave the Exchange Equalization Fund power to move into the world 's free money markets and bolster the pound . He did these things instead of slapping on direct controls . This is orthodox finance . This is deflation . ! Double Impact There were two immediate effects : At home the British gasped . The stock market fell further in one day than it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ headline " Tory Bubble Bursts . " Simultaneously overseas in every foreign market the pound sterling gathered strength . The pound seemed to have come a big step nearer convertibility . So far this is probably . precisely what Mr. Butler hoped would happen , and half expected . Only by being the tough disciplinarian now has he any hope of successfully playing the liberal head of the house when budget day comes round in a month or so . If things go well , he could come home that day , probably in early April , with some presents or rewards for all the family . As it must always be for an island nation of traders , the foreign situation holds the key . It is the cost of imports that matters most . In the three years from 1952 to 1955 , the terms of trade ran slightly in Britain 's favor . Re , cently the tide slacked . Then it began to turn . Import costs have since increased . Last month the trade gap showed up again , a sudden crack in the smooth surface @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The pound sterling began to weaken as foreign holders wondered uncertainly just what was going to happen . In Midst of Prosperity Something had to be done . The modernist or socialist reaction would have been to start using direct controls , particularly over imports , These can make things inconvenient at home , but do not always make them seem much harder . Their fault is that they make things harder for other people overseas . They diminish trade . Mr. Butler decided to try methods untried here for a quarter of a century  --  freeing imports and raising exports . In fact , it may be said that these methods have never been used before , because no parallel situation has existed . This is not a Britain in a slump . It is Britain that is fully employed , strikingly prosperous , and increasingly productive . This very prosperity has made things easier for the people but harder for the country . Relatively speaking , there has been a lot of money about . ( So much that Mr. Butler is going to have a billion-dollar budget @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buying more and better food , and more gadgets for the home . Five times as many washing machines , for instance , have been bought by housewives in 1954 as could be sold in 1948 . ! Bank Rate Boosted But there may have been too much money about , Wages and prices began to chase each other . Inflation seemed likely . Heavy home demand has cut into the export trade . But today a much greater export trade is needed even than was the case yesterday if the country is to break even . So the Bank of England put the bank rate up to 41/2 per cent , the highest for 23 years . This affects almost every other interest rate in the country . Money becomes harder to borrow . Home demand is consequently curtailed . For a time the Englishman must live harder and work harder . But in addition , overseas investors with money to lend may find it attractive to lend it in London , thus improving the balance of payments and strengthening sterling . Restrictions on installment buying are the least of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restrain the buoyant home market . But the effect of giving power to the Exchange Equalization Fund to support the pound ( with gold or dollars ) in any market in the world is very significant . It is actually to make the pound convertible on current transactions for everyone outside the sterling area . The aim is to encourage confidence , to keep the pound stable , and to provide the means of expansion for sterling trade .                     