@@714062

txt Secretary of the Interior Oscar Chapman may be headed for another round of trouble with Congress over a plan of his to put 400 million dollars of the taxpayers ' money into America 's first big synthetic fuel plant to be . located in southern Illinois . The project has caused almost a civil war inside the Bureau of Mines and finally obtained the approval of the Interior Department only after Bureau Director James Boyd was fired as defense minerals administrator and replaced by W. C. Schroeder . Unfavorable Report The difficulty arises not so much out of the idea of entering the synthetic fuel field as over selection of the particular process to be employed in. the first big investment in this field . Experts disagree over the merits of various synthetic fuel processes . Mr. Chapman has picked an old German patent process which some experts in the field believe is bound to fail . Acting on the advice of government coal-oil technologists and economists in the bureau 's experimental stations , Dr. Boyd had reported unfavorably on the project in Illinois on the ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coal . In spite of this unfavorable report by his own department 's experts , Mr. Chapman gave a green light to the Illinois project . He requested the Defense Production Administration to provide the necessary 400 million dollars . The request was made in a letter of July 28 , 1951 , addressed to Edwin T. Gibson , acting director . The letter stated that the project had the " vigorous support " of the Defense Department . The Chapman project calls for construction and operation of the plant by the Koppers Company of Pittsburgh . Financial promotion is being arranged by the New York Banking house of F. Eberstadt &; Co. , Inc . According to critics the project is so unsound and uncertain technically that Koppers and Eberstadt refused to accept any financial risks . The contract is so drawn that the government will guarantee cost of production to the company under various con " ' ditions including " failure of the plant to operate at designed capacity . " Cause of Dismissal ? Dr. Boyd 's opposition to the . project is believed by his - friends to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense minerals administrator on Aug. ' 3 , just a week after Mr. Chapman had requested defense production funds for construction of the Illinois plant . - Several members of Congress have been interested in the matter and there is talk of a congressional investigation . Republicans think they might be able to show that Mr. Chapman picked the southern Illinois project in the hope of retrieving the damaged fortunes of the party in Illinois where Scott W. Lucas , former Democratic Party leader in the Senate , was defeated in 1948 . Dr. A. J. Abrams , manager of the chemicals department of the engineering and construction division of Koppers , said he had been authorized by his superiors to state that " the company does n't wish to comment at this time on the Illinois project . " One government expert on mobilization contracts estimates that the project as endorsed by Secre tary Chapman would insure to the private promoters of the project profits up to 2,100 per cent on the 250,000 shares of $1 common stock in 12 years . Under the prospectus this $250,000 worth of voting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hydrogenation process have been conducted at the Bruceton experiment station of the United States Bureau of Mines neap Pittsburgh . As a result of these experiments . Dr. H. H. Storch , director of the Bruceton station , reported to the Department of the Interior as follows : " It is apparent that even a 30,000 bbl. /day plant is a ' poor risk ' for private capital . It is therefore not surprising that the sponsors of this project plan to request guarantees from the government for capital , interest , and product disposal at a satisfactory price . Because the sponsors refuse to take any risks whatever , it would seem undesirable for the government to agree to their proposal . " Dr. Storch 's memorandum was dated July 3 , 1951.                     