@@715076

txt DOCK CONCERN GETS CRIME INQUIRY WRIT Stevedoring CompanyAsks Ban on Disclosing Testimony ? Hearings Start Today By GEORGE CABLE WRIGHT On the eve of the opening by the New York State Crime Commission of its long-awaited public hearings on waterfront corruption , the Jarka Corporation , one of the largest stevedoring concerns in the East , last night obtained a court order directing the commission to show cause why it should not be enjoined from making public the testimony corporation officials had given in private . The commission hearings , however , will proceed as scheduled today . The signing of the order by Federal Judge Sidney Sugarman was attended by considerable secrecy . The judge held a two-and-a-halfhour hearing . Before it-began he told newspaper men that , as a matter of law , the corporation 's application for the order was mot open to the public . He said he would make no comment . After the hearing he confirmed the fact that he tad signed the order , with amendment . Theodore Kiendi , special counsel to the commission , was also noncommittal , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Kiendl did say later that " the hearings will go on Wednesday morning as scheduled . " Judge Sugarman indicated that the contents of the order would be available for publication later today . The commission hearings are scheduled to get under way at 10 A. M. in the County Court House , Pearl and Centre Streets . They are expected to continue well into the new year and to cover virtually every major phase of dockside operations . The long parade of witnesses will include top executives of steamship and stevedoring concerns , officials of the International Longshoremen 's Association , // A. F. L. ; rank and file members , of that organization , and many ' I others whose activities bring them into contact with the waterfront.I Despite the refusal of the commission to divulge the names or , number of witnesses to be called , the identity of ten who have re4 ) ortedly received subpoenas and are likely to testify this week was learned last night . They run the gamut from shipping executives to pier employes . Although the full scope of the hearings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be divided into several phases . The first phase , on which the hearings will be opened , will , in general terms , cover waterfront conditions as viewed by shipping and stevedoring concerns . The commission is expected to complete its inquiry into this aspect early next week . Then , a recess is likely to be called until the following week , At that time , the commission will delve into conditions along the turbulene New Jersey and Brooklyn waterfronts . In instituting its suit , the Jarka Corporation said that its president , Frank W. Nolan . had been subpoenaed for a public hearing , but declined to say when he would testify . The company employs two of the most notorious waterfront bosses in the port , Anthony ( Tough Tony ) Anastasia and Edward Florio , an ex-convict . In its suit , the Jarka Corporation said it had been " explicitly advised " that the testimony it had given at the private hearings was in confidence and could be made public only by Governor Dewey . The concern told the court that public disclosure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " would expose it to " obloquy , public distrust , " impair its goodwill and business relations , and would be destructive of , or seriously injure , its business . The company said further that its constitutional rights would be violated if it were called to a public hearing , partly because it had been led to testify at private hearings with the understanding that it would have the same protection as at a grand jury hearing . Benvenga Reserves Decision Meanwhile , State Supreme Court Justice Felix C. Benvenga reserved decision yesterday until Monday on a motion by Harold Bowers , his cousin , Micky Bowers , and John Keefe. who reportedly control the North River piers north of Fortysecond Street , to quash and vacate subpoenas calling for their appearance at a public hearing of the commission on Tuesday . At the same time , Henry A. Lowenberg , attorney for the three men , said he would go into State Supreme Court today and seek a stay , pending Justice Benvenga 's decision , of subpc2nas served on two pier hiring bosses and returnable Friday . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at three Brooklyn piers of the 100 or more men who had staged a one-day strike Monday . The docks affected were Piers 36 , 37 and 38 operated by the Barber Line at Pioneer Street . Whether the work stoppage was connected with the forthcoming hearings was not made known , but these same piers were the scene of a similar walkout several months ago . At that time , the action was attributed to the service of subpoenas on a number of the longshoremen working there . Among the witnesses who will testify at the opening session of , the hearings today is John C. Hilly , who heads the Security Bureau , an , organization maintained by the ' maritime industry here to fight pilferage on the piers . It is understood that Mr. Hilly will confine his testimony to an individual case involving a well-known hoodlum . Tomorrow 's witnesses are expected to include Capt . Jones F. Devlin , general manager of the United States Lines ; B. G , Furey , chief of operations for Moore-McCormack Lines , and Fred Rohrer , vice president of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Line . Others also reportedly subpoenaed to appear tomorrow are Capt . Richard Pendleton , superintendent of Pier 58 , North River ; Edward Myer , superintendent of Pier 45 , North River , and Thomas Maher , hiring boss at Pier 58 . These piers are operated by the Grace Line . At least one official of T. Hogan &; Sons , stevedores for the United States Lines , ' will also testify , probably tomorrow . Both Have Police Records The two men whose subpoenas Mr. Lowenberg will seek to stay are Thomas ( Tottie ) O'Rourke , hiring boss on Pier 88 , North ' River , and James , alias Jimmy Heher , hiring boss on Pier 92 , North River . Both men are exconvicts , have long police records , and are members of Local 824 which is controlled by the Bowers , Keefe and a man identified as ' John ( The Brains ) Ward . impartial Hugh E. Sheridan , Impartial chairman of the New York City Trucking Authority , reiterated his warning to steamship operators that unless they properly . discharged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , motor carriers would be advised not to call there . Mr. Sheridan 's second warning followed the outbreak of two unauthorized strikes in this port in the last week . John V. Lyon , chairman of the ' New York Shipping Association representing 170 shipping and stevedoring concerns , said last night that he was still awaiting a reply from Joseph P. Ryan , president of the dockmen 's union , to his demand that the perpetrators of these strikes be punished . Last night , ' for the first time in recent years , virtually all ranking leaders of the union failed to attend a monthly meeting of the union 's New York District Council . Although it was a closed session , it was learned that among those absent were Mr. Ryan , Patrick J. ( Packy ) Connolly , executive bite president of the union ; Harold Bowers , Michael Clemente , boss of the East River piers : Edward Florio , ranking New Jersey official ' Of the union ; Tony ( Cheese ) Marchitto , who controls the Jersey City docks , and Alex Di @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these men was attributed by waterfront figures to the current split in the union 's high command and to a fear on the part of the New Jersey leaders that they might be served with subpoenas by the Crime Commission if they attended . Spokesmen discussing the forthcoming hearings said , the Crime Commission admired the courage shown by many individual longshoremen " who have come in voluntarily at great personal risk to provide.information on waterfront corruption that would have been unobtainable elsewhere . " Almost all of them said they felt it was their last chance to do something about the existing situation . In still , another development yesterday , It longshoreman , iaentified only as Joseph De Chiara by the District Attorney 's office , had to be prompted by General Sessions Judge Saul S. Streit before he would give testimony before a grand jury investigating waterfront conditions . Assistant District Attorney Irving Slonim said that De Chiara was an " important witness " but , when brought before the inquiry body , he would only give his name and then stood mute on other questions . Judge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action if he refused to answer . , Returned to the grand jury , DeChiva was a witness for more than an hour , but Mr. Slonim refused to comment on whether he had cooperated with the inquiry .                     