@@720108

txt President Eisenhower is standing back of his Civil Rights Commission  --  and pushing . lie not only supports it : he wants its tenure extended , and he had a sharp rap on the knuckles for Alabama officials who have defied it . All this came out at his Dec. 10 press conference during which the President had much to say , as usual , on many subjects but on none of which did he speak with more fervor and emphasis than civil rights . As for his feeling about the refusal of Alabama officials to deliver up voting registration records , in response to the com mission 's request , the President called it reprehensible . The President did not go into the pros and cons of racial integration as such . He spoke as a man who had lived much of his life in the South , who had many friends there . Respect for Law Asked It was to them , as well as to Americans in all parts of the country , that he directed his remarks . These remarks unquestionably apply to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The President called for more respect for the law and earnestly pleaded for support by people throughout the country in creating greater respect for it . Without respect for and obedience to the law , the President foresees a possible deterioration in the quality of government . The President apologized for the " late start " of the Civil Rights Commission , said it was his fault in the time-taking selection of members representing all shades of opinion and geographical areas . The commission , as created under the Civil Rights bill in 1956 , is due to expire next year . Court Order Asked The President believes it should be continued . He did not say for how long , or whether he feels it should become a permanent body . The commission 's first test of strength and effectiveness in making certain that the voting rights of citizens are preserved has come smack up against the refusal of Alabama officials to produce voting registration records . The commission also heard witnesses who said that they had been denied the voting privilege . The commission thereupon closed its hearings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a court order requiring the production of the records . At his press conference , the President recalled the care with which this commission had been selected , the agreement even among the Southerners with whom he consulted that the right to vote belongs to any citizen that can qualify , regardless of color . President Eisenhower did not make any direct reference to the problem of closed schools  --  closed under antiintegration state laws and in defiance of federal court orders . A Refusal to Comply But he did speak of the fact that " all the way around ( we ) are running into the refusal to comply with the basic laws of the land  --  laws that have been upheld by our courts as legal and proper . " He was talking about " the procedures and habits that make this kind of thing so reprehensible . " lie said it was shocking that laws can be defied at will , temporarily at least , when " pop ular opinion in a particular section or locality may support it . " The instances , although he did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public school closings in Virginia , and now the defiance of the Civil Eights Commission in Alabama . The President 's statements serve to underline the growing determination of the government to meet defiance with firmness , and to have a legal showdown , if necessary , as between federal and state law on this issue . Eisenhower insists West Berlin remain free : Page 11.                     