@@713842

txt Can the United Nations win a victory in Korea without bombing Chinese bases and risking World War III ? This fundamental question , raised by the hearings , is the subject of much interested discussion here at UN headquarters , as it is in Washington and other capitals of the world . It has been widely assumed that the UN must choose between three abhorrent courses of action ' 1 . A continuing military stalemate , with casualties on both sides leading'to no apparent conclusion . 2 . An extension of the war , with all the risks this involves , in the hope that Chinese Communist troops can be forced out of Korea . 3 . A negotiated peace , with the UN paying Communist China 's price  --  that is , Formosa and a seat in the UN . FOurth Course Seen Much of the force behind arguments of Gen. Douglas for an extension of the war derives from dissatisfaction with the present stalemate and the apparent absence of any other alternative except " appeasement . " However , there is a fourth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who have studied the history of efforts to frustrate Communist aggression . It is that a combination of military attrition and political pressures may cause the Communists quietly to pull out of Korea , as they did out of Greece . Admittedly , this alternative , does not look very probable at the moment . There is every indication that the Chinese Communists are building up for new and greater efforts to hurl the UN out of Korea . But suppose these efforts fail  --  what then ? Greek Parallel Cited The parallel of Greece is especially ' interesting . Warren R. Austin , chief United States delegate to the UN , is one of those who have dwelt on it in some detail . A speech he delivered May 10 in New Orleans included this interesting passage : " In Greece , as in Korea , the Kremlin-directed Cominform used puppet units in an attempt to cap- tune the peninsula for Communist imperialism . These troops operated from a ' privileged sanctuary ' in the north . They were able to withdraw across the frontier , regroup , resupply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a strictly military point of view , it N as an exceedingly difficult situation . " But patiently and courageously , the Greeks , with the help of the United States and of the United Nations , resisted the attacks and steadily developed political , military , and moral strength . " Confronted with such united determination , the Cominform withdrew . " No Truce , hut Mr. Austin said pointedly that this " example of a United Nations victory " might well be " taken into account in our thinking about Korea . " Those who have felt that a negotiated peace is the only'practical way out of the UN 's dilemma in Korea , but have ' recoiled from rewarding aggression or even ap pealing to do so , also might be reassured by the Greek case . As Mr. Austin pointed out , " no cease-fli e arrangements were made . no truce agreements reached , no treaties signed . But militarily and politically , Communist imperialism was defeated , " In other words , it might not be necessary to sit down at a conference table and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Formosa to Mao Tze-tung and admit his envoys to the UN . Once Chinese Communist aggression ended , on the other hand . it probably would not be difficult to open the UN 's doors , Tito Defection Noted There are many factors militating against a Chinese withdrawal from Korea . Perhaps paramount is the question of prestige or " face , " so important in the Orient . Mao is deeply committed in Korea , But if he were to break with Moscow , as Marshal Tito did in the Greek case , the whole debacle perhaps could be blamed on the Kremlin . Mr. Austin pointed to the Yugoslav defection , and its ' influence on the outcome in Greece , and said : Political forces are at work within China , too . " Their casualties have been tremendous . Even Communist slave drivers can not remain immune from such calamity , "                     