@@715313

txt Chinese Communist leader Mao Tze-tung says that the SinoSoviet Communist front is " invincible . " Mao , in a statement published by the Soviet Communist Party newspaper Pravda , March 10 , said Chinese and Soviet Communists are bound together in a " front of friendship and solidarity . " He said this friendship is " indestructible " and generates forces that " are unlimited , inexhaustible , and genuinely invincible . " The Chinese leader warned that because of their friendship , the Soviet and Chinese Communists were " not afraid of any imperialist aggression . " Mao 's reaffirmation of SinoSoviet Communist ties was considered by foreign observers one of the most significant developments since the new government of Georgi M. Malenkov took over following the passing of Stalin , Tie Called Indestructible Mao wrote in Pravda : " We profoundly believe the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and the Soviet Government head will be crushed by us ; all base provocations will end in collapse . " The great friendship of the peoples of China and the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principles of internationalism of Marx , Engels , Lenin , and Stalin . Internationalism ' Cited " The friendship of the Chinese and Soviet peoples and peoples of the countries of the popular democracy , the friendship of all peace - loving , democratic , and just peoples in . the whole world is also based on the great principle of internationalism , for which reason it is also indestructible . " It is understood that these forces generated by such friendship are unlimited , inexhaustible , and genuinely invincible . ? " Let all imperialist aggressors and warmongers tremble before . uch great friendship . " Long live the teachings of Marx , Engels , Lenin , and Stalin . " Long live into eternity and undyingly the name of the great Stalin . " The article was published under a photograph of Stalin , Mao , and Malenkov taken March 14 , 1950 , when the Chinese leader made his first and only visit to Moscow , Comrade Stalin ' Lauded " We Chinese Communists and Communists of all countries of the world see in the great work of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mao wrote , " After the death of Lenin , 1 Comrade Stalin was always the central figure of the world Communist movement . Rallied around him , we constantly received directives . We always culled from his works ideological strength . " Comrade Stalin always had the most ardent sympathies for the oppressed people of the East . He said immediately after the October revolution : " Do not forget the East . " " It is well known to everybody that Comrade Stalin ardently loved the Chinese people and he considered the strength of the Chinese revolution was inexhaustible , " Mao wrote .                     