@@713995

txt BREAD STRIKE ENDS : 5-DAY WEEK IS WON Drivers Accept City Plan With No Cut in Pay  --  Industry May Seek Price Relief By A. H. RASKIN The bread strike ended at 6:35 P. M. yesterday as representatives of sixteen major bakeries and their 4,000 striking drivers accepted the peace plan put forward by Mayor , Impellitteri 's special fact-finding committee . Stores in all parts of the metropolitan area will get normal bread deliveries again tomorrow after a ten-day halt . The struck companies produce 80 per cent of the wrapped white bread consumed in this city , Long Island , Westchester County , northern New Jersey and parts of Connecticut . As a result of thE , strike drivers will receive the same compensation for a five-day week as they used to get for six days . This averages ; AO a week on a combined wage and commission basis . The men had sought an increase of about 10 per cent , but the five-day week was the central strike issue . Bread will go back on store shelves at its pre-strike price , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Office of Price Stabilization to authorize a price increase to offset the cost of the five-day week for their drivers and inside workers . Bakeries Yield " Reluctantly " The reduced work week for the drivers will be put into effect on a staggered basis between Oct. 1 and Feb. 1 , 1952 . Hours vary with individual drivers and were not a factor in the dispute . In a statement Issued after the agreement had been signed at City Hall , the industry asserted that it had gone along with the panel 's recommendations " reluctantly " and solely because it wanted to avert inconvenience to the public . The employers warned that cutting the basic work week from six days to five would " substantially increase the delivery labor cost , perhaps even wiping out the small margin of profit now prevailing . " The statement made no direct reference to higher prices , and spokesmen for the larger companies declined to say whether formal petitions for price adjustments were in preparation . Federal price officials stressed that no change in prices could be // made without approval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said bread prices were frozen at the highest price charged in the period between Dec. 19 and Jan. 25 . Any increase would require a formal 0 . P. S. ruling . The fact that the New York pact was based on the recommendation of a city-sponsored board would have no weight in the Federal agency 's consideration of a price rise , officials declared . They said the decision would be governed entirely by the economic data submitted in support of the price petition . Leaders of the four striking locals of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters , A. F. L. , hailed the five-day agreement as a " historic " gain for bakery drivers . They predicted that it would be extended to all parts of the country , with Philadelphia , Chicago and the eleven Western states as the next concentration points . The Mayor , who witnessed the signing , praised the union and management negotiators and the Members of his own three-man panel . The committee , which began its work at 7:40 P. M. Monday , was headed by Benjamin C. Roberts , lawyer and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president of Local 3 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers , A. P. L. , and Patsy D'Agostino , president of D'Agostino Food Stores . The committee was assisted by Daniel Kornblum , director of the City Labor Relations Division , and representatives of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service and the New Jersey Board of Mediation . Theodore W. Kheel and Edward C. Maguire , both former directors of the City Labor Relations Division , were designated by the panel to assist in putting the five-day program into effective operation . Despite their ratification of the agreement , the employers made no secret of their skepticism about the practicality of the shorter work week . They aserted that the program had been tried in four other cities in recent years and had to be abandoned in every one " because of its disadvantages to labor and management . " David Kaplan , . chief economist for the union , pledged that the drivers would do " everything possible to make the five-day week economically feasible . " He expressed no reservations about the likelihood of success . The only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in New Jersey , but union officials said it had been approved there by 60 per cent of the membership . In New York the balloting was 95 per cent in favor of the accord and in Connecticut , where only fifty drivers were involved , it was reported unanimous . Many acts of violence occurred during the strike , but these stopped yesterday . With the men voting on a return to work , no attempt was made to keep bread produced by independent bakers from reaching its destinations .                     