@@717310

txt One week after the great flood , workmen began to see some progress today in their herculean labors of digging the muck out of wrecked industrial plants on the banks of the Naugatuck River . The river was so shallow and quiet today that a man could have waded across it . But about midnight last Thursday it began to rise because of heavy rains and the overflow of many tributaries , By mid-morning on Friday the Naugatuck was thirty-five feet above normal and had spread far beybnd its banks , roaring southward through the valley . The torrent tore through huge factories along the stream in Waterbury , Waterville , Ansonia , ' Seymour , Derby , Beacon Falls , Shelton , Naugatuck and other towns . A. sampling inspedtion today showed the rampage had turned mills into temporary streambeds , flung boxcars through the brick walls of plants , tossed steel bridges like toys onto parking lots and carriedhundreds of trucks and cars miles from their parking places . By Saturday the waters had gone down to normal . On Sunday big rolling mills of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beaches than factories . Sand lay on the floor to depths up to eight feet , more than half-burying expensive motors , generators and machines . Of course factories in that condition have not thought of resuming operations " for several weeks . " perhaps for several months . Waterbury refers to itself as the brass center of the world , with fifteen companies accounting for 20 per cent of all production in the country . The Connecticut Development Commission estimated that fiftyfive big plants in the Naugatuck ! Valley with 25,000 employes had ; suffered damage of $570,000,000.1 But Rex Brown , executive vice ) president of the Waterbury Chamber of Commerce , said a plant-to-plant survey by a special team of 100 would show a " much greater loss " in its report next Tuesday . Thousands of men were toiling today with bulldozers , power cranes , hand shovels and wheelbarrows to take sand , driftwood and debris out of the factories . Meanwhile expensive equipment was trucked to repair shops , such as the General Electric Service Shops at Southington , Conn . Thousands of motors worth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shop , James Durkin , northern ' regional manager for General Electric , said . Although i the equipment had been submerged in water and buried in sand or mud , all of it can be restored , Mr. Durkin said . Flooded Machinery Baked The treatment for a drowned motor is first to steam it clean of typhoid germs , then take it apart and bake it up to twelve hours in an oven at 275 degrees . After that , it is cleaned , greased and reassembled to make it as good as new . Generators cemented into factory floors and too big to be moved are " cooked " dry on the spot by electricity , Mr. Durkin said . John A. Coe Jr. , president the American Brass Company , told Gov . Abraham A. Ribicoff of Connecticut that the concern would have to rebuild five plants in Waterbury , one in Torrington and one in Ansonia for a total outlay of $15,000,000 . About two-thirds of the 6,000 employes are now . working three shifts a day on clean-up , hoping to start some production in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most spectacular damage to the brass company occurred near the Bank Street Bridge , where a brick laboratory building was so ruined and undermined it , probably will be dynamited . The whole area resembled a site of demolition . A. steel bridge that had brought a railroad siding to the plant had been crumpled and tossed against a wall of the big tube mill . A big oil tank truck stood on end within the twisted girders of the bridge . Inside the tube mill , $15,000 , - 000 worth of machinery that rolls copper pipes sat in deep brown sand , A line of leaves ten feet high around the walls shbwed how high the water had risen . A floating cottage had smashed a stone retaining wall at the north end of the rolling mill of the Chase Brass and Copper Company at a bend in the river at Waterville , Arthur N. Johnson , assistant director of public relations , recounted . " That changed the bed of the Naugatuck right through our mill for ten hours , " he explained ruefully . " That building @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there fifteen feet deep . Night workers in our casting shop sat , astride tree trunks , which you can still see in the plant , and floated out to where the Army could rescue them by helicopter . " Damage to the Chase mill was estimated at $3,000,000 . , . Mired to their tops in the mud flats of the Naugatuck just above the . Chase mill were piles of automobiles that had , been carried fifteen miles down the river . No attempt has yet been made to remove , or even claim or identify them . The Colonial Buick sales agency in Waterbury reported losing eighty-seven new cars from its parking lot on , West Main Street . A power crane broke up and removed a vagrant gas tank from the top of the ruined Bank Street Bridge today . The New Haven Railroad trackage thereabouts looked like ? a broken roller coaster . A freight car lay on its side in an adjoining street . Some streets are still choked 1by debris . Traffic policemen , stationed at close intervals along congested streets , were wearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no pure water supply in Waterbury today , even in restaurants . A little bottled water could be purchased , but ' most residents boiled and chlorlinated water for drinking . The running water was not even approved for bathing or houseI hold chores . To avoid dish-washing , restaurants served meals on paper plates and with plastic knives and forks . Electric power went off at intervals today . The Connecticut Light and Power Company had trucked out 65 per cent of the mud and debris from its South gas plant and promised gas in 1most of the city in eight days .                     