@@717645

txt There was a taxicab strike yesterday . How much of a strike it was depended on who was talking . ' i'ne industry called the oneday demonstration a " flop . " A spokesman said more than 80 per cent of the city 's 7,000 fleet cabs and all 5,000 owner-driven vehicles were operating . He described service as " completely adequate . " Local 826 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters termed the walkout a " tremendous success . " ' ' Thomas L. Hickey , international vice president of the union , said only half the fleet cabs were on the streets . This estimate represented a sharp modification of earlier union contentions . Early in the morning William Nuchow , local president , said only 5 per cent of fleet cabs were rolling . At noon he put the figure at 25 per cent of normal . Half Are in Dee at 6 P. M. The Police Department said last night that at 6 o'clock , 4,884 fleet and independent taxicabs were operating throughout the city , while 4,887 were not . Of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stoppage . Late last night observers reported that comparatively few cabs were to be seen on the streets and in the vicinity of central transportation points around the city . The day-long demonstration came to a head with a mass meeting that began at 5:30 P. M. at Manhattan Center , Eighth Avenue and Thirty-fourth Street , Thirty-five hundred persons filled the hall , and 2,000 more stood outside and were addressed by union officials from a sound truck . Those in the hall , after listening to speeches by officers and guests , voted unanimously to authorize their leaders to renew the stoppage against the taxicab fleets when they felt it necessary in the battle for union recognition . Mr. Hickey and Mr. Nuchow urged all drivers to return to their jobs . Some went back for the remaining few hours of the night shift . Others will return tomorrow , when the expectation is for complete normal service . The stoppage brought almost no disorder , There was one incident involving a fleet dispatcher and a driver . The driver accused the dispatcher of using " abusive language @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was taken into court . Picketing was sparse , and in several cases pickets withdrew entirely after a few hours . The basic objective of the union 's " no work holiday " was to make a show of strength to the fleet owners in an effort to win recognition . Mr. Hickey said the objective had been achieved . " Signs of a break in the previously stiff anti-union attitude of the employers were revealed , " he said , " when three independent fleets indicated to the union that they would be willing to meet in contract talks if they could get out from under the pressure exerted on them by the employers ' - associations . " Mr. Hickey did not name the companies , but said they employed 2,200 of the city 's 30,000 drivers . Normally in the field of labor relations , unions seeking recognition petition the proper state or Federal agency to hold a representation election among employes . Benjamin Botwinick , head of the Taxicab Bureau , Inc. , an industry association , charged that the union " does not and never has represented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no direct demands on the industry . However , it has as a goal a program that includes 50 per cent commissions on the meter fares , in creased vacations , elimination of alleged abuses and other improvements . At present drivers get 45 per cent of the fare registered on " the clock . " An industry spokesman said most fleet drivers were averaging $90 a week for a six-day week . Taxicab men work nine or ten hours a day . A good sy 's " clock " comes to about 5 . Forty-five per cent of that is $15.75 . In addition to their commissions , drivers get tips .                     