@@715293

txt Herbert Brownell Jr. , Attorney General , urged Congress today to allow the states to take the oil and other natural wealth from submerged lands within claimed ' offshore boundaries without letting them have title to the disputed sea bottom . He said that if an effort were made to confer a blanket quitclaim title , b. court test might result in which the constitutionality of the action would be challenged . The Brownell testimony , providing a sharper delineation of the Administration 's views that was tantamount to a shift in position , noted that several other witnesses at the hearings of the Senate Interior Committee had stressed the possibility of a constitutional test . They questioned whether the Federal Government could confer title to submerged lands beyond the three-mile limit . . Perlman Sounds Warning With Texas and Florida claiming boundaries running three leagues , or about ten and one-half miles , into the Gulf of Mexico , one of the witnesses , Philip B. Perlman , former Solicitor General , admonished on the trouble that might arise if an effort were made to grant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against other sovereigns in the family of nations . " In addressing himself to this point , Mr. Brownell , who redefined the Administration 's position in at least one other important particular , said : " My recommendation would mean , in legal ; terms , that instead of granting to the states a blanket quit-claim title to the submerged ands within their historic boundaries , the Federal Government would grant to the states only such authority as required for the states to administer and develop the natural resources . . " I do not thereby intend to cast any doubt upon the constitutionality of a so-called quit-claim statute , but merely to draw to your attention a method of minimizing , if not eliminating altogether , the constitutional point raised by the witnesses before this committee . " In a second major point of elaboration on testimony by earlier Administration witnesses , Mr. Brownell urged that Congress draw " an actual line on a map " dividing the inshore area where the states would get subsoil wealth - and the outer Continental Shelf , beyond claimed state boundaries , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all income therefrom going to the benefit of the entire country . " The Attorney General said that this step would " eliminate much expensive and unnecessary litigation " as well as " international problems that might otherwise arise if territorial ownership claims are asserted in the- states or Federal ? Government beyond the historic three-mile limit " Mr , Brownell also said that Congress should provide that lands under bays , harbors and inland waters , such as the Great Lakes , were the property of the states and not the Federal Government . Neither of the direct proposals made by Mr. Brownell , chief legal officer of the Eisenhower Administration , was even suggested in the testimony last week by Douglas , Secretary of the Interior . Mr. spoke of " restoring to the various states the coastal Offshore lands to the limits of the line marked by the historical boundaries of each of the respective states . " He did not mention establishing a line of demarcation between proposed areas of Federal and state control on the Continental Shelf . Just as Mr. 's testimony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed full Federal control of production and revenues seaward of historic state boundaries , so Mr. Brownell 's recommendations today came as a new jolt . " It would take 100 years for Congress to draw a line on the map dividing Federal and state areas of control , " Senator Price Daniel , Democrat of Texas , said . lie is seeking title for the states within historic boundaries , plus 37% per cent of the revenue from subsoil wealth to seaward . Senator Russell B. Long , Demo : crat of Louisiana , demanded to know whether the experts , who Mr. Brownell said would help Congress " draw the line on the map " were the " same generally as those who operated in the Truman Administration . " Opponents of state claims , both in the Senate and House , were cheered by the Attorney General 's testimony . Senator Clinton P. Anderson , Democrat ' of New Mexico , said that Congress ultimately might accept his proposal for interim operation a oil fields on the Continental Shelf , with the states sharing in - production within their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Democrat ofi Brooklyn , who favors Federal ownership of offshore oil , said that Mr. Brownell 's view demonstrated that the Federal Government " can not quit-claim through legislation that which it does not possess . " As the Senate hearings drew near an end , Oscar L. Chapman , Secretary of the Interior in the Truman Administration , cautioned the committee against " the greatest give-away program in the history of the world . " He said that it was " foolhardy for the Federal Government at this time in history to divest itself of control over emergency sources of strength . " " If Middle East oil were cut off from our Allies tomorrow , we could not now fill the gap without crippling our own economy , " he said . " With much of the free world oil supply under the shadow of the Soviet Union , it is imperative that we have emergency oil reserves quickly ' expandable into actual production . " The facts ' of life are that our only practical potential source of such a reserve in the short run is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   