@@714570

txt No two Republicans have contributed more to building and strengthening American postwar foreign policy than the late Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg and John Foster Dulles . Both helped to shape the covenant of the United Nations . Both were members of the American delegation to several of the UN Assembly meetings . Senator Vandenberg was the leading architect of the North Atlantic Treaty . Mr. Dulles almost singlehandedly negotiated and won the suppott of nearly all the free world for the Japanese Peace Treaty , which the Senate ratified overwhelmingly last week . " The Private Papers of Senator Vandenberg , " now being syndicated in many newspapers , shows how an influential , large-minded Republican senator can work constructively in behalf of a bipartisan foreign policy while maintaining his intellectual and political independence . * Soon we will be hearing from Mr. Dulles , and there is every reason to expect that he will have some useful , pointed , and powerful criticisms to make of the way the Truman administration has conducted various phases of our security and foreign-policy undertakings . This week he is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department , where he has served as special assistant to the Department of State for the purpose of negotiating the Japanese pact from draft to ratification . It is proper to record now that the diplomatic note which Mr. Dulles wrote in answer to the Soviet tirade against the treaty in its attempt to block it at San Francisco brought a longhand notation from President Truman , to whom it had been sub mitted for final clearance : " This is a masterpiece . " Mr. Dulles ' handling of his whole assignment was a masterpiece . It is valuable to the nation and to the Repulflican Party that he is now going to free himself from government duty in order to engage in constructive political debate of what he considers to be the administration 's foreign-policy weaknesses and short . comings . There need be no doubt Mr. Dulles will prove it is possible to give foreign policy a thorough airing without weakening America 's role as leader of the free world . His purpose will be to unite the nation , not divide it , and his effect will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the common foreign-policy objectives on which both parties are committed . Obviously , it is in the Far East that the Truman administration is most vulnerable in foreign policy . Here Mr. Dulles will bring new force and clarity and balance to the debate . He believes that the administration is allowing itself to be so preoccupied with military problems that it is neglecting political policy and that if it continues to do so we will jeopardize our position in both Asia and in Japan . Japan can not be divorced permanently from economic and political ties with the Asiatic mainland . The Japanese islands can be divorced from the mainland for a time ? as they now are  --  but not for long . If we assume and policy-wise accept the premise that Communist domination of China can not be altered , then it is necessary to face the prospect that Japan will be under great pressure to go Communist . Certainly if Japan sees the United States accepting perpetual Communist rule on the Chinese mainland , then the Japanese , in Mr. Dulles ' view , will veer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political relations with the mainland Communists . Mr. Dulles sees this problem clearly and the focus he will bring to the debate will be positive and constructive . He will also raise questions about the need of clarifying our political attitude toward Korea . There is reason to believe he has reached the conclusion that by putting in cold storage the objective of 4nifying North and South Korea the United States runs the risk of losing the good will of the South Korean people , including the South Kr roan Army of about 250,000 war-trained soldiers who are fighting for a United Korea and want nothing less . Mr. Dulles also can be expected to recommend greater freedom of action from Formosa , Chiang Kai-shek 's headquarters . He is not greatly impressed by the effectiveness of the Chinese Nationalist troops , but he certainly sees no reason why the Chinese Communists should be assured by us that they are not going to be used . At the very least , a little uncertainty would be sound military strategy . * What will become clear from Mr. Dulles ' speeches is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meaningful debate in the campaign without deserting or wrecking the bipartisan defense and foreign - policy measures which the majority of both parties in Congress have been supporting throughout the postwar years . Some Republicans want to use the present campaign a8 a means of scuttling the measures of bipartisan foreign policy which the Republican Party has helped to make possible ? from 1947 to 1952 . Mr. Dulles will stand against such retreat .                     