@@717404

txt Almost imperceptibly traditional Moslem suspicion of communism has been whittled away by a long and carefully planned Soviet campaign in the Middle East , observers are convinced . The most striking eVidence of the effects of this campaign is the widespread Arab approval which greeted Egypt 's arms deal with the Soviet bloc and the suggestion by many Arabs that their countries follow suit , Such a Soviet coup , it is believed , scarcely would have been possible had the ground not been carefully prepared by Arab Communists and the Soviets themselves over a period of time . Some of the most vocal opponents of communism in the Middle East have been the ulemas , or Moslem religious councils . To mollify this influential group the Soviets have stepped up a campaign to persuade the Moslem leaders that freedom of worship for Moslems has been restored in the U.S.S.R. In this campaign the Soviets have been joined by Chinese Communist leaders , who have been at pains to convince the Arabs that freedom of religion for Moslems never has been abrogated in Communist China , Benefits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was invited to China after the Bandung conference of last spring and came back impressed with the freedom of worship which he claimed to have seen . At the same time the Soviets increasingly have posed as the friends of the Arabs in the Palestine issue , seeking to stand in sharp contrast to what the Arabs regard as the pro-Israeli position of the Western powers . In this connection the Soviets , and local Communists as well , point out the absence of Russian territorial or colonial conquests in the past , a claim which , at the present time , falls sweetly on Arab ears . Knowing that the Arabs are short of cash , the Soviet bloc has offered trade packages to the Arabs on a barter basis , nitre , it is believed , to widen the Communist foothold in the Middle East than for any economic benefit which might accrue to the Soviet bloc . Egypt , Syria , and Lebanon in particular have increased their trade with the Soviet bloc , though in no case does this trade come close to the volume of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In Egypt , for example , the United States , Britain , and West Germany are closely bunched as the three nations with which Cairo has the most trade . West Germany , in particular , has made rapid recent strides in the Egyptian market , as elsewhere in the Arab world . Eager to Trade In the context of Communist penetration of the area , however , the point is not so much the volume of Arab trade with the Communists as the increased willingness of Syria , Lebanon , and Egypt to consider such trade . Saudi Arabia , chiefly supplied by the United States , and Iraq and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan , traditional British markets , still have little or no trade with the Communist world . , These developments have been printed in the Arab and Western press as piecemeal events over a period of years . Recently , however , with the conclusion of the Egyptian arms deal with Czechoslovakia , it has become clear that the end result of Communist efforts has been to develop a climate of Arab opinion much more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Bid by Moscow On the heels of the Egyptian-Soviet arms deal came the announcement Oct. 10 by Daniel A. Solod , Soviet Ambassador to Cairo , that the U.S.S.R. stood ready to provide industrial and agricultural equipment and technical assistance to all underdeveloped Arab and Asian countries which desired it . Mr. Solod made no mention of the great dam on the Nile south of Aswan which the Egyptians want to build . Should Soviet equipment and assistance finally be connected with this project , however , the Communists would have plunged to the very heart of Egyptian economic development , currently guided by the United States and Britain .                     