@@716797

txt The imprisonment of U. S. airmen in China and the fighting near the Strait of Formosa are now forcing the United States to take a fundamental decision on its policy toward Peiping . The question is whether the United States is now willing to live in the same world with Communist China , or will continue the policy that has prevailed since the Communists won control of the Chinese mainland five years ago . The wars in Korea and Indochina are now halted . But relations between Washington and Peiping are as bad as ever . The United States has been moving cautiously toward a policy that might make possible a modus vivendi ; but for the time being this is blocked by- the Communists ' detention of Americans captured during the Korean war . ' Although the actual fighting for small islands off the China Sea coast is between Communist and Chinese Nationalist units , United Nations delegates believe that the real contestants are Communist China and the United States . A number of delegates think that the situation will not go on as it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is danger of an incident that might provoke war . President Eisenhower did not connect his endorsement of United Nations action to bring about a cease-fire in the Strait of Formosa with the prisoner question . However , the principal complaint made to Secretary Gen , eral Dag Hammarskjold during his talks in Peiping was the alleged danger of an Americansponsored attack on the Chinese mainland from Formosa or South Korea , particularly from Formosa . Cynical Aspect The President 's endorsement of a cease-fire was itself an assurance that the United States had , no such intentions . Thus it should ' contribute to an easing of tension and to the release of the eleven imprisoned airmen . The United States , it is to be , assumed , will give such an assurance more explicitly when the Security Council or the General Assembly takes up the cease-fire proposal . Most Western delegates dismiss the Peiping offer to permit relatives to visit the prisoners as propaganda , and cynical propaganda at that . But apparently it is still the intention of the United States to ask the United Nations to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of course that either the Security Council or the General Assembly could compel the Chinese Communists to halt their attempt to capture the Nationalist-held islands . Under the United Nations Charter , to be sure , the Security Council has ample theoretical powers to compel both member and non-member nations to refrain from the use or even the threat of force . It is authorized to impose a series of punishments , starting with an economic embargo and culminating in the employment of armed forces , to halt an aggression . Only once , however , has the Security Council even threatened the employment of sanctions . This was in 1948 , when the Palestine war appeared to defy a solution . At that time the threat helped bring about a cease-fire . Veto Used Sparingly In those days , however , the Soviet Union was not using its veto to block efforts by the Security Council to settle disputes within the non-Communist world . In fact , the Soviet Union and the United States then stood together in supporting the establishment of Israel . This helped Dr. Ralph J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armistice agreements that halted the Palestine war the following year . During post-armistice disputes between Israel and the Arab states , however , the Soviet Union has used the veto to support the Arab side . In fact , the Security Council is now virtually in the same position as the General Assembly , which can not compel anybody to do anything . Gay once  --  when it called for armed force to halt the aggression against South Korea  --  has the Security Council taken action against a Communist country . This was made possible only by a Soviet walk-out . Since Moscow is not likely to repeat that there is no prospect that the Security Council will be able Ito adopt even a cease-fire resolution unless the Soviet Union , speaking for Communist China , agrees . Case of Kashmir However , even a Soviet veto ? or , as is equally possible , a veto by Nationalist China ? would not entirely destroy the value of a resolution calling for a cease-fire . At the very least it would provide a suitable forum for assurances that , while the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States treaty with Nationalist China did not mean joining in an attack on the mainland . Assuming there was no veto , past experience with a cease-fire resolutions shows that when the circumstances are right they do help bring results . In addition to Dr. Bunche 's work in Palestine , representatives sent out by the Security Council helped halt the war in Indonesia and stopped serious fighting in Kashmir that threatened to become a war . In each case , however , the fighting went on for weeks after the Security Council proffered its good offices . Only economic sanctions were ever considered in Palestine . and none of any kind in Indonesia or Kashmir . Pressure of world opinion , as a result of the Security Council debates , played a considerable part , but the basic reason why the fighting stopped was that it had reached a virtual stalemate and that the great powers , and particularly the United States , were bringing pressure to bear behind the scenes Korea No Parallel Neither of these conditions existed when the General Assembly tried to arrange a cease-fire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period when Commumist troops , for the second time In the war , had driven United Nations forces southward . Communist China then corteniptuously rejected the overtures by the Assembly 's Committee of Good Offices . The armistice between the military commanders was finally signed in July , 1953 , after a stalemate had developed . At no time during the nearly eight years of the Indochina war was the issue brought before the United Nations . The organization , therefore , had no part in the settlement reached at Geneva last summer . In any event , these examples reinforce the conviction that the most the United Nations can hope to accomplish is to act as a catalyst : if the United States and Communist China are now prepared to adjust their differences , a cease-fire resolution might well provide the element needed for a settlement .                     