@@716391

txt Mayor Wagner announced yesterday his approval of a fivepoint program for making the city 's port " the greatest in the world . " He plans to do this by restoring its prestige , improving its business and expanding its facilities . The key element in the program will be a Council on Port Development and Promotion , consisting of leaders in the maritime and allied industries . This group will advise and cooperate with all city , state and interstate agencies concerned with port affairs . The members will serve without compensation . The Mayor said that several leaders of the maritime industry had already accepted appointments as members of the council . He indicated that the entire roster of members would be made , public this week . Program Drafted by O'Connor The five-point program , formulated by Marine and Aviation Commissioner Vincent A. G. O'Connor , after conferences with the Mayor and City Administrator Luther H. Gulick , follows : liAppointment of the coung . CA review by the council of the various port studies , surveys and reports made in recent years . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development program of the Department of Marine and Aviation . Wevelopment by the Council , in collaboration with the department , of a port promotion program to re-educate shippers and the maritime industry to the fact that the city 's port is the greatest in the world . cCollaboration by the council with all public and private agencies that can be helpful in the over-all development and promotion program . Labor Experts to Be Consulted For the present , organized labor will not be represented on the council , pending settlement of the pending controversy ' over union representation of port workers . Mr. O'Connor indicated , however , that the council would have at its disposal the services of the city 's Department of Labor for consultation on this aspect of port development . The Mayor probably will be chairman of the council , with Mr. O'Connor as his alternate . The new agency will , at the start , utilize for staff the manpower of various city departments concerned with port problems . In a letter to the Mayor , made public yesterday , Mr. O'Connor stressed the need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program , the " black eye " received by the port in the recent " era of investigation . " Referring to recent investigations by grand juries , as well as state and Federal agencies , Mr. O'Connor described the city 's waterfront as " the most thoroughly explored , examined , investigated , analyzed , dissected , pilloried , blasted and condemned area on the surface of the earth . " Mr. O'Connor declared that the publicity about the port 's shortcomings , although generally healthy and necessary , had caused the basic values of the waterfront to be ignored . The resulting loss of prestige throughout the world , he declared , must be overcome by calling attention to the good side of the picture . City Promotion Work Urged In his letter , Mr. O'Connor told the Mayor that the Department of Marine and Aviation " does little in the way of promotion of port facilities , although it is the largest single owner of pier and terminal properties worth $350 , - 000,000 . " " No private real estate operation of the great magnitude of New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " if it did as little to promote its properties as does the city of New York . " Mr. O'Connor 's program stressed the need for such promotion to counteract cargo diversion to other ports whose public relations programs have brought increased business for them . Mr. O'Connor also informed the Mayor that he was negotiating with reputable and outstanding business organizations for construction of two major freight terminals on the North River , to be financed by proposed tenants . This method of financing , he declared , was favored by him in connection with construction , improvement and rehabilitation of piers and other facilities to be leased for long terms to private business interests . ' Action ' Agency Planned Both the Mayor and Mr. O'Connor declared that the new counc1 must be an " action " agency r.:Ther than a mere " study " group , although it would have available the many studies and surveys of port problems previously made by local , state and interstate bodies . Mr. O'Connor , commenting on his letter and the Mayor 's approval of his program , said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this year . He stressed the fact , however , that he considered the program to be essentially a long-range plan . Immediately after the council membership is completed the new agency will confer with the Mayor and Mr. O'Connor on pro : posed agenda for the next few months . It was indicated that there would be also a program of cooperation between the council and such agencies as the city 's Departments of Labor , Commerce and Markets , as well as the state 's Department of Commerce , the Port of New York Authority , the New York-New Jersey Waterfront Commission and all business , community and civic groups interested in the waterfront develon -- ent problem .                     