@@715249

txt MIAMI BEACH , Feb. 10 ? Un-il daunted by the past failure of such ) union stalwarts as John L. Lewis and Michael J. Quill , Dave Beck , the forceful new leader of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters , set in motion today a fresh drive to unionize . New York 's 35,000 taxicab drivers . The General Executive Board of the teamsters , the largest and richest affiliate of the American Federation of Labor , gave its unanimous- - endorsement here today to a proposal by gr , .... Beck to focus ' the group 's energies on a coast-to-coast organizing effort to bring 150,000 cab drivers into the union fold . New York , Washington and Baltimore will be special concentration points , Mr. Beck an- ' 1 nounced . Thomas L. Hickey , an in ternational vice president , head the recruiting drive in New York , with an initial staff of 150 paid and volunteer organizers . Others Tried And Missed Mr. Beck , whose union already has signed up 25,000 taxi drivers in Chicago , Cincinnati , St. Louis , Pittsburgh , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other large cities , expressed certainty that his organization would prove equally successful in the metropolitan area . Past attempts by major unions to sign up New York hackies have wound up in failure . Mr. Quill 's Transport Workers Union , C.I.O. , made a large-scale effort , marked by violent strikes , in the years before World War II . For a brief period it held contracts with a number of large fleet operators , but the drive ended with the Quill union completely out of the field . Mr. Lewis ' United Mine Workers called a one-week strike in 1949 // that kept most of the cabs off the streets for a day or two but petered out when it became clear that the police would - not allow pickets to intimidate drivers who wanted to work . - The Lewis union still maintains a nominal interest in organizing the taxis in a " catch-all " group , but its membership among cab drivers is virtually nil . In the last year the most active endeavor to enroll taxi workers has been made by Local 102 of the United Automobile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a convicted extortionist , John Di0-guardi , alias Johnnie Dio . The A. F. L. Executive Council , at its midwinter meeting here last week , instructed the parent union to cancel Local 102 's charter on the ground that its operations were bringing discredit 4 , to the union movement . The auto union has not yet acted on the council 's mandate . The teamsters ' Executive Board coupled its approval of the taxicab campaign with a reaffirmation of the union 's determination to oust racketeers from positions of influence anywhere in the organization . Pattern for Handling Situations It unanimously endorsed Mr. Beck 's action in appointing a trustee to administer the affairs of the teamster Local 202 ' in New York after testimony before the State Crime Commission had disclosed that the local 's officers had misapplied its funds and received cash payments from Washington Market produce merchants . Mr. Beck said the same procedure would be - followed " in every situation that smacks of corrup=t tion , racketeering or communism . " " Wherever there are indications of the possibility of misappropriation of funds by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the teamsters ' chief declared , " it shall be the continuing policy of the international union to engage a certified public accountant , in addition to our own auditor , and set immediate plans for a thorough investigation and , if warranted , a trial . " Mr. Beck and other union officers signed contracts this morning calling for an immediate start on construction of a $3,500,000 headquarters building at D Street and Louisiana Avenue , N. W. , in Washington . The building will be completed about the middle of next year . The union had its general offices in Indianapolis ' until Mr. Beck became president last Dec. 1 . It now occupies temporary offices in the Washington headquarters of the National Association of Letter Carriers , A. F. L. The teamsters now have 1,250 , - 000 members : Mr. Beck said he hoped to add at least 500,000 more by the time his present five-year term ended . His long-range goal is to enroll 3,000,000 truck drivers , garage mechanics , service station employes , warehousemen and laundry and miscellaneous workers under the union 's banner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's would be the first target of the expansion drive , Mr. Beck asserted that there was " no more abused group of workers in the United States than taxi workers . ' " He said the union had three principal goals in its negotiations with taxicab employers : The establishment of a guaranteed , daily wage , the fixing of a regular number of daily working hours and the elimination of the " shape-up " method of employment now used by many large fleets . In the taxi industry , as on the New York waterfront , the shape-up makes it necessary for workers to enjoy the favor of the hiring boss to get a job . Mr. Beck said the union did not expect the large number of ownerdrivers in the New York taxi industry to impede the union 's recruiting effort . Nearly half of the city 's 11,500 cabs are owned by the men who drive them , and these men have shown a conspicuous lack of interest in past union campaigns . The teamsters ' chief said the Union would help stabilize conditions in the industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , thus benefiting owner-drivers as well as fleet-employed drivers . Mr. Beck said there was no curb on the number of cabs a fleet owner ' could operate if all his drivers worked on a commission basis and he did not have to guarantee them any fixed payment for their labor . New York 's 35,000 cab drivers include at least 10,000 who drive taxis on a sporadic basis . Most of these have other jobs and come in to work during the peak hours , thus reducing the earning opportunities for those who depend on their taxi income as their main source of livelihood .                     