@@718059

txt Army helicopter pilots braved forty-mile-an-hour updrafts in the Grand . Canyon today to begirt recovery of the remains of the 128 victims of Saturday 's double airliner crash . Simultaneously a dozen Fed. : eral investigators , airline executives and public officials were ferried along with Army medical personnel , to the bottom of the 3,000-foot gorge to examine the wreckage for clues to the accident . - It involved a Trans World Airlines Super Constellation with seventy persons aboard and . a United Air Lines DC-7 with fifty-eight aboard . All were killed as the transcontinental planes , , eastbound from Los AnpresumablY collided in the The crash was the worst disaster in commercial aviation history . Veteran ? fliers said today the distribution of the wreckage , in two Spots close to the Colorado River ? at the canyon 's bottom , indicated clearly that the two planes had plummeted straight downward , Without an aerial explosion . Otherwise , the cause of the accident remained obscure . But collectively , information and observations from airline officials and other sources pointed toward one conclusion : A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course and altitude were not rigorous enough , or because they were not rigorously enough adhered to , in this instance . Comments by local fliers , thoroughly familiar with the Grand Canyon 's vagaries of wind and weather , including ? Saturday 's , lent little substantiation to the possibility that Saturday 's conditions were violent enough to crash the two planes together without cause . They said there was about three-quarters cloud overcast , extending from about 9,000 feet to 12,000 feet  --  far below the level of around 17,000 to 20,000 feet where the airliners are supposed to have been . It appeared more likely that one or both of the planes , making a customary swing over the Canyon so that the passengers could view it , had become involved in the overcast so that they did not see each other until too late . The official investigators were refraining from speculation pending the completion of in- , quiries that will take many ) weeks . These include studies of , the operational records of the two planes  --  their flight plans , their " check-point " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alterations in plan . The investigators will interview persons in the area or the crash , none of Whom are known to have had any inkling of it , and examine the wreckage . The first helicopter flight today took off at 6:15 A. M. Mountain standard time ( 9:15 Eastern daylight time . ) Mounting turbu lence in the canyon  --  which one pilot said caused his craft to shoot involuntarily upward " like an elevator " caused suspension of the hour-long round trips into the canyon after the recovery operation had gotten under way . Midday turbulence in the canyon is common even on clear days like today . The fliers hoped to be able to resume operations later in the day . The morning 's experience indicated that the recovery of the victim 's remains and possibly significant pieces of the planes is going to be a tedious and risky operation that may be protracted for many days . 4 Parachute to Area Four Army " paramedics " ? medical personnel trained to parachute into difficult ' spots ? were ferried to the T. W. A. wreck . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morning brought out five Army rubberized shrouds containing human remains  --  obviously only parts of bodies , and without any external identification on the bundles . Most of the bodies are believed to have been damaged beyond identification . The bundles were transferred at the Grand Canyon Airport , fifteen miles back from the Canyon 's south rim , to an Army transport plane . It flew them to Flagstaff , ninety miles south , to an improvised mortuary in an armory . From there , after official clearance by Arizona authorities , the remains will be dispersed in accordance with relatives 's wishes . The United crash site , although only a mile from the T , W. A. wreck , still seemed virtually inaccessible . The plane dropped partly into a deep crevasse , and partly down a sheer cliff several hundred feet high . Some of the investigators were trying to hike to it from the T. W. A. site . However , the prospect of landing a helicopter near it or extricating any of the wreckage remained formidable . The T. W. A. wreck is almost on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mile below the confluence of the Colorado and Little Colorado , on a relatively flat rock shelf only about 300 feet above the water . The United wreck wreck Is a mile north , about four miles back from the river , on the side of Chuar Butte . This huge pedestal of rock rears to an altitude of 3,700 feet above the river , which in turn is about 2,800 feet above sea level at this point . The wreckage is strewn vertically , Dan Davis , Grand Canyon National Park Ranger , estimated , about 1,200 feet above the river , with sheer cliffs of redwall lime. , tone several hundred feet high both above and below it . Grand Canyon is more than a mile deep at some points , but in this section , sixteen miles northeast of the national park 's center at Grand Canyon Village , it generally is not much more than 3,000 feet deep . Several brief helicopter visits to the T. W. A. site were made yesterday , but no one was left there . Today 's passengers were left there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wind it looked as if they might have to stay overnight . A supply of food was left with them. , The canyon bottom . at thWAtrner , : 4 year warm all night . ' The first passenger taken in today was Shelby McCauley , acting-coroner of Coconino County . He had to . formally declare the ? victims dead before they could be removed . The investigators who went in included men from the Civil Aeronautics Board , the Federal agency that administers commercial aviation , and the Civil Aeronautics Authority , which regulates flying operations . Grand Canyon Village and the near-by airport are the base of the recovery operation . The normally heavy seasonal tourist traffic to the Canyon rim , amounting to 8,000 persons a day , continued , largely oblivious to the harried comings and goings of the group of about 200 concerned with the accident . The recovery operation is ' being directed by Air Force search and rescue personnel from March and Hamilton Air Force bases in California . The actual flying is being done by Army men in large H-21 Piasecki @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ H-19 Sikorsky singlerotor helicopters , and deHavilland Otter single-engined transport-liaison planes . The Army men are from the Ninety-third Helicopter Transportation Company of Fort Devens , Mass. , and the Fourteenth Army Aviation Company of Fort Benning , Ga . Both units were on special assignment at Fort Huachuca , Ariz. , Army electronics proving ground . Because of the special suitability of helicopters for the operation , . the unit 's services were volunteered by Maj. Jerome B. Feldt of Fort Huachuca to Capt . Byrd Ryland , commander ? of the Forty-second Air Rescue Squad ron at March Air Force Base . Captain Ryland has over-all responsibility for the operation , putting him anomalously over a senior officer . ' The pilots and co-pilots on today 's helicopter missions included Capt . Walter Spriggs and Chief Warrant Officers Howard Proctor , James Spearman and William Pearson , The Civil Aeronautics ' Board has six representatives here from Washington , Kansas City and Oakland , Calif. , headed by Jack Parshall , investigation chief of the agency 's Kansas City regional office . With collaborating airline and C. A. A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .                     