@@716817

txt No one in Washington , the President included , knows just what the next major step in resolving the Formosa crisis is , but everyone is talking or thinking about it . The President met with his Cabinet to discuss the situation . The British and Canadian Ambassadors dropped into the State Department to discuss next moves with Acting Secretary of State Herbert Hoover , Jr . Henry Cabot Lodge , Jr. , United States chief delegate to the United Nations , was on Capitol Hill , in the White House , in and out of the State Department exploring prospects . Adlai E. Stevenson , Democratic standard bearer in 1952 , reviewed the Formosan situation- with Democratic leaders of Congress . Henry Suydam , State Department press officer , officially frowned on any new Geneva-type conference over Formosa though he did not slam any official doors to such an approach . ' Debated by Senators Senators spoke on and off the record to anyone who would listen about cease-tire chances . Senator Everett Dirksen ( R ) of Illinois warned against appeasement ; Senate Minority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out against any new Geneva-type all-in conference with the Communists ; Senator Hubert H. Humphrey ( D ) of Minnesota pressed for action only through the UN ; Senator Wayne Morse ( Ind ) of Oregon revived his criticism of the President 's Formosa resolution because of what he viewed as loopholes ; Senator H. Alexander Smith ( R ) of New Jersey expressed the view the Communists were " bluffing " and that the United States should stand firm . So it went . Everybody had something to say , but nobody could say just what the next step would be . Abroad , the same concentration on the Formosa issue was evident as reports flowed in to Washington . In Lendon Foreign Secretary Sir Anthony Eden warned Peking not to attack the off-shore islands even if they were Chinese property ; United States Ambassador Winthrop P.Aldrich discussed the crisis with Sir Anthony ; the Commonwealth prime ministers conference discussed a possible special conference outside the UN as the next move . In Moscow the British and Indian envoys saw Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov . In Taipei capital of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existed and called for invasion of the mainland . Bilateral Talks Out of all this conferring . speculating , talking , and thinking four alternative courses of action seemed to emerge . One was for the UN to make a new bid to Peking , ignoring its rude and intransigeant reply to a first invitation to come to the UN to discuss , a cease-fire . This was a turn-the-other-cheek policy , based on the hope that possibly now that Peking had had its propaganda blast it might be willing to seriously consider coming to New York . A second proposal that was discussed on and off during the day was that some bilateral talks be arranged with Peking  --  possibly through a country that has a mission there  --  just to make sure the Mao government and the UN thoroughly and completely understand each other 's position . A third suggestion widely discussed centered on a possible multinational meeting outside the UN  --  something like the Geneva Conference that brought a ceasefire to Indochina . The fourth alternative was to do nothing  --  to let the dust raised by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invitation settle . By Gordon Walker Chief Far Eastern . Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor Taipei , Formosa The big debate over whether or not . the Chinese Nationalists should quit the Tachen Islands appears now to have been largely solved  --  not by either party so much as by the Chinese Communists themselves . As a result it now is expected that the first step in the evacuation  --  removal of some 15,000 civilians  --  will begin in the very near future . This operation will be handled by the Nationalist Navy , presumably with the United States Seventh Fleet standing by in case the Communists should try to interfere . Then unless Peking makes some unexpected and rash military move . evacuation of the Nationalist military garrison on the main Tachen island will be undertaken . impasse Broken This latter operation , still somewhat in the future , would he with the full help and cooperation not only of Seventh Fleet combat vessels but United States amphibious landing craft transports as well . The impasse which has held up evacuation of the Tachens for more than a week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations ceasefire formula . Until this time the Nationalists , particularly Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek himself . had been holding out for a United States guarantee of some type for Nationalist tenure on the Matsus and Quemoy farther to the south . Nationalist spokesmen had even pledged defense of the Tachens " at any cost . " The Nationalist argument , it now is disclosed here on high government authority , was concerned largely with the reaction which evacuation would have on Chinese populations not only here but on the mainland and in Southeast Asia as well . Assurances Demanded The Nationalists conceded to the United States stand that because of the distance from main operational bases , the Tachens ? could not he provided with adequate United States air coverage against the huge Communist potential based at Shanghai and Ningpo . The Nationalists then argued that if they agreed to evacuate the Tachens , the United States would have to give some compensating assurance which would remove feelings that piecemeal abandonment of the Nationalists had begun . More specifically , the Nationalists wanted the United States to make some sort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people in a formal statement that evacuation of the Tachens was not a miniature Munich but actually a strategic redeployment - which in the end would strengthen rather than weaken the over-all defense of Formosa with United States guarantees . The United States at first hedged on making such a commitment , particularly regarding the defense of the Matsus and Quemoys . Tentative Pledge Now , however , it is stated here the United States has made a tentative agreement based upon the realization that Peking 's adamant stand on a cease-fire appears to preclude any peaceful interim settlement at this time . Thus in effect Peking 's blunt rejection of a cease-fire has thrown the Nationalists and Washington into closer agreement . It also has apparently drawn the British into closer agreement with the United States , judging by authoritative reports here that the British have stated they would throw in their Pacific fleet if a " chips-down " military situation should evolve , The new framework of agreement , moreover , has terminated what has been a damaging period of indecision , doubt , and tension . Ever since . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vice-Admiral Alfred M. Pride has been fully prepared to launch the evacuation operation . Fleet Prepared Since then , the Seventh Fleet has been hanging about idly with maintenance schedules creating new problems daily and with the Chinese Communists , Admiral Pride more time to own military preparedness . Just how far the United States has gone in giving assurances to the Nationalists in return for the Tachen withdrawal can only be guessed . Presumably , these assurances encompass at least an interim commitment to guarantee the security of the Matsus and Quemoy  --  a type tot ' guarantee which at the moment is easy , inasmuch as it is believed the Communists are not prepared to make any assaults on these islands for at least several months . There is noticeable , however , a relaxation of tensions  --  if not over the general military situation itself , at least over termination what was a dangerous period of indecision among the Allies .                     