@@713781

txt Concessions offered by advocates of Universal Military Training to save the program from outright rejection were approved today by the House of Representatives , but it remained to be seen whether the aim had been achieved . General of the Army George C. Marshall , Secretary of Defense , meanwhile voiced the fear that current maneuvering in the House might " largely emasculate " the training features of the pending draft and training bill . . It was not clear , however , whether he was concerned over the main fight , expected later this week , over a proposal to eliminate all Universal Military Training provisions from the bill . It was to head this off that the bill 's managers headed by Representative Carl Vinson , Democrat of Georgia , offered the concessions that were approved today . The House accepted them on a voice vote . Further Action Necessary Consequently , as the bill now stands , little more than the principle of Universal Military Training is retained . A commission to draw up a detailed U. M. T. plan would be created . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ established , at least on paper . But before anyone Could be drafted to serve in the proposed corps , there would have to be another formal act of Congress , subject to Presidential approval or veto like any other bill , authorizing details of the training program . At the same time , however , the revised bill retains safeguards against future pigeon-holing of U. M. T. in the House Rules Committee or elsewhere . The planning commission , which also would administer the program once Congress had authorized its institution , would be required to submit a detailed training plan to Congress within six months . The House and Senate Armed Services Committees would be required to report out a bill or resolution within forty-five days of receiving the plan . The measure then could be , called up at any time . Opponents Withhold Attack In the House , bills ordinarily must be cleared by the Rules Committee before they can be considered on the floor . The Rules Committee bottled up a Universal Military Training Bill in the Eightieth Congress . Opponents of any form of U.M.T. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today , explaining that the proposals would make the bill less obnoxious although still unacceptable to them . They were still hoping for approval of a substitute sponsored by Representative Graham A. Barden , Democrat of North Carolina , that would retain only what they regard as the " emergency " features of the pending draft measure . These include a three-year extension of authority to draft men 19 through 26 years of age for actual military service . The Barden.bill would eliminate authority to lower the draft age to 18% as well as all long-range training features of the pending measure . The Senate has already passed a draft and training bill adhering closely to the Administration 's recommendations . It would authorize the drafting of men at the age of 18 and permit the President to put Universal Military Training into effect at his discretion when 18-year-olds no longer were needed for actual service . General Marshall 's concern over developments in the House was expressed extemporaneously to reporters who saw him briefly and asked for his comment . Ha said he had not read the latest amendment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " I am very fearful , " he added , " that we may get a result that will largely emasculate the U. M. T. phases of the manpower bill . " I think one factor in the matter is not clearly understood and that is that we think it is imperative that we have the authority to begin this gradually and that it merges into the full Universal Military Training procedure. , " In other words , as I see it , it is not a question of having a date and then it is U. M. T. and prior to that date it is all service . It means that we can start the motion as early as we find it practicable to do so and then there is a gradual transition ' until it becomes purely Universal Military Training . And I hope most of the enlistments in the Regular Service will be on a voluntary basis rather than through Selective Service . " Therefore , I regard it as quite important that the U. M. T. features be on such a basis that we can make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have lost a very important month , year or more and we would have imposed on us a sudden change which I do not think under the present conditions of the world is desirable . "                     