@@715426

txt The nation 's defense budget can be cut 2.5 billion to 22b billion dollars and still provide a formidable military machine . The defense budget now stands at 45.4 billion dollars for the fiscal year which is to begin July 1 . Fiscal and management experts are studying ways to trim the b.0 d get . President Eisenhower has set his sights on cutting the military budget by 2.5 billions . It is the considered opinion of experts familiar with the defense budget and military spending that 223/a billions could be cut from the military budget . The military budget has been under study by experts for at least eight years . Millions of dollar s have been spent on studies meant to bring a more efficient ' and less costly machine . Two Under Way Now . Most of these studies have been scrapped . At present two of the most extensive studies are under way ? one by Defense Secretary Wilson and the other by the house appropriations committee . Teams of experts are spending hundreds of thousands in hopes of saving millions and billions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but few dare to risk criticism of endangering national security . Because of this fear , costly studies undertaken in the past have been scrapped . Only a few economy suggestions have been adopted , and the savings have been slight . Robert Heller associates of Cleveland spent $823,950 from August , 1949 , to December , 1952 , in a detailed study of the defense department looking toward improving efficiency and promoting economy . " Cavalier Spending " Decried The budget bureau conducted an extensive study . House and senate committees have had teams of experts at work . The citizens advisory commission on man power utilization in the military services delivered a report Feb. 17 after months of study which called ? for a 10 per cent cut in military spending . The Hoover commission spent More than 2 million over m o r e than two years in an assessment of the functioning of government . Concentration was heavy on the Military spending . A committee headed by Ferdinand Eberstadt , investment banker and war production official , criticized " cavalier spending of the nation 's resources by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " without dangerously undermining . the security of the nation which the armed forces are pledged to defend . " The Hoover ? commission 's report was made in 1949 . In 1949 the military establishment contemplated a 23 billion dollar budget . This was slashed as a result of pressure by the late De f en s e Secretary Forrestal to 16.9 billions . Warning By Bradley In 1950 Former Defense Secretary Johnson began with a budget of 141/ billions and cut it to 13 billions . In 1950 , Gen. Bradley , then as now chairman of the Joint chiefs of staff , told a senate com-mittee : " We must not destroy that industrial capacity by spending too much from year to - year . So if we came here and recommended to you a 30 or 40 billion dollar budget for defense , I think we would be doing a disservice and that maybe ' you should get a new chairman of the joint chiefs of staff if I were the one who did that . " Today the budget is more than 45 billions and . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to defend itself or to defend the global fronts the nation has , undertaken . Military men and fiscal experts are agreed that the extent of savings in the military establishment will depend upon the extent to which military strategy is overhauled . Without modernization of our military concepts , experts says that there will be no real cut in defense costs , but merely a trim here and a shaving there . Call New Strategy the Need Experts contend that there can be no real savings in the defense establishment until the White House orders the preparation of a new strategy which will develop a war plan and create forces which will deter war , if possible , but win victory if war can not be avoided . Savings can not come and victory can not come , experts say , if the nation follows its present strategic plans , based on outmoded weapons , rivalries between the services , and operation of satel-lite wars around the globe . The starting point of strategy must consider who is the p o t en t is 1 enemy . The answer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia . At present strategy Is geared to ground war against the soviet s , when vast distances , overwhelm ing soviet man power , and formidable weather conditions would disprove such strategy . Air Power Threat to Reds Our ground forces can not , be considered a vital threat to the soviets . American air power and air potential constitute a f ea rsome threat to the Reds . The new strategy , according to top experts ? civilian as well as military ? should be based on the finest air ' force in the world supported by an adequate army and navy . Strategy should be realistically designed to give the United States reasonable safety against Russian attack . At present the United States is spending billions on tanks . It is not contemplated that these tanks will be used to defend America . The tanks are being sent abroad . Most military experts agree that the soviets could overrun Europe in a matter of weeks , so that the tanks will not be used to defend anyone . Strategy recognizes i hat we must have allies , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a faulty ground strategy . They say we must not dissipate our resources and man power on the ground and in satellite wars . Agree Revamping Is Needed Top Republican and Democratic civilian officials in the military establishment ' agreed on the necessity for revamping the military establishment . Last Nov. 25 , under the Truman administration , former Air Undersecretary Roswell L. Gilpatric declared himself against piecemeal curs . " The real hope for reducing military budgets lies in other directions , " he said . " In the first place the composition of our military.forces can and should be continually scrutinized , and only those forces and weapons which are essential to the job should be retained . The revolution in arms that has characterized weapons development since World War II has taken place too fast to avoid some overlapping , some duplication among his services . " Many Studies Noted Late last month , under the Eisenhower administration , Deputy Defense Secretary Kyes took cognizance of the many studies . He said : " Unrealistic requirements , poor planning , and inefficient execution all combined with the short @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utilization of man power , unnecessary drain of materials from the civilian economy , and the inefficient use of tools , equipment and facilities . " " Most people familiar with the defense department are conscious of the duplication and inefficiency that exist . There has been much oral and written discussion ; there have been a host of , investigations . It is said that surveys and reports discussing the various problems of the military services have cost millions of dollars , and would fill a wing of the Pentagon . The list of 2ommittees and panels in printed *orm would take on the propor:ions of a telephone book of a arge city , but with all these we lave failed to solve our problems ? Ind have perhaps added to the : onfusion. "                     