@@712942

txt A marine flier and the navy man who " went along just for the ride " over Communist China have come home after 19 long months in Communist cantivitv . Navy Chief Petty Officer William C. Smith and Marine M/Sgt . Elmer Bender thus officially wrote a happy ending to an international incident . The Smith family  --  Mrs. Smith and sons Pat and Mike , and a cousin of Sergeant Bender 's mother . were in a cheering crowd of about 200 navy officers and civilian and service well-wishers when the fliers landed at Los Alamitos from Honolulu . Their tu1 multuous ovation nearly drowned out a navy band . After interrogation , the two men , whose wives campaigned vigorously to prod the government into pressing for their release , elaborated at a press conference on previous accounts of Itheir " friendly " captivity . I " I went along just for the ride , and boy did it turn out to be a long one , " the navy man said . joint Statement Slated , They both denied that a statement given their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the United States . " We will issue a joint statement , possibly later this week , explaining what was in the paper we signed for the Commollsts , " Sergeant Bender said . " But let me emphasize that is was not a confession . " He said they did not want to discuss the statement now because " that would take half a day . It 's very complicated and might be misunderstood . We want to wait until we can sit down and think it out . " Sergeant Bender said withholding of the statement was not for security reasons . Report Clarified He said he also wanted to clarify a statement he made in Honolulu to the effect that the Chinese seemed better off under communism than under the Nationalists . " That applied only to Tsingtao , " he said . " The city was jammed with refugees and shut off from food and other supplies just before the Communists came in . Then when the Communists arrived , the refugees went back to their homes , food came in , and things got better @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real observations about how well off the people were . " Immediately after the press conference , Chief Smith left for his home here with his wife and children . Sergeant Bender was greeted at the airport by Mrs. Anna Kaiser , a cousin of his mother whom he had not seen since he was eight years old , and Mrs. James F. A. Jones of Newport Beach , Calif. , a family friend . He expected to take off early this afternoon for Glenview air base to greet his wife .                     