@@715232

txt The two year government control of meat prices will be ended this week , probably Friday , Price Administrator Joseph H. Freehill announced today . Freehill told a press conferences that meat , and " a number of ; other commodi- rivehui ties , " will be decontroled . Meat is one of the few major foods , remaining under price control . Office of price stabilization officials do not believe that the decontrol of beef will bring any rise in prices . Beef has been recording steady drops in prices recently , and is selling well below government ceilings . Pork Below Ceilings Altho pork prices have risen slightly in recent weeks , OPS officials said that they do not believe pork prices will return to ceiling levels . Pork has been selling below ceilings for months , and wholesale ceilings already have been suspended . Veal , a meat whose price has little effect statistic-wise in the cost of living because so little of it is eaten in comparison with other types of beef and pork , has been selling at near ceiling levels . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent larger than a year ago . Altho farmers are reducing the number of hogs on their farms because of declining prices , beef production is expected to rise thruout 1953 . Predicts Rise in Production " Beef production will continue upward in 1953 , " the agriculture department predicted in its recently released survey of the livestock and meat situation . " The increase in beef and veal production seems likely to about offset the decline in pork , and total meat output in 1953 is expected to be about the same as in 1952 . " The larger meat supplies , the department said , accounted for the price declines which occurred in December and the late fall , and are likely to hold down prices most of this year . Favored by Benson Freehill told reporters that he has ordered the removal of the price ceilings " , in conformity withl the policy announced before Congress " by President Eisenhower . in his state of the Union message Monday . The President called for an orderly end of wage-price controls . Meat prices were first frozen Jan. 26 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1951 . Agriculture . Secretary Benson has stated repeatedly that he favored removal of meat controls as a " good d thing for all segments of the industry and the consuming public . " DISCOUNT EFFECT HERE Dropping of price controls will have little effect on the retail price of beef in Chicago , wholesalers and retailers agreed yesterday . Beef has been selling considerably below ceiling prices for nearly six weeks , as have almost all other kinds of meat . Packers , wholesalers , and retailers agreed the lifting of price controls would have beneficial effects in the elimination of compulsory grading and cutting which they claimed have interfered in the past in the most efficient merchandising of meat . ? ? Elimination of the price control program , spokesmen of the American Meat institute said , ' will mean the end of voluminous records which took up'the time of thousands of workers thruout the industry , but were of little  --  benefit to the packer , wholesaler , retailer , or consumer . 