@@716867

txt Like many other people in this country , we 're all for culture . But like many others , we 're not for all-out culture .. We think people ought to be free to take it or leave it . So we do n't like the ides of the Government getting into the business of building theatres and cultural centers as proposed recently to a Congressional committee . Some officials of the American National Theatre and Academy suggested that Congress pass a bill which would set up a " District of Columbia Auditorium Commission " which in turn would plan - construction of a " civic auditorium , including an inaugural Hall of Presidents and a music , fine arts and mass communications center " in the nation 's capital . The ANTA says that the center is necessary because of the State Department 's cultural exchange program ; France , for instance , has placed at U. S. disposal five government " national theatres " there for painting exhibits and for performances of the Philadelphia Orchestra and " Oklahoma ! " We think that 's line ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see some American folklore and hear music by Americans than some of our other efforts to make friends there have been able to accomplish . The trouble is , ANTA says , that while everything 's up to date in Paris , France , the same is n't true of Kansas City or New York or Washington . There just are n't five governmenttheatres where visiting troupes or art collections from abroad can be housed to reciprocate in the exchange of culture . There is n't even one . Well , we think that state of affairs is sound . For one thing , we doubt if there is such a lack of private space as ANTA says ; a couple of years ago the Austrian Exhibit packed the crowds into the art gallery the Mellons built in Washington . For another , you ca n't get culture by decree any more than the Treasury can get taxes by osmosis . For still another , why should taxpayers in San Antonio or Seattle or Sarasota be forced to contribute to a National Theatre in Washington ' or New York which they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make as much sense to pass a law saying that every collector of Old Masters must scatter some surrealism about the walls . There 's even a better reason in our view why this proposal should be voted down . Art has languished and the theatre has been prostituted everywhere exactly to the extent of Government interference and control . Though he did n't mean it that way , what we mean was put very well by President Derwent of ANTA when he told the House District of Columbia Committee : " Only in America do we lag behind in the establishment of a National Theatre . We need to counteract efforts of Russia  --  the Russians use their arts in propaganda , " Exactly .                     