@@717675

txt BULGANIN RENEWS BID TO PRESIDENT FOR 20-YEAR PACT OFFER BROADENED Premier Also Suggests Inclusion of Britain and France Text of the Bulganinl , letter ? appears on . Page 6 . By ELIE ABEL soma ' to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , Friday , Feb. 3 ? Premier Nikolai A. Bulganin called on President Eisenhower yesterday to reconsider his rejection of the twenty-year friendship pact proposed by the Soviet Union last week . The Soviet leader said his Government was willing to conclude similar treaties with Britain , France and other countries if it was the bilateral nature of his original proposal that troubled the United States . He dropped the hint , obviously intended for German consumption , that a bilateral treaty betvteeen the United States and the Soviet Union might be the key to the long-delayed reunification of Germany . " I am convinced that * * * conclusion of a treaty of friend . ship and cooperation between the Soviet Union and the United States would be of great positive , significance also in establishing the necessary prerequi. sites for the solution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around the President 's plea tor " deeds , not words " to back up Soviet professions of goodwill , Premier Bulganin contended that Moscow already had given proof of its peaceful intent and that the West was lagging . Soviet Defense Cuts Cited He cited the announced cut of 640,000 in Soviet military manpower last year , the recent evacuation of the Porkkala military base in Finland , Moscow 's consent to the Austrian independence treaty last spring and the purported reduction of 9,600 , - 000,000 rubles in the military budget for 1956 . ( The ruble is officially quoted by Moscow as worth 25 cents , ) " In the Soviet Union , " he said , " it is thought that other states might also back up their declarations with specific deeds . " The latest Bulganin letter , a direct reply to President Eisenhower 's message of last Saturday rejecting the treaty offer , was made public by the State Department at 11 o'clock last night . It had been delivered to Sec ? retary of State Dulles about noon by Georgi N. Zaroubin , Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President 's farm at Gettysburg , Pa . James C. Hagerty , White House press secretary , said the President would make no reply , until next week at the earliest . General Eisenhower did discuss the Soviet message with the Secretary of State in Washington by telephone . A copy of Marshal Bulganin 's message was sent in the evening to Prime Minister Eden at the British Embassy . Sir Anthony , who described President Eisen. // hower 's rejection of the treaty offer as " admirable , " has just concluded a three-day round of high-policy : : consultations with the President and Mr. Dulles at the White House . The r State Department also lost no time in transmitting the contents of the message to other allied governments through diplomatic channels . Premier Bulganin wrote three brief paragraphs . on the President 's contention that the proposed bilateral treaty was superfluous , General Eisenhower said the treaty would add nothing to the principles to which ' both nations had subscribed when they signed the United Nations Charter . What is needed is a change , of heart in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " We believed , and still believe , that the time has come for concluding a treaty of friendship and cooperation between our countries , " Premier Bulganin wrote , " This would be an important contribution to the development f Soviet-American relations and , at the same time , would contribute to the improvement of relations between your friends and ours in the international field . " We can only regret that our proposal did not have a more favorable reception on the part of Your Excellency . " Pact Called Aid to U. N. Marshal Bulganin contended that a treaty between the United States and the Soviet Union actually would strengthen the United Nations Charter . " The United Nations Charter itself can not be sufficiently effective if the two greatest powers in the world  --  the Soviet Union and the United States  --  do not harmonize their relations , " he wrote . The Soviet Premier did not take into account the President 's complaint that East-West relations had deteriorated since the Big Four heads-of-government conference in Geneva in July because of Soviet efforts to stir up trouble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He called on President Eisenhower to agree that " the conclusion of a treaty of friendship and cooperation between the two strongest powers in the world would contribute enormously to a healthier international situation . " After having listed what he depicted as Soviet deeds " toward easing international tensions , " Marshal Bulganin went on to accuse the West of moving in the opposite direction . He charged that the " military appropriations of certain Western powers , including the United States , " were being increased , rather than reduced , and that the United States was increasing the number of its military bases on foreign soil , " mainly in areas situated along the borders of the Soviet Union . " Article on Dulles Quoted Premier Bulganin further complained that " certain leading personages " in the United States were making belligerent statements . He cited a statement attributed to Mr. Dulles in Life magazine as proposing a policy that would keep the United States " on the brink of war . " Marshal Bulganin then went on to reject , point by point , President Eisenhower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cl Disarmament . The Soviet Premier asserted that under present conditions the President 's " open skies " plan for mutual aerial inspection and the exchange of military information would intensify fear and suspicion , rather than allaying them . On this point Marshal Bulganin wrote : " Judge for yourself , Mr. President : What would the military leaders of your country do if it were reported to them that the aerophotography showed , that your neighbor had more airfields ? To be sure , they would order an immediate increase in the number of their own airfields . Naturally , our military leaders would do the same . " * The result would be a further intensification of the armaments race . " lGerinan unification . Marshal Bulganin said the Soviet Union had no choice but to reject Western proposals for achieving this aim at the Foreign Ministers Conference in Geneva last fall . He declared that the West in , sisted on a plan to " re-establish militarism in all Germany " and to include a united Germany in the Atlantic alliance . cFreeing the captive states . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintained " the principle that the internal system in any state was the concern only of its own people . ( Mast-West contacts . Marshal Bulganin declared that the Soviet Union had no choice but to reject Western proposals for free traffic in information , ideas and people because these " envisaged direct interference " in its internal affairs . He also declared that the exchange of delegations between the two countries was encountering " serious obstacles " on the part of the United States . He held out the hope , however , that by " joint effort " the two countries would succeed in liquidating " the socalled iron curtain . "                     