@@720304

txt Henry J. Friendly of New York was nominated by President Eisenhower today to fill the yearold vacancy on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit . The President also named Lloyd F. of New York to the Federal District Court for the Southern District of New York . Both appointments are subject to Senate confirmation . The two judicial vacancies have been the subject of extraordinary political struggles during the last year . And there were indications today of possible difficulties before the two ' nominees could be confirmed . Javits Remains Silent New York 's senior Senator , Jacob K. Javits , refused to make any comment on the nominations . Ordinarily , Senators from the affected state issue laudatory statements when judgesi are nominated . Senator Javits , a Republican , has been regarded as a supporter of another possible nominee for the Second Circuit vacancy , Federal District Judge Irving R. Kaufman , For a time last year it appeared that Judge Kaufman would in fact be the nominee . The district judgeship also was filled against Senator Javits ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former Justice Department official and assistant manager of Nelson A. Rockefeller 's campaign for Governor last fall . Mr. Metzner may still receive another judicial appointment . Praise From Keating . New York 's junior Senator , Kenneth B. Keating , also a Republican , praised both Mr. Friendly and Mr , today as " fine lawyers with excellent backgrounds . " He said he would not object to either as " personally obnoxious " ? an objection ordinarily sufficient to kill a nomination . Despite his apparent annoyance , it is considered unlikely that Senator Javits would interpose such a personal objection . One reason is that Mr. Friendly 's qualifications have been highly praised by legal groups and leaders of the bar . The American ' Bar Association 's Committee on the Federal Judiciary , which passes on candidates for judgeships , gave Mr. Friendly its highest rating ? " exceptionally well-qualified . " That recommendation was based in part on appraisals by local bar associations in the New York area . Mr. Friendly , who is 55 years old , is a partner in the firm of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also is vice president and general counsel of Pan American World Airways , Mr. Friendly is a registered Republican , but he has not been active politically . One of the difficulties the Administration never did overcome in his nomination was the lack of endorsement from the New York Republican organization . The nomination was pushed hard by the Justice Department , despite the political obstacles , on the ground that Mr. Friendly 's eminence and reputation as a lawyer made him a natural choice for the Second Circuit . The Second Circuit hears appeals from Federal District Courts in New York , Connecticut and Vermont . It gets much of the country 's big commercial litigation and has always been regarded as second in importance to the Supreme Court in the Federal judicial system . Those who have supported Judge Kaufman 's promotion to the Second Circuit include Senator Styles Bridges of New Hampshire , considered the most powerful Senate Republican , and Representative Emanuel Celler , Democrat of Brooklyn , chairman of the House Judiciary Committee . Judge Kaufman , , presided at the espionage trial of Julius and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wide backing from Republicans . He also had the support of Harold R. Medina , the judge whose retirement from the Second Circuit made the vacancy . Mr. , who is 46 years old , is a former national chairman of Citizens for Eisenhower-Nixon . He is a graduate of Cornell College and Law School and has his own law office in New York . He was chief assistant to Edward J. Lumbard , now a judge on the Second Circuit , when the latter was United States Attorney in New York from 1953 to 1955 . Was U. S. Attorney Here Mr. was United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York for three months in 1955 after serving as chief assistant for two years . As chief assistant , Mr. handled the successful prosecutions of Frank Costello for income tax evasion ; Henry ( the Dutchman ) Grunewald , Washington influence peddler , for conspiracy to fix income tax cases , and Robert Thompson , Communist party secretary , for contempt . The newly designated Federal judge for the Second District , which takes in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seven other counties upstate , will succeed Lawrence E. Walsh , Judge Walsh resigned from the Federal bench to become Deputy United States Attorney General . Mr. is married to the former Margaret Daly of Elmira , his hometown . They live in White Plains with their four children , Patricia , 19 , Kathleen , 18 , John , 11 , and Theresa , 9 :                     