@@713979

txt Current arrangements exclude the press from the Kaesong meeting . Newsmen will be permitted to see and photograph the truce party leaving Kimpo at 9 a.m. but will not be able to talk with its members . When the representatives return , it is expected that correspondents will be briefed as soon as possible on the outcome of the discussions . Meanwhile , a so-called " peace train " is being kept in readiness at the Seoul central passenger station . The train consists of 24 of the best available passenger cars , including several originally used by Japanese royalty . It is hauled by two newly arrived Diesel engines , which are the first in Korea . This train is being refurbished throughout with car trucks , newly painted , and screens installed in the windows . Car With Map Room Included are a car containing a map room , several cars fitted for conferences , numerous office cars equipped with desks for staff work , hospital cars used as dormitories , and a number of sleeping cars complete with private rooms with plush upholstery and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as well as dining cars , and a number of sleeping cars have private dining or conference rooms . A pilot train consisting of one Diesel engine pushing several flat cars has made a trial run north of Seoul along the line to Munsan to make certain the track is in good condition . How the train will be used , as well as where or when , is unknown here . It is clear , however , that it is designed either for use as a meeting place for United Nations-Communist negotiations after the initial . truce has been accepted or as mobile headquarters for Allied representatives at Munsan or elsewhere when good facilities are not available . The brief Ridgway message July 5 accepting the Communist offer to meet July 8 instead of July 5 , as the UN commander previously had suggested , emphasized the desire of UN officials for a " positive safe conduct " assurance . Communist truce communications so far have not mentioned safe-conduct for the negotiators . General Ridgway " requested " reply which presumably will be forthcoming before the July 8 meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lack of explanation of many important questions bearing on the truce decision . The plain desire of the UN leaders to hold talks at the earliest possible date is manifested in several Ridgway messages which sought to advance the meeting date and eliminate any possible stumbling blocks that would delay Communist acceptance . The explanation that this will save soldiers ' lives is a valid but not fully convincing explanation . Not Complete Victory This has led to speculation that some new development of international importance may have convinced UN leaders of need for haste . It is wondered here if conditions in Iran , Europe , or elsewhere have deteriorated enough to force the UN hand in Korea . In this connection Gen. George C. Marshall 's surprise visit here and his previous warnings that the situation still is serious are remembered . Even the impending arrival of the Korean rainy season or a possible Chinese build-up for another offensive is being taken into consideration by those seeking a broader explanation of the developments here . One thing is plain  --  however severely the Communists have been punished in Korea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the negotiations are taking place in an atmosphere in which the enemy can claim victory as much as the UN can . Some observers concede that the truce settlement at the 38th parallel is indeed a Communist victory in view of the UN 's previously announced aim of unifying Korea . Tough Negotiations Loom It is considered likely that ne ? gotiations carried out under these circumstances will find enemy representatives slow to make concessions and difficult to convince they are at the table other than as complete equals . They certainly can not be dictated to as from victors to vanquished . And their demands are likely to be as stiff as UN demands . This even may mean that after July 8 the wheels will turn very slowly in the direction of a permanent cease fire . Sd far the Chinese Communists have answered promptly , but there is no evidence of great haste on their part to engage in talks at the earliest possible date . On the fighting fronts , meanwhile , the tempo of battle bas slackened temporarily . Exchange of prisoners faces delays in Korea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              