@@716943

txt In his annual message to the City Council last year , a month after taking office , Mayor Wagner expressed the hope that " when I Ireturn to this chamber next year I will be able to report a record of accomplishment in which we can all take pride . " Yesterday he returned to the Council to say that " this first year of our administration has been a year of solid accomplishment , ' of progress on ? many fronts , but to admit nevertheless that he was " far from satisfied , " and that " we have only ' laid the foundation this year for better government . " The Mayor made his presentation to the Council and to the people of New York City in a. seven-page address and a seventy-nine-page illustrated report that , in itself , set a precedent . To our knowledge there has never been an annual message to the Council , as required by the City Charter , that remotely approaches this report for scope , comprehensiveness , factual content , readability , political restraint or objective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worst of it in his claims of progress . But , beginning with the title page " Foundations for Better Government , " he 1 sets the theme of recognition that only a beginning has been made . We now begin to see unmistakably what a major turning point in city affairs the report of the Mayor 's Management survey was . As Mr. Wagner says , " the most significant development in the structure of the city 's government in the last twenty years was the creation of the office of City Administrator . " He adds that " this centralized agency of government has worked well , " and the Administrator and his deputies have " attacked a multitude of city problems with originality and understanding . " Fundamental reforms and reorganizations have been put under I way : the appointment of Dr. Luther Gulick as City Administrator ; the strengthening of the Mayor 's office , and the choice of able men such as Deputy Mayor Henry Epstein to staff it ; civil service reform , with a new commission and a new Department of Personnel and director @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , looking to reclassification of employes ; creation of a Department of Labor Relations ; creation of a Department of Commerce and Public Events ; the use of citizens ' advice to an extent not known before ; finally , as to reorganization , the strengthening of the wesstagement function , especial ? , teiticeable in a few major clsVslit rents . But the ' Atgor 's report does not attempt ! , conceal the fact that we still 11 ..... ve far to go . The question of finances remains serious . The likelihood grows of a future redress of inequities of state aid . Greater home rule authority over our own taxing powers is also logical . But major questions that lie ahead are : Will the Wagner administration persevere or weary in its pursuit of improvement and , secondly , will the taxpayer bear the cost of reform without political rebellion ? For the tax bill has only begun to come in . One of the disappointments of the past year has been the failure thus far to develop a long-range financial program . It is hoped that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We await pension reforms , more economies . Waterfront , traffic , sanitation , salary problems abound . Other important programs are in the developmental rather than the accomplished stage . As the Mayor says , " we face difficulties which at times seem almost insurmountable . " Nevertheless , it must be admitted that things are on the move in New York City and the direction is forward .                     