@@715352

txt The State Department gave to a House of Representatives Judiciary subcommittee today a frank report of the way in which it had dealt with twenty-five cases of Americans employed by the United Nations about whom derogatory loyalty reports had been received . Each of the persons involved in the cases had been a witness before a New York Federal grand jury that investigated last year reports of Communist infiltration of the United Nations . The grand jury charged , in a presentment handed up Dec. 2 , that the State Department and the Department of Justice had hampered its inquiry . The subcommittee , of which Representative Kenneth B. Keating , Republican of upstate New York , is chairman , was appointed to investigate the Department of Justice . Its inquiry into the New York grand jury situation , however , has been more concerned with the State Department . 12 Still Employed by U. N. Five of the cases about which testimony was given today involved , persons whose names had been submitted to the United Nations in 1946 as possible employes1 by Alger Hiss , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Political Affairs . Hiss is now serving a five-year prison sentence for having lied about his acquaint-1 ante and association with Whit-I taker Chambers , former courier for Soviet spy rings in the United States . Ten of the individuals involved had appeared as witnesses before the Senate Internal Security subcommittee , then headed by Senator Pat McCarran , Democrat of Ne , vada , which investigated communism in the United Nations last I year . Seven of these refused to answer questions as to whether they were or had ever been members of the Communist party . Of the twenty-five involved in today 's testimony , twelve are still employed by the United Nations , nine have been discharged , three have resigned and one is now on compulsory leave . Of the five persons whose names were submitted by Hiss , one resigned , three were dismissed and one is still employed , according to State Department records . These reports showed that one of the five also had been sponsored by Hiss for a position with the American delegation to the San Francisco Conference in 1946 at which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ received ten reports on this individual showing his membership in the Communist party from 1945 through 1952 . He denied membership in the party before the McCarrell subcommittee but resigned from the United Nations on Jan. 7 last . Another of the five on the Hiss list was alleged in the reports to have been in contact with Communists and Communist sympathizers , to have contributed to Communist organizations and to have signed petitions favorabe to Communists . The State Department made no adverse report on him , it was testified . The United Nations terminated his employment in January but has since reinstated him and he is now working to the New York headquarters , according to State Department records . 53 U. N. Aides Testified In all , there were fifty-three United Nations employes who testified before the New York grand jury . Forty-seven worked in the Secretariat and only these were processed by the State Department under a secret agreement made in 1949 in which the depart- , 3-tient agreed to give the Secretary ' General a report on names sub-i nutted by him . Hence only forty-seven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the subcommittee . The re-. maining twenty-two cases will be , discussed tomorrow . The State Department official ; who gave evidence today was John W. Ford . director of the Office of Security . Mr. Ford , who presented ; his data by means of charts , will ; continue his testimony tomorrow ) , and Scott . Administrator of the Bureau of Security and Con-1 sular Affairs , is also scheduled to ! be a witness . Robert A. Collier , chief counsel for the subcommittee , said that her knew of no previous instance when1 State Department records had been disclesed in such detail and i discussed with such frankness at ) sessions m ' a Congressional corn- ; mittee . Some of the information die- ' closed had been refused the sub- : committee ny State Departmentl officials during the administration ) of former Secretary Dean Acheson . ) Mr. Ford . however , obviously spoke with the authorization of his superiors . The subcommittee was particularly interested in the time that had elapsed between the date the United Nations asked for a report on an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adverse information was transmitted to the secretary-General by the State Department , Mr. Ford 's testimony gave seven months as the shortest time in any case and three years and two months as the longest . 35 Reports on One In the case of one of the employes , thirty-five reports bearing on his activities in the Communist party , his association with persons involved in espionage , and his con- ' tacts with Communists and Communist sympathizers were received by the State Department . Nineteen ' reports were received on another employe , and more than ten were received on several . No names were disclosed . The cases were designated only as " Witness No. so and so . " The case that most startled subcommittee members was that of Witness No. 17 . There were sixteen reports on him to the State Department , and one of them alleged that he had actually been involved in espionage . He was said also to have been a Communist party organizer . Mr. Keating noted that this person had been discharged on Oct. 30 last year , three years after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a short time after he had refused to tell the McCarran subcommittee if he was or ever has been a Communist . The State Department 's report on him went to the United Nations seven months , after his name had been submitted by the Secretary-General for investigation . Mr. Ford 's charts showed " Witness No. 6 " was alleged to have been elected a member of the executive committee of a Communist-dominated organization as far back as 1945 , that he had been in contact with &imam.; suspected Communists . and that he had reg-i istered as a voter of a politicali party described as Communistic by i the House Un-American Activities ! Committee . " No. 6 " is still employed by the United Nations . Mr. Keating de- ; ( dared that this was a serious case and told Mr. Ford that he wanted ! action taken on it before sundown : tonight . Mr. Ford agreed that something , would be done . The United States I Government has no authority tot discharge United Nations employes or to give instructions to that body regarding its personnel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the United Nations in ten of thenI cases discussed in today 's testimony . despite the fact that the State Department had received derogatory reports front the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other , agencies . Mr. Ford pointed out that favorable information on them out- ; weighed derogatory information . ' ; He emphasized that the information the department received was , purely alleged and sometimes was not supported by facts revealed after further investigation . Mr. Ford said that the investigations of United Nations employes , dealt chiefly with matters pertaining to loyalty but that " social defects " entered into the picture and were also reported . " Social defectives. " he said , had been quite a problem to the State Department and an average of one individual " had been separated " from the department every three days for the last two years .                     