@@720558

txt Frol R. Kozlov , Soviet First Deputy Premier , proclaimed in Washington today his Government 's unyielding stand on the Berlin crisis . He said the Soviet Union was ready to sign a separate peace treaty with East Germany if ' a negotiated settlement with the West proved , impossible . He left no doubt such a settlement should be based on Soviet proposals to make West Berlin a free city surrounded by Communist territory . He warned grimly that " force will be met with force " if the West tried that means to maintain its position in West Berlin . In a one-hour appearance beIfore Washington reporters , the Soviet official followed the line laid down many times since last November by Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev . No New Proposals Made Mr. Kozlov said he had brought " no new proposals " to Washington . The Soviet stand was laid down at Geneva by Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko , he added , " and we have not received an answer. : ' His statements killed any hopes that his visit to the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issues raised at the recessed Geneva conference of foreign ministers . Mr. Kozlov was guest of honor at a luncheon sponsored jointly by the National Press Club and the Overseas Writers , an organization of Washington correspondents specializing in foreign affairs . His appearance in the Presidential Room of the &atter; Hilton Hotel was televised by the National Broadcasting Company . Six Questions Answered He spoke for forty-five minutes . including translation time , though it had been agreed that his address would take thirtyfive minutes . He then answered Isix questions  --  all that time permited  --  selected in advance by him and Ambassador Mikhail A. Menshikov from those submitted by reporters . In addition to following a tough and uncompromising line on the Berlin dispute , Mr. Kozlov : 41Urged that suspicion and mistrust be eliminated in United States-Soviet relations : 41Said the very idea of war was hateful to the Soviet people and that for the Government in his country the will of the people was " sacred law . " ElPainted a glowing picture of Soviet progress and said his country would have the highest living standard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on whether he might succeed Premier Khrushchev by saying the present leader in Moscow was healthy and would live a long time . Officials said the Soviet First Deputy Premier , in his state-. ment of the Soviet attitude on Berlin , had followed the line he developed yesterday in talks with President Eisenhower ands Secretary of State Christian A.1 Herter . Apparently to evaluate this evidence of continued rigidity on Moscow 's part , the President met this morning for almost two hours with his military and diplomatic advisers . The White House would not comment on the session . There . was nothing of an emergency nature about the White . House meeting . Officials who are concerned with negotiating . with the Russians said no one in a position of responsibility had thought Mr. Kozlov would produce any new proposals . Secretary Herter told reporters Mr. Kozlov 's visit had done nothing to ease tensions . He said there had been no change in Soviet demands that the Western powers get out of Berlin . Mr. Kozlov read only part of his prepared statement in Russian . However @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the Soviet Government 's interpreters . The First Deputy Premier opened his speech with a call for more contact and better understanding between the Soviet and American peoples . He said such things as the Soviet Exhibition in New York , which he opened this week , and the coming American Exhibition in Moscow could provide a basis for friendship between the two peoples . Then he spoke of the desirability of promoting peace in the world . His people , he said , hear " with indignation " rumors and statements that the Soviet Union wants to start a new war . He said there was " no greater slan-1 der against the Soviet Union than this . " He cited the tremendous loss- ' es , both material and human , that his country suffered in World War H. As for the leaders , he said , the " will of the Soviet people is sacred law for the Government of the Soviet Union . " The Soviet official painted a glowing picture of material progress in the Soviet Union and an even brighter prospect for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ithinking about catching up with ' the capitalists , " he said , " but they who are thinking about how not to lag behind us . " In fifteen years , he said , the Soviet Union will have " the highest living standard in the ' world . " His Government plans Ito eliminate direct taxes , expand social security and intro duce the shortest working week I in the world in the present seven-year plan , he said . He asked how any government that had goals like these could even think of war . He said the Soviet Union was prepared to demonstrate its good will on the international scene . It is ready to withdraw military forces from Europe if the United States does the same , he ? said . He added that the Soviet Union was eager to agree to , end nuclear tests . Mr. Kozlov recalled that MosCow-had.offered to sign a treaty of ' friendship with the United States and to negotiate a non'aggression part between the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Ind the Warsaw Pact . The First Deputy Premier said ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet r Union and the United States . It would benefit both countries , he said . He denied that it would mean capitalist ' assistance in building communism . " We are quite able to build communism without the aid of the capitalists , " he said . Trade would promote contacts and better understanding , he contended . The question period was conducted by William H. Lawrence of The New York Times , president of the National Press . Club . He said that contrary to usual club procedure the pest , on Soviet insistence , had been given the right to pick the questions he wanted to answer . After the luncheon the Soviet Ambassador showed some irritation that the screening arrangement had been made public . He said the arrangements had been agreed to in advance with the Department of State . " I did not criticize you , " said Mr. Lawrence . ' ' I simply reported the facts . " Of about twenty questions picked by Mr. Lawrence as the best of more than a hundred submitted , the Russians selected nine Mr. Kozlov @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Of the approved questions for which there was no time , one asked for Mr. Kozlov 's appraisal of President Eisenhower , one asked why Jews in the Soviet Union did not have the same rights as other minority groups , and one inquired what opportunities there were for increased trade .                     