@@720493

txt Specks ! . The New York Times . GUAYAQUIL , Ecuador , June 6 ? Like a fire control board flashing with red warning lights , the map of Latin Ameri ca came alive this week with danger signs of deep unrest . The pattern of this unrest ' was mixed and varied from country to country : In several instances it was the stability of democratic governments that came under attacks ; in others it was the fate of the Western Hemisphere 's few remaining autocratic regimes that hung in the balance . But underlying all the strife and pressures that suddenly burst into the open in the vast region was the basic ferment of dissatisfaction with the state of economic , social and political affairs , the ferment of Latin America caught in the midcentury 's crisis of growth . In Nicaragua and Paraguay , the governments faced an onslaught by forces seeking the establishment of fully democratic governments . In Nicaragua President Luis A. Somoza Debayle , not completely a dictator , fought back against rebels who drew inspiration , if not actual support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very much a dictator of the classical model , stood in danger of a popular revolt against his tough rule . As desperate measures to save his regime , he disbanded his own rubber-stamp Congress , arrested leaders of his own party who held somewhat more liberal views than he did and filled the streets of the capital city , Asuncion , with thus-far loyal troops . Week 's Events In Ecuador , martial law went into effect this week in the wake of bloody riots in Guayaquil . In Peru , constitutional guarantees remained suspended and forty-two Opposition leaders were in prison on suspicion of having planned to overthrow the government . In Argentina , the Government threw troops into the streets of Buenos Aires to prevent planned major disturbances against the austerity policies of President Arturo Frondizi . In Colombia , the week saw street riots , a strike of oil workers , the recrudescence of hinterland violence and the unmasking of a reported con- ' spiracy to dynamite the water-1 works of the capital , Bogota , as the first step toward the ouster of the constitutional Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quelled demonstrations against the high cost of living . And in almost every case Communist parties , more active now in the hemisphere than they have been in a long time and apparently better-coordinated than ever before , busily sought to exploit situations that were ready made for them . This was true in varying degress in the disturbances last week and this week in Argentina , ' Colombia , Ecuador and Peru , and significantly the Soviet Union lost no time in expressing satisfaction over the developments . In a Spanish-language broadcast Thursday night the Moscow radio gloatingly commented that " democratic forces " in the Americas were being channeled toward the final objective of freeing the area of Yankee imperialism . It announced that the Ecuadorian Communists were with " the people " What happened in Guayaquil  --  and it was the bloodiest of the week 's occurrences in Latin America  --  was that a clash between students and the police Tuesday night over local grievances and an earlier military incident exploded into a situation so serious that the Ecuadorian Government proclaimed martial law over the whole nation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the business establishments of this wealthy , bustling harbor town of 500,000 inhabitants and imposed an around-the-clock curfew that was not lifted until yesterday morning . The death toll for the two nights of fighting stood at twenty-four . Even assuming that the Guayaquil riots lacked an initial political basis , as indeed appeared to be the case , they demonStrated how easily and swiftly ! the volatile Latin American masses can be pushed into unreasoned violence , much of it with overtones of social and economic protest . Explosive Potential And by the same token , the events here have shown with what ease this explosive potential can  --  to use the words of the Moscow radio ? " be channelled " by skilled leadership into almost any direction . Thus in the little Ecuadorean coastal town of Portoviejo a mob of conscripts- and armed civilians last week shot and burned an army captain whose purported mistreatment of a recruit led the soldier to attempt to kill the officer and then to commit suicide . The Guayaquil students rioted in sympathy with the recruit . All this probably had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the incidents as proof of the " active nonconformism of the proletarian and intellectual classes with North American imperialism , which directs Latin American policies seeking to spread among the people false ideas of fraternity and of selfless Pan-American cooperation . " The Communists made it plain long ago that they would oppose all forms of inter-American cooperation , including specifically the conferences of the hemisphere 's presidents and foreign ministers to be held in Ectrador next February . President Camilo Ponce Enriquez of Ecuador used this as one reason for proclaiming martial law here Tuesday . He spoke of a defense against " foreign Communist aggression . " Two Phases Recent Latin-American history indicates that by and large the aspirations and anxieties of the nations in the hemisphere have been developing in two successive phases . First came the drive to obtain liberties and the erection of democratic governments . Then the concentration was on remedying the region 's traditional social . and economic ills and inequalities . Freedom of discussion , the unfettered functioning of political parties and trade unions as well as the free play of demagogic forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needs of the unsophisticated masses  --  indead all these elements that can exist only under democratic regimes  --  are coinciding to bring pressures in the economic and social fields . Immense pdpulation increases In the post-war period , combined with brave but often chaotic attempts at material development of the Latin-American republics , with consequent inflation and most recently with serious economic crises in most countries , have aggravated these pressures to the point of extreme danger . In the context of the current happenings , Nicaragua and Paraguay are going through the first of these phases : that of a struggle for political freedoms . The movements now under way in the two republics are the latest of the waves of liberty that began rolling in 1955 with the overthrow of Juan Peron as the dictator of Argentina and came to a climax with the ouster of Cuba 's Fulgencio Batista last Jan , 1 , leaving in their wake a total of five fallen autocrats . The only wave that has not yet begun rising to a crest is one that may some day engulf the Dominican Republic 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last dictator with complete control over his nation . While the dictatorships have usually succeeded in maintaining an illusion of economic and social peace and in silencing protests , the fa  --  ades cave in with their departures from the scene . The people become aware of the facts and stage is set for the second phase in the Hemisphere 's crisis . And this crisis of man 's aspirations for a better life likewise is sharpening in nations like Brazil , Chile and Ecuador , which long have enjoyed political freedom . Castro 's Way In Cuba , whether he was doing it rightly or wrongly , Premier Fidel Castro followed up his political revolution with a ; social revolution , providing a leadership that , haphazard as it may be , nonetheless seems to meet the aspirations of a majority of his people . But in some of the other republics recently freed from dictatorships , as well as in certain other countries of the region , no such leadership , even on a moderate scale , seems to be forthcoming . And this is where the impatience of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reaching a solution is exploding in strife on the smallest provocation . Such chiefs of state as Argen-1 tina 's Arturo Frondizi or Colombia 's Alberto Lleras Camergo , buried as they are under the weight of immediate emergency problems inherited from the dictatorships , can not easily grasp the flag of social and economic reform without endangering the stability of their regimes . On the other hand , they run the risk of explosions . In other instances , the new democratic governments are still caught in the vise of antiquated social and economic structures that somehow can not be loosened by normal means . And with the pressures of want and of demagoguery swiftly rising , they may thus be courting disaster .                     