@@715597

txt Do n't confuse Walter Robertson with Robin Roberts or Walter Johnson . They have been good at their business , too . You may not be able to answer 20 questions about Mr. Robertson ? who he is and what makes him run ? and some may not be able to answer two . But if the news develops the way we hope it is developing . we are all going to become more intimately acquainted with Walter Robertson and more aware of his talents . At the moment he is proving that all the diplomatists have not resigned or been fired from the State Department . What Assistant Secretary of State Robertson has done is to negotiate patiently , constructively , and effectively with Syngman Rhee , President of the Republic of Korea , and to win his plighted word to abide by a truce , if the Communists accept . If skill and wisdom and humility and strength deserve reward in diplomacy , as bravery beyond the line of duty deserves reward on the battlefield , then the Assistant Secretary for Far Eastern Affairs merits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ text of the Rhee-Robertson agreement bears out its advance notices and that Mr. Robertson has won , as he has indicated , President Rhee 's solid agreement to abide by the truce . A A A What particular things did Mr. Robertson take to these negotiations which brought such a valuable climax after previous attempts by some of the generals had failed ? I suspect ' that what Mr. Robertson brought to these discussions with that proud patriot of 48 years of resistance to invaders of his country and torture and exile was a full and honest appreciation , esteem , and respect for the real Syngman Rhee . The evidence is that he dealt with Mr. Rhee , from the very outset , as a man whose convictions on the dangers and unreliability of a truce were honestly held and as arguable as his own and his government 's . President Eisenhower 's well-chosen envoy did not have it in his mind nor on his agenda to contend that Mr. Rhee 's position on the truce was morally unsound and that our position was alone morally sound . He took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to another the realization that he could and did appreciate the other 's position . The talks between the two went on for days . Mr. Robertson did not hurry . He did not bluster . He did not " talk tough . " He set out to under- Pletcher , South Bend Tribune Rotation stand Mr. Rhee 's way of thinking , and in doing so there can be no doubt that he helped to create within Mr. Rhee 's mind a willingness and perhaps , indeed , to strengthen Mr. Rhee 's capacity to see and understand things beyond his own immediate horizon . Mr. Robertson enabled Mr. Rhee to realize that if , with United States and with UN military aid , the ROK troops were not unifying all Korea by force , they would have little hope of unifying Korea by force without United States and UN aid . Mr. Robertson enabled Mr. Rhee to realize that the United States is seeking to shield all the free nations of Asia from Communist aggression and that the ending Of the Korea aggression north of the 38th parallel conceivably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole free world . Mr. Robertson enabled Mr. Rhee to realize that an extremely impressive case can be made for turning again to the conference table to see if unification and free elections can not be achieved by agreement in Korea  --  as well as in Germany . It took bigness for President Rhee to recede from the position which he had taken against the truce . There is that quality in the words which he used to correspondents in discussing his talks with Mr. Robertson . " I have been conquered , " he said . Mr. Rhee has not been conquered , and he deserves never to be conquered . He is the leader of the strongest , best-equipped , highest moraled anti-Communist forces in the Far East today . The will to resist Communist tyranny to the very end is universal and militant among the Korean people . I think it would be accurate to say that there is no more anti - Communist population on earth at the moment than in South Korea . Korea needs the West , and the West needs Korea . Nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Robertson and President Rhee , dealing with each other as friends and partners , have remolded the bond as allies . A A A If Mr. Robertson is to receive a " well done " from Congress , he probably will have to pass muster before the committee on government operations whose chairman , Senator Joseph R. McCarthy ( R ) of Wisconsin , has said : " I am going to continue to fight the State Department as long as they keep sending those Acheson-Truman holdovers to appear before us . " That gives Mr. Robertson the quick brush , because he is a Virginia Eisenhower Democrat and investment banker , and has ably and patriotically served the State Department under President Roosevelt , President Truman , and President Eisenhower .                     