@@714260

txt KOREA FOE PRESSES FOR SPEEDY ACCORD ON RED TRUCE LINE Enemy Is So Insistent Allied Conferee Questions Whether Demand Is Ultimatum OPTIMISM STARTS TO FADE Communist Sources Talk Again of Continued War  --  Kaesong Key Issue in Dispute By LINDESAY PARROTT Special to THE ICEw Yor.K TIMES . TOKYO , Saturday , Nov. 3 ? The Communists pressed yesterday for quick acceptance by the United Nations of their proposed new line for an armistice in the Korean war . In a meeting of more than three hours in the conference tent at Panmunjom , the Chinese and North Korean members of the military subcommittee attempting to fix a demarcation zone for termination of the hostilities maintained their attitude of " take it or leave it . " At one point , they proved so insistent on a yes or no answer to the whole proposal that Maj. Gen. Henry I. Hodes , senior Allied member of the subcommittee , inquired whether they were presenting an ultimatum . The answer was not revealed . Previously , the Communists had insisted that their proposal  --  the second they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was their best offer , and their last . Most of yesterday 's session was spent in a topographical argument , over the lines proposed by the Communists and the United Nations Command , now largely in agreement , except on the extreme left flank of the United States Eigfath Army , where the enemy sought to retain the area of Raesong , south of the old boundary on the Thirty-eighth Parallel . Seek Area of Defense The United Nations negotiators maintain that this sector should be controlled by the Allies to provide the necessary defense in depth for the Korean republican capital of Seoul in case of a breakdown of the cease-fire and a renewed enemy onslaught . " Both subcommittees continued to advance arguments supporting their views for a zone of demilitarization and demarcation , " an Allied bulletin said yesterday evening . Brig . Gen. William P. Nuckols , official spokesman at ' Allied advance headquarters , told correspondents that " neither side gave an inch . " IC appeared probable that , after making rapid progress during the last week , the subcommittee meetings might again be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issue . The discussion continued today at the tenth session of the subcommittee , which convened at 11 A. M. 9 P. M. Friday , Eastern standard time . The United Press said the session recessed at 1:30 P. M. until 4 P. M. Dispatches from Korea said the original optimism of the United Nations party had begun to fade , and official and unofficial Communist sources were talking again of a continued war . Chou Charges U. S. Plot The Peiping radio broadcast a long statement by Chou En-lai , Chinese Communist Premier and Foreign Minister , to the National Committee of the People 's Political Consultative Council in the Chinese capital renewing charges that the United States was " unwilling , for diplomatic and domestic reasons , to reach a quick agreement in the cease-fire negotiations . " " The Chinese people must be prepared in every way possible against failure of the negotiations resulting from obstructions on the part of the United States , " Mr , Chou warned . " With a view to defending peace and security in China and Korea , as well as in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to raise their vigilance and support with all their efforts the long-term struggle to resist American aggression and aid Korea . " Mr. Chou declared that , " so far as military equipment is concerned , the Chinese People 's Volunteers still are inferior in comparison with the American aggressive forces . " But he asserted that the Chinese intervention in Korea had " upset the timetable " of the United Mates . Ominously , Mr. Chou Dupled Korea with Formosa and seat for Communist China in the ' nited Nations . He said the Chinese Communists Jntinued on Page 2 , Column 2 REDS DEMAND U. I ACCEPT TRUCE LINE // would " never relax " while the Nationalist regime occupied the island , and he accused the United States of keeping China from " rightful " membership in the international organization . Communist correspondents at Panmunjom , who often propagandize their Allied opposite numbers with views supposedly representing those of their official delegation , also were less optimistic yesterday than before . Alan Winnington of The London Daily Worker threatened that , unless the United Nations agreed to cede @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even if the armistice line could be settled , he predicted , it . would take three months to negotiate the remaining points on the agenda ? a period that would carry the war into the worst of its second winter in Korea . The remaining points ire an exchange of guarantees for enforcement of the truce conditions , exchange of prisoners and formulation of recommendations to the governments of both sides on the political aspects of a ceasefire . Cites Allied Concessions Official Allied sources made it plain yesterday evening why examination over the last few days of the latest Communist proposal , confirmed the initial reaction that it was unacceptable . " The Communist-proposed zone ( incorporates all concessions previously offered by the United Nations command , but they make no corresponding adjustment at any point , " the headquarters communiqu ? said . This argument was elaborated on by General Nuckols at the evening briefing session . He pointed out that the United Nations , in its original proposal for a demarcation zone across the peninsula , had agreed to withdraw from the islands the Allied forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far north as the approaches to Chinnampo on the west . The United Nations troops would pull back al ? o from near Kosong on the eastern front and from the Kumsong. salient in the east-central mountains . Instead of debating this program . in which they had been notified that some adjustments could ' be made , the Communists produced their counter-proposal . This adopted all the United Nations concessions , but held out for the retention of Kaesong and , up to yesterday 's session , the Communists adopted an attitude that their plan must be taken in toto , . without further bargaining . May Be Bluff by Enemy . Whether the unyielding approacn represented the actual Communist conviction that they could yield no more , or whether it was a bluff was a matter of speculation . Some observers believed it was in an attempt to determine this question that General Hodes demanded of the Communists whether they had an " ultimatum " in mind . There . was some question also how firmly the United Nations might cling to its demand for possession of Kaesong . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correspondents that the United Nations members of the subcommittee were " strongly demanding " the town , but not " adamantly . " The wrecked town lies in flat rolling country commanded by hills to the north and south , and presumably itself is of little military value , except for the important water barrier of the Yesong River some miles farther on . However , an enemy occupying the Kaesong area in force would be close up against a strong United Nations defense line anchored on the Imjin River . It has been a military contention here that a buffer zone between the main positions through which patrols could scout would he the best assurance against a build-up of strength by the enemy and a break-off of the armistice later with a sudden surprise attack .                     