@@718629

txt There is something rather heartwarming surrounding the success story of Mr. Eisenhower 's nominee to succeed Justice Reed on the nation 's highest court . Judge Whittaker was born on a Kansas farm , quit school to trap and plow to make money to become a lawyer . He saved $700 and set out in 1920 for Kansas City , Missouri , to make his way in the world . He went to night school , finishing his high school education and taking law courses simultaneously . In the daytime he worked as a law firm office boy . Four years later he had passed the Missouri bar examinations and by 1932 his name was added to the firm . The vistas of a long and successful career broadened year by yelir . In 1934 , Mr. Eisenhower nominated . him as Judge of the Federal District Court of Western Missouri , and last June elevated him to the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals . This weekend , Judge Whittaker was picked for the Supreme Court vacancy . Well and good ; but how does one judge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One way is to listen to those who know the man . The two Democratic Senators from Missouri differ politically from Judge Whittaker , but they are enthusiastic about him . " He is highly thought of by all Missourians , especially by his colleagues of the bar , " said Senator Symington . " Delighted , " said Senator Hennings , adding that he will seek Senate confirmation as soon as possible . The American Bar Association has a standing committee working for high caliber Federal judges . " The nomination of Judge Whittaker meets the highest standards for such an appointment , " the chairman said . There probably will be no opposition of consequence in the Senate ; the Senate has already twice confirmed Judge Whittaker in Federal judgeships . Since he is so respected by leaders of the opposition party in his state as well as others who know him well , one may expect that politics will never be allowed to sit beside him on the bench ? and that has not always been the case in choices for the Federal courts . Further , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Supreme Court reqUirement in the last few years . There is another virtue , though , about Judge Whittaker 's nomination that ought not to be overlooked in all the tributes and honors that are being paid to the nominee . If he does meet the high standards that are attributed to him , so will have another man met high standards . For the Federal judiciary can be no better than the Presidents who nominate judges choose to make it .                     