@@719285

txt The Soviet threat to walk out of United Nations disarmament negotiations is seen here as a last , desperate effort to avoid a major defeat on arms control in the current UN general Assembly . Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister Vasily V. Kuznetsov startled the Assembly 's 82-nation political committee Nov. 4 by announcing that Moscow would take no further part in disarmament negotiations so long as the two UN organs which now specialize in the subject retain their present membership . The principal such organ is a five-nation subcommittee consisting of the United States , the Soviet Union , Britain , France , and Canada . India has proposed that neutralist countries be added to this group . The Soviets have demanded that it be scrapped in favor of a year-round conference of 82 nations . Since the West strongly resists any change in the subcommittee neither the Indian plan nor the Soviet plan is likely to be adopted . The Soviets ? thus in effect are threatening to dynamite arms talks altogether . Few UN observers believe the Kremlin really cares particularly about the composition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a 12-nation disarmament commission .. The real issue , it is said here , is a Western-power resolution which , if passed in its present form , would put the full weight of the UN Assembly behind Western arms-control demands , and thus greatly strengthen the Western bargaining position . In private lobbying and public debate Western delegates have rounded up approximately 55 votes for this resolution out of a total of 82 , or enough for a two-thirds majority even if all other nations vote " no. " tually most of the others , except for the Communists , are expected to abstain . Pressure on Kremlin Such a verdict would be a severe jolt to the Kremlin . It would put considerable pressure on Moscow to accept a " cutoff " in production of atom-bomb material , a step which the West has been demanding . Should Moscow go on resisting this step , it would be defying the wishes Of the world community , not merely of the North Atlantic allies . Repeated Soviet efforts to fend off passage of the Western resolution appeared about to fail Nov. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It thus was at the 11th hour that Moscow pulled an ultimatum out of its diplomatic hat . Knowing that the UN majority had no intention of changing the . composition of the subcommittee , Moscow said in effect : " Either change the subcommittee , or we will not negotiate . " Diplomats and observers trained to read between the lines translated this to mean : " Either let up on your pressure , or we will use this pretext to break off negotiations . " The Soviets have tried such ultimatums in the past . Always previously the UN has refused to give in , and always the Soviets have found ways to " forget " their threats when the time came to carry them out . This time , however , some neutralist delegates are saying , in private , " Yes , but the other times the Soviets were n't so strong . They did n't have the Sputnik . " Moscow apparently hopes enough votes will be frightened away from the Western resolution to prevent its passage or at least to dilute its effect . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talks to go on . I Di plomat ie Arrow j The Soviet position , however , ? refusing to negotiate except on Soviet terms  --  is considered a difficult one to defend . It is vulnerable to the charge of obstructing peace , and the Kremlin tries hard to avoid this appearance . United States Delegate Henry Cabot Lodge shot a diplomatic arrow at this weak spot when he said , " We do  --  not believe that any nation seriously wishes to stand for all future time before the world and before recorded history as the nation which broke up and which ended humanity 's effort to achieve disarmament and to achieve peace . " We trust that this is just a passing thought and that wiser counsels will prevail . " Some neutralists , notably India , tended in private to blame the United States for refusing to expand the subcommittee to include India , and also for declining to let all resolutions  --  including the Western  --  be referred to the subcommittee without any of them being endorsed by the Assembly . The latter . course has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sought a victory this year , rather than a unanimous  --  and meaningless ? resolution of referral . Washington believes that an arms treaty might become feasible if enough pressure could be brought to bear on Moscow to force acceptance of the " cutoff . " Other elements of the Western arms " package " have been accepted , broadly speaking : only the " cut-oft ' " remains as a major roadblock .                     