@@719918

txt United States observers on Formosa are not yet sure whether the continuing Chinese Communist bombardment of Quemoy presages an all-out attempt by Peking to invade Quemoy , Little Quemoy , or any other of the tiny islands the Nationalists hold off the Chinese coastline . The bombardments , which began Aug. 23 and were continuing Aug. 24 and 25 , plastered Quemoy and some of its satellite islands with nearly 80,000 artillery shells the first two days , and resulted in more than 400 fatalities and casualties , the Nationalists said . American observers have been alarmed by the intensity of the bombardment and by strafing attacks on  --  Quemoy Aug. 24 by eight MIG-17 fighter planes . The MIG forays were the first air attacks the Communists have mounted against the Nationalists . But they noted that the Communists so far do not seem to have concentrated ground troops or landing barges in numbers sufficient to indicate an invasion attempt . Thus , while the United States Defense Department ordered the Seventh Fleet and other American naval forces in the Far East to take normal precautionary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Taiwan ( Formosa ) Strait , " American forces do not appear yet to be moving to counter an immediate invasion attempt . Defense Pledge Traced The United States is pledged by treaty to defend Formosa and the neighboring Pescadore Islands . It has never explicitly stated whether it would defend Nationalist-held offshore islands , of which the two principal groups are Quemoy and its satellite islands off Amoy and the Matsu Islands near Foochow . The motive behind this lack of precisfon in the United States attitude , it is said , is to " keep the Communists guessing . " But it also is agreed that any withdrawal from the offshore islands at this point would entail severe loss of prestige for both the Nationalists and the United States . Meanwhile , in Taipei , Chinese Nationalists claimed they had turned back a sea-borne Communist attempt to seize an islet 17 miles south of Quemoy late Aug. 24 . They said Nationalist naval units sank two Communist torpedo boats and captured three survivors . Peking Accuses U.S. In Peking , Communist newspapers accused United States airplanes and warships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the bombardments were a " severe punishment for the Chiang Kai-shek bandits . " Western diplomats in Peking sp  --  culated on a reference to the offshore islands made by Foreign Minister Marshal Chen Yi at a reception a few hours after the bombardment , Reuters reports . Some diplomats reported that Marshal Chen said , " We have already begun the liberation of Matsu and Quemoy . " Others thought the marshal said , " We are about to liberate the offshore islands . " By . Neal Stanford , Staff Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor Washington A major crisis is blowing up in the Far East . The Chinese Communists have stepped up their bombardment of the offshore islands of Quemoy and Little Quemoy , held by the Chinese Nationalists . Two landing tries are reported to have been repulsed by troops of Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek . As a result of the war clouds over Formosa Strait the United States has altered its Seventh Fleet . The White House says the government is keeping a very close watch on Communist China 's attacks on the offshore Quemoy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ C. Haggerty , presidential press secretary , told of the close watch as President Eisenhower conferred with Gen. Nathan F. Twining , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff . However , Mr. Hagerty pointed out that the President and the chairman of the JCS meet regularly and said this conference was " nothing more than that . " Secretary of State John Foster Dulles has warned that if the Quemoy-Matsu island group is attacked , President Eisenhower might be forced to use his congressionally granted power to use American forces to aid President Chiang . As he put it : " It would be highly hazardous for anyone to assume that if there is an effort to conquer these islands it could be a limited operation . " Meaning Weighed What this all adds up to is anyone 's guess . But to informed Washington quarters it appears as evidence that : 1 . At the recent meeting of Soviet Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev and Chinese Communist Chairman Mao Tse-tung it was agreed that Peking should step up its pressure on the offshore islands once the Middle East Lebanese-Jordanian crisis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determined to push the Chiang forces out of the offshore islands , just as they did in 1955 in the Tachen Islands to the north , when , after having captured one of them , the others were evacuated by General Chiang under American pressure . Tension Spots Traded 3 . The Soviets have no intention of " easing international tensions , " however much they claim that is their desire , but rather as soon as one crisis is eased somewhat , they stir up another . The commitments of the three parties concerned need to be differentiated if the crisis over these offshore islands is to be understood . The Chinese Communists say flatly and unequivocally that the islands belong to the mainland and that they intend to have them . The Nationalists on Formosa are equally insistent that they belong to the Chiang regime and will be defended . The United States is only committed to defending these particular islands if in his judgment at the time President Eisenhower considers them vital to securing the defense of Formosa and the Pescadores . Importance Debated It is widely accepted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Joint Chiefs of Staff ) does not feel that the offshore islands are necessary to the defense of Formosa and the Pescadores . However , this is not exclusively or primarily a military question . Rather it is political , with Secretary Dulles opposing evacuation , particularly with the islands under mounting attack . But it is the President who himself must make the final decision if any Chinese Communist effort to seize any of the island groups seems about to succeed . What the Chinese Communists appear to be doing is to repeat the Tachen formula . There three years ago they were able to capture one small island of the group and then win the whole group after the United States persuaded General Chiang to evacuate the area . At least , apparently , they intend to find out if their old formula will work . And , apparently , they are acting if not with Soviet encouragement at least with Soviet acquiescence . It is understood here that militarily the Chinese Communists are capable of seizing one of the smaller island group , possibly Matsu Island-150 miles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Communist port of Amoy  --  but only if the Americans do not go to General Chiana 's aid . Heavily Defended Communist China 's ability to take either Quemoy or Little Quemoy , however , is in doubt that is , unless it makes an all-out effort : General Chiang has stationed some 100,000 men , the best third of his armed forces ,  --  and much of his American equipment on these offshore islands . What occurred at the recent Khrushchev-Mao meeting in Peking is still a tightly kept state secret . But it is taken for granted here that Formosa and the Chinese offshore Islands came up for discussion . And it is widely held here that Messrs . Khrushchev and Mao were each a little suspicious of the other 's intentions toward the West                     