@@718176

txt For the first time in nearly half a century the Republican party has had an opportunity  --  and has accepted it ? to renominate for a second term a President who has led his party forward toward new goals . We must turn back to 1908 and the renomination of Theodore Roosevelt to find a parallel for the present situation . The long stretch of years involved its this perspective is important , because it explains much that has happened in the past , much that is at stake in the present , much that may be decisive in the future . Theodore Roosevelt 's progressive second term Was followed by four years of time-marking under Taft . Then came the two terms Of Woodrow Wilson , the eight years of complacency under Harding and Coolidge , the four bitter years of depression under Hoover , , the twenty uninterrupted years of Democratic control in Washington under Franklin D. Roosevelt and Harry S. Truman . Not until 1952 did the Republicans return to power . And now , at the end of just two years short of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under whose leadership they have moved forward instead of standing still and looking with nostalgia toward a once familiar past . If the Republican party is still divided between " reactionaries " and " liberals " and between " isolationists " and " internationalists " ; if it has failed on frequent occasions in the recent past to give strong and united support to the very candidate it now so enthusiastically acclaims in public ( and in private admits that it can not possibly hope to win without ) it is because of the habits and frustrations engendered by . this long period of nearly fifty years . Mr. Dewey tried , in 1948 , to give the party a new turn , but did not achieve the Presidency . For the rest , over this long span of time the Republican party ( except for the few depression years ) has either coasted along on the comfort of good times , with no apparently compelling need to lead the country forward to new goals , or else it has fretted itself into a state of baffled resentment with its fate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a result , the party tended increasingly , until it returned to power in 1952 , to turn in upon itself , to lose sight of new needs and new objectives , and to settle down into the rut of automatic and disgruntled opposition , A very considerable segment of the party is still there today . But the significant fact about President Eisenhower 's nomination in 1952 was that it marked at least temporarily the ascendancy of the liberal wing of the Republican party and a clear recognition by the leaders of that wing that times had changed remarkably since the easy days of let-well-enough-alone ; that in its domestic policies the party could no longer afford to drift along in the backwash of stagnation ; that in its foreign policies it must face up to the responsibilities of leadership in a world threatened by imperialistic ' dictatorship . Mr. Eisenhower 's first term in office has held these new directives steadily in view . The President has not been able to lead his whole party with him . But his influence has been thrown consistently on the side of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He has sought , and with some success , to lead his party toward new accomplishments in the fieldstof public housing , health and education . He has sought , and with some'success , to create through the instrumentality of the Republican party an atmosphere . of national confidence and a spirit of goodwill transcending sectional and party lines . He has held the dominating influence of his party steadily behind a course of all-out international cooperation . All this constitutes a sharp break with the past and something of a revolution in Republican thinking and Republican action . The remaking of the party is not . complete . Possibly it could not have been made complete in the short span of four years . But it is a real transformation none the less , and an achievement which in the long run of history seems certain to stand as the great contribution made by Dwight Eisenhower to his party and his country .                     