@@715870

txt From the balcony of the Conrad Hilton hotel 's grand ballroom last night the senior class of De La Salle institute looked down on an unique assembly , 1,200 alumni of what is proudly called " The Poor Boy 's College . " For the 220 seniors , this was their initiation into the possibility of life after graduation from the high school conducted since 1890 at 35th st. and Michigan ay . by the Christian Brothers order . Leaders from All Walks The 58th annual dinner of the De La Salle Institute Alumni association was in session . For this occasion graduates had come from every part of the country , but the majority were Chicagoans , leaders in every phase of city life : civic , political , religious , business , professional , and sports . Mayor Kennelly , class of 1905 , stood beside Brother Hugh , organizer of the annual event , and near the toastmaster , Ed Moose Krause , ' 30 , director of athletics at Notre Dame university . De La Salle has given Chicago two mayors , six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civic and business leaders . Judge Igoe Speaks One railroad president , Walter Tuohy , ' 17 , Chesapeake and Ohio , came in from Cleveland for the event . Federal District Judge Michael L. Igoe , ' 03 , spoke for the golden jubilee class , many of whose more prominent members sat with the 37 at the speakers ' table . Up above the speakers ' table were 75 members of the silver jubilee class , 1928 , decked in colorful costumes and headed by the Rev. Martin Farrell , the Rev. James P. Prendergast , and Joseph B. Meagan , director of the Back of the Yards Neighborhood council . County Clerk Richard J. Daley , ' 19 , alumni president , reported on the progress made in raising $400,000 ' to erect another classroom and an addition to the faculty house , some of whose members now sleep in classrooms . Last year , under the direction of County Commissioner Daniel B. Ryan , ' 12 , the alumni purchased and cleared over six acres of land to add to the campus . Classes Hold Reunion Buzzing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ' 07 , former president of the board of education ; Bernard J. Fallon , ' 98 , transit authority , or other prominent alumni , the former classmates prepared for their own class reunions later in the evening . And up in the balcony the members of the class of 1954 looked over the alumni and dreamed their own dreams of greatness , boys like Ken Toth , class president ; Jerry Hanlon and Ron Gentile , vice presidents ; Bill Noviskis , treasurer ; Larry Strimas , secretary , and Frank Wunderlick , sergeant at arms . Some day , the boys told a reporter , " maybe we 'll be able to sit at the speakers ' table with those big shots . "                     