@@719525

txt As anticipated , industrial production in the United States declined in January for the fifth consecutive month . The drop since the peak of December , 1958 , nearly equals the decline in the 1953-54 recession . On the other hand , construction activity was maintained in January . new housing starts rose , and total retail sales increased , according to the Federal Reserve Board 's monthly report . Lately , the economic indexes of the business recession are running just about as forecast . The administration is watching anxiously to see whether the upturn will begin to be in evidence in March , as the White House has forecast . Auto Output Falls Automobile production declined sharply , from an index figure of 169 in January 1957 to 127 in January , 1958 . Auto sales were also " down sharply from both December and a year earlier , " the board reported . . This statistic confirms the obVIOUS fact that the auto industry is one of the most seriously affected in the nation . People are not buying cars . An early spring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is expected , in an effort to spur car buying . The industrial production index , which indicates how much the nation 's factories are producing and is one of the two or three most important indicators of the country 's economic well-being declined 3 points in January to 133 per cent of the 1947-49 average . This places it at a level 8 per cent below last summer , 9 per cent below January , 1957 , and at the lowest point in nearly three years . Retail Sales Up " Broad curtailments in durable goods industries in , January continued to account for most of the decline in total industrial output , " the board said . Despite the decline in production , however , purchasing power has generally been maintained in this recession . Retail sales increased slightly again in January and were close to the record sales levels of last summer . They were 4 per cent above the levels of January a year ago . Meanwhile there were these other economic developments : Vice-President Richard M. Nixon declared at Phoenix , Ariz , that the Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ victory in this year 's congressional elections while " the Democrats are betting on depression " Mr. Nixon gave the same assurance expressed by President Eisenhower : that " this administration will not stand by and allow a recession to continue or unemployment to rise . " Strategy Figured What the administration 's strategy is , in holding off , for now , from a tax cut or a mammoth boost in public works programs , is simply this , according to informed Washington sources : If prosperity speedily resumes , via the tax cut or public works boost , the nation will again leap on the same old wage-price spiral and inflation will have to be daily battled , as was the case last year . Whereas , if the current declines in production put industry in a price-cutting frame of mind  --  as it - should , by orthodox calculations  --  and if the slump discourages organized labor in its huge demands for wage boosts this year  --  then there is a good chance that the economy will return to normal without being burdened by an accompanying inflationary drive . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeals for more urgent antirecession moves . They have been joined by such Republicans as Senator George Aiken ( R ) of Vei mont , who urges President Eisenhower to act " before the situation gets nut of hand " ? to maintain daily supports , lower interest rates to fa rmers and home builders , and speed the highway program . Statistical Lag I Significantly the January inhdustrial production report did I not show declines all along the line . Steel mill operations went down , but the aircraft industry maintained its pace as did the rubber and chemical industries . In this picture , one point troubling the administration is that the signs of improvement which it has forecast for March ? if they come  --  will show up only in the reports published in April . Thus when February 's reports are published in Marchand show a further decline  --  the public may unwittingly decide that the March upturn is n't coming .                     