@@719497

txt The Air Force 's research chief said his service has rocket equipment capable of putting a manned satellite in an orbit around the earth and that steps will be taken in this direction after the X-15 rocket research plane has been tested successfully . Lt Gen. Donald L Putt made this estimate as the Army 's 30.8-pound instrumented Explorer satellite whizzed around the earth for the third day . " Today we are ' poised at the very edge of sustained journeys by man into outer space , " he said . In more immediate defense developments : The Senate passed , 78-0 , a supplemental appropriation bill providing $1,410,000,000 for missile work and dispersal of Strategic Air Command bases in the fiscal year ending June .7,0 Included is 31,260,000,000 of new funds and authority to tiansfer $150 million of available money to more urgent programs . Increase in Orders It was disclosed that Defense Secretaiy testified the Defense Depai trnent is considering an increase in production of the intercontinental Snark missile and may place additional orders for B-52 bombers and KC-135 jet tankers In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Gen. Curtis LeMay , Air Force vice chief of staff , urged more planes be produced , declaring " I think the missile situation is a little bit oversold . " Sen. Bush ( R. , Conn. ) and Sen. Cooper ( R. , Ky. ) introduced separate bills aimed at bringing greater unification of the armed forces . Mr. Bush . said his bill would help the Secretary of Defense- use funds more efficiently , including money for research and development . It would preserve the separate services but give more authority to the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff . Mr. Cooper 's bill seeks to transfer all powers of Secretaries of the Army , Navy and Air Force to the Secertary of Defense and replace their offices with " undersecretaries . " This had been recommended earlier by the Hoover Commission The transcript of Mr. 's secret testimony to the appropriations panel last month showed he not only raised the possibility of increased , Snark . B-52 and KC-135 production , but also indicated that in the next few months a decision will also be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Jupiter or the Thor intermediate-range ballistic missiles ? both recently ordered into quantity production , or whether one should be eliminated . " Interested in the Snark " Sen. Symington ( D .. Mo. ) , declaring that production of the subsonic Snark pilotless bomber had recently been cut , asked Mr. if he could not use more money to boost production of this hydrogen warhead-carrying device made by Northrop Aircraft Co , Hawthorne , Calif . " We are quite interested in the Snark , " the defense chief replied , adding that this program is now being re-studied by the Joint Chiefs of Staff . " It looks to me as if the Snark program is one that ought to be considered for expansion . " Mr. also said under questioning that the Defense Department figures it can wait until this fall to decide whether to order more B-52 bombera , beyond the 603 now planned , from Boeing Airplane Co . Production of this bomber is slated to continue through the end of 1959 , but Air Force men have urged that Boeing 's production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by ordering additional quantities Mr. said a decision on this request will be held up until fall , to allow more time to appraise rapidly-moving developments in a number of aircraft and missile programs In the next few months , he said , " I would be surprised if we did not want to take another hard look " at the supersonic B-58 Hustler bomber made by Convair division of General Dynamics Corp " It may very well be , " he added , that more KC-135 tankers , also made by Boeing , will be needed . In his plea for more bombing planes , Gen. LeMay told Sen Thye ( R , Minn 1 in answer to a question , " I can not understand your deadly fear of being killed by a missile when you can be killed a lot easier by a bomber today " The Minnesotan , who expressed great concern about the future , answered ? " Sir , that is today . " Risked Money to Learn Both the Jupiter and Thor missiles have been ordered into production , Mr. said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ millions of dollars because not enough is known about them yet This , he said , is why the quantities of these weapons on order have been held below the amounts some military men claim is required . " Within the coming three or four months we belie% e we will learn quite a lot more about these missiles ' which are still undergoing tests , the defense chief said . Douglas Aircraft Co is prince contractor for the Thor and Chrysler Corp makes the Jupiter . Gen. Putt spoke at a luncheon following Vice President Nixon 's presentation of the Harmon Trophy award for significant aeronautical achievement to Air Force Col. Frank K. Everest and Navy Lt. Cmdrs . Malcom D. Ross and Morton L. Lewis . The X-15 , which may be flight-tested later this year , is designed to carry its pilot over 100 miles aloft at speeds of over 4.000 miles an hour . North American Aviation , Inc , is building the craft . " Means of Propulsion Exist " " With information gathered from the initial X-15 flights into space , " Gen Putt said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vehicle into orbital flight . " The only difference between the X-15 and a manned " moon , " he said , " is a matter of propulsion , and the components for the necessary means of propulsion exist . " A manned satellite could be sent up " relatively early " after the X-15 flights , he added . While he did not elaborate , Air Force officials have indicated in recent testimony before Congress Ulla they plan to attach the first stage of the Titan intercontinental ballistic missile to the X-15 , thus boosting its speed , possibly sufficiently to put it in an orbit . A desire to prepare for the later phases of this program has prompted the Air Force request for more work on the Titan , on which Martin Co. is prime contractor . Thus far the Defense Department has nOt ordered the speed-up . In Philadelphia , another locket expert , German-born Dr. Willy Ley , estimated a manned satellite could be sent aloft by the U.S v.athin six years Dr. Ley spoke at the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin 's second annual forum on world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congressmen , already Jubilant over the Friday night launching of the Explorer by the Army 's Jupiter-C rocket , were making a more sober appraisal of the satellite 's implications for the future . Sen. Clark ( D. , Pa. ) , noting that last fall 's Sputnik Jaunchings by the Russians " woke us up , " told the Senate he hopes that a sense of relief from the similar U.S. accomplishment " wo n't put us back to sleep again . " Senate Majority Leader Johnson ( D , Texas ) said the accomplishment makes it more urgent that all the nations of the world pool their efforts to control outer space . A plea for accelerated development of nuclear-powered " rockets  --  which some authorities consider essential for interplanetary apace travel  --  was made in a letter from Sen. Jackson ( D. , Wash. ) to Defense Secretary . Another lawmaker , Sen. Mansfield ( D , Mont. ) said the " moon " launching shows that the Army has considerable missile know-how . In spite of this , he said , there have been in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the other services . " While it has already lost the distinction of being first to launch a U.S. satellite , the Navy is feverishly preparing another attempt , possibly today if weather permits , to launch its three-stage Vanguard rocket containing a fourpound test " moon . " A similar rocket exploded in an unsuccessful launching attempt December 6 , It is believed that if the Navy succeeds in putting a baby " moon " in orbit , it may go directly to launching a full-sized 22-pound satellite , instead of hurling aloft additional test spheres .                     