@@715093

txt HAVERFORD  --  Shakespeare For the first time in American higher education , college students are going to have a chance to study Shakespeare and other Renaissance classics direct from the original pages of first editions , Haverford College has announced . This has been made possible through a $2,000,000 bequest left to the college by William P. Philips , New York lawyer and business man . Mr. Philips gave the college a collection of rare Renaissance volumes , which will be made available to qualified undergraduates for use in their class work . ANTIOCH  --  Century Fund Marking its hundredth year of existence , Antioch College will launch a drive for $3,700,000 . The campaign , to be spread over a four-year period , has been named the New Century Fund and will prepare the college to begin its second century of educational pioneering . The money will be used to build six new buildings and renovate four others . HOOD  --  American Heritage Hood College is offering a series of lecture-discussions on " The American Heritage " in conjunction with the seventy-fifth anniversary project of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups from the campus and community in reading , discussing and analyzing selections from American biography , drama , public speeches , essays and poetry . SMITH  --  Scholarships Prof. S. Ralph Harlow will retire at the end of the current academic year from his post as Professor of Religion and Biblical Literature at Smith College . In honor of Professoeand Mrs. Harlow , a group of former students are establishing the Marion and S. Ralph Harlow Scholarship at the college . Before coming to Smith in 1923 , Dr. Harlow was chairman of the Department of Sociology and Religion at the International College at Smyrna . BRANDEIS  --  Integrated Course " Productive Living , " a irequired course for seniors offered experimentally last spring at Brandeis University , has reappeared in the Brandeis curriculum as a full-year course . Its aim is to eliminate the fragmentation of higher education and to integrate the goals and methods of the arts , sciences and professions . Distinguished men in various fields serve as lecturers . WELLS  --  Higher Tuition Wells College ( Aurora , N. Y. ) will increase its annual fixed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and various other fees , from $1,550 to $1,700 , effective for the academic year 1953-54 . The additional income will be used for increased faculty and staff salaries and scholarship grants . CONNECTICUT  --  Teachers Connecticut 's shortage of elementary school teachers was eased this fall by the training of 273 liberal arts graduates at the four state teachers colcommunity. leges during the past summer . As a result of an intensive program of recruitment conducted last spring , liberal arts graduates from New England Were selected for a special eight-week training session at the state teachers colleges . FOUNDATION  --  Scholarship The teacher-education department of the Child Education Foundation will award a full tuition trustee scholarship of $750 annually to a candidate in need of financial assistance and who shows exceptional promise as a potential teacher . The foundation , located at 535 East Eighty-fourth Street , notes that the primary purpose of the award is to encourage talented students to enter the field of early childhood education . BOOKNOTES  --  Television - A book which discusses in detail the origins and potentialities of educational television has been published @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Hazel Cooley , describes the chief purpose of her volume to be to create a better awareness of the vital role of television as a principal factor in determining the attitudes and behavior of contemporary society . EDUCATION  --  In Brief Expansion of student government of a , college campus is the best way to teach civic responsibility to college students , according to Dean Melva Lind of Miami University ( Oxford , Ohio ) . Elmira College ( Elmira , ' N , Y. ) will raise its fee from $1,400 to $1,600 effective with the 1953-54 academic year . . . The National College of Education ( Evanston , Ill. ) has created a group of associates , consisting of friends of elementary education , as a means of strengthening understanding between the college and the local                     