@@719337

txt WASHINGTON , Nov. 26 ? Lieut . Gen. James H. Doolittle advocated today a reorganization of the Pentagon that would lead ultimately to the creation of a single general staff ' for the three armed services . In testimony at the Senate defense inquiry , General Doolittle also repeated the warnings given yesterday by scientists . They had said that the Soviet Union led the United States in long-range ballistic missile development . Because of the heavy bombers of the Strategic Air Command , General Doolittle said , the United States still has an overall military advantage . But the Russians are increasing their strength at a greater rate of speed , he added . Unless the United States spends more money on the military and the people make greater sacrifices and work harder , the general said , the Soviet will assume a commanding military lead . Heads Three Committees General Doolittle , who has retired from the Air Force , told the- Senate Preparedness subcommittee that he was serving on a number of Government committees and was chairman of three . A second witness , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program , told the - Senators that the United States ' could have put up an earth satellite ahead of the Russians if an all-out effort ) had been made . However , the Vanguard proj-I ect sufer  --  t1 from money limitations while priority was given to military ballistic missiles , Dr. Hagen testified . Dr. Hagen said that the United States had suffered psychological and political damage when the Russians were first to launch a satellite . He revealed that he had sought top priority for the project in 1955 , but that it had been turned down by a high official whose identity he did not know . Dr. Hagen agreed that " we took a calculated risk and lost . " On the status of United States plans , to launch an earth satellite , he said little more than that tests " have exceeded our expectations . " The committee later heard // Referring to that attitude , General Doolittle said the public might not be ready for " an old-type general staff with a head " because " there is a great fear , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The reason ? I know this fear is unwarranted , " General Doolittle went on , " is because one of my chores was to send young boys out to die , and I do not believe that any senior commander who has ever sent young men out to die , wants war . I do n't believe that any professional group hates war as much as the military . " General Doolittle , wearing horn-rimmed glasses and reading from notes on several index cards spread out on the table , said he and Dr , Edward H. Teller discussed yesterday 's testimony during a breakfast meeting this morning . He said he agreed with Dr. Teller , hydrogen bomb scientist , on the Soviet advances in long-range ballistic missiles . In fact , General Doolittle said , the Russians certainly were ahead of the United States in developing intermediate-range ballistic missiles . These are the missiles of 1,500-mile range that the United States has been developing in three projects  --  the Army 's Jupiter , the Air Force 's Thor and the Navy 's ship-based Polaris : General Doolittle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was not brought out at the hearings that an Army proposal for a big program to develop ' such a weapon had been questioned by Air Force officials . Dr. Hagen , in his testimony , explained with the aid of a model satellite and charts , the background of the United States ' satellite program , its relation to the International Geophysical Year , and the scientific bases of earth satellite launching . There hai been ' a great sense of urgency on the part of those who have worked on the pro gram , Dr. Hagen said . But Vanguard received a " secondary DOOLITTLE BACKS A GENERAL STAFF // testimony from Allen W. Dulles , head of the Counter Intelligence Agency , in a closed session . Senator Lyndon B. Johnson , Democrat of Texas and chairman of the subcommittee ; revealed this evening that Mr. Dulles and his aides had confirmed reports that the Soviet Union " is now outstripping the United States in developing a scientific and technological manpower pool . " The latest intelligence estimates , he said , pointed to a Soviet economy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Soviet military production roughly equal in value to that of this country despite a gross national product less than half that of the United States . The same estimates indicated that the Soviet Union was " encountering difficulties " in maintaining its military expenditures and heavy industrial investment while improving its living standards . Senator Johnson said that testimony would be given tomorrow by Neil H. , Secretary of Defense ; Donald A. Quarles , his deputy , and William N. Holaday , director of guided missiles . " The real threat is their rate of progress , " General Doolittle said , referring to the Russians ' military power . " Their rate of progress is much more rapid than our own . " Coming from a professional military man , the proposal today was expected toireinforce demands for amending the ' Unification Act of 1947 , which most military . leaders have resisted . General Doolittle said that the development of nuclear weapons systems had revealed flaws in the military establishment . ' Some Changes ' Urged " I beleve that dome changes are required , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made without legislation ; some will require legislation . " But he warned that changes must be " evolutionary , " for " certainly at this time we must not upset our military establishment and even momentarily assume a position of weakness . " General Doolittle said that interservice rivalries had progressed beyond the stage of " healthy competition . " He recommended an advisory military staff for the Secretary of Defense . He said that the Joint Chiefs of Staffs were handicaped by their obligations as representatives of the individual services . It was not brought out at the hearings that under the Unification Act of 1947 ithe Secretary of Defense was barred from setting up ' a general staff over all the services . This reflected the American distrust of any tendency to avoid a type of Prussian general staff . priority , " he said , and efforts were made to prevent its interfering with " the higher priority of the ballistic missiles . " Had we been given top priority and all the ' things that go with it  --  men , money and materials  --  we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have and certainly been ahead of the Russians , " he said . The Soviet Union launched its first satellite on Oct. 4 . Dr. Hagen said that successful testing of the three-stage launching vehicles for the satellite rgives us confidence " that the United States launching of the satellite early next year will be successful . He said an attempt would be made next Month to put up a test satellite , about six inches in diameter . The launching of the full-fledged twenty-inch satellite will take place by March , he said . He did not confirm unofficial indications that the launching of the main satellite might be attempted as early as January .                     