@@714966

txt The United States Court of Appeals set aside today the conviction of Denis W. Delaney , ousted Collector of Internal Revenue for Massachusetts , on charges of having accepted bribes and falsifying tax liens . In a twenty-page opinion the three-member court found that the former collector had been " obliged to stand trial in the hostile atmosphere engendered by extracourtroom publicity , " particularly that resulting from Congressional subcommittee hearings held between the time Mr. Delaney was indicted and tried . Delaney , removed from office last year by President Truman , was sentenced by Judge Charles E. Wyzanski Jr . last Jan. 29 to serve two years in prison and pay ' fines of $10,500 . The defendant appealed , asserting that unfavorable publicity had made it impossible for him to obtain a fair trial . He has been free on bail . The appeal judges referred the case to the United States District Court in Boston for retrial . The decision as to whether there will be a second trial rests with Attorney General James P. . The opinion was written by Justice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hartigan concurring . Adverse Publicity Stressed The Court . of Appeals noted that the subcommittee of the House Ways and Means Committee that investigated the Bureau of Internal Revenue had insisted upon holding hearings on the Delaney case after he had been indicted , resulting in considerable adverse publicity for the defendant . The subcommittee was headed by Representative Cecil R. King , Democrat of California . In this connection the decision said : " If the United States , through its legislative department acting conscientiously pursuant to its conception of the public interest , chooses to hold a public hearing inevitably resulting in such damaging publicity prejudicial to a person awaiting trial on a pending indictment , then the United States must accept the consequence that the judicial department , charged with the duty of assuring the defendant a fair trial before an impartial jury , may find it necessary to postpone the trial until by lapse of time the danger of the prejudice may reasonably be thought to have been substantially removed . " Indefinite postponement of the trial was denied to the defense . The decision said the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the prosecution 's case against Delaney without , however , the safeguards that would attend a criminal trial . " " Even more damaging , perhaps , was the fact that the testimony thus publicly heard by the committee ranged far beyond matters relevant to the pending indictment , " the court added . The Appeals Court found that the King group both " invited " and r " stimulated " publicity in the Delaney case . Delaney was indicted Sept. 14 , 1951 , - and the hearings ( were held the next month . Nevertheless , the judges added : " We mean to imply no criticism of the action of the King committee . We have no doubt that the committee acted lawfully , within the constitutional powers of Congress duly delegated to it . It Was for the committee to decide whether considerations of public ' interest demanded at that time a ' full-dress Investigation of the affairs of the Internal Revenue Bureau . The appeal judges commented that the courts were limited in what they ? could do to " insulate " ' jurors from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court has not spoken its last word on this vexing subject , " the decision declared , and it added : " The present case presents an unusual situation not covered by any precedent in the Supreme Court so far as we are aware . " Delaney , upon learning of the decision , said : " This is wonderful news . I have been eating my heart out for months and praying to God that I would be vendicated . This may be the answer to my prayers . I know I am innocent of any wrongdoings . There was no opportunity to get a fair trial with the play it got in magazines and papers . I hope they set an early date for the trial . This is like hitting a home run , having the umpire call it a foul and then reverse his decision .                     