@@716800

txt The United States has undertaken to defend Formosa and the neighboring Pescadores. and it may get into war with the Chinese Communists much closer to the mainland than that if it decides to cover the evacuation of Chinese Nationalist soldiers from the Tachens . Before the President orders intervention either in the Tachens or to protect Formosa proper , however , it is clear that he will seek authority from Congress . This would be an improvement over the manner in which we have entered some other wars of recent memory , but it puts a special responsibility on Congress . We suggest there is a case against Congressional haste in this matter . It has become almost an article of faith that if this country is going to intervene in a foreign war it must act fast , and in some situations there is of course a temporary military advantage in this . But the result is that all too often we leap before looking , as we did in Korea . In Indo-China last year , in contrast , we took a good look and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is plenty for Congress to look at in the-Formosa situation . It can look first at the purely military prospects . Whether we start intervening in the Tachens or closer to Formosa , Congress should want the best estimate of the capabilities of our air and naval forges now in Formosa Strait for beating off the attackers . It should not forget that our intervention in Korea began with air support , or that the Chinese Communists have a mutual defense pact with the Soviets and the Soviets , publicly at least , support Peiping 's ambition to take Formosa . In short , Congress should want the best available qpinion as to the limits , if any , of this intervention . How far are we prepared to go to defend Formosa ? It would be well if Congress would also look at the further political implications . This is the kind of scrutiny we have conspicuously and to our cost failed to make in some past wars . If the present forces in Formosa Strait are capable of repelling the invader , what political settlement is envisaged ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will not the Chinese Communists make another try as soon as they have built stronger forces ? If it is considered unlikely that the war can be confined to Formosa Strait , what ideas does our Government have regarding the political consequences of a general war in Asia ? It may be that careful consideration of these questions would still produce an answer in favor of intervention . Conceivably , for example , American cover for a Nationalist evacuation of the Tachens would calm the Communists and improve the chances of a cease-fire . But Congress should at least take time to examine the implications of extending the Formosa commitment a couple of hundred miles closer to the China . coast and , if possible , to determine the political as well as military objectives of intervention . Otherwise Congress may be doing what in the past has been done without Congress , sending the nation casually to war .                     