@@718943

txt Letters to The Times DUDLEY B. BONSAL.MARCEL REBOUSSIN.RICHARD L. NEUBERGER.PAVEL KORBEL. pg . 142 Letters to The Times To Limit Security Programs Danger to Liberty Seen in Suggested Extension of Procedures The writer of the following letter is chairman of the Special Committee on the Federal Loyalty Security Program . of the Association of the Bar of the City of Neto York . To THE EDITOR OF THE New York TIMES : I will appreciate the opportunity to comment on the Report of the Commission on Government Security , published on June 24 . The report , prepared by a distinguished bipartisan commission , reflects a great deal of thought and hard worla by its members and staff for which they are entitled to the thanks of the nation . In the area of the Federal loyalty security programs in which our committee published its report a year ago , the commission 's recommendations would give much needed protection to the rights of Government employes and others subject to the programs . Its recommendation for a central security office ( somewhat comparable to the office of personnel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ furnish the machinery for uniformity in security procedures and the adequate training of security personnel . Use of Derogatory Information Our bar association committee felt that many of the cases of injustice which have arisen under the programs were due to inadequate screening of derogatory information . As a result many charges were made by screening officers which later proved to be groundless , causing unnecessary damage to the life and reputation of the person charged and unnecessary suspensions contrary to the interest of the Government . To correct this we proposed a central screening board , a device which has already been used by the Department of Defense in the Industrial Security Program with most beneficial results both to the Government and to the employes . I was sorry to note that the commission ( wept for recommending an interview with the person involved ) would leave the screening function to the individual agencies . Moreover , by recommending substitution of the present hearing board procedure by professional trial examiners , I believe the commission went backward , not forward . The screening and hearing processes are , of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the screening and hearing authorities are essential and these are not likely to flow from the commission 's recommendations . Our bar association committee found that the danger sought to be met by the programs was that secret Government information might get into the hands of the Communist conspiracy or that key policymaking officials of the Government might either be disloyal or subject to influences by persons who were . Our own recommendations would confine the programs to this danger . We believe , as American citizens , that programs of this type are alien to our fundamental beliefs , obstruct the liberty of our citizens and can only be justified on the basis and within the limits of a clear and present danger . Sensitive Positions We would , therefore , confine their application to sensitive positions , the holders of which have access ( including opportunity for unauthorized access ) to secret or top secret information , or have a policy-making function directly related to our national security . The commission did not attempt so to limit the programs . On the contrary , it would extend them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government but to civil air transport as well . The commission suggests that a civil air transport program would be a protection against sabotage . As we stated in our own report : " In our closely integrated society the danger of possible sabotage exists at literally tens of thousands of places and from almost the whole population . ? ? ? " If the nation embarks on personnel security clearance of employes to prevent sabotage in one segment of industry , the logic of the policy would call for its extension widely through industry and business . * * * This logic would thus lead to peacetime personnel security clearance for almost all citizens . " The danger to liberty from such a course should cause us to set ourselves resolutely against it . Rather , the nation should rely , as it has in the past , on other measures . * " These measures include counter-espionage and adequate physical protection of vulnerable installations . " Our committee believed that if the programs were limited rather than extended they would not only be more tolerable to our people but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I was glad to note that your distinguished paper reached much the same conclusion in its excellent editorial " Security in a Democracy , " Which appeared on June 24 . DUDLEY B. BMWs New York , July 8 , 1957 . French Proposal for Algeria To THE EDITOR OF THE Nwerrom mEs : Senator John F. Kennedy , in his attack on the Administration 's support of French policy in Algeria , and I secretary Dulles , in his answer published in The Times of July hoe omit an important aspect of the question . The French Government has offered to organize in Algeria general elections supervised by neutrals and in which everyone , whether Moslem or European , would have one vote . Morally this offer provides the only right solution to the problem , at least in the eyes of those who believe that the power of government should rest on the consent of the governed . Politically , it is highly courageous ; to take an American parallel , it amounts to granting one of the states the right to secede from the Union . Why , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so doing they become morally responsible for all the blood which is shed daily . All the evil consequences of the conflict that Senator Kennedy lists are real . But the responsibility for them no longer lies on France . Senator Kennedy should direct his questions to the Nationalists and not to the French or American Governments , MARCEL R.CBOUSSIN . Williamsburg , Va. , July 8 , 1957 , Financing Hells Canyon Opposition to Federal Project as Costly to Taxpayers Discussed The writer of the following letter is junior United States Senator from Oregon . To THE EDITOR OF THE New York TIMER : In a letter which attempted to cite error in your editorial supporting the high dam at Hells Canyon , H. LeRoy Whitney has committed some serious mistakes of his own . Mr. Whitney quotes Federal Power Commission Examiner Costello to buttress his own statistics on the relative cost . of the Federal darn and the three private low darns . Then , however , Mr. Whitney cites unverified data to claim that the Idaho Power Company dams would be nearly as productive of energy as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ veniently forgets that Examiner Costello listed the output of the private plants at 505,000 kilowatts and that of the high dam at 924,000 kilowatts . This is 82 per cent more capacity in favor of the high darn , but Mr. Whitney , in his letter to The Times of July 7 , presumably chose not to rely on Mr. Costello 's figures on so crucial a point . There is not space on your page to reply in detail to the letter in which Mr. Whitney challenged your editorial . However , he cites the cost of the high dam as if it were entirely a lost investment . He evidently does not realize that a Federal project at Hells Canyon would be part of the Bonneville Power System . This system has poured over $452,000,000 in gross power revenues into the Federal Treasury , and is $77,000,000 ahead of schedule in paying back principal plus interest to the Government . Mr. Whitney claims New York residents object to paying 15 pet ' cent of the Federal project . What other investment returns so handsome a dividend to the Treasury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cost of dredging New York harbor . So far as I know , this does not ran turn one dime in direct collections to the Treasury , but we are not tee dignant . Federal dams have been erected at multi-purpose sites ever since the era of Theodore Roosevelt . But Hells Canyon has suddenly become a symbol of " socialism " to the private utilities and the Eisenhower Administration . This is an unfortunate backward step for the Pacifies Northwest and for the nation . RICHARD L. NEUBEROER . Washington , July 9 , 1957 . Soviet Intentions in Hungary To THE EDITOR OT THE NEw YORK TIMER : It is to be regretted that Lincoln White , State Department press officer , was rather casual in his suggestion as to how the newly purged Soviet regime might demonstrate its policy of " peaceful coexistence " by concrete actions . Disarmament , German unification and peace in the Middle East are certainly important international problems . However , one would assume that in this connection a spokesman of the United States Government in the field of foreign policy would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States for . eign policy is still very much under the influence of a " spheres of interest " mentality . Otherwise , the State Department press officer might have realized that the first step toward realization of Moscow 's alleged peaceful coexistence desires ought to be the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Hungary and the establishment of a free and truly representative government of this heroie nation . PAM , KORBEL . New York , July 6 , 106.7.                     