@@716995

txt A general strike by 30,000 CIO workers in t h e Birmingham a r ea tomorrow was forecast tonight in the wake of new goon violence in the 32 day old strike against the nine state Southern Bell Telephone system . The ' forecast was made by R. E. Barr , district director of the CIO United Steel Workers . As a starter , the giant Fairfield Steel Works of the Tennessee Coal and Iron corporation , a subsidiary of United States Steel , was picketed tonight . About 100 steel workers failed to appear at the company 's tin mill on the 3 p . In. shift and there were reports that between 5,000 and 6,000 other employes had p. m. shift at the main plant . A union official said the en-. tire T. C. I. operation , employing about 25,000 men , would be closed down tomorrow . Two Policemen Hit Barr 's strike forecast came a few hours after motorcycle police charged a rioting mob of about 300 members of the striking CIO Communications Workers of America and sympathizers who were hurling stones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least two of the police were stoned , but they were reported not seriously hurt . Three goons were arrested . Several bottles were tossed at the six motorcycle police . Rocks thrown by the rioters broke several windows in the Scuthern Bell building . The mob dispersed ? in the wake of the police charge , but later began to reform and the number of rioters grew to an estimated 500 . Report Other Violence Other violence continued to sweep me soutneast m phone strike . Late developments today included the dynamiting of a telephone pole in Tarrant City , a Birmingham suburb , and the first case of daylight sabotage here : the firing of shots into two cables . The gunfire disrupted service to 600 to 700 telephones . Sixteen strikers were arrested at Pensacola , Fla .. where a mob of 25 CIO goons gathered at the company 's exchange to hurl eggs and epithets at nonstriking employes . At Hattiesburg , Miss. , Police Chief Hugh Herring said an unidentified man slugged a nonstriking woman telephone company employe , striking her in the stomach and face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Goons Southern Bell reported that another nonstriking woman worker was stripped of her clothing and a supervisor was beaten by a gang of men Tuesday night at Aberdeen , Miss . The cutting of two cables at New Orleans put 600 telephones out of order . At Frankfort , Ky. , a cable leading to the old state capitol and annex was cut . Gov . Lawrence Wetherby of Kentucky , chairman of the Southern Governors ' con f erence , invited nine other southern governors to meet with him next Tuesday to study possible measures to settle t h e telephone strike and also the month old strike of AFL non ? operating unions against t h e Louisville &; Nashville railroad .                     