@@720101

txt Talk to Robert B. Meyner 's closest associates . One will assure you he is a dedicated New Deal liberal . Another sees him as a steadfast middle-ofthe-roader . Still another classifies him a dyed-in-the-wool conservative ; some even say - he 's strictly an opportunist . This striking variety of opinion of the political philosophy of New Jersey 's Governor reflects both his weakness and strength as a possible Democratic Presidential nominee ? a job which , despite official disclaimers , seems clearly closb to Mr. Meyner 's heart . His failure to stand for any well defined set of political views has been one of the key factors that has so far robbed him of the wide popular following of candidates with more clearly-known beliefs . But this quality also means that - the handsome , 50-year-old Mr. Meyner may be a candidate to whom all factions can turn when other , more popular candidates have shot their wad . His failure to stand firmly for " something " means there is no one very mad at him , no one strongly against him . He and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . fervent backers but no real enemies , are the two most logical compromise candidates the Democrats have today . Solution Sought How to nail down this most-logical-tosucceed position by becoming more widely known but still without - making many enemies is the problem now facing Mr. Meyner , well into his second term as the highly successful Democratic Governor of the traditionally Republican Garden State It 's a problem for which he and some of his WhiteHouse-hungry aides have yet to find a wholly satisfactory solution . Mr. Meyner 's speeches on national and international affairs  --  those made during an August cross-country speaking tour and during the recent Congressional campaign , for example  --  help account for the blurred image of his political philosophy . The message is pretty much the standard Fair Deal line : The Administration drifts on foreign policy , the President lacks a solution for mass unemployment , there 's a need for Federal aid for eduCation and housing and other community problems , a more affirmative White House approach is needed on civil rights . big business is taking over the Federal regulatory agencies . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ music is not . Mr. Meyner does n't make his demands as clear-cut ; nor does he punch them home as sharply as an Averell Harriman or G Mennen Williams . The details are frequently vague ; the tone one that indicates a willingness to compromise . They seem in keeping with the remark of one Meyner associate who says the Governor " shudders every time someone calls him a New Dealer " ; There are many reasons for this . His own instincts may run more towards the middleof-the-road . But if they did n't , as a candidate in a conservative state , he would have had to put on for the past several years a more conservative face than , say , a Democratic githernatorial candidate in Michigan or New York . A lack of eggheadism ' may rob his speeches of much zip and appeal . Acquaintances agree that while he has a good mind and fabulously retentive memory , he is not the type of intellectual who enjoys reading books or kicking around new projects and ideas . His acquaintances also agree there is something in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he does n't really have to take them . Some say this is his small-town-lawyer 's love for the law and a feeling that all sides must be fully heard before a decision is given ; others say it 's just an inborn cageyness that tells him not to stick his neck out unnecessarily . Blurred Image If Mr. Meyner and his aides should decide it is to their advantage to keep his political image blurred , it should n't be hard to do . A governor can , if he wants , avoid taking stands on many important but controversial national and international Issues  --  one important reason so Many Presidential candidates come from the ranks of governors rather than Congress where members must go on the record on just about every hot potato . There are those who insist this sort of analysis is unfair to Mr. Meyner . They say he has a deep , instinctive feeling for individual rights , civil liberties , fair play , helping the downtrodden  --  a product of his mill town , **29;873;TOOLONG background . They cite instances to show he has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deeply . These people insist the reason Mr. Meyner has talked more softly in the past was because he had to be reelected in Republican New Jersey and because he wanted to elect a Democratic Senathr , a trick he turned this , year with his handpicked candidate , former Rep. Harrison A. Williams . Now he 'll speak- out more clearly with a true liberal voice , it 's asserted . Left to his own devices , Mr. Meyner might not drive too hard even at getting himself better known . He has a certain self-confidence , a belief in his own luck or destiny . " He feels he 's preordained , " says a friend . But Mr. Meyner is not likely to be left to his own devices . An ambitious entourage , led by one-time Democratic National Committee aide Robert J. Burkhardt , is convinced the time is past when a Presidential nomination could just drop in a man 's lap . They agree Mr. Meyner must not get anyone mad at him , but they also insist he must go out and work towards the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there are certain definite plusses and minuses he can reckon on . One problem is that he is comparatively little known to rank-and-file voters . This is different from a failure to provide a clear image to those who know him ; it 's more basic , a statement that comparatively few people outside the east central states know him even with a blurred image . This , his braintrust believes , can be easily overcome . More national publicity will inevitably be achieved as convention time draws nearer . The Governor obviously needs to broaden his familiarity with national and international affairs . So far his typical reading is some report on the past year 's operations of a state agency ; he does little reading in matters outside his needs as the housekeeper of New Jersey . Both to broaden his fame and widen his knowledge , there will likely soon be a campaign staff developed Some of his aides are already looking for men to carry on research , publicity , fund-raising . By early 1559 , this staff should be taking shape . A major prnhIPM @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is his religious situation . Mr. Meyner was brought up a Catholic , but left the church in his teens and has not joined another church . Meyner aides insist , however , that this will be no great handicap . They note his two elections in a state with many Catholic . Not a Worrier If these are the minuses , then there are many plusses . One is a record of political success . Mr Meyner has not only himself won twice in a traditionally Republican state , each time following massive Eisenhower victories , but has elected a Democratic U S. Senator and a Democratic state assembly . Another plus is a widely-conceded gift for efficient state administration . He is generally recognized as having an impressive grasp of state affairs ? " He knows every is raise in the last five years , " one state - official declares  --  and has made widely-applauded appointments to top state jobs . Personally , Mr. Meyner is an attractive fellow  --  good-looking without being offensively so , a tireless campaigner who seems to enjoy handshaking and making the rounds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worrying . " The psychiatrists will never get a dime out of him , " muses a friend . Mrs. Meyner , the former Helen Stevenson , is an invaluable helpmate for a Presidential aspirant ? attractive , friendly , energetic , genuinely liking people and politics . Mr. Meyner will apparently not lack for money in his campaign for the nomination . Two friends  --  platinum king Charles Engelhard and advertising executive Robert Conahay  --  have been helpful in the past and will undoubtedly continue to be so . Several hundred New Jersey businessmen , lawyers and other men each year pay $250 into a Meyner which gives them a small lapel pin and an annual social get-together . The money has so far been used chiefly for Jersey , campaigns ; in 1959 , it might go for bigger things . Finally on the plus side , there 's Mr. Meyner 's luck . Everyone brings it - up ? " Do n't forget , " it 's repeatedly said , " we 're talking about the luckiest man in the world , " He got the nomination in 1953 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tirelessly in his campaign , what really put him over was the disclosure , shortly before election day , that his Republican opponent had once sought the pardon of convicted labor racketeer Joey Fay . When he enraged people with his suspension of Employment Security Director Harold G. Hoffman , a former Republican Governor of New Jersey , Mr. Hoffman committed suicide and left a note conceding his embezzlements and juggling of state funds . " You just ca n't sell this guy short , " says one friend . " He 's got a lot of what it takes , but it 's his luck that really makes him a man you just cau't bet against . "                     