@@715092

txt WASHINGTON , Dec. 8 ? A high Democratic official who sat through most of the conferences this week between President ' Truman and the party 's defeated Presidential candidate , Gov . Adlai E. Stevenson , had this to say in private conversation : " I do n't believe any party that has been long in power ever came through a defeat in such good shape or with such high morale I as we have this time . " For one thing , the Eisenhower victory was so sweeping arid so decisive that it is recognized now as having been practically inevitable . Thus , there 's no disposition for one clique of Democrats to try to lay the blame on another clique . Whatever responsibility there may be for not having won is shared equally by everyone . With goo &; leadership , the Democrats ought to be able to come back to power in 1958 without any trouble . " Cheerful Fost-Mortem This cheerful post-mortem seems to be concurred in by most responsible Democratic spokesmen available in the city for comment this week . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two acknowledged heads of the party , Governor Stevenson and President Truman , maintained an air of warm cordiality throughout their two-day visit and wound up seeing eye to eye on most issues concerning their respective future roles and that of the Democratic party itself . Briefly stated , those roles are : ( t ) that the titular leadership shall contimie to reside in Governor Stevenson ; ( 2 ) that the President will become the party 's " elder statesman , " speaking out from time to time in that capacity only on matters of party and national interest , and ( 3 ) that party strategy for the next four years will be wholly that of a " constructive opposition " and not merely obstructionist The elegance and nobility of such goals can hardly be quarreled with , and there is undoubtedly an honest desire on the part of all concerned to see them gained . Some experienced observers , however , have picked out some of the practical difficulties that may be encountered along the way , with the result that their confidence in the outcome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is entirely logical that he should continue to be the party 's titular leader . But , it is stressed , titular leadership of a party out of power is often a far cry from actual or effective leadership . Governor Dewey , for example , found that out after his defeats of 1944 and 1948 . Stevenson Lacks Foram One major problem Mr. Stevenson faces is the lack of a rostrum from which to make himself heard . As a private citizen and practicing Chicago lawyer , be will not have the prestige or command the attention he did as Governor or as Presidential candidate . A second , and major one , is that historically the real leadership of a. minority party between elections rests with its members in Congress . In an often disjointed and haphazard sort of way , they make the party 's policy by their legislative behavior , not the nominal leader or the National Committee working at his behest . There are many Influential Democrats In Congress , particularly Southern Democrats , whose enthusiasm for their party 's ticket this year was conspicuously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Senator Surest RMaybank of South Carolina *ha said that as far as he is concerned , the party 's real " caretaker " is Senator Richard Russell of Georgia , not Mr. Stevenson . Mr , Truman 's chosen role of elder statesman presents fewer obstacles to fulfillment , it 11 felt . However , it is noted that Mr. Truman is a man of emphatic views and of few restraints . His hunches and intransigence have paid off often enough in the past to give him ( as well as many others ) a high regard for his own political acumen . It is reasoned , therefore , that when a conflict of vie-we comes up between him and other elements of the party , as it inevitably must , the modesty and detachment pope= /July associated with the elder statesman 's role may prove too burdensome for Me , Truman to endure . With respect to the party strategy of " oonstrwitive opposition , " the prospect is clouded by severalelements of doubt . Stress on Committee The principal means of effecting this strategy , according to present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic National Committee . Among the topics &Pseud; at the White Renee here this week , and at an earlier eoMerence of party leaders in Chicago the week before , was a broad plan for esvitelieing the committee and widening its function . Stephen A. Mitchell , who was installed as chairman by Governor Stephenson Immediately after the nominating convention , is expected to held on to his post for the next few Months , at least , He announced late last week the appointment of Clayton Fritchey , a former New Orleans newspaper man who served briefly as an administrative assistant hi the White House before moving to the Governor 's personal campaign staff , as his first deputy , Mr. Fritchey is to have charge of research , publicity and legislative strategy while Mr. Mitchell concerns himself with organization and fund raising . The immediate problem of the committee is to find means of liquidating its deficit of about $500,000 . When that has been achieved , it is proposed to rebuild the permanent staff of the committee ( whsh has fallen into a state of considerable desuetude since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adding a staff of traveling organizers . Less pretentious quarters than those presently leased in the Ring Building will be sought to cut down expenses . As things are now envisioned , the committee will become a lively source of inspiration and coordination for - carrying out the Democrats ' " constructive opposition " to the Republican program on Capitol Hill Mr. Fritehey and Mr. Mitchell , and on occasion , perhaps , even Governor Stevenson , will maintain close liaison with their party 's Congressional leaders , suggesting lines of attack on , or alternative propositions to , those items on the Republican program that it is decided to oppose . Concurrently , at the planning now goes , a quiet campaign will be started to overhaul the state and local committees , which make up the Democratic " machine " in many key areas .                     