@@717037

txt The State Department , in what seemed to be a change of posi ? tion , today indicated a willingness to negotiate directly with Communist China for a ceasefire in the Formosa Strait . Secretary of State Dulles , back from a long week-end at his island in Lake Ontario , told his news conference this morning that Nationalist China would not necessarily have to be present at talks limited to the question of a cease-fire . He issued a formal statement announcing that the Administration intended to find out whether the Chinese Communists were sincere in their offers to talk directly with the United States about relaxing tensions in the Far East . " In doing so , " he added , " we shall not , of course , depart from the path of fidelity and honor toward our ally , the Republic of China . " Draws Clear Distinction On three occasions thereafter Mr. Dulles drew a distinction between talking with the Communists about a cease-fire and talking with them about other questions affecting the interests of Nationalist China . He made clear that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their interests , other than a cease-fire . No such distinction , however , was made in the State Department 's official statement issued last Saturday . The Chinese Communist Premier , Chou Enlai , has ! suggested at the AsianAfrican conference at Bandung , Indonesia , that he would be willing to enter into direct negotiations with the United , States on relaxing tensions in the Formosa area and elsewhere in the Far East . The State Department then said : " In the Formosa region we have an ally in the free Republic of China and of course the United States would insist on free China participating as an equal in any discussions concerning the area . " Mr. Dulles said today that he had not seen or approved that statement , since he was at his remote island in Lake Ontario . Also , by indicating a Willingness to talk about a cease-fire with the Communists and without the ' Nationalists his statement clear ly differed from the previous statement that the United States would " insist " on Nationalist participation in " any " conversations . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee , Senator Walter F. George , Democrat of Georgia . Senator George again today urged conversations with the Communists for a cease-fire without insisting on the presence of Nationalist China . Mr. Dulles ' statement placed him in opposition to Senators who have tended in the past to take a firm position in support of Nationalist China . The Republican Policy Committee in the Senate discussed Mr. Dulles ' statement privately this afternoon . Senator Styles Bridges , Republican of New Hampshire , told reporters afterward : " I personally think it would be a great mistake to sit down at any conference with the Chinese Communists and ignore the Chinese Nationalists , who have been our ally through thick and thin . " Shift Laid to Pressure Three factors apparently explain the modification of the Administration 's position : The steady public pressure of Senator George for conversations on a cease-fire with or without the Nationalists ; similar pressure from the British and from some of the Asian nations that urged the Chinese Communists at the Bandung conference to settle the Formosa question without a resort to force , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Administration . When Premier Chou , confronted with pro-Western sentiment at the Bandung conference , called for bilateral conversations With the United States on reducing Far Eastern tensions , representatives of the Philippines , Pakistan and Ceylon , who had criticized the aggressive policies of Communist China , were delighted . They were discouraged , however , when the State Department issued its formal statement last Saturday insisting that Nationalist China must be in on " any " conversations , and some of them were discouraged when the State Department also seemed to be suggesting that Peiping could show its " sincerity " by ordering a " cease-fire , " or releasing the . American airmen now held in Communist China , or accepting the United Nations ' invitation to discuss the Formosa question before that organization . Allies ' Displeasure Noted This seemed to the United States ' allies , and particularly to those who felt they had softened up Mr. Chou at Bandung , to be a negative reply and this view was made clear to United States officials . The original United States statement of last Saturday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Herbert Hoover Jr. , acting for Mr. Dulles , and cleared with President Eisenhower , who was in j Gettysburg last week-end when the statement was issued . The1 official explanation for putting the statement out before Mr. Dulles ' return was that the Chinese Communists should not have the propaganda field all to themselves over the week-end . When Mr. Dulles returned yesterday , he spent most of the day studying developments . He read the statements out of Bandung , studied Senator George 's Sa'airday night speech calling for a positive response to the Chou offer . and reached the conclusion that the situation called for a somewhat different response . " After I got back , " he told the reporters this morning , " I found myself in a mood of some encouragement , perhaps because I have been away . " He then read a prepared statement saying that developments of the last ten days " may in retrospect seem of decisive importance both in Europe and in Asia . " On Asia , he made these points : The Bandung conference seems to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems now a chance that the Communist Chinese may be deterred from pursuing the course of violence . " Mr. Chou 's osier of direct negotiations might be merely a propaganda move , but " we intend to find out " Without being unfair to Nationalist China , Direct Talks Not Barred During the question period , Mr. Dulles elaborated on these points . Asked whether he would rule out direct conversations with Communist China on the question of a cease-fire , he replied categorically : " No . " Asked how , and in what order , he proposed to proceed , he said : " The first thing , it seems to me , that requires to be determined is whether we must prepare for war in that area or whether there is apt to be a cease-fire in the area . One can not very well settle matters under the threat of gun. , " ? " The first thing is to find out whether there is a possibility of a cease-fire in the area . That is a matter which can be discussed perhaps bilaterally , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " But I ' regard a ? cease-fire as the indispensable prerequisite to anything further . When you get into further matters , then the interests of the Chinese Nationalists would naturally come to play a very large part . " At another part of the question period , the Secretary said " we are not going to talk with the Chinese Communists about the interests of the Republic of China behind its back , " and this has already raised a point of controversy in the capital . The position of the Chinese Nationalists and their supporters here is that the negotiation of cease-fire in the Formosa Strait would definitely affect the " interests of the Republic of China . " The argument in support of this is that a cease-fire would , in effect , suspend the Chinese civil war and obligate the United States to do its best to restrain the Chinese Nationalists from further military action against Communist China . Mr. Dulles , however , took the position that the negotiation of , a. cease-fire in conversations be- ' tween Washington and Peiping would not necessarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States in a dishonorable position with General Chiang . Not only did the Secretary of State differ from last Saturday 's State Department pronouncement , but he interpreted some parts of it in a moderate way . For example , he stated categorically that the references in that statement to possible release of the American airmen in Communist China , discussion of the crisis at the United Nations and a Communist Chinese order for a cease-fire were not intended to be " preconditions " to negotiation . No Question of ' Turn ' He also differed front the State Department spokesman who told reporters Sunday that the next move in the controversy was up to Mr. Chou . The situation is too serious , Mr. Dulles suggested , to argue over protocol or over whose " turn " it is to make the next move . The next move is expected to be an exchange of views between Washington and other Allied Governments on the best way to " find out " what Premier Chou has in mind . This would not , as Mr , Dulles made clear , amount @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it set any precedent . The United States negotiated with the Chinese Communists at Panmunjom for a truce in Korea . It negotiated bilaterally with the Chinese Communists in Switzerland for the release of the American airmen . Also , it has often negotiated directly with governments with which it did not have diplomatic relations .                     