@@716568

txt West Virginia presents the curious spectacle of a senatorial candidate who  --  far from riding on the Eisenhower coattails  --  seems determined to singe those coattails . Senator Matthew M. Neely , Democrat who has been representing West Virginia as senator and congressman for two score years , is one of those rare candidates who is attacking President Eisenhower directly and personally . And he does not intend to stop , because he believes this technique is winning votes . Equally curious , Thomas Sweeney , his Republican challenger , is making very little retort to these attacks on the President . He is behaving as though the Eisenhower coattails were nonexistent , and is chiefly talk , mg about local issues or Senator Nceey 's shortcomings . In a campaign atmosphere where most candidates across the nation are strongly pro-Eisenhower or at least maintain a discreet respect , Senator Neely 's behavior , and the reactions he encounters , seem against all experience . That is , until one remembers that this is West Viral State Bard Bit Editors and businessmen here contend that West Virginia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coal mining , the No. 1 industry , has fallen back to the tonnages of the depression thirties . Glass , pottery , and toy factories are hit by foreign importations , including the rising tide from Japan . Where the state had 129,000 miners employed in its peak years , now United Mine worker membership is down to 70,000 . Many miners have gone Into other jobs or left the state , but one estimate has 40,000 out of work . Certifications for food relief have risen from 12,000 in 1952 to 173,000 in 1954 . So Senator Neely finds it profitable to compare 1954 with 1952 , when President Eisenhower took office , and to talk about an " Eisenhower depression " and to lambaste the President for not having tackled this depression more vigorously . It is really astounding what this elderly orator of the old-time techniques , waving arms and vigorous vocabulary , manages to say . " I 've never seen a more useless President than Dwight Eisenhower , " he declares . " He is a political myth . He talks monstrous hypocrisy and nonsense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's go against thit administration before it entirely ruins the country . " And , " If Eisenhower is n't stopped he 'll make paupers of half the population of West Virginia . " There are people in West Virginia who will listen to this because the coal-mining recession has reached out and affected businesses and communities beyond the coal towns . This recession was not brought about by the Eisenhower administration ? it began before the President took office . It is in part due to mechanization of the mines , and in larger part to competition from other fuels , chiefly residual fuel oil from Venezuela and other foreign fields . But in these politically conscious days , people in economic adversity expect the government to step in immediately to alleviate their plight . The administration has just ordered the purchase of 2,000000 tons of Wc. ; t Virginia coal for distribution in foreign markets , but miners say this will mean " only a few weeks ' work " and wo n't end the slump . Senator Neely argues that the Eisenhower administration should have a public works @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ halting the importation of residual fuel oil . 1Sweeney Tactics His arguments are giving the Republicans a lot of trouble . But Republican candidate Sweeney , an insurance executive from Wheeling , is shrewdly seeking to turn the unrest against Senator Neely personally , with the contention that he has done precious little to alleviate West Virginia 's plight by any action he has initiated in Washington as senator . Mr. Sweeney points out that West Virginia lost a profitable atomic energy plant just recently , which was located across the boundary in prosperous Ohio instead , when it could easily have been set up in West Virginia . He argues that Senator Neely has done nothing to curtail the foreign imports which are competing with West Virginia products . Mr. Sweeney adds for a clincher , is it likely that Senator Neely will be able , if returned to Washington , to get anything from an administration which he is attacking so vehemently ? There is strong logic here , but most observers believe that it will not divert discontent sufficiently away from the Republicans . The miners are expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 706,000 Democrats against 461,000 Republicans  --  and Senator Neeley is expected to be reptprtpri Eisenhower Visit ? Would a visit to the state by President Eisenhower help Republican chances ? He lost the state by 33,600 votes in 1952 . Perhaps his winning personality would sway some votes , but this is actually one state where the Republican organization is in doubt whether a personal appearance by the President would be a campaign asset . If Mr. Sweeney should , in fact , defeat Senator Neely , this would undoubtedly be due to : ( 1 ) The effectiveness of his argument that the Neely senatorial tenure has produced few benefits for West Virginia ; ( 2 ) the painstaking , personal campaign which Mr. Sweeney , three times a senatorial candidate , is waging ; ( 3 ) the split in the Democratic Party between the " Jeffersonians " and " New Dealers . " Mr , Sweeney has carefully avoided taking an antagonizing stand on any issue . He is assiduously touring the state , meeting people personally and working hard , In contrast , Senator Neely is confidently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has sent only one Republican to the Senate since 1932 , Chapman Revercomb in 1942 . Present indications are that the Democratic trend will continue , and that the Republicans may lose their one House seat out of six . But the outstanding characteristic of this campaign is the attack on President Eisenhower . If nothing else , it shows the desperate kind of problem the Republicans would face in any area where the economic situation really got out of hand . It shows what the GOP escaped this year ? in other states  --  when the business graphs ceased their downward drift . In an earlier report by Mr. Stringer on the Kentucky campaign , a transmission error left the impression that Senator John Sherman Cooper was " with " the administration on TVA policy whereas the story as written said he had " broken with " the administration ,                     