@@712832

txt Monday , April 17 , will be potato census day in Massachusetts  --  with a counting of the " ayes " and " nays " on the question of more or less government supports , marketing agreements , controls  --  and the survival of the fittest in spuds . At the Eastern States Exposition grounds in West Springfield , Mass. , Bay State growers will learn more about marketing-agreement plans which have been unfolded  --  and have the opportunity of voting on the issue of more or less government support and control for spuds . Meantime , in Washington yesterday , a Senate Agriculture subcommittee approved a rigid system of federal controls over planting and marketing ? and sidetracked an alternate proposal for a " little Branhan Plan " for the production of potatoes . State Plan Awaited " Until Monday , " says Louis A. Webster , director of the division of markets , Massachusetts Department of Agriculture , " we wo n't know just how Massachusetts growers can sell potatoes . " We expect that the Massachusetts plan to be announced then will tell us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fit , or whether we will have to have every load inspected , and sell only grades agreed upon . " The marketing agreement . as we understand it , would affect every grower and handler of potatoes , even if growing or peddling of spuds is only a very minor item of their business . Marketing Pact . " Maine has a marketing agreement , and apparently likes it , " he continued , " hut in Aroostook County a few thousand farmers grow 60 or 70 miljion bushels of potatoes on 150,000 acres , and inspectors are in the midst of potato sheds and loading platforms , and the potatoes move to market over one railroad or one truck route . " In Massachusetts , however , several thousand farmers all over the state raise a total of 3,000,000 bushels , or just about a quarter of the potatoes we eat in Massachusetts , on perhaps 12,000 acres . " Better Quality Seen With a marketing agreement , Mr. Webster declared , growers would know what United States No. 1 grade potatoes are , and this knowledge might tend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Then he went on to emphasize that growers also would have to pay the salaries and expenses of 30 or 40 inspectors , and that growers could not legally sell a load of small or pick-out potatoes to a peddler if that grade was not specified in the agreement . Under the measure approved yesterday in Washington . stiff penalties would be provided for excess production of potatoes . Farmers also would be docked 75 per cent . of the parity price if they sold potatoes above their quota . Also , a farmer could not market a new crop without penalties until he had disposed of his excess from the previous crop . Nationwide Vote Under the measure , the United States Secretary of Agriculture would proclaim a national marketing quota for potatoes each fall , This would be broken down into state , county , and local farm quotas . Planters then would vote in a nationwide referendum on whether they approve the quota for all three crops  --  early , intermediate , and late potatoes . If two-thirds approved it , the quotas would go into effect . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of every Bay State potato grower : " How can we sell potatoes ? " will have to remain unanswered . The potato census will then disclose the answer ,                     