@@719924

txt Representative Kenneth B. Keating of Rochester was nominated by acclamation today as the Republican candidate for United States Senator . The 1,170 delegates to the Republican State Convention roared their approval after he had consented only a few hours earlier to run . A telephone call from Vice President Richard M. Nixon , Mr. Keating said , helped convince him that he was wrong in believing he could give better service by seeking re-election to the House of Representatives . Mr. Nixon told him , he said , that " it would please him and President Eisenhower very Much if I allowed my name to be placed in nomination . " Convention Adjourns Representative Keating 's nomination on the ticket with Nelson A. Rockefeller , the candidate for Governor , was the final business of the convention atl War Memorial- kucittorium. - adjourned at 5:19 P. M. after hearing his acceptance speech . The other candidates on this year 's Republican state ticket , nominated earlier today , are : For Lieutenant Governor ? Malcolm Wilson of Yonkers . For Attorney General  --  Louis J. Lefkowitz of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Queens . For Associate Judge of the Court of Appeals  --  Marvin R. Dye of Rochester . ' Ready and Rarin ' to Go ' In his acceptance speech , Mr. Keating told the delegates that he was not a " reluctant candidate . " He added : " I am ready and rarin ' to go . " I shall champion the cause of a free and strong America , with defenses second to none . I shall fight for peace and security . I shall continue to fight the perilous machinations of the international Communist conspiracy . " Mr. Keating likewise pledged himself to wage an unrelenting fight on inflation and on hoodlums and raciceteers . Most Republican leaders attending the convention were convinced that Mr. Keating ' selection for Senator had strengthened the ticket by providing an incentive for upstaters to vote in November . Senator Jacob K. Javits described Mr. Keating in a seconding speech this afternoon as " an Eisenhower Republican seasoned with Anent conservation . " Mr. Keating , himself , objected in a recent interview to efforts to classify him as a conservative or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when he votes with the liberals and times when he votes with the conservatives . He is now completing his sixth two-year term as a member of the House . He is best known for leading the fight last year for President Eisenhower 's civil rights program , which was watered down in the Senate before it was approved , and for championing the Administration 's program for revising the Mc.Carrell-Walter Immigration Law Assemblyman Joseph F. Carlino of Long Beach , L. I. , told the delegates in a seconding speech that Mr. Keating was the best qualified candidate they could pick ? . He emphasized Mr. Keating 's years of service in Congress and his familiarity with Congressional operations . Mr. Carlino , the majority leader of the Assembly , was Mr. Rockefeller 's first choice for a Senate candidate . But he took himself out of consideration for " personal reasons " and resisted all efforts to induce him to change his mind . In this stand he . had the unwavering support of J. Russel Sprague , the Nassau County Republican leader . Nominated by Williams The honor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Paul W. Williams , former United States Attorney foe ' the Southern District of New York . Mr. Williams had been a candidate for the nomination for Governor until Mr. Rockefeller was assured of getting it . Then he shifted his sights to the Senate nomination for the seat now held by Irving M. Ives , Republican , who is retiring . Mrs. Charles W. Weiss Jr. , National Committeewoman from Rochester , also seconded Mr. Keating 's nomination . Mr. Lundy 's selection as the candidate for Controller reprevented a major victory for Frank Kenna , the . Queens Republican leader . It likewise constituted a Republican recognition that Queens now casts more votes in state elections than any other county except Kings . Representative Keating , Mr. Lundy and Assemblyman Wilson , the candidate for Lieutenant ( Governor , all have reputations as vote-getters in their own iright . Both Mr. Keating and Mr. Wilson ran ahead of President Eisenhower in their districts two years ago . Mr. Lundy carried Queens in 1953 but lost in 1957 . In losing he ran substantially ahead of the Republican candidates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not all , the delegates to this year 's convention departed for home tonight convinced that they had an excellent chance of carrying the state . One exception was a - group of delegates of Italian ancestry who were disappointed that this year 's ticket did not include one of their number . They ' lost their chance for representation when Mr. Carlino declined to consider a nomination . The agreement on Mr. Keging as the Senate candidate constituted the dramatic highlight of the convention . It had been generally known , days before the convention assembled yesterday , that Mr. Rockefeller would be the candidate for Governor . Up until 2:30 o'clock this afternoon , Mr. Keating had been insisting that he would not run . But ever since Mr. Carlino took himself out , party leaders were saying privately that he could be pressured . The views of the leaders took on added strength yesterday when Gordon A. Howe , chairman of the Board of Supervisors of Monroe County , of which Rochester is a part , took himself out of consideration for nomination for Controller . This step was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nomination . This morning Mr. Keating and Mr. Rockefeller were closeted in Mr. Rockefeller 's hotel suite from 10:30 to 2:30 P. M. before the Rochester Congressman announced his change of heart . Last night Mr. Keating had spent several hours with former Gov . Thomas E. Dewey . He also talked yesterday and today with Senator Javits . IfrFrom the polished nature of . Keating 's acceptance speech it appeared that he and Mr. Rockefeller had devoted a considerable part of their four hours together discussing its contents . Besides the telephone call he received from Vice President Nixon , Mr. Keating said he had been convinced by the arguments advanced by others that he would be of greater service to more people as a Senator than as a Representative . Rockefeller ' Delighted ' Mr. Rockefeller , wearing a big grin , said " I am delighted " when asked for comment on Mr. Keating 's announcement that he would run . He disniissed , with a grin a question as to ' Whether some of the delay had not been a deliberate " stall " to add to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with reporters at a caucus of the Monroe County delegation , Mr. Keating disclosed that he had discussed his possible Senate candidacy in person with Vice President Nixon in Washington last week . " I have a high regard for him and for the President , " he said . While Mr. Keating was conferring with Mr. Rockefeller today , his supporters were organizing a demonstration to take place when his name was placed in nomination . Banners and placards were in readiness by the time the Monroe delegation formally voted to have his name submitted . Mr. Lundy 's name was placed in nomination by Robert E. Barnes , former member of the City Council from Queens . Seconding speeches were made by Mrs. Preston Davie , acting New York County leader , Mrs. Marguerite Kuhn , Kings County vice chairman , James Flood , Richmond chairman , and Assemblyman Joseph Younglove of Johnstown . Dismal Record Charged In accepting what he termed an opportunity to straighten out the " dismal financial record " of the Harriman Administration , the nominee said : " Systematic dissipation of the large surplus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxation , hasresulted in financial instabill* " Mr. Lundy is the first Queens Republican nominated for state office since the turn of the century , according to Mr. Kenna . The Democrats ran Spencer C. Young of Queens for Controller in 1950 but he was defeated . " As Queens goes , so goes the state , " cried Mr. Barnes in nominating Mr. Lundy , a business man-turned-politician . Eai'lier , Mr. Wilson , veteran tof the State Assembly , had been placed in nomination 1331 Walter J. Mahoney , leader of the Republican majority in the State Senate . In accepting , Mr. Wilson paid tribute to Mr. Mahoney , whose ambitions for the gubernatorial nomination he had opposed . Senator Javits placed Louis J. Lefkowitz in nomination again for Attorney General . In so doing , he lauded the work Mr. Lefkowitz had done in taking over from him as Attorney General when he went to the Senate . The Attorney General charged in his acceptance speech that political considerations had dictated Governor Harriman 's refusal to allow him to move against the " overlords of crime " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last November . Judge Dye was renominated by Assemblyman John Conway of Buffalo . The judge , a Democrat , also received the nomination of that party at its Buffalo convention .                     