@@716084

txt On the final day of the foreign ministers conference , the United States , Britain and France reached an agreement with the Soviet Union today for a meeting with Communist China to settle the Korean question and seek peace in Indo-China . The Far East talks , to which other interested governments , also will be invited , will begin April 26 in Geneva . They will take the place of the proposed ( political conference on Korea , on which preliminary negotiations have been stalemated since December . Aside from the arrangement for the Korean and Indo-Chinese discussions only one concrete accomplishment was recorded tonight for the Berlin conference , which opened Jan. 25 and which was the first meeting of the foreign ministers of the four great powers in nearly five years . ? In their communiqu ? the four senior delegates announced that they also had decided to " hold an exchange of views " to promote disarmament or a substantial reduction of armaments in the world . That " exchange of views , " held in pursuance of a United Nations resolution calling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be held in New York . No date was mentioned in the conference communiqu ? . 21 Sessions Held In Berlin After twenty-one plenary sessions and six secret sittings the four foreign ministers had no agreements to announce on the German and Austrian questions , which the Western powers considered the most important and fundamental issues of the conference . At one moment this afternoon it seemed that the conclusion of an independence treaty for Austria was very near . Concessions were offered by both the Austrian Government and Vyacheslav M. Molotov , Soviet Foreign Minister , but the potential agreement foundered ultimately on Moscow 's insistence on prolonging indefinitely the military occupation of the country . Agreement on a peace treaty that would reunify Germany , divided between the Allied and Soviet occupation zones , was never that near . The best the ministers could do was to agree to disagree and to express hope that subsequent lower - level discussions would alleviate the hardships caused by the partitioning of the country . On both the German and Austrian questions the Western ministers refused to sanction the establishment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ positive results and thus delay the conAidation of the West 's own deinse position . Although the tangible results of the Berlin conference were limited  --  yet not inconsiderable ? the meeting was not without value , Anthony Eden , British Foreign Secretary , said . There were intangible results upon which all remarked . " At least we understand one another 's position better , " Mr. Eden said . " That has a value which is not to be ignored ; " said John Foster Dulles , United States Secretary of State . It makes it less likely that any of us should by Madventure and miscalculation do what would risk another war . " That was perhaps the most significant achievement of the conference . It seemed to be agreed , as the final session closed tonight at 7 o'clock exactly on time , that the conference method of seeking solutions to causes of international tension should be carried on whever there was any hope of practical results . The arrangements for the Korean-IndoChinese talks were a case in point . Both Mr. Dulles and Mr. Molotov , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ underscored that point . On leaving Berlin to fly to Washington by way of West Germany , where he conferred briefly with Dr. Konrad Adenauer , West German Chancellor , Mr. Dulles said he was " determined to carry on the efforts " started here . In his closing speech to the conference , Mr. Molotov spoke of the significance of the " renewal of direct contact " among the four powers and said that the tasks left undone by the Berlin meeting should not be dropped from " the order of the day . " Molotov Urges More Talks He added that " we should continue our efforts and should even more strongly work for their decision , " that is decisions on the undecided problems of Berlin . The Berlin conference itself , for which such pale and tentative hopes were held , actually achieved one very substantial result . In about twelve hours of diligent secret diplomacy the four powers came to terms on a new set of negotiations on the Far East problems . They thus broke the apparently hopeless deadlock of the Panmunjom negotiations , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Korean question following the Korean truce came to an angry impasse last December when Arthur H. Dean , United Nations representative , walked out . Tonight 's communique said that the four foreign ministers considered that the establishment of a peaceful and independent Korea would be an important factor in reducing tension and restoring peace " in other parts of Asia . " Accordingly , they proposed to call a conference of " representatives " of their four governments and of the Chinese Communist Government and the North and South Korean regimes " for the purpose of reaching a peaceful settlement of the Korean question . " Other United Nations members whose armed forces participated in the Korean hostilities and " which desire to attend " would be invited , the communiqu ? said . The four powers also agreed " that the problem of restoring peace in Indo-China will also be discussed . " That phase of the conference Would be attended by the five major powers and " other interested states . " Question of Participants Raised The use of the term " representatives " left open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign ministers or other delegates . However , a British spokesman , noting that Mr. Eden had said he was looking forward to the next meeting of the foreign ministers in Geneva , said the Foreign Secretary would attend at least the opening phases of the Geneva talks . Other foreign ministers presumably would attend alhough it is known that Mr. Dulles , who is going to Caracas , Venezuela , for a meeting of the Inter-American states after he reports to Washington on the Berlin talks , is reluctant to leave the United States again so soon . The " other interested states " that would be invited to the IndoChinese phase of the Geneva negotiations were not specified . It was assumed , however , that in view of France 's insistence the three Associated States of Indo-1 China , Laos , Cambodia and Viet- ' nam which are members of the French Union , would be bidden . It was likewise assumed that the ! Vietminh rebel regime of Ho Chi Minh would be present on the insistence of Peiping and Moscow . Nothing was said in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be preceded by an undertaking from the Chinese Communists to cease their arms aid to Ho Chi Minh . In fact , several things were left unsaid in the interest of concitation and agreement on essentials . Yielding by Dulles Denied Despite the glossing over of differences , United States quarters said Mr. Dulles had yielded no essential point in agreeing to the Geneva conference . The final agreement accorded with previe ously stated United States positions . Among these were the following : The United States was opposed to any five-power conference with a general agenda including items other than those in which Communist China was specifically concerned . 4IThe United States always has wanted the Soviet Union to attend the Korean conference not as a pretended neutral but as a full member bound by conference decisions inasmuch as the Soviet Union supplied arms to the Communist forces in the war . 41The United States has insisted that the Governments of all countries that fought in the Korean war should be invited to the conference . gThe United States was against the participation of neutrals , particularly India . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Chinese and North Korean Communist regimes that would not imply any recognition of those regimes . The last point was covered by a paragraph of the communique that said " it is understood that neither the invitation to nor the holding of the above-mentioned conference shall be deemed to imply diplomatic recognition in any case where it has not already been accorded . " That paragraph applied equally to the Soviet Union , which does not accord recognition to the South Korean Government or concede that the Indo-Chinese states are independent . In face of Mr. Dulles ' stanch defense of the United States position , a firmness dictated by the extreme distaste for Chinese communism in the United States , Mr. Molotov was obliged to give ground . He fought long and hard for his main objective  --  full , equal and unrestricted status among the great powers for the Peiping Government , Moscow 's great new ally in Asia . The fact that he made concessions in the end was perhaps an indication of the compulsion under which he was operating to introduce Communist China into the councils @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ getting a seat for it in the United Nations . Security Council and the General Assembly . Thus , he had to give up his demand that Communist China should be one of the inviting powers for the Geneva conference and that there should be general discussion of world problems by the Big Five , preceding the talks en Korea and Indo-China . Only the powers represented in Berlin were the inviting powers and the communique said nothing about a general discussion . Mao Tse-tung , Chinese Communist leader , obviously agreed to those concessions , which presumably were brought to the Berlin conference by Mr. Molotov at yesterday 's restricted and secret session . Another secret session finished off details this morning and a plenary meeting this afternoon a public seal was readily affixed to the agreement . Mr. Molotov scored some points , nevertheless . The Western powers tacitly conceded that the Geneva meeting should be a round table conference . There ! was no mention in the communique of a two-sided conference , with sixteen United Nations belligerents on one side and the Communists on the other , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of , the Soviet Union 's position in relation to the --  Korean Iv. * was given . Nor was the Uptited Na-e tions mentioned in the communiqu ? . The foreign ministers , who alternated their meetings between West and East Berlin , first weekly and then daily , finished today where they began ? in the Allied Control Authority building in the Western occupied part of the former German capital , All hands recorded their regret that the conference had not been more productive . Mr. Dulles said the reason was not a lack of effort but a fundamental difference of view between the East and the West . So far as Austria and Germany were concerned , he attributed the fundamental difference to the unwillingness of the Soviet rulers to trust their peoples . M. Bidault , in his closing remarks , suggested that in lieu of complete solutions to the major problems of divided Europe the four powers should attempt solutions in part and perhaps arrive ultimately at positive results . No solution on a wide basis is possible unless the four powers first solve the central problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Molotov said the conference method was the means of bridging international gaps and the Berlin meeting had made it clear what might be done for the future if the various parties were willing . The Secretary of State , first of the Big Four to leave Berlin , departed in a jovial mood like a boy let out of school . Just before he entered President Eisenhower 's personal plane , the Columbine , for a flight to West Germany and Washington , he put his hat on backward . Everybody who was at Templehoff- Airdrome to see him off burst out laughing . Mr. Dulles laughed , too . The plane . took off at 8:09 P. M. , one ? hour and nine , minutes after the last words had ' . been spoken at , the Berlin conference of 1954.                     