@@718779

txt Letters to The Times HENRY K. TAYLOR , M.D.DOROTHY KENYON.MOHAMED BISAR , JOAN BRUCK , LEWIS M. HOSKINS ... Letters to The Times Bellevue Hospital Praised Medical Care There Believed to Be Finest Obtainable Anywhere The writer of the following letter is Roentgenologist , Goldwater Memorial Hospital , and Professor of Clinical Radiology , N. Y. U.-Bellevue Medical Center . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In the midst of the harsh and noisy outcry against Bellevue Hospital I would like to raise my , small voice in the defense of a great institution . The fame of Bellevue is worldwide in repute , which it richly deserves . The esteem in which it is held has not been gained through the work of one man , however good , but through the sweat and toil of thousands of persons , among them many of the " greats " of medical history in the past 150 years . Unfortunately , perhaps , these people did not labor within the walls of a magnificent temple of medicine ; none the less the brilliance of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radiant light on those drab walls of Bellevue that generation after generation young physicians have exerted every effort to be permitted to continue their studies there . I , too , would like to see a modern hospital plant for Bellevue , but there I part company from the vociferous hullabaloo now taking place . I earnestly believe that the medical care at Bellevue is the finest obtainable anywhere . While in great part this is due to the professional skill of the doctors , the part that the City of New York has played must not be forgotten or derided . Service to Sick It is the most famous of our city hospitals . It is staffed by three great medical colleges , and no amount of adverse publicity can detract from the good medical care given to the sick , whether inpatient or outpatient , or the sound administrative practices at the hospital . As for the charge that there is a lack of medication , it is conceivable that in a busy institution such as Bellevue a situation of this kind might occur occasionally ; otherwise a complaint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further comment . As to the obsolescence of certain buildings and overcrowding in specific areas , I am sure the hospital administration is aware of this . However , I know from personal experience that other municipal hospitals were in greater need of new hospital construction than Bellevue ; and the city is to be commended for the hospitals it has built and placed in operation in recent years . Thought should be given to the premise that with a shifting population , plus some hospitals that were really hoary with age , the city authorities found it necessary to turn their attention to the immediate needs of other boroughs than Manhattan , and to give priority where the need was more grave . - A. M. A. Investigation It might be of interest to the general public to know that the American Medical Association , before granting accreditation to hospitals , investigates the medical care and treatment given to the sick , the proper staffing of the hospitals , their teaching and training programs for resident and staff members , adequacy of record-keeping , etc . These and other pertinent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out by the A. M. A. If the Bellevue facilities were so poor as to actually jeopardize proper care to the patients , I am certain that the A. M. A. would not have given its stamp of approval to the hospital . The very fact that they have granted accreditation is an indication that the standards at Bellevue are high , adequate and proper . I would like Bellevue to have a modern , up-to-date physical plant , as much as the colleges would , and I assume everyone else would prefer this , but even with a new building the care and attention given to the patients should be the same , for in the final analysis care is given by physicians who comprise the medical staff , and not by the bricks and mortar of the institution . Both the incumbent Commissioner of Hospitals and the Medical Superintendent of Bellevue are Department of Hospitals career men of fine caliber . I am sure that they are well aware of the deficiencies that do exist at Bellevue and that they are doing their best to correct them . HENRY @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1957 Miss Additon for Parole Post To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Congratulations upon your fine editorial of May 9 in which you urged appointment of a qualified woman penologist to the State Parole Commission . Let us hope that the Governor acts quickly to put into effect this long overdue reform . His excellent appointment of Russell G. Oswald leaves him with one more vacancy to fill in June . However , your editorial misses , I think , one of the most important of the qualifications which the present Lanza investigation has made startingly clear to all of us . It is not enough right now to be just a person experienced in correction work , essential as that is , or even just a healthy young woman " able to endure ? the arduous service " required by the job ( a touchingly old-fashioned phrase which raises nostalgic memories of the day when the " little woman " was still regarded as the weaker vessel and males vied with one another to protect her ) . No , the essential qualification right now , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That is what the times and the public demand . Like Caesars wife , the new member or members of the Parole Commission , whether man or woman , must be persons of outstanding integrity , political independence and courage , well known to the public as standing for those things and therefore trusted by it . Only in this way can the confidence of the public in its Parole Commission be restored . The Governor has shown his awareness of this principle by the Oswald appointment . He now has the opportunity of going one step further by appointing an outstanding woman known in the community for her skill and devotion to the public good . ? Such a woman is Henrietta Additoh . DOROTHY KENYON . New York , May 15 , 1957 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In his article " Islam and Communism ? A Misconception ? " C. L. Sulzberger has contrived to convince his readers that Islam , contrary to the widely held view , is not a bulwark against communism . Instead , however , of approaching his subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sulzberger called to his assistance one or two witnesses whose evidence can hardly be considered conclusive , since it is based on personal opinion rather than on the pertinent facts . One of these facts , for instance , is that although Islam , like all other religions , has come under the heavy impact of cOmmunism since its inception forty years ago , it is the only religion that succeeded in holding it at bay , as borne out by the negligible Communist percentage in the Moslem world . This fact alone should have dissuaded Mr. Sulzberger from pursuing this subject any further . But it seems that having started an argument he was determined . to pursue it to its logical or illogical conclusion . So he proceeds to his next point , which is to prove that Islam and communism are ideologically the same . Here again he relies on the hearsay evidence of a Max Weston Thornburg , an American whose opinion of Islam can hardly be flattering . According to this so-called authority , " there are enough striking similarities between the two ideologies , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to support the argument that communism could find no more fertile field than that provided by a decadent and uninspired Moslem tradition . " He then goes on to explain that " both are conceptions of a universal society based on equality and striving toward social justice . " Concepts of Other Religions But are not these also the conceptions of Christianity and Judaism ? Can the writer point out one religion which has failed to incorporate these lofty ideals into its teachings ? So why identify Islam alone with communism because of these similarities , unless the motive is detraction , not instruction ? It seems that Mr. Thornburg himself was not sure this argument was convincing , for he hastened to add that there were " other characteristic features common to both systems : their totalitarian doctrine , their fanaticism and collectivism , their division of the world into two sectors ? their own and all others . " This is as astounding statement because of all the criticism leveled against Islam by its opponents none contained even a hint that Islam was based on any totalitarian doctrines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as being one of the most democratic religions . It exhorts its followers to base their government not only on popular consent but on the principle of consultation . Fanaticism is ? equally alien to Islam , as shown by its long history of tolerance , especially toward the followers of other religions and faiths . The statement , on the other hand , that Islam like communism divides the world into two sectors , is not only untrue , but misleading , for Islam is based on the principle of equality and universal brotherhood . It believes in the unity of mankind and , to this end , has repeatedly preached this unity to its followers . MOHAMED BISAR , Director , The Islamic Center . Washington , May 10 , 1957. fifth Ave . Throughway Opposed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Tim ES 1 Plans approved for a throughway on lower Fifth Avenue are considered both arbitrary and dangerous by the mothers of Greenwich Village . A throughway in Washington Square would not only drastically cut the size of the play area now available but would also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Parent-Teacher Association of Public School 41 , Manhattan , is completely and unalterably opposed to any plan which replaces playgrounds with a highway in the midst of a residential area . JOAN BRUCK , Corresponding Secretary , ParentTeachers Association , Public School 41 . New York , May 3 , 1957 . To Admit Hungarian D. P. 's United States Urged to Reconsider Cutback as Boon to Prestige The writer of the following letter is executive secretary of America4 Friends Service Committee , Inc. , ' and member of the President 's Corn . mittee for Hungarian Refugee Relief . To THE EDITOR OF THENEW YORK TIMES According to a news story in The New York Times of May 7 Senator John F. Kennedy called for a new American policy toward the sate. lites as he spoke to the Overseas Press Club . The urgency of the policies he advocates are particularly uppermost in my mind following a recent trip to Europe which included a week in Yugoslavia . Yugoslavia , I think , is one of the countries in Europe where humanitarian assistance from the United States can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ role in Eastern Europe . Possibly the most important Hungarian refugee problem in Europe today is a group of almost 15,000 who fled to Yugoslavia after the border to Austria was sealed . Yugoslavia did remarkably well in receiving the refugees and at first gave them accommodations in resort locations . But these had to be returned to their normal use when the spring season came . Now old army barracks , some : old welfare institutions and a castle formerly used as a German concentration camp are being used . Eventual Entry Meanwhile our organization , tho American Friends Service Committee , has appointed two persons who along with representatives of other American voluntary agencies will do welfare and social service work in Yugoslavia under the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees . The critical question in every camp is the chance for eventual emigration to a country that will receive them permanently . Unfortunately , there are few such opportunities . Despite the problems and the difficulties they face , I was impressed with the quality of these Hungarian refugees as compared with the earlier ones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , more stable and in family groups . Some of them are highly trained intellectuals . All I talked with are strongly antiCommunist . Many have close family ties in the United States . The United States earned enormous prestige and goodwill throughout the world and particularly in Europe by our generous response to the Hungarian refugee needs . We have not as a country , however , given direct assistance to the Government of Yugoslavia in her comparable problem with Hungarian refugees . Funds provided to the Intergovernmental Committee for European Migration may assist their problem indirectly by helping Hungarian refugees move to overseas countries . Despite earlier evidence of appreciation of our assistance , I regret to report that in Europe there is considerable erosion of that goodwill due to the misunderstanding caused by the sharp cutback of immigration opportunities . The valid domestic reasons for a temoorary cutback are not understoot . Temporary Asylum The Austrian Government fears it is being left with substantial problems that will still need outside help because it already had many older refugees . Countries of second asylum such as France feel let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that many could move on readily to the United States . Yugoslavia feels that it is not being adequately aided at a 011ie when it took considerable risks as a Communist country to receive and welcome refugees . So far as know this is the first time a Communist country has accepted the Western humanitarian view on refugees : It would be a major tragedy to the refugees and to the West if Yugoslav officials in disillusionment reverted to the more traditional Communist view . I found many evidences that Hungarian and other refugees are puzzled and disillusioned by our reduction of immigration possibilities . I am convinced that a proportionately small number of additional refugees , particularly those with close relatives here , could be readily absorbed in American communities without jeopardizing the prospects of long-term legislation that would benefit older refugees as well . This would both help relieve the pressure in European countries and be a psychological boon to American prestige . I am sure that American voluntary agencies and communities are prepared to welcome these additional Hungarian refugees with the same kind of cordiality that they welcomed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contributions many of these refugees are making . Despite the closing of Camp Kilmer , normal facilities to handle additional refugees exis. : . LEWIS M. HOSKINS . Philadelphia . Pa .. May 10. 195T . Support for Colombia TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Please all of you accept fervent thanks for the splendid and very noble support given to Colombia in her struggle against tyranny . EDUARDO SANTOS , Owner - and Publisher of El Tiempo of Bogota . Paris , May 15 , MT , Principles of Islam They Are Declared to Be in Direct Opposition to Communism                     