@@720524

txt The conviction early today of four white youths who had raped a Negro college girl drew mixed reaction as to its implications for the equality of Southern justice . Some persons here called the white jury 's verdict with a recommendation for mercy " fair and just . " Negro leaders voiced disappointment , but no surprise . However , even the most militant among the Negro community conceded that the convic-1 tion had demonstrated progress toward equal treatment for the two races in the courts . " Twenty years ago they ' would n't even have been arrested , " said a figure in Negros educational circles who has lived here for forty years . Officials Lauded Many in this state capital ? white and Negro ? contended that the death penalty would have been imposed if the defendants had been Negroes charged with raping a white woman . With only minor exceptions , the work of law-enforcement officials , the prosecution of the case by William D. Hopkins and the handling of the trial by Judge W. May Walker were highly praised . Negro leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closing argument , he told the jurors that law enforcement must be consistent without regard to race if it is to be successful . Judge Walker asked the panel to disregard " race . creed or color " in its deliberations . The verdict , which came only forty-two days after the crime , marked the third time in Florida that white men had been convicted of a sexual attack on a Negro . One man is serving a life sentence for the crime and the other has completed a fifteen-year term . No White Executed However , no white man has ever been executed for raping a Negro . A total of thirtyseven Negroes have died in the electric chair for the crime since 1925 . The recommendation for morcy automatically placed the punishment of the four youths in the hands of Judge Walker . Under the law he can impose penalties ranging from a lecture to life imprisonment . One of the twelve men on the jury , A. C. Willis . a druggist. said today that two jurors had at first favored sending Patrick G. Scarborough , 20 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . to the electric chair . However , he said mercy was finally recommended because the girl had not been injured physically . Mr. Willis and A. H. King , wealthy Leon County planter and foreman of the jury , both said that they had been reluctant to hold 011ie A. Stoutamire ' fully responsible because he is only 16 . The other defendant is David E. Beagles , 18-year-old high school senior . Following the verdict at 12:36 A. M. ? two hours and fortythree minutes after the case had gone to the jury  --  the judge granted the defehse lawyers fifteen days in which to file for a new trial . If this is denied , they are almost certain to appeal . The youths were rushed to the state prison at Raiford immediately after the verdict . They will be held there in the receiving center until they are returned for sentencing after completion of further legal steps . In imposing the penalties , Judge Walker is expected to consider the ages and backgrounds of the four . Stoutamire has been reared by various relatives since his mother @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telephone lineman with a wife and two small children , pleaded insansity in the case . Three psychiatrists described him as a moron . However , members of the jury panel said today that they did not consider that the defense had proved his insanity . Scarborough , the Air Force enlisted man who carried a shotgun during the abduction and rape of the Florida A. &; M. University student , was orphaned at 7 . His mother was shot to death in a barroom and his father committed suicide the same year . He has a record of juvenile delinquency . Although Beagles has no previous police record , the co-ed named him as the one who had held a switch-blade knife against her throat . She said he had shoved her into Collinsworth 's car after the four had driven off her date and another Negro couple . DeWitt Sinclair , Superintendent of the State Prison , said today by telephone that the four were " in good spirits and have good appetites . " After being dressed in the prison uniform of gray trousers and blue shirts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Critical of Verdict The Rev , A. J , Reddick , former state head of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , was critical of today 's verdict . " Florida has maintained an excellent record of not veering from its pattern of never executing a white for the rape of a Negro , " he declared . " I believe that if it had been the other way around the Negroes would have been given the maximum penalty , " he said . However , he said that progress had been made , although not enough , and that he was optimistic over the outlook . The Rev. A. Leon Lowry , present state president of the N. A. A. C. P. in Florida , commented that Negroes had been " a little bit disappointed that not even one defendant received capital punishment . " He said it compared unfavor'ably with the recent lynching at Poplarville , Miss. , of Mack Charles Parker , a Negro , accused of raping a white woman . However , he went on : " Even though the Negroes may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is a step forward . " The Rev. R. D. Thomas , a white pastor of the First Presbyterian Church , said that if the defendants had been Negroes " I doubt if they would have received mercy . " Wilkins Awaits Sentences Roy Wilkins , executive secretary of the N. A. A. C. P. , indicated displeasure yesterday over the outcome of the Tallahassee trial . " In view of the evidence submitted , " he said , " many persons will question whether justice has been done . " " I would rather not comment further until after the sentencing of the four defendants , " he asserted .                     