@@716499

txt In a doubly symbolic action which he timed for Labor Day and in which he represented the master magicians of the modern age , President Eisenhower waved a radioactive wand in Denver to break historic ground in two fields in order to turn the unleashed genie of atomic power from purely destructive purposes and convert it into a mighty and tireless servant and benefactor of mankind . First , he transmitted the electrically charged signal which started work at Shippingport , Pa. , 1,200 miles away , on the world 's first commercial atomic power plant , which is to be the forerunner of like plants all over the world to serve industry , agriculture , medicine and similar enterprises , and in particular to provide electricity in power-starved and therefore underdeveloped regions . At the same time he announced that , despite Soviet recalcitrance , the United States has just agreed with a number of other nations to go ahead with the development of the international atomic pool for peaceful purposes that is to make these plants possible , as proposed in his dramatic speech before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not the first atomic power plant to be started . One such plant is already under construction in Britain and another in France . But these plants are still mainly experimental and Government-owned . The Shippingport plant will not only be the largest of those now planned but also the first private and commercial plant of the kind , designed , in the President 's words , to advance the economic production of atomic power - and thereby bring mankind closer to the fulfillment of the ancient dream of a new and better world . The importance of such a development can not be measured merely by the price of atomic power , which at the start may well be higher than that of power from present sources . Rather it will have to be measured by two other more important factors . One of these factors is that in an age of rapidly rising power consumption the conventional sources of such power are limited , and that some nations , including Britain , face a definite shortage in such sources within a decade or so . That is where atomic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from decline and others from permanent stagnation . According to the best estimates the economically recoverable supply of uranium and thorium in the earth 's surface is more than twenty-five times as large as the economically recoverable coal , oil and gas combined , and is thus ample for many future generations . The second , even more significant factor is that the commercial development of atomic power for peaceful purposes is also one of the best available weapons of the free world . It is bound to exert pressure on Soviet Russia to break the disarmament deadlock which now threatens mankind with an atomic war in which , according to some scientists , the explosion of a few thousand large atomic bombs would so Poison the atmosphere with radioactivity as to wipe out human life on earth . It would also facilitate the development of the underdeveloped areas of the world to free them from the poverty which the Communists exploit . It is for all these purposes that President Eisenhower announces the II international atomic pool in collabora ? tion with such friendly nations as Canada , Belgium , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that in the end Russia will join . This pool will function under the safeguards prescribed by our atomic energy law and under the control of an international agency which will foster both the growth and spread of atomic technology , to be developed in reactor schools and stations here and abroad , and also , it seems , the exchange of atomic materials which will be " set aside " for projects sponsored by the agency . But in view of Russia 's absence from the pool , and until Russia ; joins , it appears that this agency can be only lightly linked to the United Nations , of which it was originally supposed to be a part , and will now have to be a largely independent organ of the participating nations . The responsibility for such a separation of another vital function from the United Nations , as for the whole threat of atomic war , again rests solely on Soviet 141 , ssia , which , as the President said , has cynically attempted to block all progress in this field .     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       