@@714885

txt Four and one-half years after he was named " one of the weakest links in our atomic security , " Dr. Edward U. Condon will be questioned under oath for the first time at a congressional hearing this afternoon in the United States courthouse . The case of this outstanding physicist has excited bitter controversy in military and federal intelligence circles since attention was first drawn to his associations and activities during the war years . Find Case Baffling Investigators have termed the case one of the most baffling in a series of episodes involving the alleged loss of secret information to soviet Russia . It ante-dated the Alger Hiss , Klaus Fuchs , and similar celebrated spy cases and was relegated to oblivion for se Aral years until revived at the ' insistence of two Illinois congressmen , Representatives Velde and Vail . The house committee on unAmerican activities finally was induced to subpena Condon after he had refused an " invitation " to appear . The hearing is being conducted in Chicago because a committee quorum is available here for the first time since congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , bristle-haired man of 50 , Condon was head of the national bureau of standards in Washington , D. C. , the nation 's top testing laboratory for secret military devices until last Sept. 30 . He since has been research director at the Corning Glass works , Corning , Pa . Condon has unquestioned standing in the field of physics . He is one of the small , highly select , international group which pioneered the " new physics " started by the Einsteinian revolution after World War I. These revolutionists soared on the wings of mathematics into fields beyond space and time . From England , France , Germany , Russia and the United States they came together , speaking their own language , a race apart , regarding national boundaries with scorn as they contemplated the atomic age . Vouched for by Truman Condon will bang to the hearing the support of powerful friends in government and science . President Truman has publicly vouched for his loyalty . W. Averill Harriman , former secretary of commerce , and a recent Democratic candidate for the Presidential nomination , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to indorse Condon 's vociferous protests that the present inquiry is a " political plot . " On the other hand , the official government records of an FBI investigation into Condon 's security status , have remained locked up since the house on April 21 , 1948 , voted 300 to 29 for their production by President Truman . The President scoffed at the house vote . The questioning . of Condon is expected to be long and detailed , covering the period when he worked on the atomic bomb before he was given his $14,000 a year government post in 1945 by Henry A. Wallace .                     