@@713457

txt Prospects of an early start on the proposed 76 million dollar north side filtration plant in the lake north of Navy pier were enhanced yesterday when army engineers in Washington indicated they would not oppose the project . The plans re:mire the army department s approval oecause tt nas jurisdiction over navigable waters . Mayor Kennelly said yesterday he had been assured that the necessary construction materials for the plant , to be erected on a 61 acre area of filled in land off shore between Ontario and Superior sts. , would be available as soon as the plans are cleared . Held A-Bomb Insurance Defense officials have indicated that the new filtration plant , which , with the south side plant , would provide filtered water for all Chicago and most of the close-in suburbs , will afford excellent insurance against effects of an atomic explosion should one occur in Lake Michigan . Sand filter beds , they said , will remove most of the radioactive water contaminants because most harmful radioactivity is confined to the filterable impurities . The army 's formal decision will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ informed . Army Secretary Pace will receive the record of the case and the recommendations of the army engineers and army undersecretary Dec. 22 . THE TRIBUNE learned from reliable Washington sources yesterday that these recommendations would not support objections to the plant which are based on alleged interference with navigation , and expressed belief the army secretary 's approval would be forthcoming . Some Oppose Site Opposition to the lake front site was made at hearings by the North Central association , represented by Atty . Thomas I. Underwood , and the University of Chicago and Northwestern university , represented by Atty . Walter B. Wolf . State , county and city water and health authorities and representatives of the area 's major employers were given a demonstration yesterday of a new type of filter cartridge the inventors claim will remove harmful radioactive substances from drinking water . Orville C. Morrison , president of the Sunroc company of Glen Riddle , Pa. , tiller manufacturers , showed the 200 spectators how the new filter . developed with the aid of Dr. Richard Chamberlain , University of Pennsylvania physicist and radiologist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cuts Radiation His aids added radioactive iodine to a model water system , and with a Geiger counter showed that the whole system was dangerously contaminated . A f ter passing thru the filter , however , the water showed a nearly normal radioactivity count . Maj. Lenox R. Lohr , state civil defense director , said yesterday that radioactivity can be filtered from water because it is a condition not of the water itself but of water 's impurities.                     