@@718634

txt Africa 's man of the moment , Kwame Nkrumah , is the son of a simple African goldsmith . At midnight March 5 he caps a tremendous personal success story by becoming Prime Minister of the first African independent member of the British Commonwealth . Already some people are clubbing Dr. Nkrumah the " Nehru of Africa . " This is probably an exaggerated estimate , for although he is certainly the foremost African politician on this continent he has some way to go before he speaks for the emerging nations of Africa as Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru of India does for the countries of Asia . About one factor , however , there can be little doubt . This is that Dr. Nkrumah is going to need some statesmanlike qualities indeed , not only in helping other countries to freedom , which is his declared goal , but more particularly in maintaining peace and prosperity here in his own land of Ghana , as it is to be named . Seldom can a new nation have won its freedom facing such an array of problems as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the shaky economic outlook stemming from the country 's dependence on cocoa prices currently declining . Then , on the eve of independence , demonstrations ha% e reportedly broken out in the former United Nations trust territory of Togoland and , which only last year exchanged British trusteeship for amalgamation with the Gold Coast . A mob of demonstrators reportedly marched on a district officer 's office , damaged a post office , and at least one is said to have attempted to burn the new national flag of Ghana . Between 30 and 40 have been arrested . Cleavage Reflected True , this appears to be only a localized outburst contlasting with the substantial vote by which Togoland favored amalgamation during the United Nations-supervised plebiscite . NOVertheless it reflects some of the over-all cleavages by which this country is riven . These are rather more pronounced between Dr. Nkrumah 's wholehearted supporters of the southern Gold Coast and the warlike Ashantis of the interior and the peoples of the remote northern territories . The Ashantis fear the erosion of authority of their chiefs and domination by Dr. Nkrumah , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freedom for their country , they would prefer a regional form of government safeguarding their power . Accordingly the Asantehene ( virtual king of the Ashantis ) has sent two lesser chiefs from his capital of Kumasi to the independence celebrations in Accra , and Dr. Kofi Busia , the Ashanti leader of the opposition National Liberation Movement in the central government , has somewhat conveniently been ordered a month 's rest by his doctors which will prohibit his attendance . All this points up certain tensions which would be heightened if Dr. Nkrumah should attempt to steam roller over opposition during the initial days of independence . Declaration Questioned In this connection considerable speculation has been stirred by a passage in his autobiography to be published March 6 which says , " Even a system based on social justice and a democratic constitution may need backing up during the period following independence by emergency measures of a totalitarian kind . Without discipline true freedom can not survive . " Another challenge facing Dr. Nkrumah is consolidation of his country 's rapid transition from primitive to modern civilization and the elimination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there is a long history of human sacrifice . This custom has been whittled down by British officials , but few doubt that the whole paraphernalia of tribal ritual remains among a people who even today employ primitive and cruel modes of punishment . As Accra 's Anglican bishop , Richard Roseveare points out , Africans tend to adopt the superficial physical trappings of Christianity rather more than its underlying principles . reared in the Roman Catholic Church but now calls himself a nondenominational Christian . He heads a country of which less than half is Christian , the remainder being pagan except for a small portion of Moslems . Academic Background In addition to these ? . internal problems , Dr. Nkrumah has a tricky course to steer through international relationships , though the reportedly told Vice - President Richard Al . Nixon of the United States March 4 that Ghana was dedicated to a democratic way of life and could not be " neutral . " Much has been made of his leftist leanings and he terms himself a " Marxist socialist . " But he has a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where he won his B.A. at Lincoln University and later became assistant lecturer in philosophy . He also won an M.Sc. in education and an M.A. at the University of Pennsylvania and years later became honorary doctor of laws at Lincoln . This , with further study in Britain , for whose people he holds high regard , has brought him to the peak of his career imbued with what many observers believe to be a deep respect for and appreciation of sonic of the highest principles of western democracy in which he was grounded at this time . Tribal Ceremonies This was graphically illustrated at a welcome ceremony to the Duchess of Kent when tribal elders insisted on performing a traditional pagan libation rite acknowledging a number of tribal gods , despite pro tests from the Christian churches . Dr. Nkrumah was himself                     