@@713412

txt The Chicago climate seems to put Michael J. Quill into an expansive mood . Ignoring the painful realities of company earnings and of the city 's politically based reluctance to allow increases in fares , Mr. Quill took flight into a series of demands on privately owned bus lines which promise a yearend crisis for New York 's City Hall . An hourly pay rise or zo cents , a iortyhour week , a new health and welfare fund , liberalized pensions , an earlier retirement age , eleven paid holidays instead of the present six , and fifteen other demands that he has n't had time to formulate in detail  --  these are the book that Mr. Quill has thrown at the bus lines , as president of the Transport Workers Union . Union estimates put the cost of this package at 38 cents an hour , but these estimates are distinctly on the modest side . Mr. Quill is , as usual , handing out a strike threat along with his demands , and has added something new this time  --  a warning that arbitration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the companies have not signed . Although it was only June 27 , 1950 , less than six months ago , that the T. W. U. signed at City Hall a memorandum of understanding that promised no changes in basic working conditions would be sought by the union for two years , Mr. Quill is already warning that he expects all benefits of bargaining with the private lines to be extended to the city 's transit workers . He is also warning of a slowdown on the city lines which , we assume , would be an " accidental " result of a strike on the private lines . So here we are again on the old merry-go-round . Third Avenue lines , still in bankruptcy , are charging a 10-cent fare and are able to do so only because they 're under the protective custody of the federal court . The city administration , which properly raised its own surface fares to 10 cents to meet its higher labor costs , still insists on holding other private lines  --  not yet in bankruptcy  --  to an 8-cent fare , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fact that the private lines are heavily taxed in various ways while the city is tax-exempt . The Third Avenue System is still paying monthly installments of past-due retroactive pay rises granted so long ago that no one can remember when . Major bus lines have paid no dividends to investors for years . The key to this situation , to end the jockeying for position , is to standardize pay and working conditions on city , and private lines , so that one group ca n't bargain against the other . Only City Hall can do that , and the whole problem of Mr. Quill 's strike threat is in the lap of the Board of Estimate , which alone controls fares and thus controls wages . The arithmetic of present busline earnings at today 's fares says no to Mr. Quill 's demands . The justice of a higher wage is another matter , which can be decided only at City Hall .                     