@@717969

txt The President 's commencement address at Baylor University , Waco , Texas . was a calm , careful  --  and inspirational address . It was fitted to the audience and occasion , and in a sense was a commencement address for the whole nation , filled as it was with analyses of the world situation and the forces moving its the world into which the senior class at Baylor now is graduating . The only novel proposal made by the President , May 25 , was that United States universities and colleges establish . a belt of technical and scientific schools abroad " to provide a - great - two- way avenue of communication ? between East and West . Then he outlined his . education proposal in this way : " Many nations , though their cultures are ancient and rich in human values , do not possess the resources to spread the needed education throughout their populations . But they can wisely use help that respects their traditions and ways . ' For example , the whole free world would be stronger if there existed adequate , institutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where the hunger for knowledge and the ability to use knowledge are unsatisfied because educational facilities are often not equal of the existing need. , Challenge Sighted . " Da we find-here a worthy challenge to America 's univer'sites and to their graduates ? I firmly believe that-if some or all of our great universities , strongly supported by private foundations that exist in number throughout our land , sparked by the zeal , and fire of educated Americans would devote themselves to this task , the prospects li for a peaceful and prosperous world be mightily enhanced . " The speech itself was a re- minder to his particular audience , also to the nation as a whole , of the heritage and factors that have made this country great In many ways it was a sermon , preaching the Christian virtues and concepts on which democracy and freedom are built . Speaking of the colleges , and universities ' dedication to true education and wisdom he emphasized : This implies , over and beyond mere knowledge , an understanding of men 's relationship to their fellow men in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ image they are all.made . " If-it dealt - principally with ' foreign affairs , it was , as he explained , because in the " fundamental struggle in which the world is now engaged world issues create , or at least color , almost every domestic question and problem . " Communism Flayed " The Presidents speech actually carried one of the most devastating criticisms of cornmunisni that has come from the Chief Execative . " It was not an emotional attack , but a forthright expose of communism 's achievements and program , - But , said the President in conclusion : " Conunoniun in its deepest sense is a gigantic failure . " " Communism , " he said , " denies the spiritual premises on which your education has been based . According to that docnine , there is no God : there is no soul in man ; there is no reward beyond the satisfaction of daily needc . Consequently , toward the human being communism is cruel , intolerant , atheistic . " The President singled out three great truths on which all thinking and striving and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The destiny of man is freedom and justice under his creator . " 2 . " The fundamental principles of human liberty and free government are powerful sources of human energy , loyalty , dedication  --  and - guides to enduring success . " 3 . People , are what count Europe Unity Urged Part ' of his speech was not only an analysis . but a plea to much of the free world , particularly Europe , to make faster progress toward unity and cooperation . lie spoke of " the new sun of hope , security , and confidence that would shine for Europe " if it could develop some kind of a United States of Europe . He analyzed the reasons that were holding up such political unification , but at the same time rehearsed the progress that had been made . He spoke of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , its contribution to free world security , and its ' possibilities of even greater nsaulness through the studies now going on of expanding its activities . The President reaffirmed this country 's support of the United Nations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disarmament , and the exchange of knowledge and factual information between peoples . " Security , " the President said .. " can not be achieved by arms alone , no matter how destructive the weapons or how large their accurnuiatfcm. " ' was a plea to the Baylor graduating class , and also to the entire - country . that it " start working now for the sort of country and world you want as a borne for your , children and grandchildren . " " You have in your hears and minds . " he asserted . " the means to lift the eyes of men and women above the drab and desolate horizon of hate and fear and hopelessness . "                     