@@714981

txt Records of congress today revealed that Gov . Stevenson , Democratic candidate for President , defended a " hush-hush " war time deal which would virtually have given away to private interests the navy 's Elk Hills , Cal. , oil reserve , second largest in the world . An outraged congressional committee forced cancellation of a contract negotiated by Frank Knox , late navy secretary , with the Standard Oil Company of California . As special assistant to Knox , Stevenson was a key figure in the oil deal , which was widely criticized . Stevenson defended the oil contract , which would have turned over rich public oil lands to private exploitation . Today Stevenson is an advocate of federal ownership of oil rich tidelands . Seeks to Defend Deal In 1943 Stevenson submitted a lengthy defense of the Knox contract during a congressional investigation . In his role as special assistant to Knox , Stevenson was assumed by members of the in ' vestigating committee to have had a hand in writing or approving the contract . The contract was assailed by various federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rank deception , and worse than the Teapot " dome scandal of the Harding administration . Condemnation of the contract came from the justice and interior departments and the controler general as well as on the floors of the house and senate . Knox came before a hearing of the house public lands committee to confess error on June 26 , 1943 . He was accompanied by Stevenson , who beamed when Knox shuuldared responsibility for the contiact . Muffed It , " Says Knox " I muffed it ! " Knox told the committee after plucking a fat cigar from his mouth . " I 've been spending billions of dollars for the navy department . .. . My mistake was : n not realizing that a case with a long history like this should have been submitted " Ito the justice department . The contract was entered into by the navy , and the Standard Oil Com pany of California late in 1942 . The contract was signed by President Roosevelt without examine ton a few minutes after it was submitted to him by the navy secretary . tinier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ withdraw oil without making payment for five years . Further , Knox sought an appropriation of 51,748 , - 000 to finance the contract , which favored the private company . 43,000 Acres In Area Thu Elk Hills reserve , which was linked to the Harding administration Teapot dome scandal , is estimated to contain 400 million barrels of oil . There are 43,000 acres in the oil lands of the area . The Sfandard Oil Company of California owns a poor corner of 3,300 acres . This corner is shallow and not considered rich in oil . Norman Little , then assistant attorney general in the public I ands division , pronounced the contract " illegal and invalid . " Demands grew in congress for an investigation . Former Rep. Voorhis ID. , Cal. charged that one result of the contract would be to advance 15 million dollars ' worth of oil to th : , ail company without interest and ! or five years . Former Rep. Elliott ID. , Cal. charged that the con- tract has some of " the inklings of Teapot Dome . " Davies Post @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as " a hushhush deal " which was practically ( giving away the second richest oil reserve in the world . The richest Is regarded as in Arabia . Langer , on the floor of the senate , called attention to the presence of Ralph Davies , a vice president of the Standard Oil Company of California , in the administration as deputy petroleum administrator . He also noted that Ed ? Pauley , treasurer of the Democratic national committee , was close to the company . Langer traced a parallel between the Teapot dome scandal and the Elk Hills contract . Public oil was released to private interests in the Harding administration . " There was no accusation of graft against Edwin Denby , then secretary of the navy , ' Langer said . Denby was forced to resign as a result of the scandal . " It was only a charge that he was weak-kneed . Knox Called Weak-Kneed " Since then the oil reserves were transferred back to the navy for safekeeping . And now the nation is faced with another weakkneed secretary of the navy , Frank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public , signed away this coveted wealth of oil . " Abe Fortes , then interior undersecretary , held the contract was a blow at the interests of the United States and " a serious question of business judgment . " Francis Biddle , then attorney general , blocked Knox 's request for funds to implement his contract . Controler General Lindsay Warren delivered an adverse legal opinion in which he said that " with the exception of fraud and collusion , and the possibility that this contract may be in good faith , " it resembled the Harding administration oil scandals . Adlal Rebukes U. S. Aid In the face of the criticism and denuncleion , Stevenson defended the operating monopoly given the oil company . He filed a statement and a signed introduction with the congressional investigators . In this he rebuked Littell , who was widely acclaimed as a zealous protector of the public interest by such figures as Josephus Daniels , late navy secretary . Stevenson held that the navy had come off better in the contract and that the company was giving up millions of dollars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the contract gave the navy authority to change the navy 's share of the oil if it should be determined relative amounts of oil taken by the navy and the company should be found to be out of proportion . Littell denied before the house committee that the contract gave such authority . He said the language of the contract on this point was " just verbiage . " Ten days after Stevenson made his defense , Knox promised to take steps to terminate the contract . On Sept. 8. 1943 , Roosevelt announced cancellation of the contract . " Teapot " Leases Canceled In the scandals of the Harding administration , Harry F. Sinclair was given a lease on the navy 's Teapot dome oil reserve in Wyoming and Edward L. Doheny was granted a lease on the Elk Hills reserve in California . Both leases were canceled in the investigation which followed . In the administration of Calvin Coolidge , the White House gave every cid to Democratic senators in uncovering the scandals . These were the late Thomas Walsh D. , Monti and former Sen. Burton K. Wheeler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a major role in the second Elk Hills oil scandal , was fired by Roosevelt for alleged " insubordination " growing out of his efforts to protect the public interest .                     