@@719147

txt Frederick John Kasper ; convicted race agitator , was questioned by cilly detectives last night in connection with the dynamiting of the racially integrated Hattie Cotton elementary school here . The police said that Kasper had refused to confirm or deny a story that he and another man had hidden some dynamite in a house three days before the blast that extensively ' damaged the elementary school . One Negro and 398 white children had been in attendance at the school , but the building was empty when the explosion occurred last Tuesday morning . Charles Reed , a suspect turned over to local authorities by the // Federal Bureau of Investigation . said that he and Kasper had hidden three sticks of dynamite on the previous Saturday night . The suspect , a member of the local Ku Klux Klan and a follower of Kasper , said that Kasper had brought the dynamite to Mr. Reed 's house . Then , according to Mr. Reed 's story , the two of them took the dynamite to an abandoned house . When the police , in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it was gone . First Link to Violence Kasper is now being held in the county jai here on a charge inciting to ? riot , an accusation contained in an indictment that was handed up yesterday . Although he has advocated violence many times in speeches here and other parts of the South this is the first time that evidence has been given that linked him directly to an act of violence . The prisoner was confronted last night in his cell by Mr. Reed . When questioned about the blast he was not cooperative . " I do n't want to say anything without my attorney being present , " Kasper said . If it can be proved that Kasper had dynamite in his possession , he could be prosecuted under Tennessee 's new antidynamite law . The statute prescribes terms of five to fifteen years for illegal possession . Nashville 's police chief , Douglas F. Hosse , said today that Mr. Reed had offered " the best leads yet " in the dynamiting of the school . " He may he telling some of the truth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Mr. Hosse said . " I think he is holding back on us . " Mr. Reed gave himself up to the F. B. yesterday , On the opening day of school last Monday , he had been under local police surveillance as he rode from school to school in a car decorated with Ku Klux Klan signs and placards preaching racial ha tred . After the dynamiting of the school he dropped out of sight and the local police began to look for him . 3 Other Main Suspects There are three other primary suspects in the school blast and three others who appear to have some knowledge of the explosion . All are local ne'er-do-wells who do not seem to have any kind of regular employment . Demolition experts say that it would require considerably more than three sticks of dynamite to inflict the extensive damage done to the Hattie Cotton school . School authorities hope to have some classrooms repaired sufficiently so that children can return to the school next week . With schools closed today , Nashville was quiet . The tensions appeared to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were going hack on a five-day schedule , and that shifts had been cut from twelve to eight hours a day . " We are eased from an emergency status , " he said . " But 111 vacations and leaves have seen canceled until further notice , and all of the men are on twenty-four hour alert . " Only a little more than half the children have returned to their classrooms in the integrated schools because of threats and violence . But with Federal and city officials taking a strong- hand , school authorities hope that more parents will . allow their children to go back to school .                     