@@718165

txt FINNEGAN TO HEAD STEVENSON DRIVE ; MB REAMED Chairman Is Tearful Before His Re-election  --  Illinoisan at First Opposed Him 7 MILLION FUND ASKED Democratic Committee Lays Groundwork for Campaign ? Candidates to Rest By W. H. LAWRENCE Special to The New York Times . CHICAGO , Aug. ** Democrats formally entered the 1956 campaign today after having re ? solved a leadershir crisis that had Paul M. Butler , the national chairman , weeping publicly . Mr. Butler was re-elected chairman but central direction of , the campaign was given to James A. Finnegan of Philadelphia , who will be campaign director . Mr. Finnegan has been the personal campaign manager for Adlai E. Stevenson , the Presidential nominee . The compromise came only after Mr. Butler , brushing tears from his eyes , had told the new national committee that his " political epitaph " was being written and his resignation was ready for immediate presentation . Mr. Stevenson reversed himself within a matter of hours " He had first told Mr , Butler that he could not remain as chairman , largely because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been involved this week with top ranking Stevenson aides . The first decision , taken about 10 A. M. , was communicated to the national committee , which , with only one dissenting vote , instructed Mr. Butler not to resign . When this news reached the candidate , he decided Mr. Butler ought to be re-elected , but that the real power to run the campaign should be vested in Mr. Finnegan . Mr. 13utter ' 4 duties as chairman will be largely administrative in so far as the big Washington headquarters  --  are concerned . Rayburn Aids Butler But Mr. Finnegan also will have his headquarters in Washington , immediately adjacent to the national committee set-up . Another potent influence in Mr. Butler 's behalf was the intervention of House Speaker Sam Rayburn , who served as permanent chairman of the convention . Mr. Stevenson explained the new set-up to the new national committee when he advised it that he thought Mr. Butler ought to be retained as chairman . All this happened in public , in line with the Democratic habit of airing party differences openly . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avoid the " two-headed monster " that operated in 1952 when separate Stevenson headquarters at Springfield , Ill. , and Washington often found themselves working at cross purposes , booking . conflicting television programs and operating occasionally from different itineraries . Kefauver Speaks , Too The crisis over Mr. Butler 's role took precedence over the national committee 's organizational session , which included brief speeches by Mr. Stevenson and his Vice-Presidential funning mate , Senator Estes Kefauver of Tennessee . Both stressed the need to reach independent and stay-at-home voters to achieve victory against the formidable opposition of P. Republican ticket expected to be headed by President Eisenhower and Vice President Richard M. Nixon . Mr. Stevenson said the stayat-home and independent bltd could be decisive , because more than 60 per cent of the eligible electorate seldom voted . He said he did not underestimate his difficulties because of the great personal popularity of General Eisenhower , which he said would be exploited by " bandwagons and money . " Senator Kefauver forecast vieory after a hard-hitting campaign that would take the Democratic contenders into every seas Von of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a limited ' campaign for re-election , with most of it carried by television . The big news , though , was the problem over Mr. Butler 's leadership and how to handle it . His quick temper got him in trouble this week not only with Stevenson aides but also with the television networks . He lashed out at the Columbia Broadcasting . System for its refusal to broadcast , as other TV , networks had , the complete documentary film , " The Pursuit of Happiness . " His quarrel with the Stevenson aides came over whether Mr. Stevenson should be permitted to make his acceptance speech Thursday night , immediately after he was . renominated . Mr. Butler wanted Mr. Stevenson to wait " until Friday night , as scheduled , for a joint appearance with former - President Harry S. Truman , who backed Governor Harriman of New York and who sought to stop the Stevenson bandwagon . Mr. Stevenson finally gave up the idea of making his accceptance speech Thursday . But the Presidential candidates insisted , again over Mr. Butler 's objections , on making a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , freeand-open choice among VicePresidential aspirants . The national committee session was scheduled for 10 A. M. , Central Daylight Time 11 A. M. Eastern Daylight Time , but it was delayed until 10:45 A. M. , while Mr , Butler was closeted with Mr. Stevenson in his suite at the Sheraton-Blackstone Hotel . Butler Is Praised As soon as the open meeting began , national committeemen and women began to pay tribute to Mr. Butler for his party leadership and organization of the national convention . This ended with a standing vote of confidence and appreciation to Mr. Butler . His voice breaking , Mr. Butler responded to this tribute by saying that he was unable to express his thanks . He brushed tears from his eyes , then added : " I 'm sure you do not realize you are writing my political epitaph . In a moment , I shall submit my resignation and I urge you to accept it . " Some routine business was transacted before Camille Gravel Jr. , Louisiana 's national committeeman , arose to offer a resolution directing Mr. Butler not to offer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voice , vote , with only one audible dissent . George Rock , the Colorado committeeman , confirmed his was the single negative vote . " Did you vote no " ? he was asked . " I sure as hell did , " he replied . In the meantime , the committee elected Mrs. Katie Loucheim of Washington , D. C. , as vice chairman . It also charted a $1,000,000 - a - week campaign for seven weeks to raise the $7,000,000 estimated to be spent in 1956 by three committees  --  the national committee and theeseparate campaign committees for House and Senate candidates . One feature will be a coast-to-coast series of $25-to$100-a-plate dinners on closed circuit television Oct. 9 . This date was designated " D-Day " to raise the dollars needed for victory . This affair will be modeled after the Republican " Salute to Eisenhower " dinners that netted about $4,000,000 for the G. 0 . P. campaign fund . About two hours had passed since Mr. Butler first talked of resigning before Mr. Stevenson came down to address the national committee . The Presidential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had told Mr. Butler he ** keep his job . Introducing Mr. Stevenson , the party chairman thanked the committee members for their expression of donfidence , but reiterated his intention to resign . He then referred to Mr. Stevenson as one whom he long had regarded as " a man of destiny . " Mr. Stevenson began with a quip , referring to the long hours he had labored among delegates to win the Presidential nomination . " If I am a man of destiny , I hope my destiny is to go to bed pretty soon , " he said . After a general discussion of campaign plans : , he turned to the Butler issue . " Many , " he said , " had thought that Paul Butler was my man . " But , he went on to say , this is wrong . Mr. Butler , he said , labored diligently and effectively for party unity and solidarity impartially . He added : " I sometimes thought too impartially . " Now , Mr. Stevenson continued , he concluded that the party should not allow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be re-elected . There were cheers and gasps of surprise at this announcement . He then outlined his program - to put Mr. Finnegan in direct control of campaign activities . 8 Ratified for Committee CHICAGO , Aug. 18 ' UP ) ? The national committee also ratified eight regional members of its executive committee . They were : Mayor David L. Lawrence of Pittsburgh ; Mrs. Thelma P. Sharp , national committeewoman from New Jersey ; Col. Jacob M. Arvey , committeeman from Illinois ; Mrs. Margaret Price , committeewoman from Michigan ; Camile F. Gravel Jr. , committeeman from Louisiana ; Mrs. B. B. Everett , committeeWoman from North Carolina ; Calvin W. Rawlings , committeeman from Utah , and Mrs. Marguerite P. Thompson , committeewoman from Colorado . 