@@720230

txt Democratic leaders , confronted by intraparty attacks as an aftermath of defeat in the state election last November , took a critical new look at the party machinery last night . The occasion was the State Committee 's annual $100-aplate fund-raising dinner at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel . Among other things , the 1,400 party faithful heard : cAn appeal by Mayor Wagner to make the party " completely democratic " and a proposal by him for a drastic revision of the process in selecting candidates for state-wide office . A. charge by Carmine G. De Sapio that the so-called liberal wing of the party had created an issue of " semantics " that was doing " irreparable damage to the party . " CA defense of Mr. De Sapio by Michael H. Prendergast , slat ( chairman , who referred to the New York County leader as " talented and dedicated . " A declaration by Mr. Prendergast that " while we welcome all suggestions and counsel , we must never allow ourselves to he dictated to by minority factions within our own party or by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Insurgency The speeches of the party leaders were , in effect , their , answer to the charge by leaders of the liberal wing that Mr. De Sapio had created " the image of bossism " and destroyed " the image of liberalism " in the party . The charges were made Jan , 22 in a statement by former Senator Herbert H. Lehman , Mrs. Franklin D , Roosevelt and Thomas K. Finletter , former Secretary of the Air Force , who called for a rank-and-file uprising to restore control of the party to the membership . The statement was viewed as reflecting discontent over the selection of District Attorney Frank S. Hogan as the Senatorial candidate at the state convention in Buffalo last August . Mr. Hogan was not the preference of either of the party 's top elected officials , Mayor Wagner or Averell Harriman , then Govern6r . Earlier in the day Mr. Prendergast said he had told a closed luncheon of fifty-seven upstate county chairmen that he was ' " 1,000 per cent behind Carmine De Sapio " in the leadership issue raised by the **25;556;TOOLONG @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Madison Avenue and Twenty-sixth Street . Mayor Wagner , who last Monday took a firm position behind Mr. De Sapio as the leader of Tammany Hall and Democratic national committeeman , defended last night the manner in which Mr. Hogan was nominated . " The party leadership in some counties favored one candidate for Senator , those in others favored a second , " he said of the convention . " There were some for a third , or a fourth ? tall good men . There was a rollcall . We nominated our slate . " In contrast , he said , the Republican convention chose a slate " selected by the state-wide ( party leadership . " There was no question , the Mayor continued , that the issue of bossism played a substantial part in the Republican landslide . " I ask , why ? " he went on . " Why should our party be subjected to attack after a rollcall on the floor , and the opposition party be the beneficiary because their control was exercised in private and in ad-vance ? " Attitude on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voters had come to expect the Democratic party to be the party of the people and were resentful " when it looks as though that is n't so . " He said they expected the Republican party to be influenced by groups , rather than by the masses . Mayor Wagner said he thought the present convention system for the selection of state-wide candidates was wrong because a person seeking a nomination could not get his name on the ballot . Mr. De Savo , without mentioning Mr. Lehman , Mrs. Roosevelt or Mr. Finletter by name , said his critics were " squabbling " over a question of semantics " about who or what is or is not a liberal . " Asserting that the question had no practical application and could serve only to sap party vitality , Mr. De Sapio continued : " Telling people you are a liberal does n't make it so , nor does telling someone otherwise necessarily make him so . The kharacter and philosophy of a politician , or any other public figure , is molded and defined by his beliefs , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ character and philosophy of a political party evolves from the record of performance compiled by its members . " Mr. Prendergast , calling for unity behind majority decisions in the party , counseled : " Let us not be diverted by the sideshows , the assaults and the needless recriminations that can only clutter our objectives and disunify us . Let us close our ears once and for all to the voices of suspicion that would destroy us , and close our ranks behind the common cause that unites us . " While the dinner was essentially for fund-raising purposes , it also honored Mayor and Mrs. Wagner on the occasion of their seventeenth wedding anniversary . Mr. Harriman , in a cable of greeting from India , said : " Let no one have any doubt about the strength and vigor of the Democratic party in New York State . "                     