@@717202

txt Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru left London tonight proclaiming his conviction that the leaders of the Soviet Union would earnestly Seek a reduction of international tension at the Geneva conference . The present world situation was described as a " psychological moment of history  --  a turning point " ? lly the Indian leader . The Gendva meeting of the heads of government of the United States , Britain , France and the Soviet Union should not be expected to produce plans for peace immediately , he said . But it probably will progress toward a peaceful settlement of EastWest disputes , he added . The Soviet leaders " certainly " will be prepared to discuss Far Eastern problems , including Formosa 's future , at the conference , Mr. Nehru said . The Soviet Union wants to devote its energies and resources to internal development , Mr. Nehru declared . He added that , although he had not visited any farming areas during his recent visit to the Soviet Union , he had seen no signs of a food crisis . This was said with emphasis . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thesis that the Soviet economy is facing collapse . Effect of Visit Weighed The Indian Prime Minister has been in Britain for forty-eight hours . His stay , during which he talked with Prime Minister Sir Anthony Eden and Foreign Secretary Harold Macmillan , ended the consultative phase of the British preparations for Geneva . The effect of the visit on British policy at the conference , which opens a week from tomorrow , will be less than Mr. Nehru and V. K. Krishna Menon , the Prime Minister 's foreign affairs adviser , hope . Although the two Indian statesmen talked at length on Asia and her problems with Sir Anthony and Mr. Macmillan , authoritative sources said Britain at the moment was much more concerned with Europe and Germany . The Indian Prime Minister , these sources said , stressed in his talks the importance to Asian public opinion of discussion at Geneva of Formosa and other trouble spots around the periphery of Communist China . By the time he was ready to depart Mr. Nehru confined himself to the remark that these troubles could not be ignored at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Russians . might prefer to discuss them " informally . " Informal conversations on the Formosa situation and on Communist China 's entry into the United Nations might meet one of the chief British objections to the inclusion of these subjects in the conference discussions . Sir Anthony believes that any E formal talks on the Far East would raise the problem of the representation of the Nationalist and Communist Chinese at the meeting . Inclusion of envoys from " the two Chinas " would alter the Geneva meeting , it is said , from a small group talking about the world situation to a wider ' - as-sembly dealing with specific substantive problems ; But the British Government , it is understood , would not be averse to hearing the comments of Soviet Premier Nikolai A. Bulganin and Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov on the situation in the Far East . Moreover , it would welcome any reasonable Soviet proposal for the establishment of means of consultation between East and West over Formosa . In this area , as in Germany , authoritative sources stress that there are certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One of these is that , in the event of an attack on Formosa , the Government , under present circumstances , would honor its commitment to support the Chinese Nationalist Government in meeting the attack because it is a member of the United Nations . Differences on Formosa Mr. Nehru , at the airfield before his departure , said he had discussed the possibility of future steps for lessening tension over ' Formosa . Indian views , he added , are " largely in keeping with the thinking of the United Kingdom . " The impression given in authoritative diplomatic circles is that , although the views of the British and Indian Governments on the ultimate settlement of the Formosa situation may be similar , wide differences on timing exist . The British Government will not be diverted from the business at hand  --  German reunification , security and disarmament . Mr. Nehru 's suggestion that Formosa and Communist China be added to these issues was cooly received . There is general agreement with Mr. Nehru 's belief that the Geneva conference will " turn away from the so-called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his Cabinet are more inclined than Mr. Nehru and Mr. Krishna Menon to scrutinize some of the " cold war " difficulties that remain . Before his departure , Mr. Nehru , commenting on the troubles in Laos , said he " did not attach too much importance to such incidents . " The British attach consider ' able importance to - the-  recent outbreaks of fighting hi- Laos , where the pro-Communist Pathet Lao faction seems to be the aggressor . India is chairman of the international supervisory commission there , as in Vietnam , and the embarrassment that the attacks have caused Mr. Nehru are understood . The British Government , through diplomatic channels , has repeatedly urged on India and other Asian Governments the . necessity for impressing the Chiaese Communists with the im ? ortance to the West of the leneva agreement concluded -. ast year . The British have ; told India that the United States , France md other Western powers will Jot accept Mr. Nehru 's view that zhe supervisory commission ' in Laos " is functioning very well " a the fighting continues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            