@@715561

txt Rudolph Halley , President of - the City Council , accepted yesterday the Liberal party nomination for Mayor and said he was in the contest to stay , no matter who the other candidates for Mayor would be . " I accept the nomination of the Liberal party with pride and humility , " Mr. Halley said in a prepared statement he read to a large group of reporters in his office at City Hall . " I will run . I will fight . With God 's help I will win for and with the people of New York . " Mr. Halley left no doubt that he intended to base much of his campaign on the Republican State Administration of Governor Dewey , which he charged took advantage of municipal incompetence and imposed a " rent grab and a fare grab " on the people of the city . He declared that before the campaign ended he would discuss every issue and added : " Two basic things must'be done . We must clear up the political atmosphere and clear up the city 's relationship with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , then with an administration consisting of many men devoted to the cause of good government we will find the answers to specific problems of city government . " Problem for Democrats Mr. Halley 's designation for the Mayoralty nomination by the Liberal party has created a major problem for the Democratic county leaders . With the Republican county leaders known to be ready to accept District Attorney Frank S. Hogan as a candidate for Mayor , the Democratic leaders , or a majority of them , are confronted with the choice of designating Mr. Hogan for the nomination and risking a primary fight with Mayor Impellitteri and possibly Mr. Halley , or naming a candidate who wood be expected to cut heavily into the Liberal party vote . That type of candidate is seen in Representative Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr. , Averell Harriman , former . Director for Mutual Security , and Robert F. Wagner Jr. , Borough President of Manhattan . All three are still understood to be under consideration , although Mr. Roosevelt has said he would not accept the nomination and there is doubt of Mr. Harrimtn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders in an attempt to get support for the Democratic nomination , but apparently they have had little smccess . In reply to a question , Mr. ' Halley said he had not decided whether he would enter the Democratic primary . He recalled that in 1951 he ran as an independent as well as the Liberal party candidate for his present office , and he said it was likely he would have an independent line again . About twenty-five reporters and // newspaper , newsreel and television photographers attended Mr. Halley 's press conference . He wore a dark blue suit and had on his distinctive dark tortoise shell rimmed glasses . He answered all questions readily with self-assurance and frequent broad smiles . In his prepared statement , the candidate said that as chief counsel to the Senate Crime Investigating ( Kefauver ) Committee he learned of the collusion between crime , corruption and the political machines . Crime , corruption , machine rule and inefficiency , he declared , have gnawed at the vitals of our whole municipal structure of government , and the people of New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of additional cost and inadequate services . Mr. Halley added that the Liberal party , by electing him to his present office and now by nominating him for Mayor had given him the opportunity to run as an independent , unbossed , uncontrolled candidate , responsible to no political machine . He declared that the problems the city faced as a result of the last six years of misrule were staggering . In urging all those interested in restoring clean , progressive government to the city to support him , he said he could promise them only " an endless amount of hard work . " In regard to Newbold Morris , whom Liberal party leaders are considering for designation for President of the City Council , Mr. Halley expressed high regard for him , but said he did not wish to discuss possible running mates at this time . Asked if he expected to have a say or even a veto on other Liberal party candidates , he said : " There never has been a situa- ' tion in which the Liberal party failed to give full weight to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ J. Curran , New York County Republican Chairman , that his designation by the Liberal party had " made a shambles of coalition efforts , " Mr. Halley said : " I do n't know what Mr. Curran wants , but I notice that both he and DeSapio Carmine G. DeSapio , leader of Tammany named District Attorney Hogan on their lists of acceptable candidates . I 'm not sure that Mr. Curran ever wanted coalition with anyone except the Democrats . " Mr. Halley asserted that recent polls did not seem to indicate strong public support for coalition as possible coalition candidates did not get a very high vote . He led all other candidates in two recent newspaper polls .                     