@@718585

txt The White House reiterated tonight President Eisenhower 's satisfaction with Senate amendments to his proposed Middle Eastern doctrine . A new and special statement said the President and his Secretary of State , John Foster Dulles , after study felt changes adopted yesterday by a joint meeting of two Senate committees had been " intended and designed to accomplish the purposes outlined by the President in his message to the Congress of Jan. 5 , 1957 . " The President urged the Senate to act promptly " and approve these purposes by a decisive vote . " President Notes Differences " The President notes that the text adopted by the two Senate committees differs in some respects from that recommended by the Executive branch and adopted with certain amendments by the House of Representatives , " a statement read by James C. Hagerty , press secretary , said . " But the President has no doubt that , since both the Senate committees ' version and the House version seem clearly to be intended to support the President 's program , the . final Congressional action will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Hagerty was advised that many news dispatches from Arashington had called the changes made by the Senate Foreign Relations and Armed Services Committees a " setback " for the Administration . " The President and the Secretary of State do n't think so , " Mr. Hagerty replied . The Senate Version The principal changes made by the Senate committees were to drop from the resolution a declaration that the President was " authorized " to commit the armed forces of the United States against any " overt " Communist aggression . Instead the Senate version said that the United States would use force if the President deemed it necessary and " provided that such employment shall be consonant with the treaty obligations of the United States and with the charter of the United Nations . " These changes were put in with Democratic votes , and solidly opposed by Republicans on the two committees . Mr. Dulles repeatedly had declared that the key word " authorize " was indispensable to the resolution urged by the Administration . " Does the President have any reservations at all about the Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'll stand on this statement , " he replied . But once again Mr. Hagerty called attention to the final phrase of the White House statement saying that President Eisenhower had no doubt that in its final form the resolution would be " in terms entirely satisfactory to the President . " Mr. Hagerty. noted that the Senate version , as it now stood , differed from that approved by the House , and that the pros- , pects were the final resolution . would be drafted by a confer- , ence committee representing the two chambers . But by reiteriating for the ' second day his general satisfacH tion with the intent of the resolution as it came from the Senate committees , the President appeared to be limiting the probabilities that Republicans , by ; any floor fight , could return to ' the language originally urged by Secretary Dulles . Mr. Hagerty summoned a special news conference about 6:30 P. M. to make the statement public . It followed two telephonic conversations between General Eisenhower and Secretary Dulles from the President 's vacation retreat here on the plantation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 