@@717257

txt The United states is now engaged in the first stage of what promises to be a long series of negotiations with . Communist China . The negotiations may have far-reaching impact . The Chinese Communists ' capture of the most populous nation on earth and their attempt to elevate it to the status of a leading world power have shaped the entire history of post-war Asia . What follows is a description of Communist China today . THE LAND AND THE PEOPLE China 's 3,750,000 square miles , about one-fifth larger than the continental United States , comprise a terrain of violent contrasts . Along the eastern seaboard and the great river valleys of the central and southern portions are relatively fertile lowlands , the wheat , corn , rice , cotton and tea country . In the northwest are great plains , semi-arid cattle country sweeping toward the Gobi Desert and the Mongolian plateau . In the southwest are the China highlands , terraced , intensely cultivated hillsides rising gradually to massive upland plateaus and the towering Himalayas . Strategically China occupies the pivotal position on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Korea , Indochina , Burma , India and the Soviet Union . China 's long eastern seaboard is indented ? by dozens of good warmwater ports . Japan , Formosa and the Philippines all lie within easy air range of the mainland . About one-fourth of the earth 's population-600,000,000 people according to the latest Chinese Communist estimates ? occupy this land . Representatives of the world 's oldest contemporary civilization , they are tough , resilient , shrewd , practical and humorous . The Confucian ethic , with its emphasis on pragmatic adjustment to life , remains the best expression of the Chinese temperament and outlook . But only a fraction of the Chinese regard themselves as active practitioners , of any religion . Only a fraction can read or write China 's difficult language . Resistance to change , primary allegiance to the family unit and parental authority , and strong regional ties have been dominant characteristics of Chinese life down through the ages . They have made , in the past , for a highly structured society which repeatedly absorbed its " conquerors " and emerged little changed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China is a typical Communist state in that the fa  --  ade and structure of government bear little relationship to the realities of political power . Power is wielded by the Central Committee of the Communist party , presided over by Mao Tse-tung . His chief lieutenants are Chou En-lai , Chu Teh and Liu Shao-chi . In the formal government structure the names of these four men pop up in all the top posts . Theoretically the top policy-making body in the government is the 1,226-man " democratically elected " National People 's Congress . Actually , the Congress is merely a rubber stamp for the decisions of the four party chiefs . Beneath the Congress is the executive branch headed by Mao Tse-tung as Chairman of the Republic with the power of decree and command of the armed forces . Chu Teh is Vice Chairman of the Republic and operating head of the armed forces . Under the chairman is the State Council , a kind of cabinet , presided over by Chou En-lai as Prime Minister and Foreign Minister . Liu Shao-chi is head of the Standing Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the infrequent plenary sessions of the Congress and drafts the legislation which the Congress approves . From this tightly controlled nucleus in Peiping , power courses down to the provincial , municipal and village level through the 6,000,000-man Communist party apparatus . The party controls the police and dominates mass organ ' izations of workers , peasants , students and intellectuals . Political denunciation is encouraged . Purges followed by imprisonment or execution have been widespread . The press , radio and all organs of public information are either directly controlled by the government or subject to rigid censorship . Government propaganda is incessant . How much direct influence the Soviet Union has on the decisions of the Chinese Communist leadership has always been problematical . Certainly Mao is not simply a creature of Moscow . He came to power through two decades of painstaking work in building his own military and political apparatus . But Mao is a Marxist . His natural pap is down the Moscow line . No major conflicts or policy deviations between Moscow and Peiping have been visible since the Chinese Communists came to power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ village economy which the Communists have been trying to transform into a centrally planned industrial state . It is a bootstrap operation . Following the Russian model , a major element in the Chinese Communist economic program is collectivization of agriculture . But unlike pre-revolutionary Russia , uneven distribution and inadequate exploitation of the land are not major agricultural problems in China . There are some 100,000,000 farmers in China trying to squeeze out an existence from . virtually every square foot of tillaa ble earth . The vast majority of them own less than three acres . Reparceling the few larger holdings would hardly make a dent in the land hunger . Thus collectivization in China promises to be largely a process of driving farmers off the land into other occupations . A long struggle between the Government and the peasantry on this issue seems inevitable . As for industrialization , scarcity of capital goods and limited raw material supplies raise huge obstacles . In per capita terms , China is not rich in raw materials . Moreover , exploitation of her coal , iron ore and oil deposits is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bloc , which represented only 26 per cent of China 's total trade in 1950 , is now up to 75 per cent . The Soviet bloc trade is the chief basis of China 's drive for industrial expansion . Even so , the Chinese Communists do not expect to reach Russia 's low 1932 industrial production level until at least 1959 . Last year , for example , the Chinese produced 2,200,000 metric tons of steel . That was an increase of 2,000,000 tons compared with 1949 when the Communists came to power but still only about one week 's average steel production in the United States . In electric power , China last year more than doubled the 1949 production of 4.3 billion kilowatt hours . But the figure was less than one-fiftieth of the United States ' production . THE MILITARY ESTABLISHMENT Despite great military expansion in recent years , Communist China Still does not rate as one of the world 's leading military powers . Although the Chinese Communists have the potential manpower to raise an army second to none , they do not yet possess the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conscript law . The Chinese Communist regular army now numbers between 3,500,000 and 4,000,000 men , supplemented by a. loosely organized militia of perhaps half that number . A relatively small proportion of the regular army is equipped with automatic weapons . Heavy armor , artillery and military transport , although coming in increasing amounts from Moscow and from new plants in Manchuria , are still in short supply . In the Korean war , the fire power of the U. N. troops vastly exceeded the Communists ' despite the enemy 's numerical superiority . The Communist air force is estimated at about 2,000 planes of all types , including jet fighters and bombers . A complex of airfields , fuel depots and anti-aircraft installations has been under intensive construction for the past year along the eastern seaboard . On the sea , the Communists possess only the nucleus of a navy . They have perhaps 100 warships , none larger than a destroyer , and a handful of Russian-type submarines . Supplementing the regular fleet are hundreds of motorized junks which could be thrown into an amphibious operation . HOW @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ i United : States drawn to th same scale HOW TRADE HAS SHIFTEDWith Soviet bloc C:3 With rest of world . 26% 74% 75% NOW 25% 1950 Vladivostok N. KOREA S. KOREA Shanghai JAPAN Oil If Steel 44 Zinc Tlin FORMOSA Pacific 9cea Pt Principal failways : ? -n operation ** corittitiction COMMUNIST CHINA TODAY : INDUSTRY AND RESOURCES Tientsin                     