@@716308

txt PARIS , May ** French seemed today to be moving toward acceptance of a partition of territory in Indochina . The extent of the territory to be yielded to the Vietminh and the new line of defense depends on an international guarantee of the partition , in which the United States and other nations at the Geneva conference would join . Georges Bidault , French Foreign Minister , returned tonight to Geneva , where the Far Eastern conference is being held . He was armed with the Cabinet 's vote of confidence enabling him to seek a compromise between the new Vietminh proposal and the latest French plan for a cease-fire on the Indochina front . The ' chances of obtaining this were said to depend on Allied solidarity to convince the Soviet bloc the Allies were united and that there would be no way of // conquering all Indochina without starting a general war . The Soviet group must also be convinced , it is felt here , that once a line of defense has been guaranteed by the West , it will be protected solidly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The French believe the United States may yet consent to adopt this point of view , provided certain conditions that the United States has sought are met . They argue that this could be the prelude to agreement to the United States proposal for a Southeast Asia pact . There was an impression here , however , that on the next ten days negotiations in Geneva will depend the fate of the Laniel Cabinet in France . The reception ' of the Foreign Minister 's Program by the Cabinet was not enthusiastic . The ministers appeared rather to be offering M. Bidault one more chance . A week from today the National Assembly will resume its session with a debate on Indochina and the Geneva conference . After two days the discussions probably will be deferred until after the Communist party convention and the Whitsuntide holiday . Laniel Regime Faces Crisis The critical moment for the Laniel Cabinet will be at the close of the Indochina debate about June 7 or 8 . If M. Bidault has failed in the meantime to make progress in Geneva , the ; Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still important objstacles to M. Bidault 's cease-fire plan . One of the greatest is the situation with regard to the attitude of the Government of Bao Dai , Chief of State in Vietnam . United States demands full in , dependence for Vietnam . But Bao Dai and his Premier , Prince Buu Loc , have steadily refused to consider any settlement involving a ' partition of Vietnam . The French fear that with complete independence such as the United States has asked this Gov'ernment of Vietnam might de'cline to accept the Allies ' settlement , and some of its elements at least might be tempted to go over to the Vietminh . The military situation was explained by Gen. Paul Ely , just returned from Indochina , first at a restricted Cabinet meeting , and then to the National Defense Council . The greatest secrecy was maintained on the details of General Ely 's report . It already is evident , however , that the Chief of Staff returned convinced that a maximum effort must be made now in men and material . The Defense Council is reported to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Pr-.3 na- " cnho.o VISITS WOUNDED : Lieut . ' Genevieve de Galard-Terraube , French nurse who was at Dienbienphu until it fell . She took time out in Hanoi , where this picture was taken yesterday , to visit casualties flown in from the Vietminh-held fortress . Indochina in the hands of one man during the coming emergency period . General Ely will not accept the task unless the French Government meets his requirement for a maximum military effort , which it failed to do in implementing the plans submitted last year by Gen. HenriEugene Navarre , present French commander in Indochina . Diplomatic exchanges with the United States will continue through C. Douglas Dillon , United States Ambassador , but it was said today that they had not yet reached the stage of definite negotiations .                     