@@719154

txt Despite almost continuous sessions today between Representative Brooks Hays , Democrat of Arkansas , and Gov . Orval E. Faubus the integration impasse continued . Armed national guardsmen patrolled the Central High School grounds , with orders to keep out Negro students . No Negro attempted to enter . Representative Hays served as the intermediary who brought President Eisenhower and Governor Faubus together at Newport last Saturday . At that time , the Governor and the President issued separate statements , expressing the hope that the issue at Little Rock could be resolved soon . In Newport , R. I. , President Eisenhower agreed Wednesday to , discuss integration problems with Representative Adam Clayton Powell Jr. , Manhattan Democrat . Hays Seeks a Formula Today an air of pessimism crept into the situation . There was talk that Governor Faubus ' had " hardened " in his attitude . But Mr. Hays is still seeking a formula that would do the least damage to the governor 's prestige and at the same time permit . integration to take place as ordered by the Federal court . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yesterday and three times today . After his morning session , Mr. Hays said that the impasse had not be resolved . But he told reporters : " We 've got to solve this one . We 've just got to come up with an answer . " Two more conferences were held in the afternoon . The two men will meet again tomorrow morning . After this meeting , Mr. Hays said he would issue a formal report on the talks . " I 'm staying until tomorrow night , or until I can be useful , " Mr. Hays said . " What are the prospects for a solution ? " Mr. Hays was asked . " It 's not getting any worse or any better , " he answered . U. S. Prepares Case In the meantime , the United States Government continued to lay the groundwork , for its move for an injunction against Governor Faubus . The injunc. tion hearing is scheduled for ' Friday morning . Federal Judge Ronald N. Davies , of Fargo , ' N. D. , who has issued three orders barring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ High School , returned , to Little Rock this afternoon . I Judge Davies left last week for a visit to his home at Fargo and to attend the wedding of his daugnter . He declined to make any comment concerning the coming court action . Tomorrow Judge Davies is to sit with Judge Martin D. Van Oosterhout of Sioux City , Iowa , and Judge John E. Miller of Fort Smith , Ark. , as a threeman court . They will hear the suit brought by ten Negro ministers , who have asked that the four new Arkansas laws fa11 voring racial segregation be I declared unconstitutional . An attempt has been made to subpoena Gov . Faubus to appear as a witness , but it is doubtful that the Governor will attend the hearing . The United States marshal , Beal Kidd , had another busy day . With eight assistants , Mr. Kidd . served subpoenas on Government witnesses for the Friday trial . Subpoenas have been issued for 200 persons . If the Government wishes , it can call 500 persons in the Little Rock area who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the last three weeks . Two top United States aides were on their way here . They are Donald C. , 1 chief of the civil division 's gen2ral litigation section , and Carl lEardley of the same section . They are considered to be among the Justice Department 's most experienced trial lawyers . They will work with United State 's Attorney Osro Cobb , who is in charge here . The Governor 's advisers , since the Newport meeting , have sought to effect a compromise to avoid an open clash with the United States Government . There have been two conflicting tugs upon the governor . One deleted 2 lines solace he can from his defeat . The other is urging him to stand fast and not permit integration to take place . It was reported late tonight that the governor now is giving serious consideration to go all the way to the United States Supreme Court . It would be a fight on the point of state versus Federal authority . All Is Quiet at School All was quiet in front of Central High . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not even attempt to keep a semblance of military bearing . The youthful-looking men in uniform  --  some as young 18 ? joked and laughed with the pretty high school girls who gathered around them . " This is n't bad at all . " said one of the Guards to his companion . " Sure , but how ton ? : will this quiet last ? " the other asked . The dozen men and women who gathered to " demonstrate " 1 wondered too . So did Mayor Woodrow Wilson Mann , who earlier in the , day had received a subpoena . He once again called upon the Governor to remove the tional Guardsmen . " We do n't need them here , " , he protested . " Our police are available . They can handle any situation that may arise . Everything is peaceful . "                     