@@713987

txt Boston 's political candidates picked up their bundles at the City Hall Annex today and started peddling their nomination papers . Early corners in the line-up of more than 150 candidates to city office included five for the mayoralty , three for the School Committee , and about 15 for the new nine-man City Council  --  all seeking to qualify for Boston 's first Plan A run-off primary election on Sept. 25 . Considerable good - natured joshing marked the appearance of those in the line-ups before the three windows of the Boston Election Commission , presided over by Everett R. Prout , commissioner . 100 Vie for Council As they signed for , and received , their heavy bundles of papers which will be circulated for more than 300,000 signatures , they referred to the packages as " my lunch " and " my bread and butter . " The 100-odd candidates for the new City Council were headed by Julius Ansel , former Representative Francis X. Coyne , Francis X. Ahearn , Patrick Pignato , Joseph Beth , William F. Hurley , Michael H. Cantwell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ White , William J. Foley . Jr. , John E. Yerxa , Thomas J. Belmonte , Michael Ward , Joseph , and George F. Oakes . Only three candidates for the five-man School Committee were on hand when the windows of the Commission opened for business Dr. Patrick J. Foley , Mario Sacco , and Paul J. Burns . At the Mayor 's window , Douglas Hayward was first in line , followed by Martin J. Ryan who represented Mayor Hynes . Former Mayor Curley  --  who came in later  --  was represented in the line-up by former Representative Thomas R. Kelley . Arthur Nicholson was in line for mayoralty candidate Joseph F. Timilty , former police commissioner , and candidate Philip J. Diehl completed the early-morning line-up . During the day , most of the other candidates for the three offices were scheduled to pick up their bundles of nomination papers . As he sauntered smilingly to the window , Mr ? Curley beamed confidently , remarking that he had " never seen a campaign where the outlook was more inviting than the present one . I have no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he added . Oakes Voices Plea Mr. Oakes , " the only actual candidate for public office this year who had supported the Plan A charter , " said that many people had not given this City Council serious thought . " This is not a council for errand boys . This council requires men of administrative ability who will represent the people who are actually the stockholders of Boston Corporation in the role of directors of their corporation . " Boston badly needs businessmen in this council to administer the people 's affairs . As I told my group of 200 workers at my headquarters , 94 Green Street , Jamaica Plain , last night , Tor bold intelligent and honest leadership , Oakes will represent you . ' That is my campaign slogan . " On hand before the windows of the Boston Election Commission in City Hall Annex today , candidates for City Council . School Committee , and Mayor lined up for their bundles of nomination papers . First on hand in each of these lineups were : Julius Ansel , City Council : Dr. Patrick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , School Committee , and Douglas Hayward , Mayor . More than 150 candidates for the three offices were expected to pick up their nomination papers here today  --  and then start out collecting the necessary 300,000 signatures ' for all to qualify .                     