@@716245

txt President Eisenhower has made the establishment of a southeast Asian security system a major immediate goal of his foreign policy . Such a security system , with the United States participating . now is the President 's chosen instrument for stemming Communist expansion in southeast Asia . But whether the Communist avalanche can and will be stopped by this type of alliance on the Indochinese border , or at some dividing line in Indochina , or only at the border of Thailand , no one today knows . The President , after an hour 's talk with Secretary of State John Foster Dulles ( just returned from Geneva ) , told a news conference : Collective security is " indispensable " for the freedom and independence of southeast Asia ; A " sense of urgency " hangs over this project : Action on it " could have an important bearing " on the results of Geneva . United Action ' Stressed In a formal statement issued by the White House , the President traced the stress that the United States has always put on collective security since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plus the President 's emphasis on the collective approach to security for southeast Asia sounded a halt to whatever thought there might ever have been in official circles for unilateral American action in that area . From here *wont , it least . the United States ' allies have been put on notice that safety and security rests on " united action " and that it rests as much on their efforts and contributions as those of the United States . Speaking specifically of Indochina , the President said that to a large measure the future , security , and destiny of that country rested on those countries most directly concerned ? France , ? Vietnam , Laos , and Cambodia . Mr. Eisenhower does not share , at least publicly , the prevailing view that Mr. Dulles ' mission to Geneva fell considerably short of being a success . He told his weekly press conference that as long as a battle was going on you could hardly call it lost , and that that was the situation at Geneva . He also implied , at least , that whatever the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  since the whole purpose of foreign policy was to go on plugging away to advance the country 's enlightened self-interest , Mr. Dulles ' ears may well have been burning during the press conference for the President described his ranking cabinet officer as the greatest Secretary of State in memory . On the assumption that the President 's memory goes back at least as far as the turn of the century that accolade covers a lot of able statesmanship and makes Mr. Dulles greater than Elihu Root , Charles Evans Hughes , Henry L. Stimson , or ? Dean Acheson . Dulles Lauded The President also expressed his unqualified support of Mr. Dulles both in what he had done at Geneva and the manner in which he had conducted foreign policy since becoming secretary . That meant presumably , then , that the President approved the deliberate cold shoulder that the secretary turned on Chou Enlai and other top Chinese Communists who showed up at Geneva , There has been some criticism both on Capitol Hill and in the foreign missions here of this particular exhibition of chauvinism by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chance to personally talk with the leaders of Communist China and try and figure out what made them tick . Without in any way compromising his position that recognition was not involved in Peking 's appearance at Geneva , it is argued the secretary 's refusal to look at on ' even say hello to Chou En-lai ( whom he had agreed should he invited to the conference ) smacked of amateur diplomacy , even if practiced for political dividends . British Respond The President 's assertion that he was " convinced that further progress " toward setting up a southeast Asian security system would be made has materialized within hours after his press conference comments . The British came through with a promise that they were ready to begin talks on such a security arrangement even before conclusion of the Geneva conference . Thus a major point at issue between London and Washington on the timing of action to set up such a defense arrangement has been cleared up . In Mr. Dulles ' hurried trip to London and Paris prior to Geneva he found the British unwilling to push @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been made at Geneva to get an Indochinese cease fire from the Communists . Now Britain has agreed to start talks immediately , giving purpose to the President 's hope that they might have a bearing on what happened at Geneva .                     