@@717407

txt A roaring gale lashed the East Coast from Hatteras to Maine yesterday arid last night . Winds of thirty to fifty miles an hour were recorded , with gusts up to seventy . The storm drenched the area with three to five inches of rain . It extended more than a thousand miles . Early estimates showed only moderate damage , but five deaths were reported . One of the worst storms , other than hurricanes , to hit the Eastern Seaboard in recent years , the gale was an extra-tropical cyclone . It arose when warm moist air masses from the South collided over the Carolinas with cool dry air from the west . An extra-tropical cyclone was described by the Weather Bureau here as one originating outside of and , in this case , north of the tropics . The bureau said that further rain and increasing winds were likely this afternoon and tonight , with tides about five feet above normal through tonight . In Long Island Sound and the upper East River area the tides were expected to exceed normal by seven feet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with high breakers through tonight also were predicted . The winds were expected to diminish again tomorrow . New Disturbance Awaited The forecast of more rain and wind today , after yesterday 's storm appeared to be ending in this area , was based on indications that a new disturbance was developing , the Weather Bureau said . The nature and extent of the disturbance were not determined immediately . Slowly moving up the trough in a path over eastern Pennsylvania and central New York , the vast low pressure system churned the sea off the East Coast with twenty-foot waves , driving small shipping to harbor . Tides , naturally high at this season and with the new moon due today , were driven higher by the storm 's easterly winds . Five to seven feet above normal , they inundated low-lying areas and roads along the coast . The rains , which fell at the rate of one and two inches an hour in some sections , flooded streets and cellars , and swelled streams . These conditions caused the evacuation of homes , slowed automobile traffic and increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Battery of 1.86 inches for the twenty-four hours ending at 12:30 o'clock this morning . Registration of voters in this city , already lagging behind other years , suffered a sharp drop yesterday as the rain and wind kept people off the streets . During the heavy rain an automobile skidded off Merritt Parkway in Greenwich , Conn , and hit a large tree in the divid- ing island . Coates E. Landell , 57 years old , of Wynnewood , Pa. , the driver , was killed . His mother , Mrs. Clarissa Landell , 83 , was critically injured . Heavy rains obscured visibility on Merritt Parkway , causing several other accidents , which were minor , however . Traffic Was slowed by the conditional but the police said the parkway was able to remain open . On other parkways in Con-I necticut and Westchester , and this city , fallen leaves clogged drainsand caused temporary , flooding . The Belt Parkway ' Brooklyn was flooded by tides between Fort Hamilton Parkway and Cropsey Avenue , stalling forty cars . The east lane was closed . In this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 6 P. M. Half a dozen gusts more than fifty miles an hour buffeted homeward-bound commuters between 5 and 6 P. M. Earlier a sixty-seven-mile gust was recorded . A twenty-foot section of a sheet metal fume vent over the four-story building at 37 West Thirty-second Street was torn from its moorings on the seventeen-story building at . No , 39 . It crashed into the street . falling across the cab of a truck , but no one was injured . Air traffic was delayed and disrupted . Twenty-eight roundtrip flights between La Guardia Airport and New England cities were canceled , as were fifty flights by private business planes . Arrivals and departures there and at New York International Airport , Idlewild , Queens , were delayed up to thirty minutes . Helicopter service between the metropolitan area 's airports was suspended . Harbor Traffic Curbed Because of abnormally high tides , transportation of vehicles on the Staten Island ferry was halted from 6 to 9 P .. M. Two small freighters due to sail from Brooklyn , the Ciudad de Manizales and the George Luckenbach , delayed their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ferry service from Port Richmond , S. I. , to Bayonne , N. J. ; Port Ivory , S. I. , to Elizabethport , N. J. , and Tottenville , S. I. , to Perth Amboy , N. J. , was halted early last night when high tides prevented the boats from docking . The high tides also caused the Jersey Central Railroad 's ferry service between Liberty Street , Manhattan , and Jersey City to be closed for a time . High tide in the Hudson River caused a backflow in storm sewers in lower New York . Streets around Cortlandt and West were flooded . High tide in the East River flooded Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive north of Sixty-first Street , halting traffic for an hour and a half . Service on the Hudson and Manhattan Railroad beween Jersey City and Newark was suspended for several hours last night when the tracks through the Meadows were flooded . While erecting a shield in front of a wind-smashed plate glass window at the Florette Fashion Shoppe , 690 East Tremont Avenue , the Bronx , Patrolman James - Cunningham suffered a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Patrolman Cunningham , who is 25 and lives at 1469 East Avenue . the Bronx , was taken to Fordham Hospital . The winds ripped flags and awnings and blew down signs . ! Overhead power lines in Queens and Brooklyn were snapped , depriving scores of families of power . The Queens police reported that 163 electric lines and five trees had been blown down there . Two of the trees fell on automobiles . When a fallen electric line caused the lights to go out in Public School 38 at 135-01 241st Street , Laurelton , two election boards in the building continued registering voters by candle light . Throughout the suburban areas of New Jersey , Rockland and Westchester Counties in New York , Fairfield County in , Connecticut , and Long Island , trees , power lines and telephone cables were blown down . Tens of thousands of families were without power in these areas , mostly in scattered places except for 2,000 around Greenwich , Conn. , and several hundred in Armonk , N. Y. Broken ' overhead and tinderground cables shorted by seepage deprived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were 5,000 in Asbury Park , Atlantic City and Wildwood , N. J. The area around Erie Terminal at Pavonia Avenue in Jersey City was flooded . Flooding closed the truck route of Fish House Road in Kearny . Staten Island Floods Seventy-six residents of Oakwood Beach , S. I. , were evacuated by police and volunteers to the Oakwood Heights Community Church . The evacuation was begun shortly before a beach barrier broke , causing streets and cellars to be flooded . Two washouts occurred last night on the Delaware , Lackawanna and Western Railroad in locations where similar rain damage had been suffered last August in the wake of Hurricane Diane . One was at Devil 's Hole near Mount Pocono in Pennsylvania . Through trains between Hoboken , N. J. , and Scranton , Pa. , were detoured by way of the Lehigh Valley and Erie Railroads ' tracks . The second washout was at Branchville , N. J. , on the Sussex branch , where no trains were scheduled last night . High tides flooded the lowlying Raritan Bay area in New Jersey . Low sections of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Seabright and Morgan were flooded . One hundred persons were evacuated from Morgan , eighty from Keansburg , thirty from Sea Bright and others from Port Monmouth and East Keansburg . At Asbury Park , N. J. , high seas drove sand over the Boardwalk . In Atlantic City sewers were flooded by 1.56 inches of rain and tides flooded the inlet section . Off Hudson Park , New Rochelle , a twenty-foot sloop , the Dina , broke her moorings and was driven aground on a rock . It is owned by John A. Steinmetz of - 1/ Soundview Avenue , New Rochelle . Elsewhere , in Virginia , Maryland , Pennsylvania and upstate New York , according to The Associated Press , damage was heavier . Families were evacuated by boat from inundated homes in North Brentwood , Md . Flooding closed highways and parkways in Virginia , the District of Columbia and Maryland . Many small streams in eastern and central Pennsylvania went on a rampage . Main streets were ' flooded and many families were evacuated by boat . Danville was the most seriously affected . Dr. Richard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aides that predicted continued rain could cause " serious flooding . " Heavy rains caused rivers and streams to Overflow in the Elmira-Corning area of upstate New York , with accompanying washouts that blocked highways and roads . In the upstate area , an Elmira man was drowned while attempting to evacuate trapped families , a Potsdam man was drowned when his boat overturned , a man was killed near Canisteo when his car hit a tree and a Bridgeport farmer was electrocuted by a fallen live wire . A. southbound New York Central train was blocked by a mud slide south of Greve. , causing other trains to be rerouted .                     