@@717727

txt A former auto dealer told Congress a story of alleged pressure front Fbrd Motor Co. to sell an " unrealistic " number of new cars that ended with the cancellation of his franchise last year . Milton Ratner , a Ford dealer in Chicago for 20 years . claimed Ford officials never gave him a specific reason for revoking his franlchise but spoke of the " necessity to produce volume to beat Chevrolet . " Dr. Ratner 's charges came in testimony before a Senate Commerce subcommittee now looking into automobile marketing practices . In answer to a question by Chairman Monroney ( D. , Okla. ) he also declared he was told by another Ford dealer in 1952 that Ford company executives wanted Chicago dealers to donate $50.000 to President Eisenhower 's campaign that year . The unnamed dealer , according to Mr. Ratner , said he had received a call about the campaign fund from the office of Henry Ford II . Mr. Ratner testified he was told he " was down for 51.000 " but refused to make any con , tribution . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ testify , and noted Mr. Ford is also scheduled to appear later ins the hearing . ( In Detroit , a Ford Motor Co. spokesman said that Henry Ford IL president , is out of town and wo n't return until early next week . Pending Mr. Ford 's return , the company can issue no . comment on the statement of former dealer Milton Ratner before the Senate committee , he said . ) Other Dealers Testify Mc , Ratner is one of a series of car dealers appearing before the committee under the aegis of the National Automobile Dealers Association . Other dealers at yesterday 's session ? Loren C. Maxwell of Boise , Idaho , and Roy . H. Anderson of Bozeman , Mont. ? also charged Ford forced them to step.up sales faster than they wanted to . Mr. Anderson asserted Ford ' pressured him into selling his franchise in 1950 . Testimony by Mr. Ratner took up most of the day . Sen. Monroney said the alleged Ford pressures on Mr. Ratner were " indicative of a malignancy " in the automobile industry . Mr. Ratner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chicago , told the committee he first began " to feel insecure " ? in late 1953 . At that time . he said , he had heard rumors that Ford was trying to sign a franchise with another firm , Courtesy Motors , in his area . Mr. Ratner described Courtesy Motors as a " car supermarket , " selling many brands of new cars . During the fall of 1953 . Mr. Ratner said , he was told by Ford district officials he should be able to sell 1,025 cars ? . nd 225 new trucks a year , more than double the goal set for hint just a few months earlier . Said Mr. Ratner : " We answered then and we reaffirm now that this is not realistic . " He said he was told by Ford 's district manager his location " was a place to sell from and that he did not care where the cars went . even though it were Texas , just so long as they were registered in Cook County . " Franchise Was Cancelled Mr. Ratner testified he received a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ franchise was being terminated . In a Detroit interview with Ford officials a month later . Mr. Ratner claimed , " We asked to be given a reason for our cancellation and not one of the men present would give any reason . but spoke of the heavy burden of their jobs and the necessity to produce volume to beat Chevrolet . They also stated that business was cold blooded . " On March 8 , Mr.-Ratner went on . he received another letter from Ford telling him the cancellation of his franchise was now in effect . Three weeks later , he sent an appeal to Henry Ford II asking to extend the time of cancellation , but was refused .                     