@@715931

txt TOKYO , Saturday , Dec. 19 ? The United Nations Command wrote out today its plea to the United States prisoners of war in Korea who have thus far remained with the Communists . The Allied Command asked the men to give deep and heartfelt consideration to their situation before they made an " irrevocable " decision not to return to their country , homes and families . The plea was made in a letter addressed to the twenty-two Americans still refusing repatriation . It was handed to Lieut . Gen. K. S. Thimayya of India , chairman of the Neutral Nations Repatriation Commission at Panmunjom , with the request that a copy be transmitted to each captive . Previously the men had refused to leave their barbed-wire compound to listen to explanations by United States officers as to why they should return to their former allegiance . The letter urged upon the prisoners that the time had come for them to make a " free , intelligent and informed decision , " remembering their public duty and their ' families and clearing their minds of propaganda @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warned them to beware of promises of rewards by the Communists and cautioned them that deep and lasting regrets might follow a wrong decision . Used and Tossed Aside " There is nothing more humiliating than to discover that one has been a fool , used for someone 's questionable purposes and then tossed aside like an old shoe , " one passage read . The letter handed to General Thimayya was the first direct appeal the United Nations Command has made to the reluctant P. 0 . W. 's . It came as the " explanation " period drew near its close . Under the terms of the July 27 armistice agreement , both sides have until midnight next Wednesday to try , to persuade their men to return . The appeal was one that , had the interviews gone forward as intended , would have been made to each of the men in the explanation tents . An Allied . spokesman said w the copies of it were passed now to the Indian Army guards , since the probability appeared that no further interviews would be held before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no decision apparently had been reached as to what the disposition of the letter would be . Probably , it was stated , the question would go to the Neutral Nations Repatriation Commission at a meeting scheduled for 11:30 A. M. Monday . The neutral group would rule about delivery of the message to the men . The Allied Command 's letter made little attempt to press one decision or another upon men who up to now have elected to remain on the side of the enemy . " It is not our purpose to dictate your decision or unduly persuade you , " the letter said . " We are // mainly concerned that you be secure in your right to make a free and intelligently informed choice with refreence to your future . " " The decision for you is most critical , " the message went on . " Because of this we would wish to be certain that you are fully aware of the consequences . If you do anything less than this , your mistakes will be at your own door , your future , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your own making . " The letter emphasized seven principles that the United Nations Command said the soldiers should earnestly debate in their minds before taking the " fateful decision " involving their whole future . The points were : 1 . Would the decision be free of " coercion and duress . " 2 . Was the choice between alternatives a free one . 3 . Was the free choice based on proper information , " not just one-sided propaganda . " 4 . Had the prisoners considered their families . 5 . Were they aware that promises might be false . 6 . Could the prisoner best serve mankind in his own land , or in some foreign country to which he might go . 7 . " Finally , it is of the utmost importance that you be fully aware of the techniques of education , persuasion and indoctrination which may have been employed in bringing you to your decision . " No promises were made to prisoners in the matter of their return , nor were any threats made against them . It has been understood that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temporarily listed as absent without leave from the United States armed forces . Those who finally went ( over to the Communists after San . 22 probably would be set down then as deserters and lose their citizenship . The face-to-face " explanations " of both sides remained at a standstill . with the time for persuasion running out . Both the Communist and the United Nations Commands made requests yesterday for further interviews with balky captives ; but the Indian custodial force informed them the men still declined to come out of their compounds for interviews . General Thimayya discussed with Brig . Gen. A. L. Hamblen , head of the United Nations Repatriation Mission , measures that might be taken to give the American and South Korean prisoners and the Briton some opening for repatriation before the end of the explanation period .                     