@@713402

txt WASHINGTON , Nov. 18 ? ReIpublicans drafted a substitute for the Truman Administration 's proIposed excess profits tax today , but it was immediately rejected by the controllinz Democratic tax leaders . Preparation , of the alternative plan was announced by Representative Daniel A. Reed of New York , spokesman for Republican members of the House Ways and Means Committee . The committee chairman , Representative Robert L. Doughton of North Carolina , registered the Democrats ' opposition in a public statement . In an extraordinary Saturday session , the committee meanwhile continued hearings on the Administration 's request for $4,000,000 , - 000 of new revenue annually through a 75 per cent tax on " windfall " profits stemming from the rearmament program . The Democratic majority is seeking to write a bill in time for consideration by the House shortly after Congress reconvenes Nov. 27 . Representative Reed , in. a . prepared statement distributed to the press , outlined the Republican proposal as follows : " 1 . The corporate taxpayer would have an election of either paying under an excess profits tax or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ results in a lower tax . " 2 . If the taxpayer elected to pay under the excess profits tax , the ' amount of tax paid would have to at least be equal to a tax of 50 per cent . of the current ' year 's earnings . " The present corporation tax is 25 per cent on the first $25 ; 000 of earnings and 45 per cent on the rest . The Administration - proposed excess profits rate would apply to earnings , in excess of 75 per cent of a corporation 's average annual earnings in ' its most-profitable three years from 1946 through 1949 . At its option , a cor poration could calculate excess profits on a formula keyed to return on its capital investment . Rejection Believed Certain Under the . Administration program , the amount of earnings classified as normal would be subject to a maximum rate of 45 per cent , with the 75-per-cent rate applying to any additional income . Thus , the effective rate on a corporation 's total income would range below 75 per cent in all cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase all corporation taxes to a , minimum of 50 per cent and a maximum of 55 per cent . Representative Reed said he would offer his plan to the Ways and Means Committee Monday , but there was no doubt that it would be voted down , probably on a straight-party ballot . Although he did not mention a figure , Mr. Reed said his proposal would raise more revenue than the Administration plan " and at the same time safeguard the national economy . " It would carry a termination date of Dec. 31 , ' 1952 . In effect , he said , it " amounts to putting a floor under the excess profits tax so that every corporate taxpayer would have to pay his fair share . " " At the same time , by giving the taxpayer an election of paying under either th ? excess profits tax or a 55 per cent corporate rate , new and growing businesses would not be stifled . Under the President 's proposal , productive enterprises with the same amount of income would pay entirely different amounts of tax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax recommended by the Administration , Mr. Reed said , his plan would not create thousands of hardship cases entitled to relief and bring higher costs to consumers of basic services such as gas , heat , light , water and transportation . Pictures Defense Hampeied - " After three days of public hearings , " Mr. Reed asserted , " it is perfectly clear that the enactment of Mr : Truman 's proposals would cut the heart out of the productive capacity of . our country and seriously impede our defense program . My proposal , on the contrary , would permit our economy to expand and at the same time prevent war profiteering . " Representative Doughton analyzed the Reed proposal as an increase in regular corporation rates instead of an excess-profits tax . " An excess-profits tax , " he said , " would increase the tax burden of corporations which have higher income as a result . of the defense program . The Republican plan would shift the tax burden from those ' corporations to small businesses and other corporations which may not have any increase in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In fact , the Reed plan would not be an excess-profits tax at all . " To the maximum extent possible , we must pay for the defense program by recouping any excessive profits derived from the defense effort . Bill Not Ready , Doughton Notes " The ' committee has not yet prepared a tax bill . Mr. Reed seems to assume that he can , even before the hearings are concluded , write a better tax bill than can the'whole committee after ' the ' 2aringt have been completed . " At today 's hearing , spokesmen continued to voice the oppositioh of business to any type of excess profits tax at this time , but a number of the witnesses ' proposed modifications in the Administration plan for consideration in the event that a bill along Administration lines should be approved . ? One of the most frequently heard suggestions was for allowance of all base-period earnings instead of only 75 per cent of them as the credit , or exemption , against excess profits. , . Another Was that under the optional invested capital formula for calculating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John W. Snyder , Secretary of the Treasury , ' proposed a partial al- , lowance based on the rate of interest paid . It was also repeatedly stressed that an over-all ceiling should be placed on the percentage of a corporation 's total income that could be . taxed by the Federal Government . Secretary Snyder has said he would not object , and the committee is expected to establish such a limit . An 80 per cent limit was suggested by one witness today .                     