@@718527

txt Britain called today for internationalization , under the United Nations , of controversial areas in the Middle East as a " shield " against possible war . Comdr . Allan Noble , British Minister of State , told the General Assembly that such areas as the Gaza Strip , between Egypt and Israel , and entrance to the Gulf of Aqaba , vital to navigation , might be held by United Nations police forces pending settlement of the issues ' between Israel and her Arab neighbors . Commander Noble endorsed the view that Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold might be able within a few days to " elaborate the idea " of using United Nations forces to intervene in crucial zones between Israeli and Arab armies . He named specifically the Gaza Strip along the Mediterranean , and the Gulf of Aqaba . Adoption Appears Assured Commander Noble 's statement was made during debate on a , twenty - five - nation resolution . This would have the Secretary General seek new solutions of the Arab-Israeli dispute and report to the General Assembly within five days . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Assembly , as judged from today 's speeches , apparently intends to adopt the resolution without objection . V. K. Krishna Menon of India , however , suggested that Mr. Hammarskjold might well have reported that there had been " reluctance " by Israel to follow the resolutions of the General Assembly and withdraw her troops from all Egyptian territory . Mr. Hammarskjold , making one of his rare appearances before the Assembly during a debate , replied that he had been motivated by Assembly resolutions only . The British delegate , in his address , asserted that , " We share the hopes of the United States delegate that the Secretary General , in his next report , will be able to elaborate on the idea of deploying United Nations forces to act as a shield to separate the parties at sensitive points " in the Middle East . Henry ? Cabot Lodge Jr. , the United States delegate , made the suggestion in a statement to the General Assembly yesterday . It has been reported here that Britain , the United States and other nations have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The British proposal , the gist of which previously had been advocated by Lester . B. Pearson of Canada , pledged support to " any acceptable form of internationalization or any other arrangements guaranteeing free passage through the strait and the gulf , to which Jordan no less than Israel would be entitled . " The strait to which he referred is the Titan waterway between the Red Sea and its easterly arm , the Gulf of Aqaba , at the tip of the Sinai Peninsula . Commander Noble said that " Israeli forces should be withdrawn from the Gaza Strip , in accordance with Assembly resolutions . " " The present view of my Government , " he continued , " is that the Gaza ' Strip might come under some form of international administration and control . " He went on : " Looking to the future , we will Support any settlement of the Palestine problem that can . be obtained through the United Nations or by any other means , provided that it takes care , in a manner consistent with justice , of the question not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the future of Arab refugees and provided , of course , that it offers a prospect of permanent peace and stability in the area . " There is a widespread fear on the part of the Arab states that Israel in the future will seek to expand . Any settlement must , in our view , : be such as to remove these suspicions and fears . " ? Most of the Assembly debate today appeared to indicate strong support for the move to insure withdrawal ? of Israeli forces behind the armistice lines . Speakers from Czechoslovakia , the Ukraine , Rumania , Yugoslavia and Albania attacked United States efforts to fill the " vacuum " in the Middle East . Communist bloc speakers called the Eisenhower policy an attempt to replace British and French influence , in the area with " American aggression , " through " armed intervention " in the Arab-states.                     