@@713368

txt A Federal grand jury investigation here into the attempted assassination of President Truman began late yesterday when the self-proclaimed leader of the Puerto Rican Nationalist movement in New fork and two other men were ordered to appear today before the Panel . Subpoenas were issued to Juan Pinto-Gandia , 42 years old , of 356 West Thirty-fourth Street , the selfstyled leader ; John Correa , 34 , of 851 Bruckner Boulevard , the Bronx , a member of the movement , and Juan Cortes Cordero , 71 , of 173 Brook Avenue , the Bronx , an uncle of the wife of Oscar Collazo , one of the two assassins . The three were picked up early yesterday by Secret Service agents and questioned by the agents and the staff of United States Attorney Irving H. Saypol . It was said that before the grand jury could take action in the case it would have to determine whether a conspiracy to assassinate the President was plotted within the Southern District of New York . Other developments during the day here included the questioning of dozens of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the posting of special police details at Puerto Rican establish- ments throughout the city and the disclosure that Oscar Collazo presided in 1942 at a local meeting at which Earl Browder , then general secretary of the Communist party , was a speaker . None of the Federal agencies investigating the case would comment on the progress of the inquiry or disclose the names of those questioned other than the three for whom subpoenas were issued . In ' addition to the guards at the Puerto Rican centers , police details also were assigned to protect Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower , president of Columbia University , and Warren R. Austin , chief United States delegate to the United Nations . Pinto-Gandia , Correa and Cordero were seized in the apartment of Oscar Collazo at 173 Brook Avenue , the Bronx . Collazo 's wife , Rose , 42 , was held in $50,000 bail at 2 A. M. yesterday in Federal court on a charge of having conspired with the two assassins and two unnamed persons to harm a member of the Government . Pinto-Gandia served six years in the Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was released in 1943 . It was recalled that Pedro Albizu Campos , leader Of the Puerto Rican Nationalists , who lived for a while at the Brook Avenue address , also had served a six-year term in the same penitentiary for the same offense . Correa Had Pistol Correa described himself as a sporting goods manufacturer . He reportedly had a loaded .32 caliber pistol in his possession , for which he had a license . Cordero was said to be a ship 's cook and part-time minister . All three were identified as natives of Puerto Rico . Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation were continuing their search for Mrs. Molita Torresola , widow of Griselio Torresola , the assassin who was killed . They learned she had a room at the Clendening Hotel at 202 West 103d Street but had left the place at 7:30 A. M. yesterday . with her 6-months-old child , Rebecca . Raymond M. Hilliard , Welfare Commissioner , disclosed that the Torresolas had been receiving $17 monthly as supplementary relief since last May . His records showed , however , that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the daughter 's name was given as Grisela . Mr. Hilliard said also the family had been receiving state unemployment ? insurance amounting to $112 monthly . The Welfare Department discovered that Torresola carried a $2,000 life insurance policy , the Commissioner declared . The 1942 Meeting at which Collazo and Mr. Browder appeared was held at 3 East 110th Street , according to a high Government official . At the time Collazo was chairman of the local branch of the Puerto Rican Nationalist group and the meeting was sponsored by the branch , the official said . Police Commissioner Thomas F. Murphy was asked by reporters if the police had known of the meeting at the time . He said that a report concerning Collazo 's activities in that year had been turned over to Federal authorities . He refused further comment . Among the ' centers at which police guards were posted during the day was the Puerto Rican Government Labor Office at 1881 Broadway . Two home-made bombs were hurled into a room at the place on Wednesday but they failed to explode . Manuel Cabranes , director @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telephoned threats yesterday that the ofice would again be bombed and that Wednesday 's incident was oily a " warning . " Among othif places under guard were the Puerto Rican Rum Institute , 500 Fifth Avenue ; Puerto Rican Tourist Bureau , 10 Rockefeller Plaza ; Puerto Rican Agricultural Office , 17 Battery Place ; Puerto Rican Shipping Service , Inc. , 145 Sixth Avenue ; Puerto Rican Marine Corporation , 21 Maiden Lane ; the Puerto Rican Government General Supply Corporation , 30 Broad- Street ; the Puerto Rican News Agency , 10 Rockefeller Plaza , and the Puerto Rican Industrial Development Company , 4 West Fifty-eighth Street . . Two daughters of Mrs. Collazo by a previous marriage and a daughter of Oscar Collazo , also by a previous marriage , were questioned early yesterday by Government agents at their Brook Avenue home but were not taken into custody . It was learned that Government agents and the police ' visited the home of Mrs. Thelma Mielke , an observer at the United Nations for the Puerto Rican Nationalists , at 84 Horatio Street . She could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Antonini , speaker of the Puerto Rican House of Representatives , who arrived here on Tuesday to campaign for Ferdinand Pecora , Democratic-Liberal candidate for Mayor ; was recalled yesterday by his Government and left La Guardia Airport liy plane last night for his homeland . He refused to discuss the reason for his quick return .                     