@@714733

txt General of the Army Douglas was chosen today as keynoter of the Republican National Convention to speak on the night of July 7 . He was selected over protests of supporters of General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower as the Republican Committee on Arrangements , dominated by backers of Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio , picked an almost solid slate of pro-Taft men to hold key convention posts . Eisenhower backers charged that Taft forces had " rigged " the convention machinery in favor of the Ohio Senator , but asserted the action might boomerang both because of what they called its " manifest unfairness " and because it might promote the Presidential candidacy of General himself . General , in accepting the keynote assignment , sent the following message from New York : " The invitation to make the keynote address to the Republican National Convention takes me somewhat by surprise . I am fully conscious of the high honor and distinction involved , - but equally aware of its deep obligation . I frankly have grave doubts of my ability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my selection , I accept with a real sense of grate-I iful appreciation . " Senator Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. , General Eisenhower 's campaign manager , disclosed in New York that he would support a demand made by the other backers of the general that sessions of the convention Credentials Committee on delegate contests be opened to television and radio coverage . The Senator expressed disappointment at General 's selection as keynoter but indicated Eisenhower forces would not oppose it . General Eisenhower met with delegates from Georgia , Alabama and North Carolina . Taft strategists made no secret of the fact that an important reason ? for selecting- General as keynoter was that they believed it would be pleasing to Gov . John S. Fine of Pennsylvania , who is credited with control of " some thirty uncommitted votes . Governor Fine , whose support is being sought by both Senator Taft and General Eisenhower , has said on many occasions that he regards General as the greatest living American . " I think you Taft people have started a boom , " declared Mrs. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the face of Representative B. Carroll Reece of Tennessee , Senator Taft 's southern campaign manager . " If suits me , " Mr. Reece replied . " You know , I served with General in the Forty-second Division . " Walter S. Hallanan , the Taft leader in West Virginia , was elected Temporary Chairman- ? of the convention and put ' in a position where he will make  --  important rulings in the early stages of the bitter contests over southern Republican delegations . More than 1.00 , seats from six southern states are being contested , and the outcome of this battle conceivably can determine whether Senator Taft or General Eisenhower will be the nominee . The job given Mr. Hallanan usually is performed by the keynoter . It was decided however that the 72-year-old deposed Far Eastern commander would deliver the major opening address but would not take on the job of presiding for two days over what promises to be an unruly convention . The post of Permanent Chairtnan went for the fourth time to Representative Joseph W. Martin Jr . of Massachusetts , Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wield the gavel during the balloting for the Presidential and Vice Presidential nominations . His nomination was acceptable both to Taft and Eisenhower supporters . Senator Eugene D. Milliken of Colorado , a strong backer of Senator Taft 's nomination and chairman of the Senate Republican Conference , was appointed temporary chairman of the Resolutions Committee , which will draft the platform upon which the party will make the 1952 campaign . Hoover Invited to Speak Former President Herbert Hoover was invited to make the principal address on the second night of the convention , Tuesday , July 8 . As one Eisenhower supporter put it , " the dinosaur wing " of the Republican party was in full control and saw to it that the " two most distinguished residents of the Waldorf Towers , " General and Mr. Hoover , dominated the first two days of the party meeting . This party leader said she agreed with President Truman . for the first time when he labeled the " old guard " Republicans as the " dinosaur wing . " The meeting was held behind Closed doors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the forty-six committee members voted against the selection of General to be keynoter . Guy George Gabrielson , Republican National Chairman , said there had been no discussion of whether it was legal for a fivestar general , still on the active rolls of the Army and drawing full pay , to - address a political convention . Mr. Gabrielson also said there had been no discussion of whether the general would appear in uniform or in civilian garb , but Mr. Hallanan said he was certain that General would wear civilian clothes because it would not be proper for him to wear his uniform in. addressing a political meeting . Recognizing the political potency of General , Eisenhower backers sought in vain to - avoid a direct test of the keynoter nomination . Ralph Cake of Oregon offered a resolution , in advance of General 's nomination , declaring it to be the sense of the committee that no . candidate for keynoter should be considered who was either a ? candidate for President himself or who had openly backed another candidate . General is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and has been outspoken in his support of Senator Taft and his opposition to General Eisenhower . The Cake resolution , therefore , would have ruled out the former Far Eastern Commander as key- , notes . However , Mr. Gabrielson ruled the motion out of order and I it was never was put to a vote . General was nominated for keynoter by G. Mason , Owlett of Pennsylvania , who de-1 Glared in part : " For the sake of our country , ' for the sake of the world , for the sake of our great Republican party ? I nominate as the keynote speaker of our convention the man of the agerthe man who understands the grave problems that face our nation , the man who understands the sellouts at Yalta and Teheran , the man who knows the crimes of the Far East that brought about the Korean war , the man who will inspire not only the Republican party , but all Americans , as he opens our convention ? General Douglas . " There were seconding speeches by eight pro-Taft delegates . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said earlier , how'ever , that the pro-Eisenhower leaders regarded General as " a great soldier and a great citizen " and believed that he should address the convention , but not as keynoter . When the voice vote was taken , only about a dozen negative votes were cast . Eisenhower Forces Silent With the Taft group moving smoothly , the selection of Mr. Hallanan then was approved , with the Eisenhower leaders not even bothering to vote in the negative . Mr. Cake told reporters , however , that he was " surprised " that Mr. Hallanan would take the job , because he had been around conventions long enough to know that a partisan of any Presidential aspirant Should not be in the chair when important and decisive rulings had to be made . Mr. Cake warned the Taft leaders , moreover , that " delegates on the convention floor " would not countenance " any further attempts to steal delegates " or any " obviously unfair " rulings by the chair . Representative Martin then was chosen permanent chairman , and Mrs. Charles P. Howard of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pro-Eisenhower and there has been an effort , initiated by Harrison E. Spangler of Iowa , to replace her . This failed when the women members of the committee , regardless of faction , united behind Mrs. Howard . The remaining officers , all proTaft , were as follows : Parliamentarian  --  Henry P. Fletcher of Pennsylvania , former Republican National Chairman . Assistants to the parliamentarian Sergeant-at-arms  --  Jerome G. Taylor of Tennessee . Chief doorkeeper  --  Michael Hanrahan of Indiana . Assistant chief door keepers ? Thomas Kennamer of Neosho , Mo. , and Charles Cornish of Cambridge , Md . Because Taft control of the I party convention machinery was so complete , not a few observers recalled the parallel with 1912 when the Senator 's father , President William Howard Taft , used his eontrol of convention machinery to defeat the comeback effort of former President Theodore Roosevelt . The Roosevelt faction bolted and nominated Mr. Roosevelt for a third term , and the election ended in victory for Woodrow Wilson , Democrat . Possibility of a Split Mr. Gabrielson was asked today whether he believed another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I do n't think so , " the chairman replied . " We have our own little problems , but everyone will get behind the decisions . I have no doubt that we will have a completely unified party and will win in the fall . " Representative Reece was asked whether he thought today 's actions would help the Presidential candidacy of Senator Taft . He said he thought that it would , declaring that " the selection of officers indicates the tremendous support which Senator Taft has all over the country . " Harry Darby of Kansas , an Eisenhower backer , was asked whether he thought the committee action would help Senator Taft . " No , " he replied , with emphasis . Mr. Darby agreed his group had been solidly outvoted and a reporter wanted to know what the Eisenhower forces proposed to do about it . " Relax and enjoy it , " the Kansan replied . " Does this make General a candidate ? " Mr. Darby was asked . " Not any more than he is already , " the Kansan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ angry debate with- Mr. Reece , advanced the argument that the Taft forces had started a boom for Genera . and thereby split their strength to the advantage of General Eisenhower . " You 're too optimistic , " replied Mr. Reece . The Tennessean 's statement that the nomination of General instead of Senator Taft would be satisfactory to him recalled that similar views had been expressed by pro-Taft leaders during state contests over delegates . In Nebraska , Representative Howard Buffett of Omaha called for Taft votes by all those who wanted General for President , declaring that the two men were operating as a team and that the Ohioan was carrying the ball at the moment . In Texas , the " old guard " faction led by Henry Zweifel of Fort Worth described itself as the Taft-qzmacq#Arthur delegation . General acquiesced in efforts made in 1944 and 1948 to obtain the Republican Presidential nomination for him , but has insisted this year that he is not a candidate , although he has made it clear that he would not refuse a draft . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Taft eventually will regret the decision to make General the keynoter . Their argument is that the General will so capture the imagination of the convention that delegates , weary of the nip-and-tuck fight between Senator Taft and General Eisenhower , will stampede in favor of nominating General . ? Judge Lehr Fess of Toledo , son of the late Senator Simeon D. Fess of Ohio , and Mrs. Bertha Clark Hughes of ' Omaha . Chief sergeant-at-arms  --  Charles Hacker of Chicago .                     