@@719234

txt Egyptian troops were deploying ! today in northern Syria near Turkey 's border under a security ' blackout . Their arrival yesterday in the Syrian port of Latakia has produced an atmosphere of unceri:ainty and apprehension in Lebanon and in the Middle East generally . There was a feeling that the Egyptian move into Syria must indicate not only the backing but probably the initiative of the Soviet Union , with which Syria has close ties . Sources from Damascus said the Egyptian troops that arrived yesterday had moved on to other destinations . The Damascus radio said the troops had reached Aleppo , thirty miles from the Turkish border , Reuters reported . Two explanations for the Egyptian move were advanced in Lebanese and foreign diplomatic circles today . One was that President ; Gamal Abdel Nasser of Egypt felt that this was a way to build himself new prestige in the Arab world without real risk of war . The other was that the situation was more serious than that and the Egyptian force had been planned by the Russians with the aim of precipitating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prestige was high and they believed they were ahead in the ballistic missile race . Reporters in Damascus were unable to get clarification of what was going on or assurance that they would get to the frontie ? area to see for themselves . One who managed to get the secretary of Defense Minister Khaled el-Azm on the telephone said he was told it was " naive " to suppose any United States correspondent would be allowed to visit the area . Anti-Western forces in Syria made a big gain today when Akram Hourani was elected Speaker of the Syrian Parliament . Mr. Hourani is leader of the Baath ( Arab Resurrection ) party , an extreme nationalist group that is backed by Syria 's Army and favors cooperation with the Soviet Union . Syrian Chief Lauds Troops BEIRUT , Lebanon , Oct. 14 ( Reuters ) ? Egyptian troops arrived today in Aleppo , about thirty miles from the Turkish border , the . Damascus radio reported . It said Egyptian forces had received an enthusiastic reception in both the port of Latakia , where they landed yesterday , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Chief , declared in Latakia today that Syrian and Egyptian armies would defeat " imperialist plots as long as President Nasser is the leader of our movement . " Syria 's Defense Minister , Mr. el-Azm , said the Egyptians comprised " a big force " and were well-trained in the use of modern arms . Movement Began Sept. 11 By OSGOOD CARUTHERS Special to The New York Times . CAIRO , Oct. 14 ? A military spokesman said today that Egypt started shipping troops to Syria on Sept. 11 while Syrian leaders were in Cairo to discuss the movement . The spokesman said that in order to preserve secrecy of the troop shift the action was not made public until the last of the Egyptian forces had arrived in Syria . In answer to written questions submitted by this correspondent , the spokesman asserted that the move was " not a military manifestation , not a war of nerves . " " It is real , positive help for the Syrian Army and direct military cooperation to prevent any aggression , " he added . This seemed to confirm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ token forces to Syria had greater political than military significance . The spokesman also confirmed that some of the Egyptian forces would be used to train Syrian troops " in the use of new arms " acquired from the Soviet bloc , The spokesman said the plan for the dispatch of troops was made during the visit to Cairo of General Bizri , the Syrian commander , and Lieut . Col. Abdul Hamid Serraj , Syria 's chief intelligence officer . The action was described as simply an implementation of the military pact with Syria , under which the armies of the two countries had been placed , 1 in command of the Egyptian ' Minister of War , Gen. Abdel Hakim Amer . " We are not planning any aggression against anyone , " the spokesman stated , " so no one can prevent us from implementing an agreement we have signed with Syria . This is an internal affair between Egypt and Syria . " Yesterday 's announcement of the arrival of the final Egyptian contingent in Syria came in a period of tension over the situation on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to believe that the border situation had been inflated out of proportion by East-West rivalry in the Middle East . It was noted that President Nasser 's pledge to dispatch forces to Syria was made to President Shukri al-Kuwatly of Syria in August when an internal crisis broke in Syria over the nation 's shift closer to the Soviet bloc . Informed sources here said the vanguard of these Egyptian forces consisted primarily of communication specialists , technicians and training personnel schooled in the use of new Soviet-bloc weapons that both Egypt and Syria have been receiving . The dispatch of specialists had . been predicted last month when it was announced in Cairo that President Nasser intended to supply such personnel to Syria to obviate the need for bringing in Soviet-bloc technicians . It was not believed in Cairo that the latest Egyptian move was directed against United States aims . President Nasser has been making a serious effort to find a way of improving relations with the United States and with all other Western countries , including Britain and France . As far as the Egyptians are concerned the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pact between Syria and Egypt has gone beyond the paper stage and has reached hard reality . The airlifting and shipping of the force by sea does not seem to have been detected by the intelligence services of other Arab nations , of Israel or of the United States Sixth Fleet , which is somewhere in the eastern Mediterranean . Moscow Reports Turkish Raids Special to The New York Times . LONDON , Oct. ** Moscow radio said today that during the last week Turkish troops had twice attempted raids on Syria and that Turkish military aircraft had penetrated Syria 's air space . The broadcast , monitored in London , said Turkish troops were still concentrated on . the Syrian border .                     