@@718175

txt President Eisenhower advanced his departure time for the Republican convention a full day today . He will arrive in San Francisco on Tuesday instead of Wednesday , the White ' House announced . A few minutes earlier , the White House had issued a statement denying categorically a report published by a Miami newspaper that the President faces another intestinal operation which is nonurgent ant can be postponed until after the convention . The announcement that the President would leave earlier than originally planned for the convention immediately aroused speculation that the President planned to intervene personally in the " dump Nixon " drive . 1Vants to See Friends " The President expressed his own personal desire to go to the convention a day ahead have'an opportunity to visit and meet with many of his friends who are delegates , " is the way his press secretary , James G. Hagerty , explained it to newsmen . The President is not scheduled to be renominated for a second term until Wednesday . His renomination has been such a sure thing his decision to go to the convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President to go to the convention early was dramatized further by its announcement at an unusual Sunday conference to which newsmen had been summoned during the church , hour by telephone . Asked what prompted the President to change his mind end go to the convention early , Hagerty said : " I ca n't answer that . I do n't know . " " No Special Business " " Is there any special business that he wants to attend to ? " a reporter asked . " No , " Hagerty replied . " He wants to be there while the convention is going on and wants-to meet with his friends ? that 's all . " Asked if the President still wants a " wide-open " convention at which the delegates will have a free hand in picking the Vice Presidential candidate to be his running mate , or if he had submitted -a list of five " acceptable " running ' mates as substitutes for Nixon , Hagerty said : " On the way the President feels , I refer you to his press conference statements of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Feb. 29 , when he said ; in effect , he desires the convention to be an open convention . He said that ' he wanted an open convention on Aug. 8 and , certainly implied that Aug. ' 1 . - " As to the lists ? no comment . " Hall " Mere Than Delighted " Asked . about the statement of Gov . Goodwin Knight of California that the President would announce that he wants Nixon as his running mate , Hagerty said , " I have no knowledge of the President 's tentions other than to again refer to those press Conference ' statements . " Another reporter wanted to know if the President has sent any message to party leaders in San Francisco regarding the Vice Presidency . " None that I know of , " Hagerty said . Hagerty said the President has notified Republican Chairman Leonard W. Hall of his change of plans and that Hall said he was " more than delighted . " Hagerty said the President will leave Washington at noon Tuesday . Plans Short Vacation The President will be accompanied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; his wife , Barbara ; the President 's physician , Dr. - Toward McC . Snyder ; Hagerty , " and a few other staff members . " After making the expected acceptance speech Thursday afternoon , the President will go to the Cypress Point club on the Monterrey peninsula for " three or four days " of golf and rest . Hagerty said the President will fly " in his own plane , the Columbine , for security reasons " but that the Republican national committee will pay an amount estimated to be equivalent to the cost of the flight into the federal treasury . Round Trip Costs $10,000 " The committee will pay the government the same amount it would pay a commercial airline for the charter of one of its planes , " Hagerty said . Dewey Long , White House transportation officer , said the airline which has char- ! tered a plane to carry the newsmen covering the President 's trip will charge " approximately $10,000 " for the round trip . Hagerty said that " not only the secret service " but the air force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a security standpoint it was safer for the President to use his own plane than to go on a commercial plane to San Francisco . " The plane that he uses is his plane which is being used for the security of the President , but it was decided we would pay its costs for this political thing , " Hagerty said . Bow Tie All Lit Up Hagerty , who was wearing a two-toned gray bow tie with " I Like Ike " printed on each bow , said it was a gift from the President . Maj .. Gen. Wilton B. Persons was wearing a similar tan and brown bow tie he called his " Hagerty tie , " but Hagerty said it also was a gift from- the President . Persons told reporters he had one which lights up and says " Ike " on one bow and " Dick " on the other . " That 's my Harold Stassen tie , " Persons laughed , referring to the Stassen-sponsored drive to dump Nixon . Denies New Operation As to the issue of the President 's health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tipoff " column quoted in today 's paper " a highly placed Washington source " that'the President faces a new ileitis opera , tion . " There is absolutely nothing to this report , " Hagerty said in a special statement . " I have checked with the President 's doctor . Maj. Gen. Snyder and I can categorically deny it . As I have previously reported , the President 's operation was successful . " The President and Mrs. Eisenhower attended the 9 a. m. services at the National Presbyterian church and then the President went to his White House offices to work on his convention speech .                     