@@715563

txt The three Democratic members of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations today denounced as " a shocking and unwarranted attack against the ? American , clergy " a magazine article by J. B. Matthews , the subcommittee 's newt executive-director . They called on Senator Joseph R. McCarthy , Re-1 publican of Wisconsin and chairman of the group , to convene it in closed session " as early as possible " to " consider appropriate action . " , In a joint statement Senators John L. McClellan of Arkansas , Stuart Symington of Missouri and Henry ? M. Jackson of Washington noted that the first sentence of the article , " Reds and Our Churches , " in the July issue of The American Mercury , said : " The largest single group supporting the . Communist apparatus in the United States today is composed of Protestant clergymen . " Such a charge , the Democrats asserted , " can not be supported by the facts . " ? cs It appeared , because of the July A - holiday , - that the subconwaittee would not have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the subcommittee heard Doxey A. Wilkerson , author and former professor at Howard University here . The witness , some of whose writings have been circulated by the United States Gov-1 ernment abroad , refused to say whether he was a Communist . In. the article Mr. Matthews , who was director of research for the Committee on Un-American Activities of the House of Representatives from 1938 to 1945 and since had been a consultant on Communist matters , stated " since the beginning of the first cold war in April , 1948 , the Communist party of this country has placed more and more reliance upon the ranks of the Protestant clergy to provide the party 's subversive apparatus with its agents , stooges , dupes , front men and fellowtravelers . " The author contended that " at ' least ** clergymen had ? served " the Kremlin 's con spiracy . " As examples of such service , he said , 253 were listed as signers of the " World Peace Appeal , " and 528 appeared to ' have lent their signatures to a press release issued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Act . Congres , sional investigating , groups have ' viewed both movements as spurred by Communist-front organizations . Other examples also were given , one of them concerning apparent spqnsorship by clergymen of activities by an organization that was on the " subversives " list of the lAttorney General . Mr. Matthews said he wrote the article several months ago and would not have written it if . he had known that . IA was going to be appointed executive director of the subcommittee staff . When he started with the subcommittee on June 22 , he added , the July issue already had been distributed to regular subscribers . He indicated that another article he had written for The American Mercury , bearing the title " Communism and the New Deal , " might start another storm later . This , too , he said , . had been written before he was approached to join the subcommittee staff . The article on " Reds and Our Churches " referred to the public storm that broke out in . March when Representative Harold H. Velde , Republican of Illinois @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibility of investigating certain clergymen . Mr. Matthews called this " a concerted smear attack " on Mr. Velde that had " a familiar stench about it . " Appointed by McCarthy . It appeared that Mr. Matthews received his appointment from Mr. McCarthy , rather than from the subcommittee as a whole . Such appointmenth may be made by Committee chairmen under Con. ' gressional tradition . Mr. McCarthy said this evening that " Dr. Matthews has the reputation of being one of the most outstanding authorities , if not the outstanding authority , on subversion in the United States . " Mr. Matthews joined the House ' Un-American Activities Committee in 1938 as an admitted former fellow-traveler with years of experience in cooperating , as a Socialist , with Communist-front organi- , zations . He has sworn that he never joined the Communist party . Mr. McCarthy described him as " a loyal member of the Protestant faith , " and added that " over the past nine years he has been a constant consultant of practically every Government intelligence agency . " Senator McCarthy also quoted from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be said that the vast majority of American Protestant clergymen are loyal to the free institutions of this country . " " This , " Senator McCarthy said , ' " is hardly an attack upon the , Protestant clergymen . The letter* that Matthews has received from ' 1Protestant clergymen concerning ' his article run 10 to 1 in approval of the article . " Follows Hearing Mr. McCarthy did not bring out the way in which the country 's Protestant clergy had been able to appraise the article in advance of its appearance on the newsstands yesterday . Senator McCarthy said that his subcommittee had " not the remotest intention of investigating the clergy under any circumstances . " Mr. McCarthy said he knew about both of the American Mercury articles by Mr. Matthews when he offered him the subcommittee post . He added that there was a subcommittee rule that no I staff member could write any articles for general publication while in the employ of the subcommittee . The Matthews development followed another hearing by the McCarthy subcommittee concerning the authors of books found in overseas libraries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wilkerson , who worked for the old Office of Price Administration and as a research aide to a Presidential committee on . education , refused , under Constittitiortal protection against self-incrimination , to say whether he was a Communist now in the pay of the Communist party . He also declined to say whether he had been a Communist when he wrote a book , found on shelves of the overseas libraries ; that emphasized discrimination in education against Negroes in the ' South , or had been a member of the National Committee of the Communist party . Associated Press Wireraesto REFUSES TO ANSWER : Doxey A. Wilkerson , author , who refused yesterday to ' tell the Senate Investigations subcommittee whether he was in the pay of Communist party .                     