@@716008

txt Smoke from several fires was visible there , The prisoners reportedly were burning trash , and even tents , in the alleged cleanup campaign . Some observers thought it possible that the captives might also be disposing of break-out equipment that would not be needed  --  or even evidence of communication with the outside dining the neutral custody . Former North Korean soldiers captured by the Allies during the war looked fit to Gen , Park Sun Yup , ROK Chief of Staff , who greeted them Earlier , General Park declared that they would be free to become civilians , and would not be forced to join the Army . Both the Chinese and North Koreans marched with beautiful homemade flags in the van- guard . Nightfall , which brought rain and cold , saw truck convoys and trains continue to fill with anti-Communist Chinese and Koreans streaming out of two exits . Some on Transports The prisoners came out by the flickering light of ( ) Hoots scattered along the roadways . By midevening , all Koreans reportedly had reached Allied sanctuary . By midnight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaving only 4,000 more to be transported within the next few hours . At that time , some Chinese still remained in the neutral zone , some were walking out , some were en route to Inchon , and some actually were aboard transports in the harbor ready to sail to Formosa with the I morning tide . Unlikely as it had seemed only one day before , the entire transfer of custody seemed certain of completion within one spurt of less than 24 hours . This would mean that only a handful of stay-back Americans , one Briton , plus several hundred pro-Communist Koreans would remain in neutral custody in the North Camp after the first day 's returns . Indians , meanwhile , will have divested themselves of 95 per cent of the charges . As the anti-Communists streamed southward to freedom , the 21 Americans Pws who refused to go home played games with unrepatriated South Koreans in the Communist North Camp , according to the United Press . The Indians did not want to keep them , but the Communists refused to accept them . Process in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lack of expected complications  --  and also because the process had been witnessed in reverse when the men were sent into neutral custody four months ago . Similar displays of returning prisoners were witnessed during Operations Big Switch and Little Switch , immediately before and after the armistice last July . These , however , were the first                     