@@715242

txt Bt itons ai e rubbing their eyes in semi-belief but with heartfelt hope that they really see what they think they see at this moment , That is , the emergence in Washington of a Republican administration evidently more determined than its democratic predecessor to promote freer world trade . Britons also are amazed that this dramatic turn of events should be heralded by Senator Robert A. Taft , who Used to be known here as an " isolationist " and an " archprotectionist " of American industry from the impact of foreign competition . The outlook for strengthening the entire economic base of the western defense community has brightened considerably , Britons feel , as the result of Senator Taft 's announcement Feb. 9 on United States tariff policy , Heartening News His statement that the new administration would seek to extend the Reciprocal Trade Act is hailed here as the " best news from Washington since President Eisenhower 's inauguration . " Britons feel that Senator Taft 's support also for simplification of customs procedure means that the customs simplification bill is as good as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At the same time , however , Senator Taft 's reassertion of his belief in the usefulness ' of a naval blockade of the China coast is keeping British attention focused on the differences in Anglo-American attitudes toward the Korean War . It is noted here that the Ohio senator has stressed that a blockade should be worked out " with as much unity and unanimity as possible with our allies " and that he added a proviso that it should be undertaken if it could be worked out without too great international complications . Firmly Opposes Blockade These conditions , it is pointed out lime , would seem to rule out the possibility of a blockade . It is understood in London that the British Government is as firmly opposed as ever to such a move . British objections to a blockade are reported to be based on political , military , and economic considerations , British officials are understood to believe that the move would be more likely to extend and prolong the Korean war than to end it quickly , It might lead to " incidents " involving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to blockade China as justifying the feats expi.essed in London over President Eisenhower 's deneutraliza ( ion of Formosa . These applehensions arose not so much from the Formosa decision itself as from the possibility that it portended further and , in British eyes , rsiky steps against China by the new administration . Thus Britons feel that they have not yet rounded the " dangerous cot net " in relations with the United States over the Korean war . But they are heartened for the long pull in building up British and commonwealth economic resources . For not only do Senator ' raft 's statements on American trade policy mean Britain may find a bigger United States market in the near future . They also indicate that when Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden and Chancellor of the ? Exchequer R. A. Butler visit Washington next month these British officials are likely to find American officials sympathetic to Britain 's plane for the commonwealth and for gi actually ' teeing the pound Melling from artificial controls . To Boost Coati Exports ? These plans certainly will need consider able financial support horn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American maikets , Britons also see the possibility of increasing their coal exports to Westei n Europe now that the Schuman Plan for a single Eurdpeen market for iron and steel has come into effect . For the time being , however , British sales increases may be limited .                     