@@713327

txt John Foster Dulles challenged the Soviet Union today to back up its latek appeal for East-West cooperation with specific acts , such as calling off Communist resistance in Korea , ending the division of Germany and , agreeing to an Austrian state treaty . The Republican adviser to the State Department said that Soviet Foreign Minister , . Andrei Y. Vishinsky 's suggestion yesterday that the United States drop its ' r " get tough " policy was just an attempt to scuttle ' the " get strong " program , of this country and the United Nations . The time has come for the Soviet Union to show by deeds instead of talk that it wants to bridge the differences between itself and the majority , Mr. Dulles said . He emphasized that the United States always had stood willing to negotiate with any country that showed that it wanted talks to move toward agreement , rather than to delay . For the last four years , Mr. Dulles complained , negotiations were used by the Soviet Union to screen the flourishing of aggression . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the General Assembly 's Political and Security Committee calling for immediate talks among France , Britain , the United States and the Soviet Union , he doubted that such a move would accomplish anything . The Iraqi-Syrian resolution was introduced under the heading of " United Action for Peace . " That is the title given all resolutions springing from the United States // recommendations that the General Assembly be prepared to act decisively in case of aggression if the Security Council were blocked by the veto . A. batch of resolutions and amendments has been put before the committee . The one expected to receive the majority was introduced by seven sponsors  --  Canada , France , Philippines , Turkey , Britain , the United States and Uruguay . A new text of this resolution was introduced today , incorporating some amendments suggested by member states . The basic outline of the resolution remains the same , namely , the earmarking of national contingents for service with the United Nations on call ; establishment of a special commission to investigate threats to the peace ; summoning of the General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ' creation of a committee on collective security measures . The sponsors , however , agreed to several amendments . They incorporated a Chilean proposal accenting the importance of positive measures such as economic cooperation and observation of human rights . That , apparently , will eliminate the Chilean resolution calling for an international pact against aggression , based on economic as well as military cooperation . Qualifying Phrase The seven sponsors also inserted a. phrase to the effect that the earmarking of national contingents for United Nations duty should be in accordance with the constitutional law of the member states . Several countries , including Sweden , have pointed out that their constitutions prohibited sending detachments outside the country except in defense of the country . As far as the United States was concerned , Mr. Dulles expressed his opinion that President Truman 's action in sending troops to fight for the United Nations in Korea without waiting for formal Congressional authorization had set a strong precedent for future emergencies . He made it clear , however , that the important element in the precedent was that troops had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allows the Assembly to be called into emergency session by a vote of any seven members of the Security Council  --  eliminating the veto  --  or by a majority of the sixty countries belonging to the United Nations . However the wording was changed to permit the summoning of an emergency session only in case of an act of aggression . Originally the seven-power resolution would have permitted the emergency calling of the Assembly to deal with threats of aggression . But there was some fear that the wording might imply sanctioning of preventative war , so it was limited to aggression actually committed . Amendments Rejected Several other suggested amendments were turned down by the sponsors , including a group of weakening proposals turned in by the Soviet Union . The sponsors also decided not to accept an Egyption proposal asking that priority be given to the arming of countries situated in " sensitive areas . " The reasoning behind the rejection , according to a spokesman for the seven sponsors , was that the Assembly itself could not now tackle the large and technical problem of priorities . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States should return to a policy of cooperation with the Soviet Union were made at a press conference . Mr. Dulles said that Soviet opposition to " get strong " policies of the United Nations and the United States might well be the proof of their value . The strengthening program is a shield against aggression , Mr. Dulles went on , and for that reason Mr. Vishinsky wanted to see it abandoned . If the Soviet Union really wanted to convince the world to drop its shield , there were plenty of places where it could show its good intentions , Mr. Dulles added . He listed the places as Austria , where he said four years of talks had failed to produce Soviet agreement to a peace treaty , and Germany , where , he stressed , Moscow could lift the Iron Curtain dividing the country tomorrow . As for Korea , Mr. Dulles remarked that the United Nations still had a long and bloody job ahead because the North Koreans , armed with Russian weapons , refused to give up . The Communists , he said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ word .                     