@@718324

txt Pres- ' ident Eisenhower expanded his campaign plans again today . They now include a speech next week in Tennessee , one of the ' four Southern states he carried in 1952 . The White House announced that the President would add Memphis to a schedule that already included Texas , Florida and Virginia , the three other traditionally Democratic states that " liked Ike " four years ago . In addition , he will speak in Oklahoma and Pennsylvania . On Monday he will go to Miami , Jacksonville and Richmond ; on Wednesday , Oklahoma City , Memphis and Dallas , and on Thursday , Philadelphia . The decision to broaden the President 's schedule came on the eve of his pre-election physical examination . The President will ) enter Walter Reed Army Medical Center shortly after ' noon . He will stay there until Sunday when the results of the " head. - to- toe " examination will be made known . The President announced plans for the pre-election examination at a news conference last August . James C. Hagerty , White House press secretary , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold a news conference . He said a meeting between the press and the doctors " looks remote " but added ? that he would ask them to decide . Earlier , Mr. Hagerty denied " categorically and absolutely " a report that the President had suffered a " mild relapse " on his recent Western campaign trip . The report was contained in a column by Drew Pearson for publication tomorrow . Mr. Hagerty termed the column " the most amazing document of falsehoods that I have ever seen . " He said he had received a copy of it this morning from a newspaper that queried him about it . He said he had called Mr. Pearson 's office to say it was " completely inaccurate . " This was the substance of the Pearson column as released by the . White House : " It will be vigorously denied , but President Eisenhower apparently suffered a mild relapse on his Western campaign trip . This is one reason for the head-to-toe Aytamination this week-end . " Such an examination had been promised but it was made all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Whether it was campaign exhaustion or something more serious , it hit Ike while he was driving back to the airport from Minneapolis . " He suddenly turned to others in the car and announced ' I ca n't take any more of this . Let 's get out of here . ' The Presidential limousine took off from the motorcade and sped to the airport followed by a Secret Service car . Ike was hustled into his plane , The Columbine , without bidding good-by to the local dignitaries . " Mr. Pearson also wrote that at the next stop , Seattle , the President had " closeted himself in his suite " without seeing anyone but his family and physician , that on his return to Washington he had vetoed plans to speak before the United Nations , and that when he went to New York this week he had " canceled plans for a motorcade through Manhattan . " Mr. - Hagerty said that the President had suffered no " mild relapse , " his car had not pulled out of the motorcade and he had shaken hands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the motorcycle police . Moreover , the press secretary said , the President saw a number of people in his Seattle hotel suite , including Washington 's Governor Arthur B. Langlie , who is running for the Senate , and his wife . In fact , he added , less than an hour after the President 's arrival at the hotel , he went up to the twelfth floor and shook hands with 125 members of the Republican Finance Committee . Stands on Story . Mr. Hagerty also said the President had turned down the invitation to address the United Nations today on his atoms-forpeace program because he wanted to preside at a National Security Council meeting in view of the unrest in Soviet satellite nations . And , he added , the President did drive in a motorcade during his visit to New York yesterday . Mr. Hagerty suggested that newspapers carrying the Pearson column also publish the denial today . Mr. Pearson said later in Minneapolis that while some details of his report might have been wrong , " I do n't believe the burden of it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his Western tour reported they had seen no evidence of Presidential illness . The New York Times correspondent said that during the motorcade trip of Minneapolis and St. Paul the President " stood almost constantly in the rear of his bubbletop limousine waving at crowds that lined the route . " The reporter said General Eisenhower had sat only occasionally and that his car had remained in the motorcade until it drove onto the airport apron . In Seattle , he added , the President seemed in normally good spirits . The only physical failing noted by the correspondent during the tour was a hoarseness the night that he delivered his nation-wide television speech from Portland , Ore . In announcing the President 's plans to go to Tennessee , Mr. Hagerty said he felt confident the President could again crack the traditionally Democratic South . All of the President 's sixappearances in the . South and Southwest next week will be at airports . His speech in Philadelphia will be from Convention Hall . In a statement issued here tonight , Mr. Pearson cited instances In which he said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ despite White House denials . The columnist charged Mr. Hagerty with " operating an Iron Curtain on information for a long time . "                     