@@719951

txt A second reduction of United States troops in Lebanon was officially announced tonight . One battalion of United States Marines will be withdrawn from Lebanon next Monday , the Navy announced . It was implied that the withdrawal was at the request of the Lebanese Government . Admiral ' James L. Holloway Jr. , Commander in Chief of Naval Forces in the Middle East , said the First Battalion of the Eighth Marines would be sent back , to the United States as a result of an agreement between United States and Lebanese authorities . This marine unit will be the second outfit withdrawn since the original landing here July 15 . There are about 1,700 men in this reinforced marine battalion . This evacuation will leave ? in Lebanon two battalions of marines totaling about 3,400 men , apart from about 7,000 to 8,000 United States Army airborne troops of the 187th Division . Admiral Holloway 's statement was issued just as Dag Hammarskjold , Secretary General of the United Nations , completed his first afternoon of conversations with Lebanese officials on how to create political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lebanon . The First Battalion of the Eighth Marines had been expecting-leave for many weeks . These troops have been overseas longer ' than any marine unit attached to the Sixth Fleet . In his statement Admiral Holloway said the decision to remove this unit had been taken after discussions with Lebanese authorities " in the light of statements by President Eisenhower and Secretary Dulles that the United States forces * * * would remain only as long  - -  as desired by the Lebanese Government and would be withdrawn as rapidly as circumstances permitted . " One ; battalion of marines was withdrawn from Lebanon in mid-August . Admiral Holloway recalled that the evacuation had resulted from " i material improvement in the internal and external situation of Lebanon . " Admiral Holloway said the forthcoming departure of the First Battalion ' " reveals agreeinvent ' between United States land Lebanese authorities that there has happily been a fur1 ther progress in this regard ? ' Meanwhile , it was reported here that there had been no similar reduction in British forces in Jodart . An authoritative source was quoted here as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be at an irreducible minimum . There was some hostility here to Mr. Hammarskjold and his mission . A leading . Right-wing politician publicly called the Secretary General , the envoy of the imperialism of Gamal Abdel Nasser , President of the United Arab Republic . Arab opinion here and that of some diplomats in Jordan has tended to the view that Mr. Hammarskjold 's peace-making tour of four Middle Eastern countries has not been crowned with success . Mr. Hammarskjold left New York Aug. 25 with the principal objective of making practical arrangements for the withdrawal of United States troops from the Lebanon and of British troops from Jordan . He has visited Cairo and Baghdad and has gone twice to Amman , the capital of Jordan . Beirut is expected to be his last stop in the Middle East before he returns to New.York , probably Saturday . The public attack on Mr. Hammarskjold today came from Pierre Gemayel , leader of the Christian pro-Government party ? called the Phalange . It has been one of the strangest factions behind President Camille Chamoun . Mr. Gemayet charged that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States troops to land in Lebanon July 15 . In asking for their withdrawal Mr. Hammarskjold is running errands for President Nasser , Mr. Gemayel charged . This morning the Secretary General , who arrived here last , night , conferred for two hours with Dr. Albert Moukheiber , Minister of Health and acting Minister of Foreign Affairs . Early in the evening he met President Chamoun . He was expected to talk with Gen , Fouad Chehab , the Presidentelect . An aide said Mr. Hammarskjold had been accompanied in the morning conference by Dr. Ralph J. Bunche , the Secretary General 's deputy in the United Nations . The reason given for Dr. Bunche 's visit is that he has come to examine the affairs of the United Nations observer group in Lebanon . He is charged with supervising it within the secretariat of the United Nations .                     