@@717715

txt The Soviet Government offered today to prove by public exhibitions in New York or Washington that the United States balloons sei . d over its Territory were not intended for meteorological study . The United States has maintained that the balloons were solely for that purpose . The Soviet Government , proposed in a note handed to United States Ambassador Charles E. ! Bohlen to prove as well that these balloons constituted a seri ous danger to air communications , contrary to United States assertions . " If the United States Government considers this proposal acceptable , the Soviet Government is ready to dispatch to these exhibitions Soviet experts who could I give the appropriate explanations concerning the flights of the above-mentioned balloons over the territory of the U. S. S. R. " Tess , Soviet news agency ; said that First Deputy Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko handed the note to Mr. Bohlen in response to the American note of Feb. 4 . In that note the United States denied the Soviet allegation that originated the exchange in a protest note on Jan. 28 . Balloons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the exhibit set up in Spiridonovka Palace for diplomats and foreign news men . It repeated the charge made at the time that Soviet experts had determined that " sending these balloons over the air space of the U. S. S. R. has nothing in common with meteorological research , but pursued completely different aims . " The balloons , made of a white and pink colored plastic material , are nearly fifty feet in diameter and filled with polyethylene . The balloons carry steel frames to which are attached parachutes that in turn carry radio and photographic equipment . The parachutes are released by charges that are activated by radio signals . The devices demonstrated by the Soviet Government in its Moscow exhibit were complicated . It was doubted whether a layman could understand what they were all about , even those with more than a rudimentary knowledge of cameras . The correspondents and diplomats who saw them here confessed they did not comprehend much of what they saw . In responding to the initial Soviet protest , . United States authorities had charged the SoViet Government with seeking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Soviet note today was drafted in moderate tones . It seemed almost coy as it proposed the exhibit in Western capitals . It suggested that it should send specialists westward who would " give appropriate explanations relating to equipment on show and submit other information concerning flights of the abovementioned balloons over the territory of the U. S. S. R. " The Soviet Union offered to exhibit the balloons in London and Paris as well as in the United States . Presumably it ' would duplicate the exhibit of about fifty balloons and attached instruments shown here . United States authorities have confirmed that they have launched such balloons from outside the Soviet border but have maintained consistently they were intended to study meteorological conditions . In today 's note the Soviet Government limited itself to meteorological balloons and made no reference , as did the first protest , to propaganda balloons bearing anti-Communist leaflets . that have been launched by private organizations in Europe . The Soviet note concluded with the statement that note had been taken of the United States promise to take measures to prevent the balloons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Violation Charged However , Moscow renewed the charge that the sending of balloons over the air space of the Soviet Union was " a crude violation of the territorial integrity of the Soviet Union and commonly recognized principles of international law . " Moscow said also that the balloons were " a serious threat to both air transport and the population of the region over which these balloons fly . " The Soviet Union ridiculed the American contention that the balloons were not dangerous . " It is clear to everyone that the collision of an aircraft with a balloon carrying a load up to 650 kilograms 1,433 pounds threatens unavoidable disaster , " the note said . " It is also evident that the two boxes attached to a large metallic beam and containing a total ballast between 200 and 300 kilograms 440 to 600 pounds which falls freely from a high altitude during the socalled automatic destruction of the balloon can damage buildings , telephone and electrical lines and any other structures as well as cause human injuries . " Referring to United States claims about the meteorological purposes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it to say that not a single one of numerous balloons caught in the Soviet Union has any apparatus intended for measuring basic meteorological elements ? atmosheric pressure , temperature and humidity of air , etc . " " The photographs discovered in the cameras on the balloons showed that the true purpose of the balloons was aerial photography of the territory of the Soviet Union , " the note declared . U. S. Minimizes the Hazard The United States has maintained that its weather balloons are so designed that they offer virtually no hazard to aircraft . It also has emphasized that no propaganda balloons , which were the original basis of protests by members of the Soviet bloc , are launched over Eastern Europe by Government agencies . The instruments in the weather balloons are designed to record and transmit by radio data f.:n weather , clouds and cosmic rays . Only by inadvertance , United States officials have said , could the cameras carried by some of the balloons photograph ground installations . If they did the balloons would then have to travel out of Soviet territory for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached Soviet territory have been carried there by the " jet ' stream , " a fast-moving band of air at high altitudes . One of the objects of the United States Air Force 's research program is to determine the nature of this stream .                     