@@717848

txt United Nations Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjold is attempting to arrange a buffer zone between the Arab states and Israel as a first step toward peace in the Middle East , it has been learned here . The principal immediate purpose of Mr. Hammarskjold 's peace mission is to get the two sides far enough apart to prevent the kind of incident which begins when patrols are fired upon from across the armistice line . A large percentage of the incidents begin that way . If this emergency measure is successful , the Secretary-General plans to move on to other , more far-reaching pe ; . ce moves . Mr. Hammarskjold is holding a series of intensive conferences in Rome with UN truce supervision officials and with Italian and Vatican diplomats before leaving for Beirut , Lebanon , April 9 . Police Force Rejected The eyes of much of the world have been focused on his peace mission as a result of an Israeli artillery attack on villages in the Gaza strip April 5 and the activities of Arab commandos deep inside Israel . Like a policeman intervening in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is an effort to pull the antagonists apart . The idea of a buffer zone two kilometers ( about a mile and a quarter ) wide is not new . The Secretary-General broached it with Arab and Israeli leaders on his January mission to the Mideast and Asia . British Prime Minister Sir Anthony Eden and Foreign Secretary Selwyn Lloyd publicly advocated such a move last February . At that time , how , ever , the idea was connected with the stationing of a UN police force  --  or at least a much- augmented truce supervision corps  --  in the no man 's land . That proposal was rejected by both sides , and denounced by the Soviet Union Feb. 13 . Buffer Zone Weighed Mr. Hammarskjold now hopes the buffer zone can he accepted without the objectionable feature of an international patrol . Egypt is understood to be favorable to the plan ; Israel will accept it under certain conditions : but Syria has serious reservations . Damascus has pointed out certain " geographical difficulties " the plan woiuld raise , it is understood . The attitudes of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ informants said . The armistice agreements of 1949 established a demilitarized zone in certain sensitive areas of the demarcation line , but in other areas there is nothing to keep forces of the two sides apart . The exact location of the boundary may not even be clear . In those areas where there is a demilitarized zone , it is rarely more than a few hundred yards in depth . If all armed personnel were to be barred from a buffer zone a mile or more in depth , it might be necessary to evacuate whole villages and collective farms established near the border for defensive purposes . This is one of the " geographical difficulties " to which the Syrians object . It is also a difficulty for Israel . The residents of these villages are normally heavily armed . Many , in fact , alternate between plowing the soil and mounting guard duty , and are , in fact frontier guards . New Line Proposed Such problems as these could be solved if the armistice line were to be redrawn . Proposals that it be redrawn have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never gone beyond the proposal - stage . One difficulty at the moment is that Mr. Hammarskjold is not authorized to take any steps which would involve revising the armistice agreement . Most patrols along the armistice lines are armed with small arms and mortars , but not with any heavier artillery . A mile-wide buffer zone would draw the two sides far enough apart to be out of range of these weapons . The problem of infiltration and deeper penetratia  --  as by commandos ? would not be solved by a buffer zone , nor would hostile parties be prevented from crossing the border and laying land mines . However , it may he possible to arrange physical barriers such as barbed wire to discourage these practices .                     