@@716909

txt Princess Margaret , like her uncle Edward , VIII , was reported ready today to surrender her royal prerogatives for the love of a divorced commoner . Tile princess , Z ? i , anu rapt . Peter Townsend , 40 , father of two children , intend to marry this fall , an informant in touch with the royal family said . Townsend , air attache in Belgium , was quoted as saying : ' ' There can be nothing said until the time is ready or somebody else does something . " Word that the engagement is to be announced was leaked to a group of commonwealth newspapers , apparently to test public reaction . Could Change Iler Mind Margaret , like any young woman , could change her mind . And public opposition ? if it develops  --  could alter the course of events . But all available information points to plans for a wedding soon after Margaret observes her 25th birthday Aug. 21 . AS a pretuue , um expectatitur is the princess will renounce her right of succession to the throne . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Princess Anne , the children of her sister , Queen Elizabeth . Marriage of the princess and the air force captain would revive memories of King Edward 's abdication in 1936 for the love of American divorcee Mrs. Wallis Warfield Simpson . British law requires members of the immediate royal family who are younger than 25 to have the consent of the sovereign for marriage . Church Bars Remarriage Queen Elizabeth would find it hard to give formal consent for her sister 's wedding to a divorced man . The queen is the " defender of the faith " and the Church of England bars the rernarri9.ge of a divorced person . For this reason , the best opinion in London is that announcement of the engagement will be delayed until after Margaret 's birthday . Buckingham palace maintained silence as rumors of the Princess Margaret and Capt . Town . send . impending marriage spread thru London . In Brussels , Townsend told a correspondent of the London Daily Sketch : " I can not answer questions about it because I am not the prime mover in this situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " But my loyalty to Princess Margaret is unquestionable . I would undergo any difficulties because of that loyalty . " Sent to Brussels The princess first met Townsend after he , along with other war heroes , was appointed an equerry of honor to her father in 1944 . The appointment was for three months , but Townsend became a favorite of the royal family and was assigned to the household on a permanent basis . In December , 1952 , he divorced his wife on charges of misconduct with John Adolphus de Laszlo , son of a well known British portrait painter . Townsend was grant . ed custody of their two sons , In 1953 he was abruptly sent to Brussels . As for being sent there , Townsend said only , " I can not remember whether I applied for this job or wa : pushed into it . "                     