@@719394

txt A Long Island residential community , faced with steadily rising taxes , has taken a bold step that many suburban villages dread . It has revised its zoning in an effort to attract industrial concerns that will Share the tax burden with the residents . Tax experts have long recommended this solution to the problem of how suburban " bedroom " communities can meet the rising costs of schools and other municipal services . But , most suburbs fear that industry will blight the landscape , so they either exclude industry or accept it in small doses  --  but usually not in wellplanned manner . In Plainview , however , the entire program of attracting industry has been designed to integrate it with the existing community . Because of increased costs of services , Plainview 's plight was so serious that even home builders , who normally fear industrialization , supported it . They recognized that , unless industry was brought in , high taxes would prevent them from selling houses . Before the current movement ' , to the suburbs , there were few instances where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could he a coal mine , a stockyard , a railroad hub or one or more industries . The productive end of a town supported the residential community by providing employment and sharing the tax burden of the residents . Residents Pay Bill Suburban communities , however , generally did not follow this pattern . Lacking taxable industry , they charged residents for municipal costs , including the operation of the school system , through real estate taxes . If the suburb grew rapidly , realty taxes skyrocketed . In such cases a community was fortunate if some land had been left for industrial property . Tax experts , civic officials and mortgage lenders agree that land should be made available for industry through design and not left to chance . In this way industrialization can be controlled so that the town 's industrial areas do not interfere with residential development . Tax levels can be predetermined more easily , facilitating planning of civic improvements . Sharp tax increases can be avoided , making it easier for home buyers to maintain their mortgage payments without delinquency . Plainview experienced one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Its census in 1950 showed 1,100 residents . By 1956 its population had grown to about 16,000 . This created considerable pressure for new school facilities , especially since many of the new families had young children and most families will grow even larger in the coming years . See 750 New Jobs ? The industrial development program undertaken in Plainview envisioned 750 new jobs by January 1st . By next spring , according to civic leaders , there will be 1,500 factory jobs where none existed before . They said new construction would add another 1,500 by the end of 1958 . Virtually all of this activity involves industries not having national defense contracts . In addition to providing local employment opportunities , the new plants have already broadened the base of taxable property . A 130-acre industrial park and further rezoning for industry are expected to contribute further in holding down  --  and possibly even reducing ? the residents ' tax bills , despite mounting municipal expenses . Two leaders in the development program , Fred J. Niebuhr , chairman of the industrial committee , and Charles A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satisfaction with progress to date . They pointed out that one year ago , when ground was broken for the Potter Instrument plant , Plainview did not have a single dollar of assessed industrial valuation ins the entire school district . The home owners shared the tax burden with only a few stores and other commercial properties . The Potter concern opened its plant last July with about 200 persons on its payroll . Now the Fairchild Graphic Equipment Company is moving from Jamaica , Queens to the Plainview area . About 300 jobs are involved . Property owners and realty men avoided making estimates of how much their industrial buildings will broaden the tax base . They feared that if they put a valuation on their properties , the tax assessor would use such an estimate for assessment purposes . The industrial development of Plainview was sparked by Maurice D. Gruber , a realty man from Manhasset , He purchased a site on the eastern edge of the village at the intersection of the Northern State Parkway and the Bethpage Parkway extension . About eighteen months ago , the area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tract were put to use , either through sales of property or through construction of factory buildings for rent . Another developer , the Fulton Stewart Construction Company , recently built plants for Pickering &; Co. , makers of high fidelity and other sound equipment , and for the Stellar Tool and Machine Company . A third structure of about 20,000 square feet is expected to be completed in the spring . Joseph Berliner , an official of the Fulton Stewart concern , cited a recent report on a study of tax structure and governmental services on Long Island made at Hofstra , College to support the theory of industrial development undertaken at Plainview . According to the conclusions formed by the study , industry pays in taxes roughly three times as much as it gets back from local government in the form of services . The study pointed out that the types of industry that had located in Nassau County were clean and attractive , easy to protect from fire and other risks and relatively light in their demands for highway space . Plainview has a good location with respect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ due to be completed in two years , will pass directly through the industrial zone . The north - south Wantagh - Oyster Bay Expressway will touch the edge of town . 