@@716370

txt UTICA , N. Y. , July 2 ? A jet fighter plane returning from a quick " scramble " to investigate an unidentified plane , later reported to be " friendly , " crashed in flames in a crossroads hamlet today . Four persons on the ground Algre killed and two houses and an automobile were destroyed , The two Air Force lieuten*nts in the F94-C Starflre , which carried forty-eight high-powered two-and-one-half inch rockets , bailed out before it plunged into tiny Walesville , eleven miles southwest of Utica , about 12:30 P. M. The two , who escaped injury , were Lieut . William E. Atkins , 24 years old , of Dutton , Va. , the pilot ; and Lieut . Henry F. CouContinued on Pawl ' , 13 , Column ABANDONED PLANE KILLS 4 ON GROUND // don , 26 , of Perryville , Md. , radar observer . Those killed were Stanley Phillips , 38 , his wife , Florence , , 32 , and their son , Gary , 11 , all of neighboring Hecla , and Mrs. Doris Monroe , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Phillips family was in the automobile . Mrs. Monroe was in her home preparing lunch for her four children when the plane crashed . Two Jets Ordered Up The plane was attached to the Twenty-seventh Fighter Interceptor Squadron at near-by Griffiss Air Forces Base , Rome . The base said it was one of two planes ordered up on a practice scramble that turned into an actual mission , The public information officer , Maj. Evelyn Watkins , explained that the two planes were barely airborne on the training mission when they received radioed orders to check on an unidentified plane in the area , Major Watkins said no information was available on the unidentified plane or where it was located by the jets . In Washington , a Pentagon spokesman said the plane was about seventy-five miles northeast of Rome , on the edge of the zone covered by Griffiss , when it was detected . " Scramble " is the term pilots apply to emergency flights . A Griffiss spokesman said the pilots had been satisfied that the plane had been " friendly " and were headed back to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the jets . The air base said the pilot and radar observer had stayed with the plane until the " last minute . " A spokesman quoted Lieutenant Atkins as reporting that he had ordered Lieutenant Coudon to bail out , then had jumped himself from about 7,000 feet . Griffiss officials said that fuel in the burning plane apparently had exploded when the jet crashed . They said it had not been determined whether an explosion occurred while the jet was in the air . Earlier , an Air Force officer had said there " must have been an explosion . " Plane Strikes Tree The unoccupied plane struck a large elm tree back of the Walesville general store . A section of the burning craft , probably a wing , struck the car carrying the Phillips family home , presumably from the Rome State School , where both husband and wife were employed as occupational instructors . The sedan burst into flames , plowed into the home of Mrs. Mary Peck , 79 , and set the colonial frame structure afire . Mrs. Peck fled to safety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the roof of the one-story Monroe home and fire quickly destroyed it . Mrs. Monroe was preparing lunch while her children played outside . Her husband , Lloyd , was at work in a foundry . One of the children , Betty Lou , 1 , suffered a severe laceration of the leg , presumably when struck by debris from the shattered plane , parts of which were scattered all over the community . The three other Monroe children escaped without a scratch . They were Kenneth , 9 ; Buddy , 6 , and Nora May , 3 .. Heat Melts Road The plane 's engine was found about 200 feet south of the four corners . Heat from the flames was so intense it melted the macadam road . Orson Buck , whose daughter operates the general store , said he saw the plane strike and Betty Lou Monroe fall . He pulled the child away from the house and took her to the store . She later was taken to a Utica hospital . Kenneth Monroe told investigators that he and his sisters and brother had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sudden there was smoke and fire and I heard my mother screaming . " He said he had taken his sisters by the hand and half-dragged them to the front of the general store . He said his brother had run along with them . The pilot and the radar observers were found a relatively short distance apart and a few miles from the crash scene . They were taken to the air base hospital , where examination disclosed they had escaped injury . ? The air base public information office said that a board of inquiry had begun an investigation . In Washington , the Air Force said a three-man team had been ordered to the scene to investigate .                     