@@714681

txt Men in the aluminum business believe that the Government czar for their industry , Sam Anderson , has finally resolved to set off this week the thud big postKorean expansion in the nation 's capatity to Produce the light metal . He and Defense Pi production Administrator Manly Fleischmann have told the three big U. S. producers  --  Alcoa , Reynolds and Kaiser ? to come to town tomorrow to learn some news . Industry officials think all the evidence indicates it will call for an increase in U. S. mill capacity sufficient to turn out hn extra 70,000 to 140,000 tons of vii gin aluminum annually . The latter figure would just about equal the nation 's total output of aluminum back in 1938  --  and even by today 's standards anything in this range would be a lot of metal . While industry men expect to hear this announcement of a firm program for another wave of expansion , they still feel such a proclamation would have rather an odd sound . For it would come at a time when the aluminum supply-demand situation is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are imminent . And in recent days other Government officials ? notably . Defense Materials Procurement Administrator Jess Larson  --  have made it quite clear they believe the aluminum expansion prop Rill ? adt under way will he plenty to meet all U. S. needs . But Mr. Antic : son has hen brooding out loud since March about the desirability of still more aluminum no:lines , i.nd industry men are convinced he has now decided to bull the program through . The Big Three of aluminum are being sumtwined because Mr. Picts ( hmann promised these disturbed companies that he 'd tell them hi- plans before announcing his decision pubhcl appaeently because of any intention to ask them to shale in a new burst of building . Aluminum Co. of America . Reynolds Metals and Kaiser Aluminum all have participated largely in the first two waves of growth . which by late 1953 will give the ration a capacity to produce over 1.5 million ions annually , or at more than twice the pre-Korean rate . Also , Anaconda Copper , in alliance with Harvey Aluminum Co .. is getting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Industry experts aelieve that the anticipated next wave of expan , ion will bring at least one more newcomer into the basic aluminum industry . And officials in Mr. Ander ' son 's office say they hope that by Thursday , after their private consultations with the lindustry , they will have some information to make public about firms that are thinking of I getting into production of aluminum . Kennecott Copper and American Smelting &; Refining have been suggested as " interested " in the idea , Olin Industries , which operated a 1Government-owned aluminum plant in Washington State during World War II . has been exploring the possibility of building a plant 1plus fabricating facilities in the Ohio Valley . Spartan Aircraft Co. , which has had no aluminum prdcluction experience but is a veteran fabricator , has considered building an alununtin reduction plant near Little Rock . Ark. , together with fabricating facilities . To encourage these or other concerns - to participate in a third expansion , the defense planners have been talking about granting " certificates of necessity " permitting a quick tax write-off of plant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at D.P.A. 's direction has the authority to obligate the Government to buy up any metal these new plants pi oduce , in case it turns out to be unwanted by private consumers in years ahead . These lures have already been used to help bring on the expansion now under way . Present produdcers have been granted allowances to " depreciate " specified portions of the cost of the new facilities over a five-year period , instead of the normal 20 years or longer usually required by the Bureau of Internal Revenue , This has the effect of reducing the operators ' income tax payments during the final five years of using the new facilites . They also have been given contracts which permit them to dump the output of the plants onto M P A. or even turn over the plants themselves at cost if they prove unprofitable , Mr. Anderson has indicated he 'd have the government be equally generous , perhaps more so , in order to get a further expansion . Anderson Backs Expansion Aids Last month while w iighing the pros and cons of fresh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U. S. would certainly have to be afforded generous accelerated amortization privileges by the Government ? as well as contracts on the part of the Government to purchase , if required by the producers , the output of such additional facilities for a period of five years . " He did not suggest then the use of a third incentive  --  Federal loans to finance plant construction . But the planners have authority to offer that carrot , too . if they wish . It can be done by D.P.A. loans handled by the Reconstruction Finance Corp . While the Big Three aluminum firms have been unenthusiastic about any third wave of expansion in domestic capacity , they have been bitterly opposed to another Anderson idea : That imports from Canada be greatly increased , and backed by a purchase guarantee by the U. S. Government . What will the Messrs . Anderson and Fleischmann announce on this point ? Industry men claim no inside information , but fear the bigger-import scheme will be adopted , at least in part . When Mr. Anderson began discussing his program in March @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aluminum Co. of Canada to ship more than 17 million tons over the border through 1959. provided the 1.7 . , S. Government promised to buy about half the metal , or 900.000 tons , in case Alcan were unable to find commercial buyers . Any metal bought under the contract was to be salted away in this country 's strategic stockpile . U. S. Producers Protest Vigorously U. S. aluminum producers , anguished at the prospect of the Government aiding a big foreign competitor , protested vigorously . As a result , Alcan last month trimmed its demand for a market guarantee to half the original size , The Canadianealuminum producer now wants the U. S. to promise to buy up to 450,000 tons of the metal if Alcan ca n't peddle it to U , S. users between 1954 and 1959 Mr Anderson has emphasized that the Alcan offer was made " at my request , " and he has argued " the power available in Canada will be undoubtedly cheaper than anything we have left in the U. S. " for power-thirsty aluminum potlines . Why has the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U. S. supplies so immensely ? First , he points to the record increasing civilian consumption of the light metal , and suggests that it will continue . Second , he argues that a big war would create terrific aluminum demand , and for this contingency a Federal stockpile should be created far in excess of the current Munitions Board goal . A stockpile of aluminum , Mr .. Anderson maintains , is also in effect a stockpile of electric power , of ocean transportation and of labor . How big might this stockpile grow ? He has suggested 4 million tons . By a Wit I. Rini:CT jOl'ANAL Staff Rrporter DAVENPORT , Iowa  --  An immediate end to the system of-allocating aluminum by specific products was called for by Edward C. Manix , general sales manager of Nichols Wire &; Aluminum Co. of Davenport . Such a step is necessary and essential to the health of the aluminum building products industry and to the housing the American public needs , he declared , Mr. Manix said the aluminum supply situation is " very good , in fact , plentiful . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within 30 days . But he asserted there are inequities existing in the allocation of aluminum by individual products . The system has as its base period the amount used in the fit st half of 1950 . Under this system one product might receive only 50% of the aluminum in the initial half of 1952 that was used in the base period , whereas another product might receive as much as three times the metal used in the base period . These inequities , he explained , sometimes arise from the fact that several different divisions of the National Production Authority control allocations of aluminum for various types of building products . A single and short order ending the allocation system could change the complexion of the aluminum building materials industry and give It the economic strength to consume the huge new production of the metal which is near at hand , Mr. Manix stressed .                     