@@718436

txt Today was another day of no work by Hungarians , of more threats by the Soviet-controlled Government and of sporadic fighting in the countryside . The general strike continued . So many Workers Council leaders had been arrested that there was said to be no one among the workers to call it off eveji if anyone wished to do so . Indications here were that the situation in Hungary was becoming anarchic . The policy of Premier Janos Kadar , or rather of the Russians , is reported to have destroyed every representative body in Hungary with which the regime has negotiated or could hope to negotiate . But the Hungarian rebellion originally occurred without organization or leaders , and it is going on in the same manner . Clashes were reported continuing in the countryside between freedom fighters and the Kadar police or Soviet soldiers . The Kadar regime announced that Soviet troops had set fire yesterday to a theatre filled with rebels in the industrial city of Miskole , The United Press reported. 6,000 Stand at Plant 's Doors In Budapest , workers turned up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factory , for example , its 6.000 workers were said to have assembled only to stand idle before its doors . These workers were the first to renew the strike yesterday because Sandor Racz , chairman of the Budapest Central Workers Council , and his deputy , Sandor Bari , had been arrested from the factory the day before . Thirty thousand workers on Csepel Island went so far as to enter their factories , it was reported , but did no work . Even if the Hungarian workers had been willing to work , not much could been done as coal and electric power were short . The Kadar regime recognized this by issuing an appeal // to miners to dig more coal . If they do not aid the Government , it was asserted , inflation will become unavoidable , and tens of thousands of workers must be dismissed without pay . The Budapest radio warned that if the strike continued the complete collapse of Hungary 's economy would be inevitable . This warning was pointed up by reports that the inhabitants of several Budapest districts had to get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hotels had to defer shaving until daylight came . The Kadar Government today issued a decree prohibiting all demonstrations and meetings on the pain of six months ' to five years ' imprisonment unless police permits for them were received three days in advance . Order is to be preserved on such occasions only by the police , according to the decree , and if the police think order can not be maintained they are empowered to forbid the meeting . The purpose of the order is " to preserve the rights of the workers in the present circumstances and to prevent their parades from being obstructed by irresponsible elements . " Of 184 large plants in the capital , work was reported to have started yesterday only in sixteen . Even there , it ceased at 1 o'clock . Iron and Steel Plants Struck In iron and steel plants in Dunapentele , a complete strike ' was reported . This appeared to be the rule in provincial industrial centers as well , as there the Government also had arrested leaders of local workers ' councils . It was reported that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Zsolnok , 102 , in Kecskemet , 134 and in Nagykoeroes , eighty-one . They were said to have been taken to the former internment camp at Kistarcsa , from which workers and intellectuals were already reported to have been deported to the Soviet Union . The Kadar Government also has issued arrest orders against a number of leading Hungarian ' writers . Most of them have a1-1 ready fled . It was estimated there were still five Soviet armored divisions in and around Budapest . The Russians are reported to have established two cordons , an outer and inner one , and to be gradually narrowing them . Meanwhile , with the help of the Kadar police , house-to-house searches are made between the cordons to discover who are living in other than their own homes . Reports of mass desertions from Soviet forces in Hungary persist . It is said deserters are fighting alongside Hungarian partisans in the Borsod district , in the Bakony hills and in Pecs . In Budapest it is estimated that 400 to 500 Soviet soldiers have deserted and donned civilian clothes . Miskolc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet troops burned a theatre filled with rebels during a battle in the streets of the industrial city , of Miskolc , the Hungarian Government reported today . The Budapest radio said " counter-revolutionary elements " had attacked Soviet troops in the city yesterday . This " had to be answered by the Soviet troops , " the broadcast added . It said tanks had fired the theatre where demonstrators had gone , apparently for a rally . The broadcast indicated that casualties had been heavy in this fourth major clash reported this week between rebels and Soviet and Hungarian forces . The radio reported a battle in the central city of Eger on Monday and Tuesday , when 10,000 rebels were said to have clashed with the Russians in the Buda and Gelert hills . According to refugees from the Pecs area of southern Hungary , 300 Russians were killed in an attempt to drive out 4,000 partisan , in the Mecsek Mountains .                     