@@713997

txt Two control bills designed to stabilize prices in the city , preventing black marketeering , and a measure that would regulate towing on New York 's roads and eliminate excessive towing fees were passed unanimously yesterday by the City Council . Jointly introduced by Acting Council President Joseph T. Sharkey , Brooklyn Democrat , and Councilman Earl Brown , Manhattan Democrat , the price measure would ' supplement through the use of city agencies the enforcement of regulations issued by the Federal Office of Price Stabilization . The bills provide for a $500 fine and ninety days imprisonment as a maximum sentence for violators in the retail trade and a $1,000 fine and 180 days imprisonment for violators in the wholesale trade . Mr. Sharkey described the bills as like the city 's control laws of World War II , but with fiore severe penalties . The measure to regulate towing , designed to eliminate allegedly objectionable practices such as the charging of exorbitant fees for the service , especially at night , sets a maximum rate of $3 for the first mile and $1 for each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weighing more than one and one-half tons would be exempted from the bill 's regulations . The bill also calls for eliminating the present ban on the solicitation of jobs by towing car owners . The towing bill was introduced by Aloysius J. Maickel , Queens Democrat , and Edward A. Cunningham , Bronx Democrat . Under the measure , towing car owners would be charged a license fee of $25 , and penalties for violations of the bill 's provisions would be either a $50 fine or thirty days imprisonment , or both . Repairs to towed cars would be forbidden , under the bill 's terms , without an agreement signed by the car owner as to the final price . Fees for estimates of such repairs would be prohibited . Maximum rates for storing towed cars would be $1 a day . The towing bill and the price control bills were the subject of an emergency message from Mayor Impellitteri . The message permitted the Council to act immediately on their passage , avoiding the legal requirement for a seven-day wait for bills that have been subjected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the price control bills , said he was " warning black marketeers " that " the city is prepared to enforce the measures that may be taken by the Office of Price Stabilization . " The city , he said , " is getting into the fight before black markets can materialize . " " It is time Congress stopped pussyfooting and started to protect American citizens for a change , " Mr. Sharkey asserted . " Let our Senators and Representatives do ( something effective immediately about this continuing spiral of in , flation before the people become angry and start voting them out lof office . " We in New York are assuming our full responsibility to our citizens in fighting inflation . Let Con ' congress pay heed to what is being done here and follow our example . Black marketeers have only to study the action in the courts on our 1945 law to find out that we mean business . " Concurrent action by the Board of Estimate and signature by the Mayor will be necessary before the towing and price control bills become law , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City Council unanimously ' approved a resolution introduced by Mr. Sharkey and Mr. Brown urging the State Legislature and Governor Dewey to enact legislation at the August special session providing mandatory life imprisonment for any illegal seller of narcotics upon third conviction . Minority Leader Stanley M. Isaacs , Manhattan RepublicanLiberal , introduced an alternative to his original bill that would require all organizations of Civil Service employes to file annual accounts with the City Clerk , make the reports public documents and empower the Commissioner of Investigation to look into any statements or information in the reports . The alternative measure would not compel these organizations to file their financial reports with any public authority . However , it would require them to keep complete accounts of all income and expenditures under the supervision of certified public accountants , to render detailed reports of their financial operations to their members at least once a year and to obtain receipts for all expenditures , keeping these vouchers for at least six years . The bill was referred to the Committee on City Affairs . The next meeting of the Council will @ @ @ @ 