@@717182

txt Ezra Taft Benson , Secretary of Agriculture , took back today his charge that Wolf Ladejinsky was a " security risk . " The Secretary said he had ordered the records of the Department expunged of his finding last year that the agricultural expert had failed to meet " security requirements . " Mr. Ladejinsky was dismissed last year by Mr. Benson as agri1 cultural attach ? in Tokyo , al'though he previously had been cleared by the State Department . After his dismissal , Mr. Ladejinsky was cleared again by the Foreign Operations Administration and sent to Southern Vietnam as a consultant on land reform problems . In a letter to Senator Frank Carlson , Republican of Kansas , Mr. Benson noted that the case had been considered " by two agencies more experienced in security than this department , and that in both instances Mr. Ladejinsky was cleared . Explains His Position " I hope both the public and Mr. Ladejinsky realize that , as far as I am concerned , a security decision at a given time , either adverse or favorable , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Mr. Benson wrote . He said he now felt that the department 's adverse security finding against Mr. Ladejinsky should " not continue to be permanently effective . " He reported that " the memorandum record of the decision and the press release of Dec. 22 , which announced it , both be canceled so that our records will not show Mr. Ladejinsky as a security risk . " There had been recent indications that the Secretary felt his decision in the Ladejinsky case needed review . In May he set up a permanent committee to review all security cases . In June he conceded that the press release of Dec. 22 , announcing the adverse findings , " was probably written a bit too hard " in imputing to Mr. Ladejinsky membership in " two Communist front organizations . " In his letter to Mr. Carlson ranking Republican on the Senate Post Office and Civil Service Committee , Mr. Benson said he had- canceled his earlier findings after reviewing the case with his new committee . Moreover , he said , " we now have better coordination all through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the new committee " appreciates the sensitive factors in dealing with security cases " from the point of view of the individual as well as the Government . His mention of " better coordi- nation " apparently was a reference in part to President Eisenhower 's news conference statement last February that hereafter when two department heads differed on security issues the problem would be carried to the White House for decision . Senator Hubert H. Humphrey , one of the severest critics of Secretary Benson in the case , said " it Was very refreshing that departments of Government are now seeing eye to eye . " The Minnesota Democrat is a co-sponsor of a bill , approved by the Senate this week , to set up a bipartisan commission to study the Federal employe security program . Secretary Benson recalled that he had told a news conference on Jan. 5 that " reasonable and conscientious men " might reach opposite conclusions in security cases . Focal Point for Attacks The Ladejinsky case has been a focal point for attacks on the Administration 's employe security program since Mf @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time , Mr. Benson said " the fact that Mr. Ladejinsky has sisters living in the U. S. S. R. through whom he may be subject to coercion is in itself sufficient to deny the necessary clearance as an agricultural attach ? . " The Secretary also cited Mr. Ladejinsky 's brief employment more than twenty years ago with the Amtorg Trading Corporation , the Russian buying agency in this country . For these reasons and others , Mr. Benson held , he could not retain Mr. Ladejinsky in a job " which would make available to him the most highly classified documents of the United States Government . " Mr. Ladejinsky fell under the ' jurisdiction of the Agriculture Department under a new law that had transferred agricultural attaches to that agency from the State Department . Mr. Ladejinsky , 55 years old , became a United States citizen in 1928 . He was a Far Eastern specialist with the Agriculture Department from 1935 to 1950 , when he went to work with the State Department . In Japan , he was credited with having played a key role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Army Douglas                     