@@715041

txt For the first time during this session of the General Assembly of the United Nations , the two main political committees were to mpt at the same time . Nov. 15 . While Korea was being discussed . the ad hoc or special Political Committee was also to continue its debate on the racial policies of the South African Government . Twenty more countries still are to be heard on the South African case , which has caused a hard-hitting wide-ranging debate . Talks behind the scenes still continued on the Korean prisoner-of-war issue , with the possibility that some concrete proposals soon would be moved it the Political Committee . India was reported to be putting the finishing touches to a suggestion it was expected to make . Over Soviet2 objections . the Budgetary Committee Nov. 14 raised the assessment of the U.S.S.R to the 1953 budget from 9.85 per cent to 12.28 per cent and heard Senator Alexander Wiley , of the United States , declare that the Soviet Union had gold which could be converted into dollars to pay its contribution on time if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was over South Africa that the main argument raged . Czechoslovakia accused South Africa of breaking the provislims of the Charter through the application of its apartheid ( racial segregation ) laws , when the sp-J1 political committee of the Gc ral Assembly resumed its general debate on this problem . The Arab-Asian ? group , assisted by Liberia , Guatemala , Bolivia . and Haiti , has sponsored a resolution recommending the appointment of a fact-finding commission to study and examine the international aspects and implication of the racial situation in South Africa . The South African delegation , on the other hand , has submitted a resolution maintaining that the United Nations has no competence to deal with the matter . Says Bias Deliberate - Dr . Fratisek Vavricka , of Czechoslovakia , said the debate so far had cast light on certain tendencies on the problem of racial segregation in South Africa . But it was part of the general pattern of aspirations of oppressed nations , who were striving for the respect of human dignity , equal rights , and the elimination of racial barriers . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were dealing with South Africa , Malaya , Viet Nam , or other parts of the world where peoples are seeking independence . South Africa , in contradiction to the flow of ideas elsewhere , was deliberately pursuing a policy of racial discrimination against the non-European people in the country , he said . " One might have expected that the aversion and repugnance which world opinion felt about racial discrimination after the second world war might have led the South African Government to change its attitude , ' ; said Dr. Vavricka . " South Africa is intensifying its policy to such an extent that it seriously threatens the very basis of the colored people 's existence . " Australia 's delegate gave some typical answers to this speech as he objected to the UN discussing the apartheid policies of South Africa on both legal and practical grounds . Speaking in the special Political Committee during the debate on apartheid , Patrick Shaw , of Australia , said the discussion was outside the competence of the UN Charter . Australian Protests He took exception to a remark made by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plea of incompetence had disregarded human factors . " We have observed not a little of self-interest in some of our critics , " declared Mr. Shaw . " We have been particularly surprised to hear such a belittlement of the constitutional basis upon which we all work . And we were also surprised to hear talk of colonialism in terms which may or may not have been relevant some decades ago , but which is of little or no relevance today . " The question is whether the legislation regarding racial policy in South Africa is domestic legislation , " said Mr. Shaw . " First and foremost . we find that this legislation is binding only on the nationals of the Union of South Africa and is enforcible only within its own territory . " Denies Threat to Peace Mr. Shaw questioned whether it could be claimed that the situation in South Africa constituted a threat to world peace . It could be argued that the situation in South Africa had become a matter of considerable interest throughout the world . But could it be seriously claimed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the press , it ipso facto became lifted from the sphere of domestic jurisdiction into that of UN competence ? That was a slender and a dangerous argument .                     