@@715659

txt PARIS , Aug. ** strikers in public services , transport and communications continued to maintain a solid front , with the important exception of Paris subway workers , the first signs of a groping toward a solution of the present crippling situation appeared today . Both Government officials and non-Communist labor leaders felt the urgency of seeking a way out of the present impasse . The strike movement was making headway in private industry under the impulsion of the Communist-led General Confederation of Labor and with the cooperation of both Socialist and Roman Catholic locals . There was a likelihood that following the week-end lull and the return of militant metal and other industrial workers from their vacations next week the spread of the present agitation into private industry would pick up speed and become more effective than at present . Late at night the Communists in Marseilles called for a metallurgical strike throughout the industrialized Bouches du Rhone Department and ordered its followers to occupy the plants . On the surface neither the Government nor the Socialist and Catholic unions were indicating any retreat . Neither @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As far as the public was concerned , the Government was concentrating on blunting the effects of the strike , particularly as it affected transport and communications . Government Technicians at Work But in Government offices technicians were quietly , working on a variety of measures that might bring some appeasement to the strikers . A discreet liaison between the Government and the non-Communist unions was reported to have been established through Edouard Depreux and Albert Gazier , Socialist Deputies . Having got wind of this situation , the General Confederation of Labor declared that it was ready to negotiate with the Government " in the interest of the workers of democracy and of the nation . " But no French Cabinet minister in recent years has called in the Communist labor chiefs during a labor dispute and the Laniel Government is not likely to do so either . Both the Communists in Parliament and the Communists in labor have been thrown into isolation by all other parties who have attempted to demonstrate that the Reds are anti-national and their allegiance is to the Soviet Union . One explanation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had received the expected rebuff from the Government it could then turn to its militants to show that , in view of the Government 's intransigence , there was no other recourse but to continue and spread the strike . Another move toward easing the situation was an announcement by leaders of the middle-of-the-road Workers ' Force that they had established contact with the French Employers Association with a view toward a solution of the strikes in private industry . This was believed to be an attempt to slow up the strike movement in private industry . A major issue in the private industry dispute is a wage rise . The strikes that began in earnest Monday in the publicly run services were provoked by parts of a series of Government measures designed to ease the financial burden by postponing the retirement of public employes and by dismissing some of them . While other decrees affected other categories of persons the Government workers struck against the parts pertaining to them and complained that , already insufficiently paid , they again were being singled out for discriminatory treatment . Some of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for public employes . Other possible solutions are cuts in military expenditures and a crack-down on retail prices , particularly that of meat . These measures would be designed to show the Government workers that they were not being imposed upon and that other interests also were feeling the weight of the Government 's economy moves . There has been no definite decision mainly because many of the Ministers disagree on the best means of solution . Requests for Recall Mount Premier Joseph Laniel also was desirous of finding a quick solution because of the mounting number of requests from deputies for a recall of the National Assembly . The number reached 201 at the end of the afternoon , eight short of the constitutional requirement of 209 . Only eighty-five necessary confirming letters were on hand . Although telegrams are not officially valid , if their number went well above 209 in the next day or so  --  a likelihood ? it was thought that it would be very difficult for Edouard Herriot , President of the Assembly , to refuse the recall by invoking a technicality . There was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , M. Laniel no longer would have the majority that had voted him decree powers July 7 . On the strike front the most notable change of the day took place in the Paris subway system , where a decision by the motormen to return to work brought about a resumption of part of the service . About 30 per cent of the trains were running and because ticket punchers were still on strike passengers rode free . The strike was almost completely effective on the pity 's buses , however , and 1,000 army trucks were brought into use . Resumption of full bus and subway service tomorrow was doubtful . There were more trains running but their inadequacy still caused ( passengers and freight shippers to rely on the alternate trucking systems organized by both the Government and private concerns . On the great Invalides esplanades long lines of French holiday travelers and foreign tourists waited to get on buses running to coastal and inland points . Throughout the central Opera district tourist agencies also had organized bus service . Prominent among the would-be . riders who sprawled out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their funds down to the vanishing point . There was more telephone , telegraph and mail service , largely because requisitioned employes had returned to work , and volunteers and army personnel and policemen were used . Much of the mail was distributed throughout the country by air . International mails still seemed to be bottled up , a fact that brought about complaints from United States citizens who had not heard from home for several days . Cable and radio communications continued to function normally . No new strikes were called in the public service and some stoppages called for forty-eight hours came to their scheduled end . Tomorrow begins , the Assumption Day holiday lull and the strikes probably will mark time until Monday .                     