@@717203

txt The Administration appears to be in for a rough time on both sides of the Capitol this week . In the Senate , Defense Department officials will go before the Armed Services Committee tomorrow with a plea for favoral-le consideration of the President 's compulsory military reserves bill . The committee reportedly is swinging against the program . In the House , Administration supporters will try to reverse the decision of its Appropriations Committee to knock $627 , - 900,000 off the President 's foreign aid request for the fiscal year 1956 . There is a possibility House members may vote even deeper cuts . -. - And on still a third Administration proposal  --  the multi-billiondollar highways bill  --  the House , Public Works Committee tomorrow will take up a Senate-passed , Democratic substitute , with chances good that it will adopt it and , like the Senate , shelve the ten-year , $101,000,000,000 program offered by the President . Russell Leads Fight Heart of the Senate battle over the reserves bill is a pro-. posal by Senator Richard B. Russell , Democrat of Georgia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with at least eighteen months ' active service from reserve training . A provision designed to prohibit such " double duty " was adopted by the House when it passed the bill a week ago . But the House exempted only veterans whose service was completed before the end of the Korean conflict , July 27 , 1953 . It said veterans serving in peacetime should be subject to being ( called back as reserves . As passed by the House after a protracted fight over attempts to write in anti-segregation amendments , the bill is designed to increase the present 700,000-man trained Reserve to 2,900,000 by 1960 . It would permit 250,000 teenage youths a year to escape the draft by volunteering for a special six-month training course , after which they would be in the Reserves for seven and a half years . All reservists would have to attend forty-eight weekly drills and a seventeen-day summer encampment or its equivalent . Failure to keep up with training would subject them to being called for forty-five days of compulsory active duty . Under present laws , draftees must serve two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Reserves for another six years , but only in event of a national emergency . Senator Russell has also proposed that a $400 bonus should be given personnel from the reg- ular forces who volunteer to enter the Reserves . Opponents of the Russell proposals argue that since the draft now is taking only about one boy in ten , most boys prefer to take their chances on two years of draft service ' and no.Reserve obligation , rather than six months ' training and seven and a half years on reserve . Today two members of the Senator 's committee came to Mr. Russell 's support amid signs that enough others are swinging his way to amend the Administration bill in the form lie desires . Senator Francis P. Case , Republican of South Dakota , said that Senator Russell Ms made " a constructive suggestion " in offering the voluntary bonus plan . Senator Case described it as a " more equitable way " to build Reserves than the Eisenhower proposal . Senator John C. Stennis , Democrat of Mississippi , agreed that a man who has , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to go in the Reserves . Senator Bridges ' View Senator Styles Bridges of New Hampshire , ranking Republican on the Armed Services Committee , indicated on- the Columbia Broadcasting System radio program , " The Leading Question , " that he favored re-injecting the issue which almost killed the bill in the House  --  making the National Guard part of the Reserves program . It was only after the National Guard was eliminated altogether to get around an anti-segregation amendment offered by Representative Adam Clayton Pow= ell , Democrat of Manhattan , that the bill was able to get through the House . Senator Russell has also said , he favored bringing has . Guard back ' into the Reserves picture , although he has not yet offered a formal amendment to do so . The foreign aid bill , cut because of Congressional annoyance at the Defense Department 's last-minute commitments ' of military assistance funds for aid'to other countries , is expected to come under a heavy cross- , fire from some House members , anxious to trim it even further.1 As it stands after the House Appropriations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent less than , the President originally requer , ' , . ezl . Of this amount , *705,000,000 is for direct ? military assistance , with the remainder for various types of indirect military support ; economic aid and technical development and assistance programs in non-Communist nations around the globe . Secretary of the Treasury George M. Humphrey will go before the Hbuse Public Works Committee tomorrow to testify on a Democratic plan to increase taxes on gasoline , trucks , buses , trailers and large truck tires in order to help finance their 12-year , $42,600,000,000 highways proposal . Of . the Federal share of $32 , - 100,000,000 , about $13,000,000,000 would come out of the increased taxes . These would include 1 cent a gallon on gasoline , 4 cents on diesel fuel and 10 cents a pound on large truck tires . There would be a tax rise of 2 per cent on trucks , buses and trailers .                     