@@715556

txt President Eisenhower today called for complete freedom of expression in the United States and criticized las un-American " zealots " who , with " more wrath than wisdom " sought to suppress information and ideas . His words were a re11 affirmation and amplification of his June 14 address at Dartmouth College , in which he denounced " book burning . " Listing as " the precious liberties of our nation * * * upon which democracy depends for its very life , " freedom a inquiry , freedom of the spoken and written word and freedom of exchange of ideas , the I President said : " Freedom can not be censored into existence . A democracy smugly disdainful of new ideas would be a sick democracy . A democracy chronically fearful of new ideas would be a dying democracy . " His words were embodied in a letter to Robert B. Downs , president of the American Library Association , given under circumstances that indicated the White House war , interested in dissemination of the sentiments as a further delineation of the President 's views @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was sent by air mail to Mr. Downs at the library association 's seventysecond annual conference here . A telegram to Mr. Downs yesterday , signed by Emmett Hughes , a Presidential administrative assistant , stated that the letter was en route , that it embodied the President 's " explicit views on censorship " and that " you , of course , may read it to the conference if desired . " In reading it to a conference session this morning , Dr. Downs , director of libraries at the Uni- versity of Illinois , suggested that it should dispel any inferences from comments of President Eisenhower after the Dartmouth talk that he had in any way " retreated or modified his stand on censorship . " Mr. Downs called the mes'statement. " " an extremely important ' statement . " In his talk at Dartmouth , the President appeared to be striking at Senator Joseph R. McCarthy , Republican of Wisconsin , who had criticized the State Department for using books by Communist authors in its propaganda campaign ' against the Communists , but Mr. McCarthy later said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ referring have burned no books . " The President declined at a news conference to say whether he had referred to Mr. McCarthy . The President said he never discussed personalities . Noting the role of libraries in maintaining free expression , the President said in his letter : " We must in these times be intelligently alert not only to the fanatic cunning of Communist conspiracy  --  but also to the grave dangers in meeting fanaticism with ignorance . Criticizes ' Some Zealots ' " For , in order to fight totalitarians who exploit the ways of freedom to serve their own ends , there are some zealots who -- with more wrat h than wisdom -- would adopt a. strangely unintelligent course . They would try to defend freedom by denying freedom 's friends the ' opportunity of studying communism in its entirety  --  its plausibilities , its falsities , its weaknesses . " But we know that freedom can not be served by the devices of the tyrant . As it is an ancient truth that fredom can not be legislated into existence , so it is no less obvious that freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act as if freedom 's defenses are to , be found in suppression and suspicion and fear confess a doctrines , that is alien to America . " The President made no explicit reference in his communication to the current controversy over ! " purging " overseas libraries of the United States Information Service . The letter evoked a full half minute 's applause from an audience comprising the association 's 250-member council and about 100 others of the 4,000 participants in the organization 's week-long convention . A formal expression of appreciation to the President was moved by Charles F. Gosnell , New York State Librarian and Assistant Commissioner of Education . Later Mr. Downs read the message to some 2,600 convention participants , to prolonged applause . Association Ends Convention The President 's message was couched in the form of a reply to a letter from Mr. Downs congratulating him on his Dartmouth talk . Mr. Downs holds a doctorate as indicated in the salutation of the President 's letter hut does not customarily use the title . The library association , whose membership totals 21,000 , yesterday in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seven-point declaration of principles regarding freedom of circulation of books . The association 's convention , which opened Sunday , ended today . Flora B. Ludington , librarian of Mount Holyoke College at South Hadley , Mass. , was installed as president , succeeding Mr. Downs . " The freer the society , " Miss Ludington said in her inaugural address , " the greater is the responsibility of the individual to be informed of the issues of the day . * * * A well selected library offers the opportunity to gain the information needed to understand diverging points of view on locel , national and interretional affairs . A library does not take an official position of its own on disputed questions and refrains from doing so in the public interest . It imposes no thought control . but rather encourages an appreciat ion iof the past and an understanding of the present . "                     