@@716311

txt Senator Joseph R. McCarthy stirred a new controversy with the Eisenhower Administration today by charging serious Communist infiltration in the Central Intelligence Agencyand in plants making hydrogen and atomic ' weapons . Allen W. Dulles , C. I. A. Director , promptly called the Wisconsin Republican 's charges " false " and said the Senator had offered no evidence to back up his complaints although requested to do so by the C. I. A. as long ago as last Oct. 22 . Implicit in Senator McCarthy 's assertion that Communist infiltration of the C. I. A. was " much more serious " than in the Army was an indication he soon might ask his investigating subcommittee to look into the ultra-secret agency devoted to counter-espionage . If this should be done , highly placed Republicans suggested , it might bring a final , decisive showdown between Senator McCarthy and President Eisenhower , who has let it be known that he will not allow employes of a top secret agency to respond to Congressional subpoenas , Subpoena Threat Defied The Senator last July threatened to subpoena William P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the policy committee of the National Security Council , but Mr , Dulles told him bluntly that Mr. Bundy would not obey a subpoena if one were issued . Mr. Dulles is a brother of John Foster Dulles , the Secretary of State . Senator McCarthy had charged that Mr. Bundy , son of a prominent Boston lawyer and son-inlaw of Dean Acheson , former Secretary of State , had contributed $400 to the defense fund of Alger Hiss , convicted of perjury , and had been associated at one time with an alleged Communistfront organization , the United Public Workers of America , Mr. Bundy 's case subsequently was reviewed by a special loyalty review panel , which absolved him of all charges and sustained his top secret clearance . The new McCarthy attack highlighted the twenty-fifth day of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations ' inquiry into his fight with the Army . There were these other devel-opments : 0Subcommittee members and the Army counsel , Joseph N. Welch , joined in a demand that Senator McCarthy turn over to Charles E. Wilson , Secretary of Defense , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. McCarthy asserted were active in sixteen de- fense plants . The Defense Department sent two officials to Capitol Hill to get the information from the Senator . ElRoy M. Cohn , chief counsel for the McCarthy subcommittee , repeated charges already denied by Robert T. Stevens , Secretary of the Army , and his regular counsel , John G. Adams , that they had , urged the McCarthy group to investigate the Air Force and the Navy . Senator Charles ' E. Potter , Republican of Michigan , said " somebody is not teling the truth , " and Mr. Cohn ; mid that " somebody is certainly mistaken ; sir  --  it is not us. " filMr . Cohn forecast a probable new collision with they Army , even after these hearings were over , when the McCarthy committee renewed its demand for testimony by " loyalty-security " board members forbidden by Presidential ' directive to discuss cases they had handled . He said the present clash with the Army would have occurred even if there had been no person named G. David Schine . Mr. Schine was an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drafted , and the present hearings were ordered after the Army alleged that Senator McCarthy and Mr. Cohn had sought by improper means to obtain preferential treatment for Private Schine. 9Senator McCarthy gave clear notice he would veto public release of any monitored telephone records because " all " of them , he said , could not be made . available under the recent secrecy directive by President Eisenhower . The Senator said he would not agree to any " selective " introduction of telephone calls . ' Where were unconfirmed reports of some new effort in the next few days to find a formula , satisfactory to all parties , to bring the hearings to a speedy end . Ray H. Jenkins , subcommittee counsel , declined comment on this , saying " Ask me that question tomorrow . " ilSenator Karl E. Mundt , Republican of South Dakota who is acting committee chairman , turned down a repeated demand by Senator McCarthy that Senator Ralph Flanders , Vermont Republican , be asked to testify to back up statements critical of Senator McCarthy he made on the Senate floor yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. at the close of the morning session , and returned to it in mid-afternoon . He did not , however , specifically say that he was asking the subcommittee to tackle the agency , which is the central di7 recting force for United States espionage operations abroad and which always has operated in al " hush-hush " atmosphere . But there was a hint that Senator McCarthy felt he had acted inadvisably whe nhe acceded to Administration pressure last year and dropped ' his plan to look into the C. L A. at that time . " We had a sizable number of complaints about alleged Communist infiltration and corruption and dishonesty in the C. I. A. , " he said of the situation existing last year . Senator McCarthy said he had attended a meeting at the home of a White House secretary , at which were present " one of the highest elected officials in the Executive Branch , " reportedly Vice President Richard M. Nixon , and " a representative of the Attorney General , " reportedly William P. Rogers , the Deputy Attorney General . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the staff that I was convinced by those White House aides , Justice Department and other individuals present , that at that time it would not be in the public interest to hold public hearings on the C. I. A. , that that perhaps could be taken care of administratively , " the Senator said . The afternoon session , interrupted four times for recesses of ten minutes or more while the Senators went to the Capitol for roll-call votes , ended on a stormy note with the Democrats and Mr. Welch demanding that Senator McCarthy and his aides turn over their list of the 130 alleged Communists in defense plants . Mr. Cohn said the infiltrated plants were situated at Syracuse , Rome , Schenectady , Dunkirk and Buffalo , N. Y. ; Boston , Quincy , Cambridge , New Bedford , Lynn , Pittsfield and Fitchburg , Mass . Senator McCarthy has been complaining that these hearings were holding up exposure of these alleged Comunists . Neither Senator McCarthy nor Mr. Cohn appeared enthusiastic at the suggestion that the names ought to be turned over to Mr. Wilson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already was available to responsible Government officials who could not or would not do anything about it . Senators Debate Authority Senator Symington wanted the committee to order the names turned over to Mr. Wilson , but Senators Mundt and Everett M. Dirksen , Republican of Illinois , argued that the special group investigating the Army-McCarthy dispute lacked the authority to tell the regular subcommittee what it should do with its files . Senator McCarthy sought at this time to get the restriction on his regular investigating committee relaxed so that he could resume his Communist-hunting in the evenings and on Saturdays when the special committee is not sitting . But , being a principal , he is not a member of the special committee , and none of the regular members would offer a motion on his behalf . Senator Mundt said that the special committee might meet briefly as a regular subcommittee tomorrow morning and take up the issue of the 130 alleged Communists then . " Mr. Cohn was the only witness heard today , and his cross-examination was interrupted frequently by arguments among committee members and by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interrogated Mr. Cohn sternly and Mr. Cohn told reporters Mr. Welch had been trying to make him angry . Whenever Mr. Cohn appeared tense , Senator McCarthy or one of his aides would send him a scribbled note . On one occasion when Mr. Welch waspressing for a reply , James Juliana , a committee investigator , leaned over Mr. Cohn 's shoulder and whispered in his ear . When Mr. Welch demanded to know if Mr. Juliana had given Mr. Cohn an answer to the question , Mr. Cohn replied that what Mr. Juliana had said would not bear repeating . At one point the questioning turned to Mr. Cohn 's career as an attorney . He said he was a partner in the New York firm of Curran , Mahoney , Cohn &; Stim and conceded he got n%re income from it than from his subcommittee work , which pays him $11,800 a year . He denied explicitly that his law firm ever had handled any kind of business for Private Schine or his family 's hotel and theatre interests . In a correlative action in to day 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was advised by Senator Mundt that neither Mr. Cohn nor Senator McCarthy had in mind " making any sworn charges which would involve you as an important entity in this controversy . " Senator Mundt.called-a closed door meeting of the subcommfttee for 9:30 A. M. - tomorrow to decide whether to furnish Mr. Hensel with a transcript of an earlier closed-door , ' 7session at which the charges against the defense official were discussed : Smith Testimony.He-ealled WASHINGTON , June 2 UP ) : ? It was recalled that Gem Nalter Bedell Smith , Under Secretary of State , spoke about a possible McCarthy investigation of the C. I. A. when he testified at the McCarthy-Army hearing , April 22 , the opening day . General Smith said that . Mr. Cohn had asked him last July about a possible- Army Commission for Mr. Schine - and had suggested the C. I. A. might - have use for him . When General Smith offered to call Allen Dulles about the matter , he testified , Mr. Cohn changed his mind . General Smith , reading from a report he had written to Secretary Wilson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need not do this . The-C . I. A. , he said , ' was too juicy a subject for future investigation , and it would not be right to ask them to get Mr. Schine commissioned and then investigate the organization later . " Allen Dulles succeeded General Smith as C. I. A. director . On Sept. 29 , 1952 , when he still headed C. I. A. , General Smith testified in a legal proceeding involving Mr. McCarthy that he believed Communists had infiltrated the C. I. A. and every other United States security organization . This statement raised a political storm , coming in the midst of the 1952 Presidential election campaign . General Smith hastened to send an amplification of his remarks to the two candidates , in which he said he did not actually know of any Communists in the C. I. A. , but had " assumed " there might be some .                     