@@715638

txt Construction of the 123-mile east-west toll highway in Massachusetts will involve only 1,325 land takings , of which 480 include buildings , William F. Callahan , chairman of the Massachusetts Toll Highway Authority , said today . Mr. Callahan held a press conference in the Little Building in Boston after a meeting with approximately ? 25 state senators , representatives , and elected officials from the communities along the contemplated toll highway route . More than 80 per cent of those present appeared to agree that the plan for the toll highway , the eastern terminus of which will be at Route 128 , is the most satisfactory that can be worked out . As State Senator Charles Olson ( R ) of Ashland put it , " Somebody has to be hurt by this roadway , but I think that with a few deviations this plan is a gobd one . " Public Hearings Due Most protests relative to the routing of the $200,000,000 toll highway are from citizens from Weston , Wayland , Natick , and Framingham . In this area , however , explained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 128 to Pleasant Street in Framingham . John A. Volpe , State Public Works Commissioner , attended today 's conference with the group of elected officials , and later a special meeting with members of the authority . Mr. Volpe 's approval of the plan is necessary for it to go ahead . Public hearings will be held as soon as possible , said Mr. Callahan . " Everybody will be given an opportunity to be heard , " he promised . Two Years to Build When asked if there was a tentative timetible for the highway , Mr. Callahan said his first concern " is in getting the money . " . If plans are approved by October or November of this year , part of the turnpike could be under construction by May or June of next year . It will take from 1j to two years to complete the 123-mile roadway , but sections of it might be opened sooner , he added . The question of toll fees has not received full consideration by the authority to date . Sections of the tollway will be constructed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hour . This does not mean , however , that speeds will be allowed at that rate , emphasized Mr. Callahan . At the conference of members of the Legislature and officials of the communities involved , Mayor Theodore R. Lockwood of Newton raised questions relative to the traffic on Commonwealth Avenue in his city . Further Details : Page 2                     