@@715689

txt United States spokesmen have confirmed Paris reports that American delegate Henry Cabot Lodge , Jr. , will vote against a Security Council discussion of the explosive Moroccan complaint against France . The American vote is expected to be decisive . Simultaneously , there were reports that France would vote with the United States against Indian participation in the Korean peace conference . By William It , Frye United Nations Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor United Nations , N.Y . South Korea and Communist China now have multiplied manyfold the United Nations ' difficulties in bringing lasting peace to Korea . South Korea , for its part , once again has denounced the armistice , threatened- to renew the war , poured out venom against India , and all but said it would boycott a peace conference India attended . Communist China , at the same time , has endorsed a Soviet plan for the conference seating India and providing voting procedures which none of the western powers is prepared to accept . Thus , unless some way to harmonize these conflicting . views is found , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be able to arrange a Korean peace conference at all at the present session . Further negotiation with Peking , and perhaps renewed debate at the September assembly , may be necessary . U.S. Embarrassed The South Korean views were presented to the assembly 's 60-nation political committee Aug. 24 by Foreign Minister Y. T. Pyun . Communist China 's attitude was contained in a Peking broadcast . The South Korean speech was one of the most virulent the UN has heard in . months from anyone outside the Communist bloc . Delegates said afterward it had greatly embarrassed the United States and complicated its problem of securing a vote favorable to South Korea 's wishes . In one sense , however , there was comfort for Washington . The UN now knows what the United States has been up against in the past few months in dealing with Seoul . Dr. Pyun said at least three times that South Korea had the right to reopen the war after a " certain time limit " and would I " have " to do so , even though it were " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? by the UN . New Delhi Assailed Regarding participation in the Peace conference , Dr. Pyun said South Korea " finds it next to impossible to collaborate with India on the same side . " He repeated the statement later to reporters without the qualifying phrase " next to , " saying collaboration would be " impossible . " He dodged a question as to whether this meant an automatic South Korean boycott . Observers felt it was clear South Korea was doing everything possible to appear inflexible without actually burning its diplomatic bridges . There was nothing ambiguous about Dr. Pyun 's denunciation of India . He accused New Delhi of appeasement , conspiracy with Communists , hypocrisy , treachery , cowardice , and deceit. , At one point , the committee chairman called him to order for his language . The Soviet plan which Corn-                     