@@712674

txt The Commodity Credit corporation has offered to sell Britain its entire 95 million dollar stock of dried eggs for 9 million dollars , 5 million of which would be provided by American taxpayers , it was disclosed tonight . But Britain has rejected the offer . The offer was revealed in a letter to Sen. Thomas D. , Utah from William Foster , acting administrator of the economic cooperation administration last week while ECA Chief Paul G. Hoffman was in Europe . Foster wrote Thomas that the CCC , an agency of the agriculture department , had offered to let Britain have 70 million pounds of dried egg powder for 5 million dollars in Marshall plan money , put up by the American taxpayers , and 4 million dollars supplied by Britain from its own funds . Want 20 Million Pounds Foster said 70 million pounds of eggs would fill Britain 's requirements for two years . Agriculture department officials disagreed . They said the entire 70 million pounds represented less than 11 : : pounds of eggs for every man , woman , and child in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buy 20 million pounds of the eggs , but the best price offered them by the CCC on such a quantity was 40 cents a pound . This , Foster wrote , represented a total of 8 million dollars , or a million less than the CCC was asking for the full 70 million pounds . " Ready to Sell " Agriculture department officials said they are ready to make a deal with the British at any time . " We probably can work it out so that they can gilt the eggs for less than the 40 cents a pound price at which we offered them for export a few weeks ago , " an official spokesman for the poultry branch commented . The agriculture department announced yesterday it would give the dried eggs to schools and public welfare agencies willing to pay frate from the warehouses . SCHOOLS GETTING EGGS Chicago public schools for several months have been receiving carload shipments of government surpluses of dried eggs and dried milk bought to bolster market prices , altho Agriculture Secretary Brannan announced only this week the government would begin giving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Washam , director of lunchrooms for the board of education , said the schools have received all that can be used this year . They also received shipments last year . The dried eggs are used in baking cakes or making icing . They do not make an acceptable omelet , and must be used in food that is cooked , Washam said .                     