@@717724

txt With the regimented unanimity that is the hallmark of a dictatorship the new Soviet rulers have established a new party line that rewrites Soviet history ' and proclaims some supposedly fundamental changes in Communist dogma . This new line decreed in Moscow has wrought confusion among both Communists and some non-Communists abroad . There was , however , no confusion among the 1,436 delegates to the party congress itself . They knew what was expected of them , and roared their approval with the same enthusiasm with which they applauded contrary words only a short time ago . This is all the more noteworthy because , in words at least , some of the changes involve some spectacular somersaults . Thus the pupils , heirs and former . servants of Stalin no longer praised Stalin but rather buried him , together with his works , and started to fill the Soviet Pantheon with some of Stalin 's vic7 tims . Specifically , they repudiated Stalin ' ; one-man rule and : extolled their present " collective of a " still more monolithic , party " ? at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undertook to revise even the hitherto sacrosanct Marx and Lenin and declared that the terrible conflicts between the Communist and the " bourgeois " worlds foreseen by Lenin as inevitable are , no longer inevitable . Marx 's dictum in the Communist Manifesto that communism . : an be established only by violent revolution and ' civil war is no longer valid " in all circumstances . " In place of these allegedly discarded shibboleths , the new rulers declaim on the absolute necessity of peaceful coexistence , or rather peaceful competition , and offer their friendship and cooperation to all nations . The alternative to this , they warn . is the most devastating war in history , in which Marshal Zhukov would shower the United States with hydrogen bombs . The obvious purpose of this new party line is to lead Soviet Russia out of the political and moral isolation into which Stalin had maneuvered it . But , as always , the Communist leaders ' talk in their upside-down language . While urging peaceful coexistence , they hail the emergence of communism from the confines of one country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the human race . Like Hitler , they would prefer to achieve their world triumph without  --  a major war , which would also devastate their country , and they favor the idea of internal seizure of other nations by " legal " means in order to be able to act illegally afterward . For that purpose they propose to charm , bribe or force still free natim* into their orbit , especially in Asia ) , and where that is impossible , as in the West , to neutralize , immobilize and disarm them . Their declared method of procedure here would be to conquer free nations internally by pressing for a " united front " with Socialists and other Left-Wing elements , in order to gain majorities in free parliaments that would then liquidate the " capitalist " system and enthrone communism . They make it plain that any resistance to this program will be regarded by them as " aggression , " and that , in Mr. Molotov 's words , as long as the " imperialists " are " hatching plans to thwart the historic development " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Illaeration " the danger of war remains . By the same token , Mr. Khrushchev declared that if " reac tionary forces " ' in some countrie , resist a " peaceful " transformatioi to communism they must be over thrown by an " acute revolutionar : class struggle . " Viewed in this light , the Sovie promises of peaceful cooperatioi come closer to being ' a warning b the free world to abandon resist ante and give ' the Communists free hand to work their will . The free world can not afford to ignore that warning .                     