@@716396

txt Prime Minister Sir Winston Churchill 's attack on opposition leader Clement R. Attlee for making " one long whine of criticism against America " has set up a new tension in the House of Commons on the question of Anglo-American relations . And repercussions have gone far beyond Parliament . Mr. Attlee 's remarks may have been mistimed . Some of them may suggest more idealism than realism . And they are certainly capable of being misrepresented by separation from their context . But it must be reported that what he said about a number of aspects of American policy came near to stating what the British people as a whole are saying . Concepts of UN Differ An example of his criticism was that there seemed to him to be a fairly influential . segment of opinion in the United States which regarded the United Nations as primarily an instrument in the war of ideologies and as a weapon to combat communism . Mr. Attlee contended that the United States must realize that the British concept of the United Nations was that it was a group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the UN must not be regarded as an instrument in the cold war and as something which could be used to extirpate communism . It seemed to him that there was a tendency in the United States for the fundamentals of the UN to be subordinated to hatred of communism . Mr. Attlee said : " I was rather shocked at the joy and approval of the American Secretary of State at the success of this ( Guatemalan ) putsch . " Eras Contrasted The Guatemalans may have been Communists , but Mr. Attlee contended that " our laws do not allow one to assault a person because one does not like his opinion . " Is this merely the rather prim statement of a typical British appeaser  --  the kind of statement which is causing such concern in the United States ? Or are the British right in insisting , as Mr. Attlee said , that " one can not take one line on aggression in Asia and another line in Central America ? " A question some Americans ask is , how did the British get away with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several answers . In the first place they often did n't succeed in justifying their actions . Then again , they did not care so much what the world thought , and the world used to do much less thinking and talking anyway . Mr. Attlee himself recognized the enormous difficulties the United States was shouldering on account of assuming the leadership of the free world through force of circumstance . Mr. Attlee paid tribute to the services which the United States had rendered to the world in the difficult postwar years . He declared that he and his Labor colleagues believed it essential that Britain and the United States should march together with unity of principle and unity of action . Snag Intensified ? Some observers in Westminster are freely asking whether Sir Winston did not make matters worse by himself denouncing Mr. Attlee for whining against America . They ask if his action did not serve only to underscore the note of criticism from Westminster . In judging Mr. Attlee 's remarks , it should be remembered that he is no left-wing sympathizer with communism . To him , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best road to peace . As Prime Minister of Britain for the first six years after World War II , Mr. Attlee worked in close cooperation and considerable harmony with American administrations . Mr. Attlee insisted that Britain , including the Labor Party , was not in the least an apologist for communism . " We oppose aggression , we oppose Communist infiltration , we recognize the need for adequate strength ; but we also stand for peaceful coexistence . " The Labor leader gave considerable attention in his speech to consideration of the Communist Chinese viewpoint , Sir Winston subsequently denounced him for having advanced the importance , even if not the virtues , of Communist China . But Mr. Attlee had insisted he was voicing views which were widely held by Britons and needed to be voiced . They were that the immense forces of nationalism in China saw in communism a way to end feudalism and landlordism and give the land workers possession of the land , Mr. Attlee , who is due to leave shortly for a visit to Communist China with other Labor leaders , said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intelligentsia and peasant . It was the West 's duty to try to do even better for the underprivileged in other Asian countries . This is one of the tasks he will study on his forthcoming visit ,                     