@@714662

txt The Municipal University of Omaha entered the uncharted waters of educational-credit television on April 28 ? among the first six universities in the nation to launch such a program . It was the middle of March when Milo Bail , university president , and Owen Saddler , general manager of Station KMTV , conceived the Midwest 's first TV classroom . A few days after the initial TV classroom program , more than 100 viewers had registered for the course , a humanities offering , called " Six Views of Life . " After one week , as professor of the first TV class in the Middle West , Dr. Wilfred Payne , professor of humanities at the University of Omaha , felt at ease . The 15-minute lectures each weekday morning ( Monday through Friday ) are aimed primarily at housewives . Teaching Becomes Easy On the first day of my snow was conscious of the physical strain , " Dr. Payne admitted , " but after the third day it felt like anycollege class . It is very easy now . " After discussing ancient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say as much in 15 minutes on TV as he does in 50 minutes of classroom lecturing . " I have to speak much more slowly in the classroom , " he said . In reviewing his first week of 15-minute lectures on KMTV , Dr. Payne confided that one must be better prepared ; knowexactly what ' one is going to say on TV . " You must know your material perfectly . When sitting under the bright studio lights and talking to an audience of more than 10,000 , you do n't have time to think about your lecture , " the professor declared . " After 25 years of lecturing to university classes of 40 or 50 , this is a wonderful reward , " Dr. Payne asserted . " My current TV class makes me feel that my past teaching labors and efforts have been rewarded . " Dr. Payne has received many encouraging letters . One woman wrote , " I did n't know a college lecturer was so easy to follow . " Other Courses Planned The first six-week humanities course will be followed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the two national political conventions . Later courses anticipated and now outlined are " Family Financial Management " and " Human Growth and Development . " A week of special information and promotion preceded the first day of the television lecture . In the previous week , Dr. Bail and Dr. Donald Emery , associate dean of the College of Adult Education , explained what the university was hoping to accomplish by the The university has accepted a 52-week commitment to provide college-level educational fare for the 130,000 television homes in the KMTV viewing area , according to Dr. Emery . " Those responsible for the development and inauguration of the TV-classroom series know the first year 's program is an experiment in mass education , " Dr. , Emery said . " We are confident enough , however , to make provision in ' the very first course for television viewers to earn two semester hours of college credit . Viewers will receive credit after the satisfactory completion of a comprehensive examination at the close of the six-week course , " Dr. Emery asserted . We are extremely gratified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first week of the new program , " KMTV 's general manager said . " I have always been sure that we could successfully bring education directly into the home . We at KMTV are happy and proud to be One of the nation 's first television stations to pioneer in the actual teaching field , " Mr. Saddler declared . The mechanics of registering and participating in the course were explained to the viewer each day . Viewers were urged to apply for the basic registration ( $1 ) and to follow up with the certificate registration ( $5 ) after a few lectures had eased their concern about taking a college - level course this way . Viewers were told to delay their application for credit registration ( two semester hours for a total charge of $15 ) until they felt they were following the course . Certificates Due " Certificates of completion " will be issued to viewers who use the weekly quiz and scoring service covering the television lectures , according to Dr. Emery . College credit is granted only upon the satisfactory completion of a comprehensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at the close of the course . About one in 25 viewers registered for college credit in the first week of the course . Dr. Bail , now completing hiS fourth year as president of the University of Omaha , emphasized at the . inauguratiOn , of the series : " This experiment in extending the opportunities afforded on the campus to the boundaries of the KMTV area has unlimited possibilities if we can but exercise sufficient imagination to create programs of outstanding merit . " We believe that some of our . outstanding professors can teach certain of their courses by television to the benefit of thousands of students who , for some reason or other , must remain at home rather than attend classes on ' the campus of the university . "                     