@@716088

txt The famous figure 2,200 is losing its dynamite . It is becoming gradually apparent , through congressional and newspaper probing , that out of 2,200 persons separated from the government as security risks , only 1 to 21 : : per cent could stand accused as loyalty risks , Communists , or having associated with Communists . The implication , used for political capital by several administration spokesmen , that the Republicans had ousted 2,200 " traitors " or " spies " from government . has been chipped away until little remains . This does not mean , however , that the Eisenhower administration will be without strong ammunition on the twin issues of " corruption and Communist coddling " when the November elections roll around , and later . Moderation Asked New disclosures and investigations of tax frauds and tax cover-ups in the Truman administration on the One hand . and instances of laxity in booting out Communists suspects on the other other hand , will be engineered by administration officials even as the Harry Dexter White case was launched by Attorney General Herbert Brownell . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the next election it is thought . President Eisenhower has of course counselled political moderation and avoidance of extreme charges . He also caused withdrawal of the implication made at Chicago by Mr. Brownell that former President Truman was disloyal to his country in not firing Harry Dexter White when the FBI fur l nished information suggesting I his implication in a Communist spy ring , But . Republican political strat ! gists contend the White case has been politically effective , and they expect to continue with other charges of " laxity " toward communism by the former Democratic administration . This is of course held to be different from the wholesale and unsupported charges made by Senator Joseph R. McCarthy ( R ) of Wisconsin that the entire Democratic party is " tinged with communism " and that the Roosevelt-Truman regime constituted " twenty years of treason . " Tax Cover-Ups In the adjacent field of " corruption , " the GOP believes it has sufficient dossiers on income tax frauds , maladministration and cover-ups to have a political field-day there . One official sums it up this way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issues in 1952 , Korea , corruption and communism . Well , the second two are still good . " Meanwhile , Bernard M. Shan-ley , special counsel to President Eisenhower , said he had made an " unfortunate mistake " last November by labeling as " subverive : , " all federal employees dropped under the administration 's security program . Mr. Shanley said his remark that " 1.456 subversives have been kicked out of government jobs since the President assumed office " was interpolated in a speech he preapred for a New . Jersey advertising group Nov. 6 , 1953 . Mr. Shanlev said on the day he made his New Jersey speech he telephoned the White House press secretary about the separated employees and through a " misunderstanding " used the term " subversives " in ref erring to them in his speech that night . " I know it was n't true . It was done inadvertently , " Mr. Shanley said in an interview . FiLtnres ' Unofficial But the issue of the " 2200 " Is not so good  --  not in its implication that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spies or traitors in government who were thereupon rooted out , Careful questioning of administration departmental officials , one after another , by a House appropriations subcommittee has brought this much to light . The five governmental departments thus far ? investigated  --  Commerce , Justice , Post Office , Treasury , Agriculture  --  show a total of 430 dismissals . Of these , the loyalty ? as distinct from the security rating ? of only 29 had been questioned . Additional figures covering the State Department , still not official , show that out of more than 1.000 separations there , 41 cases involved loyalty . Of these various " loyalty " cases , further careful Investiga tion would be required to show whether some of those " separated " from government had had the loyalty tab raised on their case histories after they had resigned for other reasons without any knowledge whatsover of the " loyalty " charge lodged against them . It is not clear , either , how much of a suspicion of ' ' subversion ' ' would be necessary to place a resigned worker ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might be a charge that the worker had dined with a suspected Communist . The administration decided Feb. 17 to give its critics something in the way of a " breakdown " on the 2,200 cases  --  which they have been demanding . Philip Young , Civil Service Commission chairman , announced that security dismissals would be sorted out into four categories : ( 1 ) Subversives , ( 2 ) perverts , ( 3 ) those convicted of felonies and misdemeanors , ( 4 ) a broad classification of drunks , blabbermouths , and those having similar unreliable characteristics . This reclassification , when completed , should show how many were in the category of being mildly or severely suspected of disloyalty , and how many were in the other security . categories . But the fire has been taken out of the 2.200 figure . However , the Republican administration , in its twin efforts to belabor the Democrats and seize the initiative from Senator McCarthy , intends to continue making communism as well as corruption a campaign issue through new probes and disclosures .     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       