@@713784

txt LONDON , April 14 ? Ernest Bevin , former Foreign Secretary , died this afternoon of a heart attack . Only a little more than a month ago , on his seventieth birthday anniversary . of March 9 , he handed over his seals of office as Foreign Secretary to Herbert Morrison and became Lord Privy Seal in Prime Minister Attlee 's Cabinet . Death came to the old trade union leader and Labor party stalwart a little before 5 P. M. at 11 Carlton Gardens . This is the official home of British Foreign Secretaries . Mr. Bevin had been permitted to remain there becaus  --  he had grown to love the place and because Mr. Morrison did not want to live there . Mr. Bevin 's wife was out when he was stricken . The servants telephoned her at the home of Hector , Secretary of State for Scotland , and his wife , where she was calling . She raced home by car but Mr. Bevin died before her arrival . Mr. Bevin had planned to see the football match between Scotland and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , and he decided not to go . Only yesterday Mr. Bevin visited Prime Minister Attlee , who is undergoing treatment for a duodenal ulcer at St. Mary 's Hospital . Mr. Bevin was cheerful and seemed well when he left . Nevertheless , friends of the for // mer Foreign Secretary knew that his robust body was failing . Twice in the past years he underwent operations and only last February he began slow convalescence from pneumonia . Not long after Sir Strafford Cripps resigned as Chancellor of the Exchequer Mr. Bevin told this correspondent , that " Sir Stafford and I are standing in the some queue . " And within the last twentyfour hours word has come from Switzerland that Sir Stafford 's illness has become complicated and that he is worse , Doughty old fighter that he was , Mr. Bevin held on to the Foreign Office just about as long as he was able physically to do so . Some of his associates predicted that he would never leave it until he was carried out . But Mr. Attlee finally had to ask him to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until newspapers generally had demanded action by the Prime Minister ? on the ground that an ailing Foreign Secretary could not adequately represent Britain in the councils of the world . The Marquess of Salisbury and Viscount Samuel both joined in demanding a change at the Foreign Office , not in criticism of Mr. Bevin , but because they held that he was physically unable to carry out his duties . Honesty and Integrity Probably no one in the Labor Government drew more affection than Mr. Bevin . He was stubborn but he had honesty and integrity that were universally admired on both sides of the House of Commons . Nobody else in the Government could have made an unpopular issue as palatable as this old trades union leader whose formal education ceased when he was 11 years of age . Soon after Mr. Bevin 's death was confirmed by his physician , Sir Alexander McCall , the King was notified . From his hospital room Mr. Attlee issued a statement regretting the passing , of his old and close friend whose " high courage and wise statesmanship " had made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scene . " " He labored untiringly for peace and he is entitled to a large share of wedit for the economic recovery of Europe and the making of the Atlantic Pact , " Mr. Attlee 's statement said . Winston Churchill , leader of the Opposition , added his expression of regret . " I am deeply grieved at the death of my wartime comrade , " he said . " A valiant spirit has passed from us . He had his place in history . " Mr. Morrison , who succeeded Mr. Bevin at the Foreign Office , said : " We in the Government , together with the Labor movement throughout the world , mourn his passing and we salute the memory of a great man . " Expressing his sorrow at Mr. Bevins ' death , Walter S. Gifford , United States Ambassador , said : " The United States has lost a warm and understanding friend . " Mr. Bevin 's death means that there will have to be another by election . His constituency was East Woolwich , regarded as a safe Labor seat . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ polled by his Conservative opponent . Labor 's Chief Spokesman Ernest Bevin became Foreign Secretary in 1945 because the shrewd , tough bargaining ability that had made him Britain 's top labor leader was needed in Britain 's international negotiations . When the Labor Cabinet was formed on July 26 , after the downfall of Winston Churchill 's Conservative-led government , it was reported that the Foreign portfolio would go to ' the mild Hugh Dalton , but Mr. Bevin was the one to take over . He spoke for the mass of British labor rattier than for court and chancellery group . Mr. Bevin implanted a new labor conception of international negotiations firmly in the Foreign Office after his appointment , and used it in many of the crucial negotiations that occurred in the period immediately after the second World War . When Britain discarded her centuries-old policy of maintaining the balance of power in Europe and took part in forming the Western Union alliance with the United States and with the countries of Western Europe it was Mr. Bevin who negotiated for Britain . As the spokesman for Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the nation of Israel he gained considerable unpopularity in certain quarters . One of the " Old Guard " When the Labor Government of Clement R. Attlee weathered the February , 1950 , election with a small majority , Ernest Bevin confounded the prophets who predicted that his precarious health would cause him to retire from public life . When MP , Attlee shuffled his Cabinet for the new Parliament , Mr. Bevin was one of the " Old Guard " retained in a key post as Foreign Secretary . Ernie Bevin was only one of several self-made men in the Labor Cabinet , but none had known such grinding poverty as he and none was his senior in Britain 's bitter labor struggles . " - Ls hard-voiced ability to get his way had been sharpened by his personal struggles and by a ' hundred rugged negotiations with employers on behalf of labor . He was brusque and suspicious , and although h .. conducted ' Mayhem on English syntax and seldom bothered to pronounce the aspirate H , he was regarded as one of the most effective labor orators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was he who coined the catchy phrase " Give ' itler ' ell . " In the prime of life Ernest Bevin was broad , blunt and ruddy , and at times weighed as much as 250 pounds . In his successful later years he never affected a " man of the people " pose and wore conservative , although somewhat somber , clothes . He could employ name is the Anglicized version of the Welsh " Ap Evans , " or son of Evans . The vigorous and upright character of Ernest Bevin 's mother was remembered many years after her death in the Somerset village of Winsford , where he was born on March 9 , 1881 . She was the village midwife . Ernest 's formal education ended when he was 11 . After working for two years on a near-by farm for 12 cents a week , he went to the big West Country port of Bristol , where he was successively a restaurant dishwasher , street car conductor and delivery salesman for a mineral water company . In 1904 , when he was 23 , Ernest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year he was the non-paid secretary of the Bristol Right to Work Committee . Stung by the taunt commonly leveled at labor leaders that he " talked much and did little , " the young labor organizer obtained public funds for digging a pond with work-relief labor in Bristol 's slums . The lake is still called " Bevin 's Lake . " One Sunday during a particularly bitter unemployment period he led the pinched and shabby dockers into Bristol 's beautiful old cathedral church , where they stood in quiet order in the aisles as a reproach to the city 's employer class . After this incident a boycott was organized against Ernie Bevin 's mineral-water sales , from which he derived a commission . He tightened his belt and won back his customers , who admired his courage . When a strike of transport work . ers failed disastrously in 1912 , Ernest Bevin wits in the field as a paid organizer , and he soon became known in many British cities as a capable and militant labor leader . Attracted Lloyd George In 1915 , he was sent- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Great Britain at . the American Federation of labor convention at San Francisco , and soon attracted the attention of the Liberal Prime Minister David Lloyd George by advocating establishment of a Secretary of State for Labor , with full Cabinet rank . He conferred with Government leaders on the plan , and the resulting publicity was followed by his . appointment to the ? Government 's , Transit Executive Committee to line up transit workers behind the all-out war effort . In the post-war " khaki election " of 1918 Mr. Bevin stood ' for Parliament from Bristol Center and was badly beaten . He was not to reach the House of Commons until twenty-two years later , when a seat was found for him so that he might qualify as Minister of Labor and Supply in Winston Churchill 's wartime Cabinet . By 1918 Mr. Bevin was national organizer of the Dockers Union and was so well established in the labor field that he was named one of the mediators of the 1919. railway strike . The end of the first World War produced widespread unemployment among Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overtime . Bitter negotiations between union leaders and spokesmen for the employers went on as usual behind closed doors and got nowhere . In a daring and unprecedented move Ernest Bevin succeeded in dragging the entire problem out into the light . He obtained the first public hearing of its kind in Britain , and , as a biographer put it , " his ' claim for higher wages in in an open court was a platform to appeal to the conscience of England . " Spoke for 11 Hours Lord Shaw of Dunfermline was chosen , to preside over the Transport Workers ' Court of Inquiry . With him on the bench were three labor leaders and three representatives of the port employers . On Feb. 3 , 1920 , Mr. Bevin bowed to the court , established himself comfortably in a seat reserved for learned counsel and submitted his demands for pay increases and a forty-four-hour week . Argument arose about the dock workers ' diet , and Mr. Bevin produced in court a worker 's budget ration of five plates of cooked potatoes and cabbage and five portions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a burly dock worker , who denied that a dock laborer could work on such meager provender . For the port employers ' representatives in rebuttal a Cambridge professor argued that a rasher of bacon that Mr. Bevin had produced in court would fit nicely into a Cambridge-established budget . " Do you think , " Mr. Bevin asked the professor , " that this will be enough on which a docker can work ? We are dealing with dockers , not scientists . " When the Shaw commission announced its decision , nearly all the demands made by Mr. Bevin on behalf of his dockers ? had been granted . Britain had been nerve-wracked and exhausted by the first World War , and when Mr. Bevin went to Prime Minister David Lloyd George and told him there was every likelihood that . British dockers would refuse to load ships with war materiel to be used against the Soviet forces in the Russian Civil War that followed , he represented the views of an overwhelming number of . British dockers and transport workers . They feared that the Russian conflict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he conducted a lengthy series of skirmishes with the Lloyd George Government on this and other matters , Mr. Bevin was engaged in welding some twenty transport workers groups into one big . union . He was criticized for the brusque manner in which he elbowed aside such labor veterans as Ben Tillett and established himself as head of the " new unionism . " The new organization was called ' The Transport and General Work- ' ers Union . Sought Commons Seat In 1931 Mr. Bevin again tried to be elected to the House of Commons , choosing to stand from Gateshead . Again he was defeated . In 1937 he occupied the highest position in British Labor=chairman of the Trades Union Council . No man has ever held such power in British labor , and Mr. Churchill called him to the Cabinet as Minister of Labor and National Service in 1940 while the second World War was on . After years of recommending labor freedom , Mr. Bevin regimented labor in the war effort as it never had been regimented . Workers were forbidden to leave or to change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although Mr. Bevin opposed nationalization of basic industries , he carried through a plan for total mobilization of labor resources . He dragooned his couxtry for the struggle with energetic toughness and painful impartiality . After the war the voters overturned the Churchill government , and when Mr. Bevin became the Labor Government 's Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs , he blew a cold blast through the cobweb and old school-tie atmosphere of a British service that had been considered painfully exclusive even by other branches of the British civil service . Within a few hours he was calling the permanent UnderSecretary , Sir Alexander Cadogan , Alex , and in a day or so he was off to Potsdam to try out his negotiating skill in international affairs . Here he found himself in ' general accord with the policies expressed by the United States Secretary of State , James F. Byrnes , and was promptly at odds with the Soviet 's V. M. Molotov . Mr. Bevin continued to support the United States at the London Conference of Foreign Ministers in September and at the Moscow conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jewish question in Palestine that Mr. Bevin encountered all-out dis-1 agreement in a field in which his , negotiating powers were of little use . Although the main lines of this policy were laid down by the Government , Mr. Bevin was called I upon to articulate them and so bore much of the criticism alone. , In a speech at an annual Labor party conference in 1946 , he de-1 Glared that he did not believe it was advisable to follow the recommendation of an Anglo-American committee of investigation and ad-1 mit 100,000 Jews to Palestine imn mediately . He said : ' Regarding the agitation in the United States , and ' particularly in New York , for 100,000 Jews to be put in Palestine , I hope I will not , be misunderstood in America if I say that it is with the purest of motives ? they do not want too many of them in New York . " A storm of protest followed this speech , and speakers at a rally in New York 's Madison Square Garden accused the British Foreign Secretary of anti-Jewish bias @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to help establish a federated Jewish-Arab state as a solution to the Palestine problem . Both Jews and Arabs were unresponsive , and the plan was sidetracked to the United Nations . A general vote of confidence on the Government 's Palestine policy resulted in an expression of approval in the House of Commons by 383 to 193 votes , with little support from the Conservative benches . For Western Union Plan On Feb. 22 , 1948 , after it had become apparent that two successive councils of Foreign Ministers had failed , Mr. Bevin said the " time is ripe for consolidation of Western Europe . " A few months later he told Commons that he was thoroughly discouraged over the turn of negotiations with the Soviet Union and he recommended that these perpetual consultations be suspended until the atmosphere changed . Mr. Bevin came to Washington in 1949 , and on April 14 signed the North Atlantic Pact , for which he and his colleagues had labored for many months . He called the pact " concrete proof of the determination of like-minded nations never to fight again . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held East Woolwich for Labor against four candidates with an increased majority of 12 , - 370 over the Conservative candidate . The Labor majority in 1945 had been 11,746 . Retained as Foreign Secretary , Mr. Bevin plunged into the complex problems of the relations between Britain and the other powers . On his sixty-ninth birthday , March 9 , 1950 , Mr. Bevin acted as " host " to the ' King and Queen and Vincent Auriol , President of the French Republic , and Mme. Auriol at a luncheon . In May , 1950 , Mr. Bevin took part in the London conference of Western European foreign ministers . Here the European nations accepted the idea of a common " balanced " military force for collective security , and moved closer toward economic integration of Western Europe . The United States pledged continued economic aid to Europe after the Marshall Plan ended in 1952 , and agreed to be the coordinator of Western Europe 's fighting forces . Meeting of Big Three Mr. Bevin came to New York in September , 1950 , for the meetings of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Foreign Ministers of all twelve North Atlantic Treaty countries . plans for fitting West Germany into rearmament aims for Western Europe were discussed . While here Mr. Bevin endorsed in principle the American plan to enable the United Nations General Assembly ' to take action against aggression if the Security Council should be , paralyzed by the Soviet veto . Returning to London , Mr , Bevin in a speech in the House of Commons in November , 1950 , rejected the Soviet proposal for four-power talks on unification and demilitarization of Germany and said the scope of the proposal was too restricted . Though he supported American foreign policy in general , Mr. Bevin diverged from it in some respects . He granted British recognition of Communist China , and was cool toward the Schuman plan , favored by the United States , for pooling Western Europe 's coal , iron and steel resources . Mr. Bevin 's health was poor throughout 1950 . He underwent an operation for hemorrhoids in April and for the removal of a fistula in June . In November he was laid up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's health failed slowly . On March 9 , 1951 , on his seventieth birthday , his resignation as Foreign Secretary was announced by Prime Minister Attlee . Mr. Bevin remained a member of the Cabinet as Lord Privy Seal  --  a position requiring no undue strain on his health . Winston Churchill at that point called Mr. Bevin one who had " rendered services to Britain and to the cause of peace which will be long , remembered . " Mr. Bevin 's successor , Herbert Morrison , paying tribute to him , said : " I shall build upon the foundation he has laid down . " He was criticized by Medicine Today and Tomorrow , ' a journal of the British Socialist Medical Association , for going to private doctors and private hospitals for his operations , instead of using National Health Service doctors and hospitals . On March 9 , 1946 , Mr. Bevin had resigned as general secretary of the Trade Union Congress , terminating a career of more than fifty years as an organizer and administrator in the British labor field . When he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a family of Bristol artisans . Florence Bevin , was a tower of strength to her husband for many years , and when he became Foreign Secretary she accompanied him on many of his journeys . A daughter was born five years after their marriage and is now the wife of Sidney Wynne , an executive in a large British film group controlled by J. Arthur Rank .                     