@@720034

txt The Amish people , a Mennonite sect , have been here for a very long time . To most of us , the Amish are a quaint group whom we see now and then in the newsreels or The National Geographic driving their horses and buggies slowly to and from farm and marketplace . The men are all bearded and the women all bonneted . But to their neighbors , the Amish are a law-abiding , God-fearing , industrious farm people who raise their children to respect their elders and to assume a responsibility for their relatives too old to work . In many ways , their way of life might be a pattern the rest of us would do well to follow . But the Amish are now lawbreakers , because America , in its emphasis on security , has transgressed a freedom they hold to be paramount . Recently an auctioneer in Canton , Ohio , sold off livestock seized from Amish farmers by the U.S. Government because the Amishmen had refused to pay the Old Age and Survivors Insurance System levies . The tax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay the tax is to admit that the Government has a responsibility for aged Amish , and to admit that is to deny their own responsibility and thus one of their strictest religious precepts . The records in the two counties where the Government seized 28 head of livestock from 15 Amish farmers and cash assets of 50 others show that no Arnishman had ever sought public assistance of any kind . Has this emphasis on security touched only the Amish ? No ; farmers are fined for growing wheat without a Government say-so because other farmers want it that way in their search for security . In the search for security , Congress has permitted the labor law to be so written that men can be forced to join a labor union in order to hold a job . The laws that require these things are not , it should be remembered , laws enacted to prevent evil or wrongdoing . It is not wrong , we think , for a man to have the freedom to work without having to join any association of other men in order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to grow wheat on his own farm for his own use . It is not wrong for the Atnish to reject the idea of Government responsibility for their own aged members . To the contrary . What is wrong is the groNiring emphasis in our society on security . The wrong comes about when , in the name of the alleged greater good of all , collective security is permitted to disregard or destroy individual rights or beliefs or freedoms . Furthermore , it wrongs more than the individual . Fnr as one man 's freedom is lost , freedom for all men is diminished as well . And though secur- ? ity is one of man 's highest aspirations , perhaps we had better remember that security without freedom is history 's bitterest jest . And there is a point where over-emphasis on one can slowly , but inexorably , destroy the other .                     