@@712845

txt Exiled King Leopold III has taken a decision . of " paramount importance " in the hope of ending the Belgian royal crisis , Premier-designate Paul van Zeeland said here tonight . This decision will be announced tomorrow in a recorded message from the King to be broadcast over the Belgian national radio . Dr. van Zeeland returned to Brussels by plane tonight after having conferred with Leopold for two days in Pregny , Switzerland . He would give no hint of the contents of the message . But there was speculation here that Leopold // had agreed to a formula that would bring him back to Belgium , but would turn over the royal powers to his 19-year-old son , Prince Baudouin . Everything pointed to an imminent climax in the long struggle over the future of the controversial monarch . Dr. van Zeeland brought the recording of Leopold 's message from Pregny . He reported to the Regent , Prince Charles , immediately upon his return , and said later that he would see the Regent again on Tuesday . By then Dr. van Zeeland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reaction to the King 's message . The formula Leopold is believed to have accepted would provide some satisfaction to all the protagonists in the struggle  --  the King himself ; the Social . Christian ( Catholic ) party , his main political supporter ; and the Socialist and Liberal parties , his great , adversaries . For the King it would mean restoration to his throne after five and a half years of exile , although he would be King in name only . For the Catholic party this would be the fulfillment of its program to bring him back . For the Socialists it would mean that Leopold wielded no power and that Baudouin , whom they have favored as an alternative , would perform all royal functions as Lieutenant General of the Realm . For the Liberals it would provide a basis for the " national solution " that is necessary for their participation in another coalition government . Their opposition to the King 's unconditional return resulted in the fall of the CatholicLiberal coalition led by Gaston Eyskens on March 18 . In an , interview today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the formula would be acceptable to all three parties if the King agreed to it . The principal difficulty , he said , would be to devise a satisfactory means of ending the situation that would be created by adoption of the plan . As originally drafted , it provided that the Parliament would vote on the King 's position when Prince Baudouin became 21. years old in September , 1951 . The Parliament would then decide whether Leopold should formally abdicate or be restored to his full powers . Apparently the political leaders who considered this plan before it was taken to the King did not resolve the question of how large a majority would be needed for the Parliamentary decision in 1951  --  a simple majority , two thirds , or something in between . This problem could still conceivably prevent implementation of the formula , no matter what the King 's attitude may be . It is unlikely that the Socialists would agree to Leopold 's reassumption of full powers in two years by a simple majority , which the pro-Leopold Catholics have now and might be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether the Catholics would accept the condition of a two-thirds majority , which in the present state of political division here they are not likely to achieve . In a radio address tonight , M. Deveze stated that the Liberals would not agree to any solution that failed to get the support of all three major parties . He said the political fight over the King had enhanced the position of the Walloon separatist movement , and he expressed astonishment that the Roman Catholic church hierarchy had not taken public note of what he termed the religious struggle growing out of the political fight .                     