@@720184

txt Governor Furcolo 's proposed withholding system for collecting the state income tax may be law by the end of this 1. vepk . Once the measure is made law , the State Department of Corporations and Taxation is prepared to institute weekly payroll withholding deductions by Feb. 15 . Under this plan , with the system being retroactive to Jan. 1 , there will be double withholding payments for the first six weeks to make up for the Jan. 1 to Feb. 15 gap . Immediately after today 's hearing on the withholding tax proposal . the Legislative Committee on Taxation is prepared to report favorably on the measure . It will then be referred to the House Committee on Ways and Means which is eXpected to give it swift approval so that it may appear on tomorrow 's House calendar . Under the planned timetable , the measure will be rammed through the House under suspension of rules so that Senate action may be taken on Thursday . Lamson Sees Passage That is the timetable indicated by Senator Robert P. Cramer ( D ) of Williamstown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course , it could be stymied for a while . But passage of the withholding tax appears assured . Even Senator Fred I , Lamson ( R ) of Malden , Senate minority leader , forecasts the bill will pass . On a WBZ " Newsmakers 1959 " panel discussion of state problems , on Jan. 19 , Senator Lamson , questioned by Boston newspapermen and WBZ newscasters , flatly stated his opposition to the withholding tax as presented by the Governor but forecast its passage . The Governor is counting on the withholding tax , retroactive to Jan. 1 , 1959 , for a 50-milliondollar one-year revenue windfall through overlapping payments In calendar 1959 to wipe out a 35-million-dollar anticipated state deficit in the current fiscal year . Senator Lamson , however , forecast that the Governor 's proposed 3 per cent limited sales tax would have hard sled-* ding . While he did not flatly oppose the sales tax , he said before he could vote for it , he would have to be sure that the cities and towns would be guaranteed at least two-thirds of the revenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years . He expressed concern over the possibility that the municipal share would be trimmed to one-half or less in later years as state revenues needs increased . Senator Cramer , the taxation committee head , today said he is now inclined to favor the sales tax , although two years ago he opposed it and campaigned against it . The Williamstown senator said his position has been altered by the growing financial crisis faced by the state and municipalities . Furthermore , Senator Cramer said his views have been affected by lack of active and effective support among Democrats and organized labor for a graduated state income tax . tic added that he has favored a graduated income tax as a longterm solution to the state 's fiscal problem but that takes a constitutional amendment . Although the Democrats have long included a graduated income tax plank in their party platforms and organized labor has annually called for a graduated income tax , Senator Cramer sees little prospect for initial adoption of the amendment at the 1959 session . The Cramer position was taken in the face of the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a 170-to-110 margin . Constitutional amendments are considered at a joint House- Senate session . Approval by a majority of the eleet'ed members of the entire Legislature is required in two successive Legislatures before submission of the amendment to the people for ratification . Thus a minimum of 141 votes is necessary for initial approval of the graduated income tax . If the Democrats were to stick together on the issue they could push the graduated income tax through the initial stage with many votes to spare . But Senator Cramer said there appears to be little evidence of a real party or labor drive for it at the 1959 session . ADA View Opposed Both Senator Cramer and Senator Lamson are opposed to the Americans for Democraoie Action program for revising the state income tax by lowering exemptions , eliminating the state income tax deductibility of federal income tax payments , taxation of rental income , and other devices . The two rival party chieftains both asserted the impact of such a program would be more severe for the low-income person than a 3 per cent limited sales tax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even harder than the sales tax to push through the 1959 Legislature . Withholding tax hailed , raked : Page 6.                     