@@713273

txt more difficult under the new bill Political expediency reached than they were before . Usually the men of Congress perhaps the highest point in curpay respectful attention to the rent congressional history when views of the FBI . But this was a Communist " bill and promptly adjourned until after Election Day . There may have been a dozen in the Senate and a score or so in the House who sincerely believed that they were curbing communism by this particular means when they voted for the omnibus bill initiated by Senator Pat McCarran ( D ) of Nevada . But anti-Communist cause . these few believers were a small minority of those who voted in And that left Democrats with favor of the bill . almost as little choice . Democrats fear the charge of alleged Most of those who passed it softness on communism even did so with grave doubts that it more than high prices . actually would reduce communism , with an uncomfortable Affected by Korea suspicion that on the contrary it If the Korean war had been probably would be a publicity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to communism if it ever were landing at Inchon , the story conenforced strictly , and with a corn- ceivably might have been a little forting assumption that it prob. - different . Up until that time , the ably never will be enforced Republican National Committee strenuously . had been assuming that military defeat in Korea almost dutomatiSolons Play It Safe cally would mean defeat for the Democrats in November . If they had been as confident of election victory on the day of adjournment as they had been until the turn of the tide of battle in Korea , some of them might have joined their one maverick , Senator Langer , in challenging the constitutionality and the wisdom of the measure . But with the war in Korea turning into a declining liability to the administration , the Republicans found it expedient to close ranks on the McCarran bill . So with the Republicans for it , except Senator Langer , the Democrats decided they had better be for it too . Thus there is on the statute books a law which the President says will help communism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ watch and catch Communists ; and which most legislators , irrespective of party , think is unworkable . Incidentally , Congress was in                     