@@719921

txt DEMOCRATS PICK HOGAN FOR SENATE OVER MURRAY AFTER A PARTY SPLIT ; The New York Times Frank S. Hogan . PROSECUTOR WINS Receives 772 Votes Crotty Chosen for Attorney General Excerpts from , Hogan Speech are printed On Page 20 . DOUGLAS DALES Special to xtie New York Times . BUFFALO , Wednesday , Aug. 27 ? District Attorney Frank S. Hogan of New York County won the Democratic nomination for United States Senator early today . The decision was made after a one-sided floor fight in which the names of three declared candidates were placed in nomination . The bitter fight preceding the balloting by delegates  --  carried on among top party leaders in a day-long series of conferences=-appeared to have caused a major split of the Democratic chieftains that may prove costly in the November election . The balloting for the Senate nominee began at 12:30 A. M. and was completed in fifteen minutes . The convention adjourned ' at 1:59 A. M. Murray Gets 304 Votes Mr. Hogan received 772 votes , Thomas E. Murray , former member of the Atomic Energy Commission , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Air Force , 66 . One vote of the 1,143 total was not cast . The Senate nomination was made unanimous on the motion of Albany County . Mr. Hogan began his acceptance speech at 12:57 A. M. after a noisy demonstration for him was cut short by the convention chairman , Paul E. FitzPatrick . He appealed for the support of- his adversaries in the race , terming them " men of ability and of shining integrity . " Citing the prospect that the Republicans would attempt to make crime a major issue in the election , the prosecutor declared that it should have no place . in the campaign . ' Entertainment Value ' " It may have entertainment value , " he said , " but it should not be mixed with political bunk . " As completed , the Democratic ticket was : For Governor , Averell Harriman of Harriman ; N. Y. For Lieutenant Governor , George B. De Luca of the Bronx . For Attorney General , Peter J. Crotty of Buffalo . For United States Senate , Mr. Hogan . For State Controller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Court of Appeals , Marvin R. Dye of Rochester . Mr. Harriman and Mr. De Luca were renominated Monday and Judge Dye yesterday morning . Judge Dye also has the nomination of the Republican // party for a second fourteen-year term . The nomination of Mr. Crotty , Erie County Democratic leader , was the final act of the con -- vention . It gave the Democrats three Roman Catholics on the slate , Mr. Crotty , Mr. Hogan and Mr. De Luca . Mr. Levitt is of the Jewish faith and Governor Harriman is a Protestant . As the leadership battle developed during the attempts to reach accord on a Senate choice , Governor Harriman , Mayor Wagner and Michael H. Prendergast , State Chairman , were arrayed on one side . None wanted Mr. Hogan . Joined by City Leaders On the other side were Carmine G. De Sapio , leader of Tammany Hall and Democratic National Committeeman , and the four other New York borough leaders ? Representative Charles A. Buckley of the Bronx , Joseph T. Sharkey of Brooklyn , James J. Crisona of Queens and Joseph A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ votes , sufficient to assure the nomination of any candidate they joined in supporting . A majority of the 1,143 delegates was 572 . The nomination of Mr. Hogan appeared to be a victory for Mr. De Sapio . But there was no question that the choice had left a sour taste with many of the delegates who had voted to make the nomination unanimous . The opposition to Mr. Hogan 's nomination by Mr. Harriman , Mr. Wagner and Mr. Prendergast was based partly on their belief that either Mr. Murray or Mr. Finletter would make a stronger candidate . Further , Mr. Finletter was the favorite of the Liberal party , whose 262,000 votes four years ago made Mr. Harriman 's election possible . Another factor in their opposition was that the prosecutor 's nomination might inject New York City issues into the campaign and would open up the party to the charge that his election would give Tammany Hall control of the District Attorney 's office . Mr. Harriman would have the power to name Mr. Hogan 's successor , if he is elected The appointee would serve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement began at a conference at 1 A. M. yesterday in Governor Harriman 's suite at the Statler-Hilton . Hotel . It was attended by Mr. Harriman , Mr. Wagner , Mr. De Sapio , Mr. Prendergast and Alex G. Rose , state vice chairman of the Liberal party . Mr. Wagner was strongly urged by the other four to reconsider his decision not to accept the nomination . He demurred and maintained his position throughout the day against the strongest pressure . The lylayor 's acceptance would have provided an escape for the division over Mr. Hogan . The Governor , Mayor Wagner and Mr. Prendergast fought to save the nomination either for Mr. Murray or Mr. Finletter . The next conference of leaders began at 2 P. M. in the Mayor 's suite and adjourned to Mr. Harriman 's rooms at 3:30 P. M. At the end of this conference at 10 P. M. it was decided to let the decision go before the delegates . The only possible obstacle to the Hogan nomination was a question that Queens County might dissent . This was removed when the borough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ withdrew from the race and announced his support for Mr. Hogan shortly after midnight . The fight was so bitter that Governor Harriman , who had strongly opposed the Hogan nomination along with Mr. Wagner and Mr. Prendergast , decided not to attend the night session . However , he changed his mind and arrived at the convention hall shortly before midnight . He sat a while with the Orange County delegation of which he is a member , and then went to the platform . He said he planned to make no statement to the convention . Mr. Harriman made a show of friendliness toward Mr. Hogan by holding up the prosecutor 's hands after his victory . The name of Mr. Murray , who is 67 , was placed in nomination just before 11 P. M. by Mayor Erastus Corning of Albany . Mr. Corning also was the nominator of Mr. Levitt . The Albany Comity delegation had endorsed Mr. Murray several weeks ago . Mr. Hogan 's name was placed in nomination next by Assemblyman William Kapelman of the Bronx . As he made his nominating speech , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We Want Frank . " After a half-holm demonstration for Mr. Hogan , Mr. Finletter 's name was put before the convention by his campaign manager , Francis W. H. Adams , former Police Commissioner of New York City . He appealed for party integrity . Meanwhile , James A. Farley , former Postmaster General , and a declared candidate for the Senate , withdrew his name from consideration . " As a life-long Democrat , " he said , " I shall support the nominees of my party . "                     