@@720116

txt Surely one of the salient developments of the past two years has been the British campaign to regain status in the Western coalition following Suez . One key sign of success of this endeavor is the emergence of the British Prime Minister as a respected leader not only of his own people , but to a marked degree and upon frequent occasion of the Atlantic Alliance family as well . In this larger role , which Harold Macmillan does ' not hesitate to accept when he deems it appropriate , he is not , of course , without challengers ? and detractors . Across the English Channel , Gen. Charles de Gaulle is a strong competitor for the leadership mantle . The French President nurtures an " idee fixe " that France must be restored as a top-level partner in the Western community , complete with the ' H-bomb , and accorded not one iota less influence than Mr. Macmillan or President Eisenhower . A A A But the Frenchman was restored to top power in his own country only relatively recently , Of necessity , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British colleague . He has not yet built up full momentum . The fact ? at least , it often is accepted as fact on this side of the Atlantic  --  that the administration in Washington has not been able to exert so much world leadership as was hoped for and expected also has played , by default , into the British leader 's skillful hands . A A A It is impressive to review this man 's emergence on the global scene . only 1 was at Bermuda . only a few months after the Suez crisis and Mr. Macmillan 's accession to power . With President Eisenhower at Bermuda , he rebuilt the damaged framework of Anglo-American confidence and understanding . At the time of Bermuda . incidentally , there was great British willingness to follow an American lead . Afterward , however , the British felt that they could find little trace of a strong lead to follow . Thinking men here quickly became restive  --  and then became convinced that if insufficient leadership was to be forthcoming from one end of the Anglo-American combine , more would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2 came in Washington . The visiting Prime Minister . alive with ideas and graciousness , took the initiative in expanding the Interna tional Monetary Fund . Americans in London had ranked economic matters virtually at the bottom of the agenda . He showed his growing influence by quietly shifting them to near the top . Step 3 occurred in Paris a year ago at the NATO chiefs-of - government meeting . There interdependence was the desired theme to counteract missile-base differences , and Mr. Macmillan handled it impressively . Once that concept was established , he could take the lead in sponsoring his prime aim in Paris ? shifting NATO emphasis from a strictly military role into the politico-economic realm as well . A A At home , meanwhile , the political tide which had been running against him gradually turned . There , too , he established himself as a popular . respected leader  --  indeed , as perhaps the shrewdest of the politicos . Step 4 in his climb to prominence was Quemoy . He proved himself a good ally when being good was difficult . He refused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took a strong stand against prevalent British public opinion . He cooled rather than inflamed British sentiment . He refused to be stampeded by his opponents . He held firm to interdependence pledges , Some would say it was here that he demonstrated unmistakable fitness to provide leadership for more than his own nation . A A. So as we come down to the present , where problems of Germany and East-West talks dominate the scene at the moment , we find the British Prime Minister ranking high in the West 's inner family councils . Not that Americans , Germans , and French turn to him for guidance  --  far from it . But he is articulate in stating Britain 's case . The others know where he stands , and this generates respect . ' Understandably , also , it often carries the day when others falter with less firm convictions . British leaders are quite clear where they stand on summit talks . They want them . They are always willing to talk , to negotiate , grapple with opponents , to take the initiative with fresh ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chancellor Konrad Adenauer 's " do n't talk at all " preference , the hearty British " ventilate the whole Gorman problem " concept is the easiest of all to understand , It is simple , and it has the advantage of being positive rather than negative , It also helps explain why the British , almost without expecting IL. , find themselves once more in a greater position of leadership than for some years past ,                     