@@713224

txt Gov . Thomas E. Dewey , the Republican who failed in two tries for the Presidency , today decided to run for a third term as governor . He had announced June 17 he would not run again be- Gay . Dewey cause of the state of his health , which , incidentally , was not mentioned in connection with his plan to remain in the political spotlight . " I can not ask others to serve unless I am equally willing to serve , " Dewey asserted in reference to his expectation that he soon will be asking " hundreds of thousands of volunteers to sacrifice their time , private affairs , and perhaps their lives in defense of our state . " Cites Korean War The governor was speaking of the international crisis and the Korean war , which he said was a major reason in reversing his decision . Dewey announced his third term decision in a letter addressed to Lt. Gov . Joe R. Hanley , 74 , whom he displaced Saturday as the leading candidate for the G. 0 . P. gubernatorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ticket with him for United States senator , but whether Hanley would accept was uncertain . The letter , addressed to " Dear . Joe , " made no reference to the fact Hanley had sacrificed the ambition of a lifetime when he withdrew as the outstanding G. 0 . P. candidate for governor in the face of a " draft Dewey " movement that had at least covert assistance from Dewey himself . Funds Used as Lever The pressure on Hanley to get out of the way of Dewey 's return has been intense . Last Week Winthrop W. Aldrich , the New York banker who was slated to become America 's ambassador to Britain had Dewey been elected President in 1948 , told Republican party leaders the group which provided funds for party campaigns in the past would not contribute if Hanley were the candidate . Aldrich , chairman of the Chase National bank , was a leading figure in the internationalist set which encouraged American entry into World " War II to aid Britain , was a prime mover in post-war gifts to Britain , and was decorated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1948 received the insignia of an honorary knight of the grand cross of the civil division of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire , giving him the right to use the title " sir " in England and to a position on the official list at the court of St. James to bow before the king and the queen . Given First Medal of Kind Three years earlier he was decorated by the king at Buckingham palace , receiving on that occasion the king 's medal , first of its kind ever passed out . Altho Hanley hinted he would accept the revision of his plans dictated by G. 0 . P. leaders , he refrained from a definite announcement . " As of the moment , I do n't know whether I will be a candidate for anything or whether I will withdraw , " he told reporters . On Wednesday the Republican convention in Saratoga Springs is expected to renominate Dewey by atchunation.                     