@@716908

txt If the Chinese Communists attack Quemoy or the l  --  Iatsus , will the United States go to Generalissimo Chiang Kai ! shek 's defense ? That is the unanswered question in Washington on which peace and war in Asia could hang . It is a question that has been closing in on the administration for months and to which an answer can not long be delayed . Either the answer will be provided by events or an answer can help shape events . The only man in Washington who seems sure of the answer is Senate Minority Leader William F. Knowland ( R ) of California . He says he is " convinced " that if Peking tries to take Quemoy or the Matsus , " it would be resisted by us . " Nobody in the White House , State Department , or Pentagon will be anywhere near as categorical . Decision Delayed Secretary of State John Foster Dulles , in his report to the nation on his Far Eastern trip , did not even mention these islands by name . But what he did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ islands than that of Senator Knowland . By inference , certainly , he indicated that a decision had not been taken . He said : " The President will decide " this matter . His criteria : their " over-all value " to the defense of Formosa : " the cost of holding these positions . " The Dulles remarks indicate that no decision has been taken : that the decision could be no as well as yes . Secretary of Defense Charles E , Wilson is also vague about whether these offshore islands will be defended by the United States . But he is not quite so vague as Mr. Dulles is regarding their value . He says that militarily their loss would not make too much difference in the long-run defense of Formosa . Perhaps the distinction is that Mr. Dulles must consider their value diplomatically as well as militarily , the psychological importance of holding them versus the strategic importance of defending them . What seems to bother Mr. Dulles particularly is that the United States , rightly or wrongly , is getting the reputation of being a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the Chinese Communist Party propaganda line , and it apparently is proving effective . At least Mr. Dulles went to some length and considerable time in his radio-television report to challenge it . But if President Eisenhower and Mr. Dulles decide the Mat-sus and Quemoy are not worth defending , that the cost of securing them is not worth it , how can this be made to look like anything but appeasement and retreat in Asian eyes ? The point has come where appearance may be more important in making a decision than fact . Vital Questions If Washington 's Asian friends turn tail and run ( should the United States decide not to defend Quemoy and the Matsus ) , should the morale of the Nationalist troops on Formosa collapse at the prospect , it could be that ( to use Mr. Dulles ' words ) " the over-all value " of these coastal positions would make their defense a necessity . Eight months ago Mr. Dulles , when asked whether the United States would defend Quemoy and other offshore islands , took the position that it was smart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also kept the American public guessing . Now that the question is closing in on the administration , he may wish he had played it differently  --  for it is Washington 's uncertain position toward these offshore islands that could spark an Asian war . Peking knows it means war if it attacks Formosa or the Pescadores . It does not know for sure whether it means war if it tries to grab Quemoy and the Matsus . U.S. Attitude The administration 's present attitude is actually at variance with its frequently repeated assertions that the Communists must be made to understand with crystal clarity what will bring on a war . Both President Eisenhower and Secretary Dulles have asserted that Peking must not stumble into war for lack of specific warnings . But as long as they remain obscure as to the perimeter of the nation 's defense line around Formosa , the chance of a " stumbling " war exists . The dilemma faced by the administration is not a happy one . It considers itself stuck with its guessing-game policy because it ca n't decide whether the fruits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than those of being vague . And , according to Mr. Dulles , the decision will be made only at the 12th hour , if it comes , by the President , in the light of existing conditions at that time .                     