@@718807

txt Governor Furcolo today promised a " fight to the finish " for his spending program and sales . tax . Stung by a 43 million-dollar cut in his budget by the House Committee on Ways and Means , the Governor warned he would keep the House in session this year iintil it acts on his full $423,592,678 program . ? , In a 750-word statement , the Chief Executive sought to recapture the initiative on the budget and sales-tax issue , in the face of a mounting economy drive among Beacon Hill legislators . He termed the ways and means committee appropriations bill " the first installment of $380,550,833 on , the total budget of $423,000,000 . Second Installment Due " The second installment of approximately 43 million dollars will be before the House in June in the form of a supplementary budget . " The statement came as the House was about to embark on debate on the budget as reported by the ways and means committee . It served to smash reports that the Governor was adopting a conciliatory attitude on the budget slashes and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program at the Jefferson-Jackson dinner . The Chief Executive today told the Legislature : " I have recommended several programs that are not provided for in the House bill which would at the time pay our bill . " We can not continue to live beyond our means . Those programs will be provided for in the June supplementary budget . Insists on Vote " There must be a vote on such programs and under no circumstances will the Legislature be prorogued until that is done , " Whether or not the Governor 's stiffened stand on his spending and sales-tax programs will alter the Beacon Hill outlook remains to be seen . In his statement , the Governor asked major amendments to the ways and means measure so that his sales-tax program and the state activities it is designed to finance may come up for a separate vote . " The supplementary budget , " he said , " will pinpoint well-defined programs to help the aging , mentally ill , the retarded children , the young seeking opportunity , and other humanitarian goals which were promised support in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republicans . Time to Keep Pledge " Now that the time has come for carrying out the promise , the issue must be presented so clearly that the public will find it easy to draw the line that divides those who perform from those who merely promise . " I shall insist that no one be allowed to escape being put to that test . " The Governor did not state that he would hold the Legislature in session until , it voted for his program . His insistence was that the program be brought to a vote . His strategy is designed to postpone the final decision until later ip the session . Thus he would have additional time to exert patronage and other pressure on legislators favoring budget slashes and backing away from the sales tax . Popular Vehicle Economy has become me popular vehicle of most Massachusetts legislators , Democratic and Republican alike . By keeping state expenditures within revenues from present taxes , they hope to avoid a sales tax . A majority now appears ready to defer for another year or more serious consideration of substantial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At the same time , the Governor is fully aware that if the budget is adopted as the committee recommends , it will mark in effect his administration as one of " no progress . " The phrase stems from his Own classification of alternative spending programs . Governor Furcolo is still exerting pressure for the sales tax . He has conferred individually with several legislators , Democrats and Republicans , seeking their support . Some legislators report offers of patronage and other favors in return for support of the proposed 3 per cent limited sales levy . In preparation for today 's opening debate on the budget , 130 of he approximately 900 items the bill have been singled bout by House members for debate and proposed amendments . Related . story : rage 20- ? President Eisenhower told his press conference that if the public " understands " what 's at stake , " they will support the program they voted for . " Reemphasizing the main . point of view in his radio-TV broadcast ? that " there is no cut-rate price for security "  --  the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ budget could be slashed by anything ' like the ** billion dollars proposed by a congressional committee . Told by a reporter that some Republican elements felt he was becoming increasingly liberal , the President said strongly that he actually felt he was growing more conservative . At every Cabinet or National Security Council session he preaches economy , he said . But he added that the federal government must be responsive to the needs of today  --  not those of 1860 . He said members of Congress advocating three-billiondollar cuts in the budget must be calculating on the abolishment of basic federal programs . This was as close as he came to criticism of Senator William F. Knowland ( R ) of California who has advocated reductions in that amount . At stake in this budget battle is whether the President can regain his prestige with Congress or whether a serious defeat on the budget , if it comes , will launch a long lame-duck session of administration ineffective- , ness . At stake is not whether the public " likes Ike , " but whether it admires his philosophy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At stake finally is the question whether the phrase " modern Republicanism " has any real future . Massive Changes The President 's essential and major plea , as he spoke to the nation in reasoned tones from the White House , was that no great reductions in the 71.8 billion dollar budget are possible unless one of three massive changes in course were to be ordered : 1 . Either Congress must eliminate or curtail existing and already-voted federal programs , such as veterans benefits and farm aid . 2 . Or the public must demand less service frOm the government ? such as abandonment of the urban redevelopment program just pleaded for in Washington by a delegation of mayors . 3 . Or " unless we are willing to gamble with the safety of our country , " Tackling the tremendous costs of defense which now reach 41 billion dollars , the lion 's share of the budget , Mr. Eisenhower said there was only one hope of " really great savings " and that lay in the possibility of achieving an effective disarmament agreement at some future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ price of peace is high . That explains why taxes are high and why their future reduction has been delayed . The President conceded that " sacrifices " demanded of Americans are great , but added " they are sacrifices of dollars for a peaceful world , not the sacrifice of our sons , our families , our homes , and our cities to our own shortsightedness . " Recalling the " tragic " withdrawal of military forces from Korea in the demobilization aftermath of 1930 , Mr. Eisenhower said , " I shall never agree to any program of false economy that would permit us to incur that kind of risk " again . Second Talk Planned The President strongly appealed for the funds needed to " wage peace " intelligently through diplomatic efforts , economic and technical aid programs abroad , and the government 's information services ? all of which , he said , " help bind the free world more firmly together . " President Eisenhower will pitch his second budget broadcast to the public , a week from the first , specifically on the onebillion-dollar item @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On the domestic side , Mr. Eisenhower made a strong defense ' for the school-construction program ? the four-year emergency project to spend 325 million dollars annually on schoolrooms . He said he believes education is a state and local responsibility , and should remain so , but years of depression , followed by the Korean war , had left localities unable to cope with the classroom shortage . " I support this program                     