@@715225

txt Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. , in his first official action as United States representative to the United Nations , asked J. Edgar Hoover , director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation , today to make a full field investigation of the 144 members of the delegation who were serving under him . He sent a request also to Mr. Hoover " that there be made " an investigation of all 1,680 Americans on the United Nations payroll . Mr. Lodge said the investigations would be " more a question of security risks than disloyalty  --  you can be loyal and still be a bad security risk . " He made public Ins letters to Mr. Hoover at a press conference immediately after he had presented his credentials to Secretary General Trygve Lie and had paid courtesy calls on Mr. Lie 's principal assistants . Mr. Lodge was appointed by President Eisenhower to succeed Warren R. Austin of Vermont , also a former Republican Senator . Customary Washington Procedure Mr. Lodge did not explain why he had sent the letters direct to Mr. Hoover , for under customary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ DeIpartment to someone in the Jus , tice Department would have been sent by Secretary of . StAta John ' Foster Dulles to Attorney General Herbert Brownell Jr . A spokesman for the United States delegation said later that he did not know whether President Eisenhower or Mr. Dulles had authorized Mr. Lodge to make the request . He stated , however , that Mr. Lodge , in addition to his United Nations duties , was a foreign policy adviser to President Eisenhower entitled to attend Cabinet meetings . Between thirty and forty members of the United States delegation are in a professional category , the rest holding positions as clerks , chauffeurs , and the like . Mr. Lodge had asked for an F. B. I. investigation of himself the day he was appointed to the United Nations post with the rank of Ambassador . Asked today why a recheck of the United States delegation was necessary since all its members had previously been cleared by the F. B. I. , Mr. Lodge said that " in view of all the things that have happened I think it 's a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The text of his letter to Mr. Hoover follows : - " I request that you ' undertake , as soon as possible , a full field investigation of all the employes at the United States Mission to the United Nations , and that you will let me have this report on each person as soon as it is completed . " The letter to Mr. Hoover regarding United States employes of the United Nations did not specify who should make the investigation , but requested that Mr. Hoover submit to Mr. Lodge " a report on each case as soon as it is completed . " Differs From Truman Order He did not say how such employes should be investigated , but his letter appeared to set up a different procedure , in the following respects , from that . laid down in former President Truman 's Executive Order of Jan. 9 : 9111r . Lodge made no distinction between the 345 United States employes of the United Nations in the better-paid professional or language positions and the remainder , who are clerks , , chauffdurs , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full field investigation of the former , but said that unless " derogatory " information about the remainder was uncovered , the investigation should be limited mainly to information already available in Federal agencies . gUnder the Executive Order this preliminary or " inter-agency " inI vestigation is to be carried out by the United States Civil Service Commission , to which the United Nations is to submit the names and addresses of United States employes . The results of cases warranting a full field investigation are to be reported to the commission 's regional loyalty boards . Mr. Lodge 's letter , however , requested that the reports be submitted directly to him , and left the impression with some that he expected the F. B. I. to make the investigations . ( IThe Executive Order said the investigations were to determine whether there was " reasonable doubt " of the loyalty to the United States of its employes of the United Nations , whereas Mr. Lodge emphasized the question of " a bad security risk . " Denies Any Inconsistency Mr. Lodge denied , however , that the procedure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saying that the findings by the F. R. I. would be submitted to ithe Civil Service Commission . Mr. Lodge said also that Mr. Lie had promised to cooperate in the spirit of the Executive Order and of the United States request that the United Nations not take on any more American employes until the security procedures were worked out . Reminded that Mr. Lie had not replied to this request , Mr. Lodge declined to elaborate . Asked whether he expected United States policy regarding American members of the United Nations to produce protests when the General Assembly reconvened on Feb. 24 , Mr. Lodge said he did not . He added that he did not think anyone could seriously challenge the right of the United States " to investigate its citizens on American soil : " Regarding United States employes of the United Nations on whom the State Department had submitted adverse reports , thirtysix have been discharged , two have resigned , and one has retired . United Nations officials have explained that their failure to take action on the remaining seven resulted from their belief that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .                     