@@718559

txt Is Great Britain in Europe or not ? The moment of inescapable decision seems very close if one reads between the lines of the Report on the Possibility of Creating a Free Trade Area in Europe , released Feb. 5 by the Organization for European Economic Cooperation . Until this moment Britain has always answered , " Yes ? and no . " This answer may no longer be realistic . ' The report is to form the basis for the discussions to be held by the council of ministers of OEEC under the chairmanship of Britain 's Chancellor of the Exchequer , Peter Thorneycroft , in the second week of February . These discussions will decide whether or not Europe goes ahead on the plan for a free-trade area . Three Difficulties Noted The report concludes that a free-trade area is technically feasible . But there are three main difficulties : 1 . How can the economic policies of a dozen states be harmonized without some kind of central or federal government ? I. How can manufactured goods be included and the products of the farms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ products and import manufactured goods ? 3 . What is to be done about countries " in process of economic development " such as Turkey , the Republic of Ireland , and Iceland ? They want to join and still " protect their industries . " Britain Vitally Affected All these questions affect fundamentally the British position in and on Europe . Until now Britain has always said , " No supranational organ-izations ; no loss of independence . " It has also said , " No free trade for agricultural products and no exceptions among manufactured goods . " A new British plan , now being developed , may seek to consolidate the many cooperative organizations and assemblies of Europe into one organization and one assembly . But unless the organization were given real power and the assembly real authority  --  which the British would like to avoid  --  it is difficult to see how it could bring a guaranteed harmony to the economic policies of the member states . Yet it can scarcely be given power without bringing Britain fairly and squarely into Europe . Challenges Loom Britain will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free trade . In the working party that produced this report on free trade , Britain found itself in a minority of one . It was the only country in favor of exclusion . The reason is , of course , that Britain hopes to leave itself a wide bridge to the Commonwealth . It wants to keep the preferential duties it.gives to its former dominions . It wants to protect their agriculture as well as its own . This wish has a value beyond its apparently selfish motif . An alarming trend has shown itself in recent years . World trade has risen dramatically , but only between industrial countries . Trade between industrial and agricultural countries has actually declined . The underdeveloped countries are not sharing the boom . The erection another exclusive industrial market , cut off by a single tariff wall from these same underdeveloped or just youthfully growing countries , might merely intensify this trend . Britain , by its terms , might bridge the gap , and lead the way to an all-round destruction of trade barriers . Yet  --  the fact has to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries . Double Ring Planned This will lead to hard discussion . It may prove , however , that after all there is not a straight choice between Britain 's joining Europe or smashing the free-trade area to pieces . An alternative idea is to bring the free-trade nations into the British Commonwealth , To some observers this idea sounds particularly attractive . Inside the proposed European free-trade area there is slated to be a six-nation common market . A complete customs union and , in effect , a single economic state are planned . It is slated to have an elected parliament , a council of ministers , a set of rules , and a court of justice . But the outside ring of European , countries that are not members of this common market will , as things stand at present , have no supranational organization to run their free-trade system . Yet it is extremely doubtful that a free-trade area can be made to work without some organization to make and enforce common economic , financial , and social policies . Could the British Commonwealth possibly be reorganized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was merely an " out . " Instead , the political leaders of the " Europe of Six " ? France , Italy , West Germany , Belgium , Holland , and Luxembourg  --  took it as a challenge . If the common market really was technically possible , they said , then they would apply their best skills to bring it into being politically . This they now have done with startling ' success . Approval by experts in the case of a larger European free-trade area means more than it did in the case of the common market . There are 17 countries in the OEEC instead of 6 . This brings together nations with greater dissimilarities in their economic setup . While the flexibility of the OEEC structure has advantages , its very looseness makes the operation of its new plan more difficult than a tighter agreement such as the commonma  --  ket treaty , in which the six members will give up important rights in order to gain the benefits of a true " customs union "  --  the actual status df the common market . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ de luxe model of a customs union because it includes new and advanced unifying aspects such as the harmonization of social charges , free movement of labor , and the like . outside Europe which originally sparked the creation of a freetrade area , in place of a customs union , as a solution for the 11 other OEEC members outside the six of the common market . It was clearly apparent at first that the British hoped this free-trade area might eliminate the common market of six . When the latter proved to have such vital backing , the British compromised by planning to have this bloc of six nations operate within the larger free-trade area and so make up the OEEC total of 17 nations . Difficult Task The first question for the experts was to fit nations with different tariff levels into a common customs union , at first glance an apparently insoluble problem . But they solved it on the basis that all goods originating in the free-trade area could circulate free of duty within it , but goods from the outside would need a common criterion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This would insure that imports into the area would not enter though a low-externaltariff member nation and then be transferred freely into a higher - external - tariff nation where they could upset the latter 's internal market . This idea appears so promising that very little dislocation is foreseen now by what appeared at first as a major obstacle . Similarities Adopted tile next job is to tie this free-area protection operation into the Euiopean common market . It was agreed that much ground could be gained by specifically adopting many of the similarities inherent in both systems . Typical of this is the period during which , and the rate at which , tariffs would be progressively abolished . The common market has a 12-year basic period of three four-year stages . This can be extended to six years in the first stage and to seven in the last , for an over-all total of 17 years . Thus the thinking now is along the line of having the new free area adopt identical periods . The same thing could apply to any quantitative restrictions , escape clauses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free-trade plans are seen as capable of working together , a six-nation European common market operating within the framework of a larger European free-trade                     