@@716077

txt President and Mrs. Eisenhower have definite plans to fly to Southern California this week for a vacation of about six days . They may start on Wednesday . This was disclosed tonight by sources close to the White House shortly after the President had returned from a week-end quail hunting trip to Georgia . The White House had no official statement or comment on the prospective trip to the West Coast , but . it has been known for some time that plans for such a visit were being considered . The President and his wife expect to . ' be guests at the Smoke Tree ranch of Paul G. Hoffman at Palm . Springs . It was indicated that the President would make his plans final after checking with Congressional leaders when they came to the White House for their weekly meeting tomorrow morning . The General has felt he could make the trip across the country now that his Congressional program has largely been sent to Capitol Hill . But it was said that he wanted to be sure that no legislation in the Administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One source reported that the President would consult the ' Congressional leaders , particularly about the status of the Bricker amendment to restrict the President 's treaty-making.powers : He is opposed to the measure , which was introduced by Senator John W. Bricker , Republican of Ohio , and which is now before the Senate . A White House spokelman said there might be an official announcement on the trip , one way or the other , on Tuesday . James C. Hagerty , the President 's press secretary , who returned from Georgia with the General . continued on to New York and could not be reached for comment . It was reported from Palm Springs , meanwhile ; that Mr. Hagerty and , other members of the White House staff would fly to the Hoffman ranch a day ahead of the Eisenhowers : " A va cation ' office would be set up at the ranch , it was expected , to permit the President to keep in touch with Washington . Mr. Hoffman , who is chairman cf the board of the Studebaker Corporation , is a friend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first administrator of the foreign aid program , known then as . the Economic Cooperation Administratitn . Georgians See Him Off When the President returned to the capital tonight , his cheeks were pink from the warm south Georgia sun following his successful week-end of quail shooting , bridge and rest . The Presidential plane Columbine landed at Washington Airport at 5:50 P. M. A limousine tpok the General directly to the Executive Mansion . The plane had taken off from Spence Field near Moultrie , Ga. , at 3:24 ' o'clock . The President was in - excellent spirits , smiling and waving his hat to about 100 well-wishers who had waited hours to see him off . He was dressed completely in tan , wearing a sports jacket and tweed slacks and moccasin-type shoes . The Presidential party drove by car thirty-two miles to the airfield from Milestone , the 600. acre hunting retreat of George M. Humphrey , the Secretary of the Treasury , near Thomasville . Georgians lined the highways , some in automobiles and others standing to wave good-by . President Eisenhower , who left Washington Friday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a half of hunting with Mr. Humphrey and Clifford Roberts and W. Alton Jones of New York . Mr. Roberts , a retired stock broker , is board chairman of the Augusta National Golf Club , another vacation spot of the President . Mr. Jones is board chairman of the Cities Service Corporation . There was no hunting today , according to Mr. Hagerty . It 's illegal on Sunday in Georgia . Instead , he reported , the President arose late and took it easy until the departure time . At one point he strolled down to the kennels for a final look at the bird dogs that had found numerous coveys of partridge , as the bobwhite is often called in the South . Before stepping into an automobile for the trip to Spence Field ; the General chatted a few minutes with Secretary Humphrey 's dog handler . The President gave him a , long , hearty handshake .                     