@@714708

txt The accidental firing by an Allied soldier of a heavy ma- chine gun near a prison stockade on this island killed one North Korean captive and wounded another this morning . This mishap followed a statement yesterday by the new Far East Commander , Gen. Mark W. Clark , that Allied camp authorities were prepared to use " maximum force " to restore uncontested control over Communist captives . An Army spokesman said that the North Korean who was killed had been standing near the barbed wire of Compound 78 when the 1machine gun went off . Other prisoners dragged the body farther inside the enclosure and refused to surrender it to United Nations medical personnel . They also refused to yield the wounded man for hospitalization . An Army spokesman said that Brig . Gen. Haydon L. Boatner , camp commander , expressed concern over the accidental shooting ? the second within a week at Koje . Meanwhile , the prisoners resumed their demonstrations inside the enclosures , to which the camp command had attempted to put an end . In Compound 76 captive North Koreans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who were killed there last Friday . They hung black crepe on a flagpole and draped an imitation coffin with paper wreaths while General Boatner looked on from outside the barbed wire . In Compound 602 , according to pooled dispatches , the prisoners again.erected the flagpole knocked down yesterday in a tank-led raid by United Nations guards , after the flying of the North Korean emblem had been forbidden . General Boatner told correspondents : " It will not be there very long . " Making his first visit to the troubled prison island yesterday , General Clark made it clear that the new United Nations policy of firmness might have taken so much starch out of the " die-hard " Communists that not much real fight was left in them . Gen. James A. Van Fleet , Eighth Army commander , who came with General Clark , compared the atmosphere in seventeen compounds with the captives ' mood of only a few weeks ago and happily summed up the situation that way . In a late development last night there was a sudden flare-up of resistance from Compound 60 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about 200 prisoners in this compound on war crime charges ? shouted taunts at a South Korean officer walking past the enclosure . The South Korean listened at first to the taunting , but was fi- nally goaded into taking out his revolver and firing three shots into the compound . One of the shots hit a prisoner in the leg , apparently causing a wound that was not serious . Capt . Tames Miller of Washington , IX C. , commander of a medical company , was summoned to the compound by camp officials , but the captives refused to turn over the wounded man for treatment . Clusters of prisoners broke into loud shouts and chants . In a brief statement before leaving the island , General Clark said that the prisoners here had been flagrantly violating orders for a long period and that if they continued to do so a maximum amount of force would be applied to bring them into line with instructions of the camp Commander . The general said he did not know when the Allied Command would attain the uncontested control that had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as soon as possible . " He declared that the United Nations wanted to gain complete control with the " least amount of blood shed . " General Clark said that really behind the island violence were the Communists at Panmunjom , " who direct these uprisings here " and who , he said , " care nothing for the , lives of these prisoners . " The Far East Commander said he did not like the sight of Cora- , miinist flags flying over the island but there was no use in taking precipitous action " until we are really ready to follow through and do this thing right . " When that time comes , he added , " there will be no more flags flying . "                     