@@719449

txt A state tax program including a withholding tax , a 1-cent-a-pack cigarette hike , and a tax on trusts with transferrable shares will be recommended by Governor Furcolo to help balance a record-high budget . Several reliable sources close to the Governor disclosed the plan following another Furcolo conference with legislators over the still-developing budget picture . As now contemplated , the tax program would produce upward of $25,000,000 in new revenue . However , as of the moment it is understood the proposed spending program is still 3 to 4 million dollars short of being balanced . As a result , economics totaling that amount or other tax sources to produce it must be found . At the moment the thinking is in the direction of economies , it is reported . Budget Due Jan. 22 The Furcolo tax program , as now contemplated , is entirely a stopgap arrangement . The real task of produinng sufficient revenue to solve mounting state needs and to provide substantial aid to cities and towns will be delayed until 1959 . As of now the proposed state budget , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latest , totals about 418 million dollars , or approximately 21 million dollars higher than the 397-milliondollar , record-high figure voted by the 1957 Legislature . However , it is about 5 million dollars less than the program originally recommended in January , 1957 , by Governor Furcolo for the current fiscal year . Even opponents of the proposed withholding system for collecting the state personal income tax expect the legislation will pass this year . Proponents of it are highly confident , particularly with the Governor throwing his full official weight behind it . Last year he said he favored it but did not work for it . This year he is prepared to battle for it . Confidence Cited Siding with him will be Senator John E. Powers ( D ) of Boston , Senate minority leader ; Representative John T. Driscoll ( D ) of Boston , House chairman of the Legislative Committee on Taxation ; Senator Donald L. Gibbs ( R ) of Newton , and others . All are highly confident of the measure 's passage , despite its Senate defeat in 1957 . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a proposed increase in the cigarette tax . Under the plan to be pushed , legislation would be rushed through to become effective March I. This Would provide for a revenue pickup for the remainder of the present fiscal year ending June 30 , 1958 , and for a Lull year 's pickup in the 1959 fiscal year opening July 1 , 1958 . The anticipated yield from the proposed tax on trusts having transferrable stock is still in the process of formation . Many fiscal experts and legislative strategists believe such a program as now contemplated can be adopted in this election year without fear of political reprisals at the polls . Some Opposition Slated The proposals are certain to run into stout opposition in some areas . But the fact that the Furcolo administration is not recommending a sales tax or tax levies which industry in general might consider injurious to their interstate competition position is a subject of considerable relief . A substantial factor in the state fiscal picture is the fact that President Eisenhower in his federal budget message estimated substantial increases in yields from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this federal optimism has been the upping of state estimates of yields of state levies . It is understood the upgrading has tooled about 6 million dollars , a great help in the drive to balance the budget . The Governor under the state constitution is required to send in a balanced budget . On the withholding tax , it is understood , the estimated 17-million-dollar pickup is entirely a one-year windfall item . due to overlapping of full payments to be made April 15 , 1939 , on 1958 income and the weekly withholding payments to be made between Jan. 1 and March 31. 1959 . Communities to Benefit Fattening the windfall item also will be the fact that payments will be made on April 15 and June 15 , within the 1959 fiscal year , by persons filing estimated returns on unearned income from interest and dividends and by persons self-employed and not subject to weekly withholding . It is also understood the cities and towns would realize an even bigger revenue pickup from withholding because they are on a calendar-year basis and would gain from extra withholding revenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ municipal pickup has not yet been determined . Actually the cities and towns annually receive about 45 per cent of the income tax revenue collected by the state , with the state retaining about 55 per cent , Returns Compared It is understood the State Department of Corporations and Taxation is equipped to administer a full withholding tax system , if it is approved by the Leafslatei c . The fact that the state recently received from the federal government a list of 180 , - 000 self-employed and other federal taxpayers not subject to regular federal withholding gives the state a master mailing list to which will be sent forms on which to declare tax estimates on income not covered by the withholding tax . As yet , the department has not finally estimated what can be anticipated in the way of extra regular revenue to be realized by closing tax loopholes through a withholding tax . The fact that the department has vigorously pursued tax dodgers and delinquents this year by matching employer and employee returns may cut substantially the expected extra yield from a withholding tax .  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          