@@720870

txt The sale of cranberries and cranberry products in Chicago stores , restaurants , and wholesale establishments was banned Saturday after it . was disclosed that tainted berries from Wisconsin had reached the city . Dr. Herman N. Bundesen ; president of the board of health , said his inspectors had seized approximately 40 , - 000 pounds of Wisconsin cranberries in a Chicago cold storage warehouse . Six Samples Taken Six test samples were taken from the lot of 652 bags , each weighing 60 pounds , and four of these were found to be contaminated with aminotriazole , Dr. Bundesen said . Aminotriazole , a weed killer which the government says causes cancer in rats , has been found in cranberries grown in the states of Oregon and Washington . This was the basis for a recommendation last Monday by Arthur S. Fl e m i n g , secretary of health , education , and welfare , that people shun cranberries until the situation is cleared . The federal welfare depdrtment asked the justice department to seize the cranberries placed under guard by the health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had not been notified but he presumed the order would arrive here Sunday . City to Cooperate The shipment was the first of contaminated cranberries found in Chicago , and the first in the nation found in cranberries on t s i d e those from . Oregon and Washington . Dr. Bundesen said he would cooperate with the federal agencies in seeing that the cranberries do not rem h the market , just as city and federal officials have cooperated so far in the cranberry investigation . " If it is left to us they will be taken to the city dump , " Dr. Bundesen said . " We want to be sure that these emberries do not reach the market . " Warehouse Is Secret The name and address of the warehouse where the contaminated c r an berries were found was kept a secret by both city and federal food and drug administration of-ficials The federal seizure order was based on a report by Dr. John IL Guill Jr. , head of the Chicago office of the food and drug administration , that the presence of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shipment originated in Wisconsin Rapids , center of the state 's cranberry belt : Only last Thursday night , Vice President Nixon , at a dinher in Wisconsin Rapids , disregarded Flemming 's advice and ate four helpings of cranberries , ? Kennedy Tastes Some Just 31 miles away in Marshville , Wis. , United States Sen. John F. Kennedy ID. , Masi , a Democratic Presidential hopeful , also sampled Wisconsin grown cranberries . Dr. Guilt said the federal government would file a " libel " action against the tainted cranberries in federal District court this week . Ile said his office has an analytical crew working " around the clock , including Saturday and Sunday , " testing cranberries shipped to Chicago . Dr. Bundesen asked housewives and all Chicago residents to refrain from using cranberries and cran berry products until the board of health determines that the city 's supply is free from contaminat ion . Flemming , preparing for a meeting Wednesday in Washington with representatives of the cranberry industry , said that so far thruout the country 101 lots of cranberries have been tested . lie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 