@@713752

txt President Vincent Auriol of France gave the Western world a slogan last night ? " peace with freedom . " And he lifted his glass in a toast to the United States and France , " today like yesterday fraternally united for the peace and the liberty of the - world . " To this end , speaking at a dinner in his honor here , he pledged the French people to " full cooperation " with Supreme Commander Dwight D. Eisenhower for the defense of Western Europe . He also promised French support for all forms of international cooperation and mutual aid , and gave assurance that his people would match the spirit of America in " faith , perseverance and enthusiasm . " Having found in an America settled by Europeans an example of how Europeans could unite , he declared , he would take home from his present visit a feeling of " new optimism . " M. Auriol landed in New York last Wednesday from the French liner Ile de France with his wife and son and an official party , including Foreign Minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day , , and returned here last evening . Grover A. Whalen , chairman of the Mayor 's Committee for the Reception of Distinguished Guests , met M. Auriol when he arrived at 5:36 P. M. in a bullet-proof car on President Truman 's five-car special train , " U. S. A. 1 . " Mr. Whalen said M. Auriol told him he had a slight cold and had // had a temperature of 100 degrees when he addressed Congress earlier in the day . Five thousand persons , according to a police estimate , watched from behind barricades on Seventh Avenue between West Thirty-first and Thirty-fourth Streets as M. A.uriol and his party , in a procession of nineteen cars , led by thirtytwo motorcycle police , left the station for the Waldorf-Astoria . Mayor Impellitteri gave a dinner at the Waldorf-Astoria last night to begin three days of ceremonies in which the city will do honor to President Auriol . In responding to speeches of welcome , M. Auriol gave the French vim on how the United States and France could " act together most effectively " against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diplomacy , in strategy and in common defense to organize the forces of the free world so solidly that a " possible aggressor " would be deterred . When President Auriol stood to speak , and again when he finished , he was given a standing uvation by the 1,500 persons present . His address was interrupted several times by applause . Not only collective military strength must be developed , he held , but also collective economic measures to " organize prosperity and improve social welfare " throughout the world . He asserted this would strengthen the " army of freedom " and " fortify the peace . " Before the dinner President Auriol held a reception for distinguished guests , including United Nations representatives of sixty countries . Mr. Whalen presided at the dinner . After an invocation by Francis Cardinal Spellman of the Roman " atholic Diocese of New York , Mayor Impellitteri delivered an address of welcome , at the end of which he presented to M. Auriol the city 's Medal of Honor . The Mayor said the presentation marked the first time the medal had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . During the visit , he continued , flags of the two nations were to fly from all public buildings . Cardinal Spellman hailed France as " the ancient citadel of faith and freedom . " He said " Omnipotent God blessed this union between France and the United States  --  a union which has always sought peace -- not only between our two nations but also peace among all the nations of the world . " Attorney General Nathaniel Goldstein represented the State of New York . He said Governor Dewey and Lieut . Gov . Frank C. Moore could not be present because both were ill of a virus infection . The nation 's welcome was delivered by John F. Simmons , Chief of Protocol of the State Department . Following a prayer by Rabbi David de 8ola Pool , there was an address by Nazrollah Entezam of Iran , President of the United Nations General Assembly , who told the President of France that he had " given to the people of the ' United States and to their leaders a true reflection of France " and had " thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confidence in France . " There was a benediction by Bishop Horace W. B. Donegan of the Protestant Episcopal Diocese of New York . An official reception will be held today for President Auriol at City Hall . He is scheduled to leave the hotel at 11:40 A. M. in a motorcade for Bowling Green , where a parade up Broadway will begin at noon . Military and police contingents will escort him to City Hall , where the Mayor will give him the keys to the city in a ceremony scheduled for 12:20 P. M. Afterward M. Auriol will go back to the hotel for a round of luncheons , dinners and receptions that will continue until he leaves tomorrow midnight for Canada before returning to France .                     