@@714838

txt United Nations and Communist truce delegates met for thirty-five minutes today , and then called off the conferences for another week when neither side had a new proposal to offer on an exchange of Korean war prisoners . The recess was the sixth called at Panmunjom since the delegations became deadlocked solidly last spring on a Chinese and North Korean demand that all captives be returned to them after a cease-fire , and a United Nations insistence that no prisoner would be forced to return against his own will . Again , as on previous occasions , the adjournment was called by the United Nations aftlt Lieut . Gen. Nam U , senior Communist negotiator , renewed charges against the Allied command . General Nam first objected , then agreed to the new adjournment , asserting , however , that the United Nations was blocking an armistice " before our eyes . " Delay Was Forecast Further delay in the conferences had been forecast even before today 's session  --  the second the full delegations had held in a fortnight ? from the tone of Communist propaganda @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make it plain that the enemy would not retreat from his demand for all prisoners . The Allied delegation repeatedly has told the Communists that the talks could not continue profitably until the Communists realized that no room existed for " trading " over the prisoners ' fate . After the inconclusive session , Maj. Gen. William K. Harrison Jr. , senior Allied delegate , told correspondents the Communists had " nothing new or different to present " beyond an old assertion that under the terms of a tentative armistice text , no prisoners could be withheld . General Harrison said General Nam purposely misquoted Paragraph 51 of the draft agreement dealing with prisoner exchange , eliminating qualifying phraseology the United Nations delegates have asserted permitted anti-Communist prisoners to remain in democratic territory after a truce . Calls Move Deliberate General Harrison said he felt that the misinterpretation was " deliberate and for the purpose of propaganda . " It has been a frequent Communist argument that a truce could be reached quickly except for American determination to prolong the war and turn over the prisoners to the South Korean and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement when the United Nations delegates objected to the reading of the disputed paragraph . General Harrison then proposed the adjournment . The new stoppage in the conversations and the apparently unchanged enemy attitude raised increasing doubt here that an armi // stice could be brought about soon . The enemy delegation , according to dispatches from Korea , refused even to answer a repeated offer by General Harr ) on for the repatriation of 83,000 prisoners who have said they would not resist forcibly . ? Some observers believed that all that was in prospect was a long deadlock , with plenary sessions called only often enough to retain contact between the full delegations in the unlikely event a new compromise proposal could be formulated . No further session was scheduled until Aug. 19 , either by the plenary or subsidiary negotiating ' groups . Meanwhile , the United Nations Command completed the liberation lof 27,000 South Koreans rounded up with the Communist forces and held as prisoners of war until they were " reclassified " as interned civilians in protective custody . The enemy truce negotiators , although they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Allies if all Chinese and North Korean captives were returned to them after an armistice , already have protested the " unilateral " liberation of these men by the United Nations . The final installment of interned civilians  --  more than 1,300 ? was turned back to citizen status under the jurisdiction of Korean Republican authorities with ceremonies at Yongdungpo , near thei South Korean capital of Seoul . Dr. Syngman Rhee , newly re-elected President of the Korean Republic , ) and Gen. James A. Van Fleet , Eighth Army commander , were on hand to witness what was dubbed operation homecoming . The armistice proceedings yesterday were limited to a short meeting of liaison officers . The Communists , it was announced , turned over information regarding a small number of United Nations prisoners whose names had not been included on official rolls exchanged last December . The men were identified through enemy newspaper articles , radio broadcasts , by letters and other means . General Harrison has been pressing the enemy representatives for some time for information regarding the whereabouts and condition of the prisoners . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   