@@720736

txt Soviet Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev 's huge turbo-prop Plane , the world 's biggest civilian airliner , touched down at Andrews Air Force Base at 12:21 p.m. , e.d.t. , about 50 minutes late because of strong head winds over the Atlantic . A crowd of men , women , and children , which had grown steadily since the morning , lined the waist-high fence around an airfield decked with breeze-whipped American and red Soviet flags . As the enormous plane , white with red stripes , taxied down the concrete runway , guided by a yellow truck , the honor guard of soldiers , sailors , and marines snapped to stiff attention . President Eisenhower had walked to the end of the taxiing strip when the plane was spotted in the distance and was waiting there when it came to a stop . A military brass band blared a martial air as the plane 's doors opened and the beaming Soviet leader emerged . The two most powerful leaders in the world shook hands . ! Lodge to Escort Guest . Smiling , Mr. Khrushchev waved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hardwood polished platform nearby for the formal . welcoming ceremonies . The two proceeded to the platform be- tween the lines of honor guard . At the head of the receiving line near the platform were Secretary of State Christian A. Herter and Henry Cabot Lodge , Jr .. United States Ambassador to the United Nations , who will escort the Soivet chief on his cross-country tour . They shook hands with the visitor . Mr. ' Khrushchev 's wife , the buxom Nina Petrovna Khrushcheva , followed close behind her husband as the handshaking proceeded . A little girl presented the Soviet boss with a bouquet and he gave her a big hug . While the President and Mr. Khrushchev , the latter garbed in a natty black suit and white shirt , stood at attention , the honor guard fired the customary 21-gun salute to a foreign dignitary and the band played the Soviet and United States national anthems . Silent Curiosity But from the crowd there was little applause and no sign that the spectators were over-excited by the precedent-breaking spec tacle . The people mostly watched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stood watch over the proceedings . Other swarms of newsmen , photographers , radio , newsreel and TV men , both So- viet and American , added a note of frantic confusion to the scene as Mr. Khrushchev , his wife , two daughters , and official party disembarked . Hours later the President and the Communist chief were to meet again for a discussion of outstanding cold war issues , although the real down-to-business talks might be delayed until Mr. Khrushchev completes a cross-country tour and returns for a three-day round of private talks with the President . Military and security forces were out early in force , but crowds along the route were only moderate as landing time approached . Plane Slowed by Wind There was nothing to indicate whether morning-long confusion over the arrival hour had anything to do with the slow gathering of the public . The estimated time had bounced around from the original schedule of 11:30 a.m. and an hour as late as 1:15 p.m. as the Soviet chief 's plane bucked head winds and then made up time . He was finally slowed down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rate , half an hour ahead of that time the spectator crowd did not approach the mass proportions of the ones that watch inaugural parades for new Presidents . The early corners were orderly , with few indications of any demonstrations . At 5:15 a.m. ( e.d.t. ) a special detail from Fort Myer rolled out the famous red carpet for the Soviet Premier 's walk with President Eisenhower to the reviewing stand . Large vacuum sweepers were patrolling the Andrews Air Force Base runway to pick up trash that might be swept up into the Soviet jet 's engines . Security officials , military police , secret service men , and ordinary policemen were everywhere . Even such a simple thing as moving to the stand assigned to photographers and newsmen became difficult . Military guards sent newsmen on a long walk around even though it was still four hours before any of the top officials were due at the field . Minor Incident One minor international incident occurred . Two Soviet photographers , neither of whom could speak English , were confused as to their places in the stand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press officer , who could n't understand a word of it , before an interpreter was found to straighten things out . By 9:20 a.m. special armed guards were out on the field near the airstrip , even though less than a dozen spectators had taken their places behind ? the air-base fence . Even before that , security men were everywhere along Suit-land Parkway , Mr. Khrushchev 's route through a rolling tree-lined Maryland area into Washington .                     