@@717502

txt Senator Estes Kefauver charged tonight that the organizational power of the Democratic National Committee had been used to help the Presidential candidacy of Adlai E. Stevenson . The Tennessee Democrat , front-runner for the Democratic nomination on the first two ballots in 1952 before Mr. Stevenson was drafted , is not yet an announced rival this time . But he told a news conference this afternoon that he expected to disclose his intentions Dec. 16 or 17 . He strongly indicated that he would make the race . Mr. Kefauver played for rankand-file Democratic support as he leveled his charge of " favoritism " by party leaders on behalf of Mr. Stevenson . With a wry smile , he said he was not " compla4ning . " But he said he did not think it " proper " for the National Committee to back any candidate in advance of the convention . His charges were denied promptly and indignantly by Pahl M. Butler , the Democratic National Chairman . Mr. Butler met news men as they emerged front the jam-packed small room where they had interviewed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no help to any candidate . He pointed out that he had instructed staff members to be neutral . Stevenson Gets Top Billing Mr. Stevenson , the only announced candidate , has top billing and all the available radio and television tune at tomorrow night 's *100-a-plate dinner . About 2,500 persons are expected to attend the dinner in the International Amphitheater at the stockyards . Subordinate speaking roles have been assigned to Senator Kefauver , Governor Harriman hf New York and former President Truman , Mr. Stevenson 's thirty-minute address will be broadcast nationally at 10:15 P. M. , Central Standard Time ( 11:15 P. M. , Eastern . Standard Time ) . Developments thus far at this week 's gathering of Democrats indicate that Mr. Stevenson clearly is out in front and that lie can expect to be the target ' for rivals who must stop him first if they are to have any chance for the nomination themselves . While SenatorKefauver 's charge was less than specific , and not pressed vigorously , there are many in politics who feel that undue evidence of favoritism for 1Mr . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the candidacy of the former Illinois Governor . That there is pro-Stevenson partisanship is generally accepted in Washington . Chairman Butler , himself a Stevenson supporter before the 1952 convention , was put in office by Stevenson backers . The Kefauver charge was about the only hard news development of the day . Mr. Steenson was busy in his Conrad Hilton suite greeting and courting the favor of politicians who can help him win the nomination . There was one untoward incident , A Democratic subcommittee studying  --  the farm problem stationed a policeman armed with a gun and club outside its closed hearing room . This stirred questioning of Claude A. Wickard , former Secretary of Agri= culture in the Roosevelt and Truman Administrations . Mr. Wickard conceded that there was nothing " terribly secret " about the committee discussions . Responsibility for summoning the policeman to keep reporters from overhearing farm policy discussions was assumed by Ben Stong , a National Committee ? staff assistant . At his news conference Mr. Kefauver talked frankly about men he had contacted to help him in his campaign if he makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financial support this time . His 1952 campaign was managed on a shoestring . He said he still was canvassing the country for indications of support . This task , he though , would be finished by mid-December . " Have you had more encouragement than you received in 1952 ? " he was asked . " Certainly , " he answered with a big smile . " I did n't get any encouragement in 1952 . " Weighs Minnesota Contest If he rims , Senator Kefauver said he would consider seriously contesting ' with Mr. Stevenson for Minnesota 's thirty delegates in a preferential primary next March 20 . Mr. Stevenson already has agreed to enter this primary with the backing of the state party leaders , headed by Senator Hubert H. Humphrey . Senator Kefauver said such organization support.for Mr. Stevenson would make this an " uphill fight . " At the same time he challenged Mr. Stevenson to enter other primaries , to show himself before the voters and let " the people " havea hand in determining the nomination . In 1952 , Senator Kefauver won a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's bitterest opponents in 1952 was former President Truman , over whom he scored an upset victory in the New Hampshire primary that year . The Senator said he had talked recently with Mr. Truman , who has declared himself " neutral " this year , and that he thought they understood each other better now . Governor Harriman flew in from New York late this afternoon and promptly quashed a rumor that he would disclose during this meeting his availability for the Presidential nomination . " It is not true , " he said . " I will not . " He had the same answer when asked to comment on a report that he would announce his availability Feb. 3 . At the farm policy session , committee members heard a complaint from Clyde Ellis , executive director of the National Association of Rural Electric Cooperatives , that " segments of the Eisenhower Administration notably the Interior Depart . ment , had tried to kill the R. E. A. Rural Electrificatior Administration program . " There was an attempt from New York by leaders of the Na. tional Association @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get the Democratic leaders as k. group to condemn election prat tices in Mississippi . Telegram : urging such action were sent to every state chairman by Rol Wilkins , the N. A. A. C. P. ' : executive secretary . But Nea Staebler , Michigan State chair man , who presided , said the is sue was out of order .                     