@@718245

txt France 's decision to go along with the plan of the Suez Canal Users Association , even with the important reservation that international control of the waterway must not be abandoned , is wise . This is a time for patience . It is especially hard for the French to be patient , because they quickly link up the ambitions and movements of Colonel Nasser with much that they have suffered in North Africa . ' It is hard for the British to be patient , because of their huge economic stake in the successful operation of the canal . It is hard for some Americans to he patient in the face of the violent actions of an irresponsible dictator such as Nasser . This patience , however , has been the good counsel that Secretary Dulles has repeatedly urged upon our friends and allies . He has been exceptionally successful in this mission and he returns to report to the President and the nation on his accomplishment . It is worthy of high praise . From the beginning it has been the American position that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right way to approach the complex Suez Canal problem . It was the American position that there should be concerted action among the users of the canal to impress their rights in the case upon the Egyptian President . It was the mission of Secretary Dulles to set these positions before our allies with sufficient conviction that force could be avoided and that further steps toward a , peaceful solution of the controversy could be taken . He was able to carry out this task . The initial plan for a presentation of the case to Colonel Nasser by a committee representing eighteen of the nations that first met in London was doomed to failure even as it was set forth . Colonel Nasser agreed only to hear the statement and declared in advance that he had no intention of seeking a solution through any modification of his own position . This was certainly no basis for " negotiation " and , on the face of it , appeared to give justification to those who had urged a " stronger line . " The second London conference adopted a more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a permanent organization to pursue the case . This may still fall short of the ideas of those who look hopefully to some form of compulsion . But it is a further move and a move in the right direction . It must be realized that even if there is a favorable break in the situation  --  such as an intimation that Colonel Nasser might come to his senses ? it will take a long time to reach a satisfactory outcome of the case . A solution will not be reached next week . It may be months away . What has been accomplished thus far in the field of a moderate and thoughtful approach to the problem could be destroyed by precipitate action . To be patient is not necessarily to be weak . Perhaps a little later Colonel Nasser will begin to understand this .                     