@@720353

txt Although Chancellor Adenauer 's decision to retire from active leadership of West Germany was a surprise , it seems perfectly logical simply on the basis of his 83 years . By giving up the powertut post of Chancellor to run for the less vital jdb of President , he can effect an orderly transition ; assuming his election , he would not take on the Presidency until next fall . Meantime he will still be Chancellor during the forthcoming period of Western negotiations with Russia . But whatever the move may portend for international politics , there is no doubt what Adenauer 's decade in office symbolizes -- strong resistance to Communism , development of close Franco-German ties and , certainly not least , the German economic recovery . The real meaning of the last , though , is often poorly understood or not understood at all outside of Germany . Frequently the so-called economic miracle is discussed as though it had no connection with the free-enterprise capitalistic system which Adenauer and Economics Minister Erhard instituted in post-war Germany . The explanation is given that West Germany initially got @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to maintain a defense establishment . Monument These were in fact incidental considerations . We gave much more aid to France with hardly comparable effects . As for defense , Germany has for some years now been building up its own forces . The first turn from West Germany 's devastation was the currency reform put through by the occupation powers and the Germans in 1948 . Then , with the establishment of the Federal Republic Adenauer and Erhard junked the whole maze of economic controls , some of them left over from the Nazis and some imposed by the occupiers . Almost overnight the transformation began . The recovery was swift , sure and spectacular , and today West Germany is one of the most prosperous nations in the world . Thus the elements are simple : Sound money , sound budgeting and maximum economic freedom for individual enterprise to work its magic . It is disheartening to say the least that these are the ver7 principles now under such bitter and massive attack in the United States . For the Adenauer era is a monument to the open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a monumental lesson that there is still no economic substitute for common sense .                     