@@717501

txt WASHINGTON , Nov . President Eisenhower pledged tonight a continuing drive to establish " a just and durable peace " despite the failure of the Foreign Ministers ' Conference in Geneva . The President 's promise was read by Secretary of State Dulles in a nation-wide television and radio broadcast report on the conference . Mr. Dulles himself took a fairly optimistic attitude toward the Geneva results and emphasized that his views were shared , specifically and in general , by the President . The Secretary said that the Geneva setback did not bring an increase in the danger of a viorld war ; that there probably would not be a reversion to the harsh tactics of the " cold war " ; that some measure of the Geneva spirit of ? the Big Four heads-of-government conference in July had been preserved , and that further negotiations . would be held with the Soviet Union . Eisenhower Backs Dunes President Eisenhower , said the Secretary , " authorizes me to say that he fully shares the evaluation which I have made of the Geneva conference and of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then read a statement the President had made to him at a conference in Gettysburg this morning . The President 's statement was : " I know that no setback , no obstacle to progress will ever deter this Government and our people from the great effort to establish a just and durable peace . Success may be long in coming , but there is no temporal force so capable of helping achieve it as the strength , the might , the spirit of 165,000,000 free Americans . In striving toward this shining goal , this country will never admit defeat . " Mr. Dulles sought to answer five basic questions about the Geneva conference in his talk : Whether the spirit of Geneva had been killed , whether the war risk had increased , whether the " cold war " would be resumed , whether the United States would have to revise its military security program and whether the conference meant an end to negotia. tions with the Soviet Union . On each of these key questions the Secretary found some cause for hope and optimism . Recent Parley Called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had felt that the real test of the spirit of Geneva would come in the Foreign Ministers ' Confernice . . In the Secretary 's opinion , the Soviet Union demonstrated at 3eneva that it was still interasted in " at least the appearance , f cooperative relations with the VVestern nations . " But he said Moscow was not ready to pay : he price for creating the basic . londitions for a secure world peace . However , the Soviet Union foes not seem to wish to revert o the practice of threats and nvective and thus " in that re ; pect " the spirit of Geneva sur7ives , Mr. Dulles declared . On the question of war , Mr. Dulles recalled President Eiseniower 's statement that the leads-of-government conference lad reduced the prospects of Ten war . Mr. Dulles said " noth. ng that happened at the For . sign Ministers ' Conference re . mires a change in that estinate . " The Secretary said that with . espect to the " cold war " there vere " sharp continuing differaces " between the Soviet Govnunent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Unitd States would not " resort to , iolence " or " the use of hatred aid perversion of truth which ire characteristic of war . " It is the purpose of the United // , States to " continue to seek friendship and understanding with the Russian people as a whole . " " The ' cold war ' in the sense of peaceful competition will inevitably go on . " he declared . " Moreover , we must assume that the Soviet Union will continue its efforts by means short of war to make its system prevail as it has done in the past . " However , he hoped that " this competition will not entail all the same hostility and animosity which so defiled the relations between us in the past . " Mr. Dulles , himself , gave an example of the new spirit by refraining from any acrimonious remarks about the Soviet Government or Vyacheslav M. Molotov , Soviet Foreign Minister . His address was temperate and iektrained. 5str . Dulles was uneguivooel in his assurance that the Geneva results required no reappraisal of United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lowered our guard on the basis of Soviet promises and did not do so because of the summit conference . " he said . " Hence the outcome of the Geneva conference does not require us to alter the general scope of our programs . Their general order of magnitude can remain as planned . " He promised that neither the President nor he saw the Geneva conference as the end of negotiations with the Soviet Union . Mr. Dulles suggested that positive results in Geneva were not achieved because the Soviet Union was not willing to " face up concretely to the cost of achieving the larger results which it says it wants in terms of European security , disarmament , and increased contacts between East and West . " However , he said the Soviet leaders prided themselveaon being realists . He suggested that by maintaining Western strength and unity the Soviet leaders could be made to see that they had a real interest in accepting the proposals the West had offered to them . Mr. Dulles was not willing to accept any suggestion that the Geneva discussions were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of achieving any settlements were fully realized before the discussions began and that while no positive accomplishment had been attained at least the nature of the Soviet position had been effectively illuminated . On the key question of Germany Mr. Dulles reiterated the thesis he had expressed in Geneva that the Soviet Union was unalterably opposed to free elections in Germany , under any terms , because of fear that the election would go against it . Mr. Dulles said that the Soviet Union had demonstrated that it was not willing to relinquish its hold on East Germany even for the sake of obtaining European security . The Secretary said that both the East and the West " showed an eager desire to bring diva limitation of armament " tU , it that agreement was not possible because the Soviet Union " does not attach the importance which we do to inspection and control . " He doubted the Soviet leaders would agreed at present to adequate inspection and control , " which , if it is adequate . would open up their society , which " is still largely based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attributed by Mr. Dulles to the unwillingness of Soviet leaders " after a generation of fanatic indoctrination " to loosen " their existing thought ' controls to permit of freeer contacts with the free world . " Mr. Dulles said that a serious effort was made to agree to all 1 these questions with the Soviet ' Union but that the United States was not willing to make agreements that " were really meaningless . " " So when the Soviet Union showed itself unwilling to negotiate seriously on this basis we came away without agreement , " he added . He said any other course would have given an " illusion of a meeting of minds when none , in fact existed . "                     