@@713497

txt Letters to The Times HERBERT PELL.CHARLES L. BLACK Jr.EUGENE H. DOOMAN . Letters to The Times Leading a Free World Survival of Civilization Said to Depend on Era of Peace The writer of the following letter , formerly a member of Congress and state Chairman for the Democratic party , served as Minister to Portugal and as the American member of the U. N. Commission for Investigation of War Crimes . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I am for peace . I am for minding our own business . I am particularly opposed to a policy which boils down to an effort to impose American ideas and customs on other nations . This does not mean that we should not recognize the duties and responsibilities of our position . We must properly understand the situation of the United States . This country is the leader of the free world , which is a very different thing from being the free leader of the world . We are the first of a group of associates . We can not act as the master of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dominator of satellites . The nations on our side are weaker and poorer than we are , either because they are smaller or because they have suffered more , but they are not slaves , servants or sycophants ; they are free nations and can be led by their willing consent or not at all . We can not treat them as tools to be broken in our interest . When we assume the burden of leadership we assume at the same time a responsibility for the interest of those whom we lead . We can not offend their conscience or sacrifice them for our own gain . Economic Survival Intelligently we must recognize that the United States can not be alone in the world .. It can not long remain'prosperous in a company of ruined nations . So much is obvious . For a good many years to come the core of individualist economy  --  if that economy is to survive at all  --  must be a prosperous United States . It is manifest that we can not as a nation continue as the leader and the bulwark of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condition of mankind if we persist in a policy of military adventure or turn ourselves into an armed camp . If the United States is to be the first nation of the future , if we are entering on the " American Century , " let us hope and do what we can to make it so that the period of our leadership will be a period of peace , amity and prosperity , rather than a time of subordination for the world under the rule of a people themselves oppressed by the tools of their dominance . Peace is the only possible base for our civilization . It was built on peace , and without peace it will die . War will ineluctably end the customs and the outlook and the way of life , the ideals and the national purposes which we inherited front our fathers to be held as a sacred trust for our children . Peace is not always easy to maintain ; at the present moment its maintenance is , and will be for some time , extremely difficult . As Governor Dewey once said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Twice in our time we have seen that total war ( and there really is no other kind possible ) decides nothing , settles nothing , answers nothing and leads to nothing . Winner and loser , both are vanquished . Is there a single nation on earth that got , by any imaginable system of accounting , a net gain out of either of the two wars we have lived through ? Today , does any sane person believe that a conflict with Russia will mean anything but mutual destruction and ruin ? Do we hope to overrun Russia as Germany was overrun and occupy it as Germany was occupied , and then build it again , as we are doing in Germany and Japan , into something very like what it was before ? What do we plan to do with a victory ? It is manifest that a war with Russia will end in a collapse of common exhaustion . The representatives of a shattered Russia will meet the emissaries of a worn and exhausted United States and devise a means by which both can survive without continuing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world who imagines any other result possible ? The real difficulty lies in the fact that the negotiators on both sides fear disapproval by the politicians at home . I do not know how it is in Russia , but in the United States today every person who dares to express the obvious fact that compromise is better than the best conceivable result of any possible war  --  which is the real belief of thinking Americans  --  finds himself attacked and stabbed on all sides by men sitting safely in public offices , who know very well that come what may they will be safe from any enemy . Opponents of Compromise Here , there and everywhere you hear them shouting against compromise , calling the world to witness that their only desire is to shoulder a musket and face the wicked foe . It is only the superior quality of their patriotism that prevents them from selfishly indulging this wish , They must for the good of the nation remain in public office while they cheer on the envied heroes . They have the effrontery to attack as cowards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thing is contemptible . How much courage does it take for a Congressman or a Senator to yell for blood ? Does a District Attorney show a high quality of bravery when ' he howls against compromise ? Right or wrong , no question of courage is involved . How much courage does anyone think it would take for me , sixty-six years old , living on an ample income quietly in the country , to clamor for gore , to demand the sacrifice of a million men forty years younger than I am and then end my heroic address with a bitter note of regret that my years or my grapevines prevented me from joining the brave boys whom I envy . Such words do not come from the mouths of heroes or of patriots but from the lips of self-seeking politicians hoping to ride into office on a wave of excitement that will conceal their own shortcomings . I have been in politics for forty years . I was a member of Congress ten years before the oldest soldier drafted was born , and I know . Most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? that 's all . Twenty-five years ago thousands of American politicians attacked the Catholics to get the Klan vote . Today they follow McCarthy . Twenty years ago they said as they drank their bootleg liquor , " There 's one more election in Prohibition . " Today safe behind desks they think that war and hatred will keep their snouts ' in the public trough in 1952 . It 's as simple as that . I am for peace . I am on the side of the angels of God who sang " Peace on earth , good will to men . " They were not popular with those who filled the Inn and crowded Mary into the stables , but they were right all the same . Why not negotiate now , while the young men are still alive ? HERBERT PELL . Hopewell Junction , N. Y. , Jan. 10,1951 . Indian Tribe Counsels Regulations Providing Control of Legal Contracts Protested , The writer of the following letter is chairman of the legal committee of the Association on American Indian Affairs , Inc . To THE EDITOR @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the American Indian touches the honor of the United States as do few other national obligations . The Indian can not have justice from the tribunals whose duty it is to give it to him if he is denied the right which a thousand years of history have shown to be the key to all other rights under law  --  the right of representation by legal counsel chosen by him and dealt with by him as his own . It is therefore to be deplored that the Indian Commissioner has recently promulgated certain regulations subjecting to the most detailed bureaucratic control contracts for legal services between reputable attorneys and Indian tribes , and imposing , as a condition to bureau " approval , " conformity of such contracts to an elaborate set of arbitrary norms that seem good to the Commissioner rather than to the people concerned . These regulations , set out in a departmental memorandum of Nov. 9 , 1950 , are a long step backward toward a well-forgotten paternalism in Indian affairs . Revocation Urged This deeply regressive step has been attacked by representatives of the Indians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has recently joined in a memorandum to the Secretary of the Interior , urging him to disapprove and revoke the new regulations , on the ground that they exceed the statutory authority of the Commissioner , nullify powers granted to the tribes under the Indian Reorganization Act , and transgress the constitutional right to freely chosen and independent counsel . Wrong in principle , they inevitably go wrong in detail . Most shocking is the provision that the bureau is to judge of the tribe 's need and ability to pay for legal services . Provision for favoring . " looal " over Washington counsel ignores the facts that much Indian legal work is centered in Washington , that many specialists in Indian law ( unknown ground to the average general lawyer ) are consequently located there , and that " local " attorneys are precisely the ones most likely to be embarrassed by local sentiment or interest adverse to Indians . Commissioner 's Powers Under these rules , the Commissioner must be given the power to terminate , without cause ( though with tribal " consent " ) , all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be forced to submit to the bureau elaborate data on himself . If he has a large Indian business ( the usual consequence of giving satisfaction ) he is to be investigated with especial thoroughness , with a view to determining whether the tribe should be forced to take its business to some lawyer whose merits have not placed him in the position of enjoying a large Indian practice . When success is a suspicious circumstance , when bureau rather than client must be satisfied as to competence , and when a federal official may ( with " approval " from a tribe under his own jurisdiction ) end the contract without cause , only patient altruism will induce the independent and self-respecting attorney to take employment . It must be kept in mind that tribes often require legal help to vindicate some position adverse to the Indian Bureau itself . Nothing could be more inapt to the settlement of such conflicts strictly according to law than empowering one party to police the access of the other to the means of justice . CHARLES L. BLACK Jr . New York , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Our Far East Policy ; Occupation Program Appraised The writer of the following letter served for many years in Japan in the United States Foreign Service . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : May I say that neither your editorial , " Japanese Rearmament , " in the Jan. 3 issue of THE TIMES , nor the interesting dispatch on the same subject from your Tokyo correspondent published on Jan. 7 throws light on the reasoss for the reluctance of the Japanese to rearm . Perhaps I should except the implications rising out of Lindesay Parrott 's reference to the inability of the Japanese to stand a military budget and to their unwillingness " to provide nothing more than raw human manpower in the Western cause . " Both you and Mr. Parrott have overlooked several other considerations which bear heavily on the reluctance of the Japanese to rearm in fact even though they may have no alternative but to accept rearmament in principle . Prime Minister Yoshida is , of course , speaking for the vast majority of his countrymen when he affirms in the language @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the side of the free world . " His statement must be read , however , within a framework of certain realities . Economic Problems With its colonies lost and with a major part of its industrial equipment destroyed or obsolete , Japan is faced by the problem of organizing an economy capable of sustaining a population larger by about ten million than before the war ? a problem which if ' unresolved will extinguish national existence as conclusively as being conquered by Russia . It is de jure still in a state of war with virtually every other nation , and it can make no permanent progress toward resolving this problem until the terms on which it is to reenter the comity of nations are laid down through treaties or some other device to restore normal relations . It is , therefore , one thing for Japan to be associated in some form of sympathetic understanding with the free world . But it would be quite another matter to commit itself in a potentially hostile sense against two powerful and close neighbors  --  China and the Soviet Union . Another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been practiced during the past few years . Most notable is our miscalculation of the true character and aims of Soviet policy which has so largely contributed toward the present tragic posture of affairs , and by our disastrous program in the Far East , which some would dignify as ' ' policy . " Soviet Expansion Nothing has for so long , so consistently and so materially influenced the shaping of Japanese external policy as the continuing growth of Russian power in East Asia during the past two hundred years . The consequences of our miscalculation of the aims and purposes of Soviet policy are therefore cause for the Japanese to question the wisdom of becoming conclusively involved at this grave conjuncture on the side of a Power which can be diverted by opportunism or expediency from the high principles that determined American foreign policy for more than a century , and whose future actions are therefore unpredictable . Without citing the Truman policy statement on China of December , 1945 , and the cases of Korea and Formosa , the transfer under American pressure by China to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the eventual victory of the Chinese Communists , has alone been enough to create Japanese skepticism over the continuity of American policy in the Far East . Even General 's invitation to the Japanese to rearm is also an invitation for them to revise , abolish or circumvent the renunciation of armament clause in their new Constitution written by Americans and adopted under American direction . Again , the need for American military bases in Japan and elsewhere in the Western Pacific in order to secure the defenses of the United States has been heavily underscored . But there has been no effort to manfest an ethical basis for the maintenance of the American position in East Asia or by actions to supply encouragement for the development of moral forces within each of the Asiatic peoples to support the cause of democracy . Change Under Occupation I can touch here on only one aspect of that broad subject , and that is , of course , the wholly materialistic character of the social revolution we have been seeking to bring about in Japan under our military occupation . Without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are several things which need to be done without delay to prevent further deterioration of the American position in Japan . The first of these is to compromise no principle involved in the problem of ' Chinese Communist aggression , for , among other reasons , a composition with the Communists to the prejudice of the system9of collective security would extinguish any Japanese will to rearm . The second is to move toward the restoration of peace between the  --  United States either by treaty or by joint resolution of Congress , giving Japan freedom , with due regard to the needs of the common security , to shape its Mil future . And the third is to revise the Naturalization Act to permit the entry of Japanese into the United States and thus remove an unjust and wholly illadvised piece of discrimination , which has been a focal point of infection for the past quarter century EUGENE H. DOOMAN . Litchfield , Conn. , Jan. 7 , 1951.                     