@@714269

txt Gen. Eisenhower arrived in Washington tonight to tell President Truman , among other things , that the rearming of western Europe against soviet communism is lagging and must be accelerated rapidly . Eisenhower , supreme North Atlantic treaty forces commander in Europe , arrived here by plane early tonight from Fort Knox , Ky. , where he had been visiting his son and family . As he has done since arriving in the United States yesterday from his headquarters near Paris , Eisenhower denied that his visit to Washington had anything to do with politics . - " I am here tor one purpose only ? to talk military affairs with my superiors in the Pentagon and else1 where in Washington , " he told reporters . He and Mrs. Eisenhower were I met at the airport by Defense Secretary Lovett , Army Secretary Pace , Gen. Bradley , Gen. Collins , and their wives . Not in Touch with Duff In answer to a question about whether he had been in touch with Sen. Duff R. , Pa. , one of the most active promoters of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the senator , " directly or indirectly " for many months . Eisenhower left the airport to visit " members of the family " here and then to spend the night at a hotel . Tomorrow morning Eisenhower will meet with Lovett , the secretaries of the army , the navy , and the air force and the joint chiefs of staff at the Pentagon . Later in the day he will confer at a luncheon at Blair House with President Truman , Lovett , and State Undersecretary Webb . After that , or possibly early Tuesday , Eisenhower will go to the Pentagon again for a meeting with the North Atlantic Treaty organization standing group , representing the military chiefs of the United States , Britain , and France . Returns to Paris Tuesday Eisenhower plans to return to Paris Tuesday , a day earlier than originally scheduled . The change from the original schedule , which called for a private meeting with President Truman , was announced , late today . Despite assertions by both the White House and Eisenhower that the conferences will involve solely problems of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since reaching the United States that he has political ambitions , the furor of speculation regarding the general 's potentialities as a candidate in the 1952 Presidential election continued today . Tomorrow 's scheduled talks have done nothing to discredit an autheritative report that Mr. Truman is prepared ' personally to offer Eisenhower the Democratic Presidential nomination . It is reported also that Mr. Truman wants a positive statement from Eisenhower as to whether he entertains any Presidential ambitions or will renounce politics completely and continue in his job as allied commander in Europe . Denies Political Aspirations Eisenhower said yesterday , " I have never had any political aspirations , " but later refused to give a positive answer to the question of whether , " come what may , " he would not be a Presidential candidate nest year . Eisenhower 's evasion of this question has served to keep alive the possibility he is amenable to seeking the Presidency . Political observers here said today that if Eisenhower really has no political ambitions and no desire to become a candidate , he could kill all speculation once and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fame and issue a statefnent saying he would not accept if nominated and would not serve if elected . Regardless - of politics , it , is known that Eisenhower will present to the President and his advisers a report on the European rearmament program containing by the general 's own admission discouraging " as well as encouraging elements . Europe Arming Lags Eisenhower , it is said , will inform Mr. Truman that the arming of Europe against the threat of a Russian attack is lagging far behind schedule and must be speeded drastically . Eisenhower reportedly will urge Mr. Truman to adopt a new objective of increasing the flow of American arms to Europe to equip a rela'lively small , but compact and fully equipped , North Atlantic defense force of 30 divisions , instead of ccntinuing the present program at a slower pace which has as its goal about 80 divisions in Lurope by 1954 . The goal originally was 30 armed divisions by the end of 1951 , but as this year draws to a close the total of divisions ready for combat or nearly so is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the United States . Despite the man power and the milli8ns of dollars worth of arms and equipment contributed by the United States to the defense of Europe , Eisenhower reportedly will ask Mr. Truman to order this assistance increased substantially . Means Higher Arms Output A substantial expansion of military aid for Europe to arm new divisions quickly would mean increased arms production in this country , with a consequent hi ! , her cost to American taxpayers , and at least sonic cutting dnwn in the deliveries of arms and equipment to military forces in the United States . Informed sources said that whether Mr. Truman will accept Eisenhower 's recommendations , involving increased spending for military aid to Europe and higher taxes , is questionable .                     