@@718709

txt For a long time now Britain has ' been letting go of her empire . Now , as the White Paper released in London on Thursday explained , she has changed her concept of the proper way to defend the British Isles themselves . She has arrived at two basic conclusions : rirst that " the defense of Britain is possible only as part of the collective defense of the free world " ; second , that " there is at present no means of providing adequate protection for the people of this country against the consequences of an attack with nuclear weapons . " This is far more than the kind of " Recessional " Kipling had in mind when he wrote his famous verses . It . is not alone that India , Ceylon , Burma , Malaya and the rest are ? no longer imperially controlled . London herself , the worldshadowing metropolis that grew up around the ancient little walled city , has in a manner abdicated . This abdication , as most of the British newspapers seem to believe ; arises from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of strength that the people of Britain possess . Britain has discovered that her " influence in the world depends first and foremost on the health of her internal economy and the success of her export trade . " She has learned in a hard school that " garrisons for British colonies and protectorates make substantial demands on military manpower , " and she has decided to " make substantial reductions in these garrisons wherever practicable . " She has given up the idea that there can be total preparedness and total security . Britain has in fact decided , on the basis of what is in the White Paper , that any future major war will require atomic weapons and that there will he a decreasing demand for ground troops and for old-fashioned weapons and methods . She will not disarm . Indeed , she will have more fire power in a new and ghastly form than she has ever had at any time in her history . She will cut the manpower of her Army of the Rhine by a third ; the numerical strength of her air force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next five years she hopes to reduce the strength of her armed services from 690.000 to 375,000 . She hopes to give up compulsory service by 1960 . She will withdraw the battalion she now has in Korea . She will retain some of the old outposts  --  holding Cyprus and East Africa , keeping a carrier group in the Indian Ocean  --  as Kipling said and as the White Paper repeats , " East of Suez . " She will still gar- ? rison Hong Kong and still base a naval force at Singapore . These are the insubstantial shadows of the old empire . What is substantial is the strategic use , possibly even the tactical use , of the atomic weapon . For us this new statement of British policy poses one of the most trying questions that we have had to answer since the end of the second World War . We might pick up some of the load Britain is now about to lay down , as we did a decade ago in Greece and Turkey under the Truman Doctrine . This will be difficult , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vast re= sources are strained by the requirements of defense . We might decide IA *glow Britain 's lead and prepare atiberately for an atomic war , with diminishing emphasis on other and more immediately expensive kinds of war . This is planned suicide ? suicide perhaps in a good cause , suicide in the defense of liberty , but still suicide . There is another alternative . That is to come to an understanding with Russia for a self-enforcing abolition of the atomic weapon , with which would have to go a large measure of disarmament in other weapons and a vast reduction in the number of men under arms . Could such an understanding actually be selfenforcing unless Red China was at least tacitly included ? To raise this question is to suggest the baffling nature of the dilemma in which we now find ourselves . We can not have faith in any unsupported promise made either by Russia or by Red China . There can be no effective system of inspection and control until the Iron Curtain is torn away . What Britain has done is to bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all-out war and a practicable peace system under which the struggle of ideologies and systems would certainly continue , but under which it would be impossible for a few madmen to destroy the world . We could view without too much sadness the last recession of Kipling 's empire if the old idea of empire , the practice of imperialism by any power , Russia included , were also to recede and vanish . The danger is suddenly increased and so is the opportunity . We hope Washington 's comment and its plans will he strong and simple .                     