@@716954

txt One of the most treasured of Christian documents , the oldest known New Testament in the language spoken by Christ Jesus and his disciples , has gone to the Library of Congress . A 51,500,000 , insurance policy covered the document during the 90-minute transfer from a downtown bank . The volume , believed to be more than 1,600 years old , will be kept in a vault at the Library of Congress until it goes on exhibition April 5 . The Testament is known as the Yonan Codex . For centuries it has been in the keeping of the Malek Yonan family , which came from Urmia , in northwestern Iran . Codex means a book form of manuscript as distinguished from the scroll form . L. Quincy Mumford , Librarian of Congress . said the Yonan Codex would bc the greatest possible addition to the library 's collection of Biblical texts . " This manuscript , so far as is known the world 's oldest complete New Testament in Aramaic-Syriac  --  the language that Christ Jesus and his disciples spoke  --  brings to Washington a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only in the ancient centers of civilization , " Mr. Mumford said . The manuscript was acquired from Norman M. Yonan , a member of the family which preserved it over the centuries , by the Aramaic Bible Foundation , a body specially organizedto buy and make appropriate use of the codex . No sale price has been announced . The Rev. William B. Adams of Washington , one of those responsible for the " emergence " of the codex , said he believes it will rival the Declaration of Independence as an attraction for visitors . " It has been evident as we talked and corresponded with scholars and clergymen that nothing short of ' pilgrimages ' will be undertaken by the Christian laity to view the codex , " the minister said . The vellum manuscript consists of 227 leaves about 7 by 9 inches . The writing is in black ink which has turned brownish in part , with the names of the various books in red ink . The handwriting is beautifully formed and uniform . apparently the work of a single scribe . The Malek Yonan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I. It stayed for a while in Iraq , then many members came to the United States , and the codex came with them . Mr. Yonan 's lawyer , Douglas L. Hatch , said the $1,500,000 insurance figure was arbitrary , since " the codex , in the true sense , is priceless . " The figure was decided upon , Mr. Hatch said , on the basis of the $511,250 sale price of the Greek Codex Sinaiticus to the British Museum in 1933 , the only major sale of a Biblical manuscript in recent times . Mr. Hatch said that document is only One of several Bible manuscripts in Greek , whereas the Yonan Codex is unique .                     