@@717420

txt Spectal. to Tile ' stew York Times . WASHINGTON , Oct . Secretary of State Dulles said today he expected to talk over the Middle Eastern situation with Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov of the Soviet Union at Geneva . Mr. Dulles ' held his last Washington news conference before the Big Four foreign ministers ' meeting on Oct. 27 . The Secretary of State recalled that he had raised twice with Mr. Molotov in New York Transcript of Mr. Dulles ' news conference on Page 10. last month the question of Communist arms shipments to Egypt . He hoped to " have more luck the third time , " Mr , Dulles remarked . It will be permissible for the Middle Eastern question to be placed on the Geneva agenda if all four foreign ministers agree , he added , but it is more likely to come up during the informal talks that are a by-product of all international conferences . Mr. Dulles , who flew to Denver later to review with President Eisenhower the Western programs and strategy for Geneva , took an optimistic line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in keeping with Vice President Richard M. Nixon:s New York speech last night to the effect that Geneva held more promise than any East-West conference of the last decade . These public statements and the privately expressed estimates of high Administration officials do not jibe . On German Unification Although the considered view within the Administration is-that the Soviet Union probably will not budge from its insistence on keeping Germany divided , Mr. Dulles said that he believed the conference would advance unification by bringing East and West " nearer together . " The Secretary of State said he based this conclusion on his own analysis , acknowledging that he had seen no indication of a more flexible Soviet stand on the German question . " I believe that there is a reasonable chance of some progress of a practical nature being made along the lines of the three items on our agenda , " he declared . The agenda , in addition to the question of German unification and European security , provides for discussions of disarmament and of measures to increase contacts between East and West . A reporter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with his own warnings and those of President Eisenhower that the Soviet position was fundamentally unchanged . Mr. Dulles said that he saw no conflict or inconsistency between these statements . Some persons , as a result of the heads // of-government conference last July , entertained hopes that " went beyond the practical possibilities " and consequently were now disillusioned , he said . Neither he nor the President had shared these " extreme hopes , " Mr. Dulles said , and the outlook to them seemed about as good as when they left the so-called summit meeting . The Secretary of State also touched on problems in other areas . He said he told V. K. Krishna Menon of India last Saturday that the United States , wanted to exhaust the possibilities of the current ambassadorial negotiations at Geneva before considering a conference at a higher level with Communistl China . Mr. Krishna Menon has urged direct talks between Mr , Dulles and Chou En-lai , Premier and Foreign Minister of the Peiping regime . Although Peiping has so far not fully carried out its promise to set free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Dulles said , the Gen-1 eva talks between Ambassador U. Alexis Johnson of the United States and Wang Ping-nan of Communist China have moved on to Item 2 on the agenda , " other practical matters " in dispute between the two governments agreement is not being carried out in good faith . Mr. Dulles said that Ambassador Johnson had raised with Mr. Wang . the question of Communist China 's renouncing the use of force without giving up its claim on Formosa and the coastal islands of Quemoy and Matsu . Ambassador Wang has taken up the issue of the United States trade embargo and has called for talks at a- higher level . It is hard to be certain of the effect that Egyptian arms purchases from Czechoslovakia will exert on the balance of military power in the area because the actual value of second-hand equipment tends to be uncertain , the Secretary declared . Mr. Dulles disclosed that he had modified his travel plane for this week-end and would fly to Rome for talks with leaders of the Italian Government about " common problems " before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign ministers next Monday and Tuesday preliminary to Geneva . He estimated that the Geneva meeting would last about three weeks . Mr. Dulles , who had been quoted by an official of the Veterans of Foreign Wars as having said that it would have been better if the delegation of Soviet agricultural officials had not been admitted to the United States , acknowledged that he felt " certain aspects " of the trip had been " undesirable . " He mentioned the " emotionalism " that had confronted the visitors at several points on their itinerary , evidently referring to anti-Soviet demonstrations in Minneapolis and . Detroit by Ukrainian groups . Such incidents , Mr. Dulles said , " might not give a very good impression back in the Soviet Union . " Before his departure for Denver , Mr. Dulles received a. report from - Eric Johnston , President Eisenhower 's special ambassador ; on the prospects for the Jordan River development plan . The Secretary of State declined to say whether he was encouraged about the prospects for cooperation of Israel and the Arab states on the water resources @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prospects are very good . " He added that the Arab countries had asked for more time to consider the plan , but that he had been assured this did not amount to a rejection .                     