@@719644

txt The initiative petition drive to expand curbs against public disability pension abuses is nearing the crucial Senate and House voting stage . Majority and minority reports from the Legislative Committee on Pensions and Old Age Assistance are to be filed tomorrow . The eight-member majority is opposing the initiative petition on the grounds that it " is aimed directly at veterans among the 185,000 public employees of the commonwealth " and that there are sufficient means in the present law to eliminate abuses . Roll Call Required The six-member minority claims in its report that " payment of a disability pension to one whose earning power is in actual tact fully restored is an unwarranted burden on the taxpayers and is morally , wrong . Disability pensions were never intended to be a bonus . " Roll-call votes are required under the state constitution in both branches . If the proposed legislation is rejected , sponsors can force a statewide referendum in November by filing 11,699 additional certified voter signatures . Results of the roll calls and the majority and minority reports would be inBeacon Hill Views @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ November election . Under the proposed bill corresponding reductions in disability pensions would be required when the total of disability pension and outside earnings exceeds the current salary of the position from which the person was retired for total and permanent'disability . Backers of the proposal have claimed that many persons have retired on questionable disability and then have worked at outside jobs paying as much or more than their former public positions and entailing as strenuous work . Particular abuses have been indicated on the part of some veterans , who have special pension privileges . That is the reason for the majority claim that the measure is aimed against veterans . In their report the majority , six Democrats and two Republicans , claimed " a large number of the disabilities incurred by our veterans were acquired in the armed services in defense of our country and in our opinion it would be unjust and morally wrong to take from our veterans those rights and privileges that their sufferings have earned for them in combat . " Built-In ' Claims On the other hand , opponents of the legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absolute preference in civil service posts and thus have carried into state , county , and municipal service " built-in " disability claims . Calling attention to the 1957 act which applies the proposed curb against public employees going on disability pensions after Dec. 21 , 1957 , the majority argued the 1957 act " goes far enough in correcting those abuses that allegedly have been found in the disability clauses of the retirement system . " It also argued that the existing law contains provisions to correct abuses and to require a person to return to his public post , upon determination by the retiring authority after medical reexamination . The five Republicans and one Democrat signing the minority report stated that ; " the 1957 Legislature put a limitation on disability pensions in the case of those retiring after Dec. 21 , 1957 . We believe that the same rule should be extended to those who arc retired for disability prior to Dec. 21 , 1957 , and whose earning power is in actual fact fully restored . We believe that all state , municipal , and county employees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe that disability pensions were intended to be a substitute for the loss of salary or wages which the disability has caused . " If , however , the employee has found new employment at no loss of salary or wages , the need for the disability pension is gone . . " We believe that the rising cost of government demands that every unnecessary and unjustified burden on the taxpayer be eliminated . This must be done in the interest of the many thousands of state , municipal , and county employees who would be seriously harmed if our retirement and pension system  --  admittedly one of the most generous in the nation ? is destroyed through abuses . " Finally , we place great weight on the fact that some 115,000 citizens signed the initiative petition ' asking to have H2467 adopted and because the press of the state is practically unanimous in support of the bill . "                     