@@713434

txt Acheson , Top Aides Decide To Press for Action in U. N. Special ta THE Ntw Yoax WASHINGTON , Dec. ** of State Dean Acheson conferred today with the principal United States representatives in the United Nations on how to enlist the aid of the General Assembly in getting the Chinese Communist army out of Korea . Mr. Acheson met in his office with Warren R. Austin , chief United States delegate to the United Nations , and Mr. Austin 's deputy , Ernest A. Gross , whom he had called from Lake Success . in a two-hour meeting this morning , the policy group decided to press for a special meeting of the General Assembly on Monday , and there to present the Security Council resolution that called on the Chinese Communists to withdraw . This resolution was vetoed Thursday by the Soviet Union in the Security Council . One responsible official observed that " certain amendments to the Security Council resolution will be offered . " This was interpreted by other officials as meaning that an attempt will be ? made to stiffen the resolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an aggressor . All indications were , however , that the United States would not press at this time for an amendment authorizing Gen. Douglas to bomb the Chinese lines ' of supply in Manchuria . For the time being , the Chinese Reds have enough men pressing the United Nations forces inside Korea to occupy all the planes and bombs at General 's disposal . Thus the question of bombing Communist China 's lines of supply across the border in Manchuria is not so relevant as it was before the Reds began their counter-offensive . Furthermore , before any such mote as attacking Red China itself is brought up in the United Nations , Secretary Acheson wants to discuss the matter with Prime Min // ister Attlee of Britain , who is coming here Monday . In the conference with Mr. Acheson this morning were Under Secretary of State James E. Webb , H. Freeman Mathews , Ambassador-at-large Philip Jessup , Assistant Secretary Dean Rusk , director of Far Eastern Affairs ; Assistant Secretary John D. Hickerson , United Nations policy chief ; Assistant Secretary Edward Barrett/ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chief of Mr. Acheson 's policy planning staff . After the meeting a communiqu ? was issued , which said nothing new . In the afternoon , Mr. Acheson conferred by telephone with Robert A. Lovett , Deputy Secretary of Defense on the military situation in Korea . For the time being , it is realized here , all diplomatic moves depend on the ability of the United Nations army to stabilize a line and stop the aggressors . ? ? Peipmg Refusal Expected By A. M. ROSENTHAL Special to THE Naw YORK Tuns . LAKE SUCCESS , Dec. 2 ? The Western powers probably will ask the United Nations G , eneral Assembly to call for a withdrawal of Chinese Communist troops from Korea , but they have reached no decision on the steps to be taken if Peiping rejects the demand . Spokesmen for the United States and Britain said that delegation conferences on United Nations action in the Korean war had centered on the , wording of a withdrawal request similar to the resolution vetoed Thursday in the Security Council by the Soviet Union . Diplomats said there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinese Communist troops from Korea would result in any change of heart on the part of the Peiping Government . But there was no answer to the question of what the United Nations would do when it came face to face with another act of defiance by the Chinese Communists . An editorial in the official Peiping organ of the Chinese Communist party served notice that Red China had no intention of calling off its offensive in Korea . The paper also demanded military training for all Chinese youths between the ages of 17 and 25 . Delegation opinion was that the action the Assembly might take after the withdrawal demand was rejected would depend entirely on the extent of agreement among the United States , Britain and France . It was believed that the problem of what steps to recommend to the United Nations would form a major part of next week 's talks between President Truman and Prime Minister Attlee of Britain . Although there was no decision , there was plenty of unofficial talk on what course the General Assembly might be asked to take after a withdrawal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the strongest action the Assembly might take  --  and nobody wanted to guess how the vote would run - would be an outright condemnation of the Chinese Communists as aggressors and the invocation of collective military action against Peiping . India , however , was reported to favor asking the United Nations forces and the Chinese Communists to agree to a cease-fire and then start negotiations , on withdrawal and lines of demarcation . While the United . Nations marked time waiting for the Western powers to agree and take the lead , preparations were made for new consultations with the Chinese Communists . The Peiping delegation 's liaison man , Chen Chiao , paid a surprise visit to Flushing Meadow and talked with Secretary General Trygve Lie and his executive assistant ; Andrew Cordier . Mr. Chen said the talk was of " trivial matters . " But Mr. Cordier said later that there was " some planning done " and that Mr. Lie would meet again next week with Wu Hsiu-chuan , chief of the Communist delegation . Mr. Lie met yesterday with the Chinese delegate at the Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the first to make contact with the Chinese Communists yesterday , is expected to hold more conferences with them . Mrs. Vi Jaya Lakshmi Pandit , Indian Ambassador to Washington , is scheduled to meet with Mr. Wu early next week and Sir Senegal N. Rau , chief of the Indian delegation , may have another meeting with him . - Meanwhile , delegates discussed the possibility of keeping the General Assembly in session because of the world crisis . One plan suggested was that the Assembly recess in mid-December if its work load was finished and empower the president , Nasrollah , Entezam of Iran , to call it back into session whenever the situation demanded . Two other possibilities were : To split the session in two , with the second half to come in late winter or spring ; or to allow all delegates to go home in mid-December except those assigned to the Political and Security Committee .                     