@@720415

txt The heavy outflow of gold from the United States has resumed . The situation has caused some concern , though not alarm , among American and international financial officials . In the last two weeks , the United States has lost $179 , - 000,000 in gold , or more than in the entire first quarter of the year . Last year , the United States suffered its biggest gold outflow ever at $2,300,000,000 . The reason is that the United I States is running a deficit in its transactions with the rest of th. : world . The main reason for the deficit is that American exports have remained sluggish while imports have been strong . 20 Billion Gold Stock The United States has such a huge stock of gold  --  about $20 , - 300,000,000 ? that it can withstand a deficit in its international balance of payments without much strain . But the deficit can not continue indefinitely without trouble . The results have led some authoritative international finanmai experts to revise their opinlions about the outlook for this year . Some now feel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavy loser of gold , though they had earlier thought the balance this year would right itself . The continued sluggishness of United States exports has led more and more officials to take seriously the problem of American goods " pricing themselves out of world markets , " though the statistics : SO far give little support to this idea . Steel Negotiations Watched In any case , some major figures in the international financial world , have concluded that it is imperative that the United States not allow any resumption of inflation , on interna- ; tional payments grounds alone . Some believe that the steel settlement this summer will have a major bearing on the situation , for both practical and psychological reasons . The gold outflow has also reinforced the determination within the Government to use the Government 's fiscal and monetary weapons ? balanced budgets and " tight money " ? to prevent renewed inflation . Although precise figures are not available , there is some evidence that the sudden resumption of gold departure in April can be accounted for by a special situation related to Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their ordinary transactions . But they apparently decided to leave their gains in dollar form , rather than convert the dollars into gold , in order to build up // the necessary balance to repay $200,000,000 to the International Monetary Fund in March . That payment was made . Thus any further gains in reserves by the British were probably converted promptly into gold , according to traditional British custom . That is what probably happened in April to account for a large part of the outflow of gold in that month . However , this explanation really means only that the slowing of the outflow of gold in the first three months of the year was " artificial . " That is , the United States balance of , payments was still strongly in deficit , but that for a special reason the gold figures slid not show it . Probably the major hope of those who believe the balance of payments will soon improve is that measures to promote economic expansion in Europe and Britain will soon take hold and that Europe will then begin taking more imports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mild recession . Virtually all governments have lowered ' interest rates and taken other measures to spur demand . The interest rate differential has high rates in New York and lower rates in London and Amsterdam and Frankfurt .. , It should also help the United States balance if the differential becomes great enough . Short-term funds flow to the money center where the best interest yields are available . Such a flow into New York has the same effect on the United States payments balance as an equivalent amount of exports of goods . But only a pick-up in United States exports , it is believed here . will provide any lasting solution to the problem . More and more it is believed that the future of exports will depend in piajor degree on the future of the United States price level .                     