@@716274

txt Democratic leaders are seriously considering incorporating a plank favoring the legalization of bingo and similar petty gambling games into their state platform this fall . The possibility has been discussed at several recent meetings of Richard H. Balch , state chairman ; Carmine G. DeSapio , leader of Tammany and national committeeman , and Mayor Wagner . Gov . Robert B. Meyner of New Jersey , where bingo Vas legalized at a referendum last fall , sat in on one such conference . To help in reaching a final decision on the subject , the Democratic State Committee has engaged several private poll-taking organizations to make surveys of the attitudes of voters on legalizing bingo in a number of reprentative districts . These will be completed well in advance of the meeting of the Democratic state convention in New York next September . In making their surveys , the poll-taking organizations have been instructed to emphasize that arly legalization of bingo , raffles or similar activities would be surrounded by adequate safeguards to keep out professional gamblers . New Jersey System Favored Democrats who have been urging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a pattern for New York legislation . ' Under - the New Jersey law , only charitable , religious , veterans , fraternal and similar organizations operating in the broad field of philanthropy can obtain licenses to conduct bingo . Moreover , they must satisfy a special licensing commission that none of the profits are going to professionals . While Democratic officials , legislators and party officials will be canvassed for their views on legalization during the summer months , no effort will be made to reach a final decision on inclusion of such a plank in the state platform until the state convention meets in New York on Sept. 21 , 22 and 23 . A few small preliminary polls that have been taken by Democratic groups in recent months have made a strong impression on party leaders . These showed that voters generally favored legalization of bingo , by margins of better than two to one and in some cases by as much as four to one . One reason Governor Meyner was included in the conferences was a feeling that Democratic support of legalized bingo contributed to his New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bingo held in conec1tion with last fall 's elections in New Jersey the margin in favor was better than two to one . In only one county  --  Cumberlandof the twenty-one in the state was there an adverse vote . Since taking office , Governor Meyner has been concerned with devising the safeguards for keeping out professional gamblers that have been incorporated into the New eJrsey law . In the discussions a number of political advantages in declaring for legalized bingo were suggested . One was that it would raise a popular issue that would bring gut many potentially Democratic voters who otherwise might stay at home . A second was that it might win back to the Democratic cause a substantial number of voters who had been backing Republican candidates in state and national elections in recent , years . A third potential advantage of such a plank , according to those who favor it , was that it would compel Governor Dewey , if he was the Republican candidate , either to reverse the position he has taken on the question or to come out in opposition to legalized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Democrats , according to one view . Former Mayor William O'Dwyer urged the legalization of bingo during the legislative session of 1950 . His proposal was followed by the introduction of a large batch of Democratic bills to carry out his suggestion . It also brought from Governor Dewey a statement denouncing the recommendation as immoral and indecent . An amendment to the state Constitution would be required to make bingo completely legal . Section 9 of Article One of the present Constitution outlaws all kinds of gambling except parimutuel betting on horse races . A proposed amendment requires approval by two sessions of the Legislature , separated by a general legislative election , and rat ' ification by the voters in a referendum . It could not become effective before Jan , 1 , 1958 , at the earliest . But a partial legalization could be achieved by law as was done in the case of betting on horse races before the passage of the pari-mutuel amendment . In that instance the Legislature , by law , eliminated the penalty for betting on horse races if the betting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law could be enacted at a single session of the Legislature with the approval of the Governor .                     