@@717714

txt Premier Guy Mollet took a strong stand in favor of his social welfare program tonight despite a considerable split on the subject between himself and Pierre MendesFrance , his major political ally . M. Mollet , leader of the French Socialist party , said in a radio talk that his Government I intended to push through measI ures in favor of the working I class . They call for increasing paid vacation time to three weeks , reducing wage differentials from one section of the country to another and establishing an old-age pension fund . The Premier added , however , that he intended to bar inflation and devaluation as well as social injustice and that his action would be " compatible with a rigorous defense of the currency . " He thus appeared to be taking note of serious objections raised by M. Mendes-France , a Minister of State Without Portfolio , and leader of the Radical party of the Republican Front coalition Government . These objections came into the open today with publication of a letter sent in the name of M. Mendes-France to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Differences Appear The letter confirmed reports that M. Mendes-France had refused M. Mollet 's request to take over the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs because he could not accept what he thought would be the financial and economic consequences of the Socialists ' social program . The divergence on economic questions appears to be one among several that have arisen between Premier Mollet and M. Mendes-France . Not only is the support for the coalition from other groups in the National Assembly fragile , but the coalition is threatened from within . Other points have arisen to hurt cohesion . The former Premier is said to have preferred a firmer and more urgent political program in Algeria than Mollet appeared willing to entertain . Inversely , the Radicals are less in a hurry to bring up the divisive question of state aid to Roman Catholic schools than are most Socialists . The latter , with the Communists , are backing a move to end such aid and are opposed by the Popular Republicans . As quoted here , M. MendesFrance 's letter said in part : " Whether it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the balance of payments , the present economic conjuncture is serious . The prospects , which the preceding Government tried to camouflage , confirm the necessity of an energetic and urgent effort to put things into order . " The letter added that the Radical party did not oppose social reforms " but there would be an evident danger if the reforms were not preceded or , in any case , accompanied by measures designed to prevent a threatening increase in prices and to improve noticeably the balance of the treasury and of foreign accounts . " The letter continued : " M. Mendes-France , not having succeeded in getting his views shared by his Socialist colleagues , found it impossible for him to assume the responsibility of the financial and economic policy of the Government . " M. Mollet said tonight that the vacation bill would come up for debate in the National Assembly next week and would apply to all wage earners . He said it would be possible to have the extra week fall during the slack seasons in the various economic branches . Wage differentials will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he promised , will be " substantial . " Wage differences are based on cost-of-living zones that vary from one part of France to another . ' New Revenues ' Envisaged M. Mollet said the old-age fund , to which he attached the most importance , would be financed by budgetary economies and " new revenues . " ? M. Mend  --  s-France has been joined in hostility to the Socialist , program by financial and business interests . The head . of the French Employers Association warned Albert Gazier , the Socialist Minister of Social Affairs ( Labor ) , yesterday that it was important not to increase production costs because this would imperil the " precarious " balance of the economy . M. Mendes-France 's letter gave details of the negotiations that led to formation of the Cabinet and brought up the still rankling question of M. Mollet 's refusal to give M. Mend  --  sFrance the Ministry of Foreign Affairs . The letter asserted that both men had agreed that whichever one was named Premier would , give the other a free choice of his Cabinet post . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not wish to alienate the Populai ? Republicans , who do not like M. Men , des-France . It was reported also that , as an ardent advocate of European integration he wished to have someone in the Foreign Ministry more favorable to alienate the Popular Republito the cause of European integration than his Radical associate appeared to . be . Christian Pineau , a Socialist , was finally chosen .                     