@@713192

txt If you have a domestic employe in your home , you may be mailing the government a check every three months , starting about next April . The check will be for social security taxes . , President Truman is expected to sign the new social security bill which congress passed Thursday . If he does , millions of new people will come into the social security system Jan. 1 and will become eligible for old age pensions and survivors ' benefits . They also will pay social security taxes , and so will their employers . This will bring some new tax collecting problems . Even Baby Sitters Affected One of these problems will involve an estimated one million regularly employed household domestics  --  maids , c o o k s , laundresses , yardmen , butlers , even perhaps a few baby sitters . As in the case of most others under social security , an amount equal to 3 per cent of their wages must be paid to the government in taxes . Half of this , or 11/2 per cent , . may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other 11/2 per cent must be supplied by the employer . The social security law also permits an employer , if he wishes , to pay the 3 per cent out of his own pocket . In any case , the employer Is responsible for delivering the amount to the tax collectors . May Pay Quarterly How will the housewife go about delivering this money ? The federal security agency and the internal revenue bureau would not disclose the method that will be used to collect the tax on domestics . They are working on procedure now and said they were n't ready to announce details . A reasonable assumption is that the housewife will pay the taxes quarterly , as do companies which pay social security taxes on workers . For many years , those who favored inclusion of domestics in social security have debated the best method of collection . Stamp Book Considered Two main suggestions were made , Cute was a " stamp book " plan . The employer would buy stamps from the government  --  thus , in effect , paying the taxes in advance . Each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be pasted in the book , and the completed book would be sent to the government for its records . The other suggestion was for the ernyloyer to send the money to the government at regular intervals along with a form giving the necessary information . Experts who are familiar with social security matters are guessing that the second method will be adopted . They said social security authorities have had the Fewer ever since the original act of 1935 to collect taxes by means of stamps , but have never used that idea .                     