@@718066

txt vention as early as the second ballot for the presidential nomination . This situation was disclosed today in a survey of the 200 delegates from the six New England states , most of whom will have a half vote each at the Chicago convention . His first-ballot strength in this area will be much smaller because the 80-member , 40-vote Massachusetts delegation is voting for the state 's favorite-son candidate , Representative John W. McCormack ( D ) of Massachusetts , House Majority Leader . Stevenson Swing Seen The 1952 Democratic presidential nominee 's greatest New England strength now lies in Massachusetts , Connecticut , and Rhode Island . In Massachusetts after the first ballot , at least 60 , and probably more , of the delegates will swing to Mr. Stevenson , although the delegation will be officially unpledged . Senator John F. Kennedy ( D ) of Massachusetts and former Governor Dever are the delegation leaders for Mr. Stevenson . The number of Bay State delegates switching to the former Illinois Governor on the second ballot may go as high as 71 or 72 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairman of the Massachusetts Stevenson for President Committee , said . Eaph Bay State delegate has a half vote at the convention . In Connecticut , John M. Bailey , chairman of the Democratic State Central Committee , said the 40-member ? delegation is set for Mr. Stevenson . It has 20 votes . Mr. Bailey said state leaders are so confident Mr. Stevenson will win the nomination on or before the third ballot that they have not even thought of an alternate choice in the event of a deadlock . ? 24-member delegation is backing Mr. Stevenson . although there is some support for both Gov . Averell Harriman of New York and Senator Kefauver . However , a top-ranking party official forecast that on the second or third ballot the entire Maine delegation will swing over to Mr. Stevenson . His forecast was based on his opinion that Mr. Stevenson will win the nomination and the Maine delegates will want to be on the winning side . The Maine delegation has 14 votes , with the four at-large members having full votes and the 20 district delegates having a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New England states does Mr. Stevenson have no delegates at the moment . The New Hampshire delegation , elected at the March presidential primaries , is pledged to Senator Kefauver . It must stay with him until he releases them . The New Hampshire delegation has 12 members , with eight votes . Maine Visit Planned Vermont 's 12-member delegation , with six votes , leans heavily toward Mr. Stevenson . Judge Kenneth P. Akey of Burlington , chairman of the Democratic State Committee , said many of the delegates served in the same capacity in 1952 and supported Mr. Stevenson . Mr. Stevenson hopes to add to his New England delegate strength in a visit to Maine on July 13 and 14 . Plans for the Maine visit are still being formulated . His principal political appearance is set for the night of July 14 at Fernaquid Beach at the clambake being staged by the Democratic State Committee and the Stevenson-for-President Committee in Maine . Originally the Stevenson visit was planned as a vacation a month prior to the convention in Chicago . However , officials of the Maine Broiler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ July 13 and the festival on July 14 . Three Governors in Camp Rhode Island 's 32-member delegation , with 16 votes , is strongly for Mr. Stevenson , although at least two delegates are favorable to Senator Estes Kefauver ( D ) of Tennessee . Gov . Dennis J. Roberts of Rhode Island , Gov . Abraham A. Ribicoff of Connecticut and Gov . Edmund S. Muskie of Maine , are in the Stevenson camp . In Maine , a majority of the                     