@@716613

txt Democratic leaders are counting on Connecticut voters to add three congressional seats to the Democratic column in the upcoming November election . That , plus the strong bid being made by the Democrats to block Republican Gov . John Lodge from a second four-year term , is the major political urgency behind President Eisenhower 's swift visit to Hartford today . The President came to Hartford for two purposes : 1 . To accept an honorary degree of Doctor of Laws from Trinity College at its fall convocation. 2 . The President spoke for about two minutes to an audience of 50.000 to 60,000 , gathered at Hartford 's Bushnell Park to honor Governor Lodge on his birthday anniversary . He hailed Governor Lodge as a great . Governor but did not mention other Republican candidates . He asserted that the outpouring was an indication that the men and women gathered felt that Governor Lodge , as the first citizen of the state , " does a worthy job . " Cuts Birthday Cake President Eisenhower cut the birthday cake , a huge 400-pound affair topped with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dropped the first slice , cut another piece , gave it to Governor Lodge . ate the third piece , and then handed the fourth slice to Mrs. Lodge . The Connecticut GOP chiefs have seized upon the Eisenhower visit as a means to spur the party campaign in a state which two years ago gave the President a handsome 130 , - 000-vote margin in the presidential election . They are counting on his continued popularity to dispel widespread apathy among the voters and to spark GOP workers into top activity for the remaining days of the campaign . The Democrats are determined to capture the governorship and to win four congressional scats . The Republicans now have five representatives in Congress and the Democrats one . The one Democratic seat is held by Representative Thomas J. Dodd ( D ) and is located in the Democratic stronghold of Hartford County , the First Congressional District . Few Republican leaders entertain strong expectations of carrying the First District this year , particularly in light of reported Democratic trends in other areas outside Connecticut . Eisenhower Record Governor Lodge is opposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a closely fought battle . The Governor is one of the original backers of General Eisenhower for the GOP presi dential nomination in 1952 . He and Mr. Ribicoff were at one time fellow congressmen from Connecticut . The gubernatorial campaign has been relatively quiet . Overshadowing all other issues in Connecticut . as in many other states , is the problem of unemployment and loss of overtime pay . Democratic leaders expect these conditions will fatten their vote totals . Governor Lodge 's margin in winning the governorship - was - - not very substantial . He defeated former Gov . Chester Bowles by 16,237 votes . All five GOP representatives in Congress have fashioned strong pro-Eisenhower records during roll calls in the 83d Congress . The percentage of active support for the President on Eisenhower issues during the two years ranges . from 83 per cent for Representative-atLarge Antoni N. Sadlak ( R ) and Representative Horace Seely-Brown , Jr . ( R ) , Second District , to 78 per cent for Representative Albert P. Marano ( R ) , Fourth District incumbent . If Mr. Ribicoff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered likely that Mr. Sadlak would also go down to defeat at the hands of Joseph N. Lyford , former press secretary to former Governor Bowles .                     