@@719417

txt Indonesia plans to shop for military equipment in Communist countries because a proposal to buy such material from the United States has not been answered by Washington , an Indonesian source said today . " Our proposal was submitted to the United States earlier this year , and despite our pleading we have not yet received a definite answer : either a yes or no , " this source said . " We can not wait any longer . " The United States Embassy here had no comment on this report . In Washington , State Department officials said the United States had not taken a definite position on the sale of arms to Indonesia . In an interview , the Jakarta source outlined Indonesia 's efforts to obtain military equipment . The . source is an Indonesian who is intimately familiar with current plans in Jakarta to procure materiel to modernize the army , navy and air force . An armed forces mission is scheduled to depart next week to examine military equipment in several Communist countries , the source said . The mission will probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The mission may place orders for possibly $200,000,000 worth of military equipment , the source continued . It will spend approximately one month sizing up what Communist arsenals have to offer Indonesia in her effort to bring up to modern standards her " poorly equipped " armed forces , the source said . The purchase of Communist arms would represent a new development in the history of Indonesia , according to competent observers here . They added that hundreds of Soviet jeeps had arrived in Indonesia this year ? but , as far as is known , that is the only kind of Communist military equipment here , The observers also noted that the Indonesian Army used United States training manuals , that a number of its officers had been trained in the United States and that the Indonesians were ' essentially Westernoriented in military tactics . The report by this Indonesian source came a week after the P. I. A. news agency here reported that a team of army officers had left Indonesia to inspect military equipment abroad . Egypt , West Germany , Britain , France and Italy were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the source maintained that Indonesia had not wanted to turn to the Communists for the purchase of military- equipment . " We kept pleading with United States military attaches here to please give us an answer on our list , " the source said . " We told them that if we did not get an answer by ' the end of the year we would switch to other countries able and willing to sell us military equipment . " The source said the mission would purchase only a " small " quantity of equipment compared with the list handed to the United States . He said the equipment was needed to fight the Darul Islam , an armed Moslem organization battling for establishment of an Islamic state of Indonesia . He made no mention of the present antiDutch campaign stemming from The Hague 's continued control over Netherlands New Guinea , which is claimed by Indonesia . The source said the list presented to . the United States called for about 6150,000,000 worth of equipment for sixty infantry battalions and for navy and air force materiel . Indonesia would pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about ten years , the source said . He said the original list would not be withdrawn from the United States . He added that if the mission did not find exactly what it wanted in Communist arsenals - it would not buy anything . fifty ships ranging from 500 to 3,000 tons , would be able to operate efficieutly without them . No Decision Made by U. S. Special to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , Dec. 26 ? The United States has not taken a definite position on supplying arms to Indonesia , State Department officials said today . The only arms that have been supplied to Indonesia , these officials said , are some constabulary equipment delivered soon after Indonesia achieved independence . Jakarta has made no formal application for arms , a State Department official said , but it has put out feelers for the last two years . Officials conceded that the question had the United States " in the proverbial middle . " Washington recognizes that Indonesian forces need equipment ; on the other hand , it does not wish to antagonize the Netherlands . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Reuters ) ? Japanese shipowners agreed today to lend Indonesia 75,000 tons of shipping , Eizo Nagaoka , president of the Fuji Shipping Company , announced here . Mr. Nagaoka said twenty-six freighters and passenger ferries were expected to reach Indonesia early in the new year . Non-Dutch Are Assured - JAKARTA , Dec. 26 ( h ' ) ? The Government said today it would guarantee the security of nonDutch businesses in Indonesia . In a nation-wide radio broadcast the information Ministry said recent Government moves to take control of businesses would be restricted to the Dutch . Many Western business men had been fearful that the Government might also seize their enterprises during the campaign to force most Dutch citizens out of Indonesia . The Dutch plan to have most of their 46,0.00 nationals out of the country by the end of January . R. C. Peckelharing , Dutch spokesman , said two sailings next week would bring the evacuation to the 10,000 mark . The director of the Indonesian state-owned Pelnfshipping company said its fifty Dutch pilots and other technicians would be paid off at the end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control                     