@@718262

txt Letters to The Times U. N. Role in Suez Issue World Organization Is Declares Rightful Forum for Controversy TO THE EDITOR OF THE Nzw YORK TIMES : The Suez question , after a long and stormy voyage , has finally come home to the United Nations ? its rightful forum . There the issues can be aired for all to see and hear ; - there ' the controversy can be conciliated or resolved on its merits without victory or defeat for either side . We urge Upon our Government . that it do all in ' its power to keep the Suez question before the United Nations until a settlement is achieved . The effort to find a solution through the facilities of the United Nations must not be faint-hearted , half-hearted or cynical . The effort must proceed on the assumption that the controversy has . come to the United Nations to stay and not just for a visit . This means that aloof pronouncements about waiting to see if the U. N. can pass this test must be avoided . For the test must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United Nations but by the flesh and blood delegates who give it life . We urge our representatives to evince no hurry to be off , no impatience to leave this world forum for other places and matters . Continued physical presence of Secretary of State Dulles and of other foreign ministers at the Security Council would signify a determination to see the problem through at the United Nations . The Security Council can gain prestige land influence through the flexible employment of the processes of conciliation and discussion short of formal recommendation by vote . If the Security Council should for any reason fail to resolve the issue , the General Assembly or the World Court should be resorted to until a solution is found . This is a fateful test , not of the United Nations itself , but rather of the intentions and the dedication of the United States and the other nations of the world of their faith in the principles they have proclaimed in the Charter and of their commitment to the obligations they have undertaken . The world needs a United Nations that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the goodwill of the nations and unrelenting effort by their representatives will make it so , to the end that right will prevail . CHARLES W. MAYO , M. D. , President . ELEANOR ROOSEVELT , Chairman . Board of Governors . OSCAR A. DE LIMA , Chairman , * Board of Directors . CLARK M. EICHELBERGER , Executive Director , American Association for the United Nations . New York , Oct. 11 , 1956 . Election Inspectors ' Work To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The anticipated record registration this year is placing a tremendous burden on the election inspectors in the City of New York . It is not generally known that for a minimum compensation election inspectors are required to work five seven-hour days and one fifteen and a half-hour day with no provision for meals or rest . In addition , after the close of the polls the average Board of Inspectors spends at least an hour and a half finishing up and preparing for the next day . They are performing a public service which goes unrecognized . The public expects and should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The mechanics of registration necessarily are tine consuming . Approximately twenty questions must be asked and each voter 's answers to these questions are recorded in three registers , on a card and on a special list . The inspectors also have the responsibility of determining the eligibility for voting of each registrant . I have seen voters acting abusively , discourteously and impatiently at various polling places . I am sure that if the voters were made aware of the problem facing the inspectors the registration process would proceed more smoothly . EDITH F. NovoD . New York , Oct. 10 , 1956. our armed forces and elimination of the draft . His letter brings up a number oil points which are worthy of conside eration , but it must be remembered that no plan is sound that fails tal recognize the universal obligation for military service in time of war and preparation for such service in time of peace . JOHN W. MORGAN , Major General : , U. S. A. 1 ? .4 New York , Oct. 5 , 1956 . Diabetes Report Questione1 Statements on New Treatment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE NEW YORK TIMIISC ? In The New York Times of Vepto 16 , William 11 . Laurence called at . tention to a report entitled " The Value of Entozyzne in the Clinical Management , of Diabetes Mellitue which appeared- in a medical journal called The American Practitioner . Mr. Laurence 's comments were fay . orable and as such suggested that SI new method for the treatment a diabetes mellitus was upon us . A critical appraisal of the article indicates that many important facts must be further investigated before agreeing that this is a new method of treatment . The method , briefly , includes the use of a high-protein diet , a pancreatic enzyme extract and a vitamin B complex . Some or all of these substances have been previously used by others but have never been of sufficient importance to be considered as revolutionary . The author 's work described by Mr. Laurence is based on treatment of twenty-five patients of - whom eleven were such mild diabetics that they did not require the use of insulin , and seven other 's required thirty units of insulin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In view of the preliminary and sketchy nature of the report it is too bad that publicity was given to this work prematurely . ? Certainly , much more , thorough and detailed investigation will be needed before some of the statements made by the author can be substantiated . Medical journals are a means of communication among members of the medical . profession  --  a means of exchanging studies and ideas  --  often of preliminary findings . It would seem that Mr. Laurence as a science reporter of long standing has a responsibility of discerning what is good material and what is not before placing it in the hands of the lay public which has no criteria for evaluating the information reported . JAMES FINDLAy HART , M. D. , President , New York Diabetes Association , Inc . New York , Oct. 3 , 1956 . Mr. Laurence Replies To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The Times report made no comments , favorable or otherwise , on the work in question , merely presenting an . objective report on the facts . Nor did it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of diabetes " was upon us . " On the contrary , the article stressed the fact that the results reported were still preliminary . Furthermore , the report did not even mention the eleven cases that did not require the use of insulin , confining itself to the fourteen diabetics whose insulin requirements were reduced by 30 to 80 per cent . Dr. Hart refers to " a medical journal called The American Practitioner , " giving the impression that it is a rather obscure publication . The fact is that The American Practitioner is a highly authoritative medical publication , published by the J. B. Lippincott Company , whose editor is Dr. John B. Youmans , Professor of Medicine and Dean of the School of Medicine of Vanderbilt University , an internationally recognized authority on internal medicine . An improved ( far from " revolutionary " ) approach to the clinical management of a disease that afflicts millions deemed worthy of publication by such an authority as Professor Youmans , seerfis to this reporter to be sufficiently newsworthy to be called to the attention of the lay public and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York , Oct , 10 , 1956 . Irritations of Registering To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Once again I have just completed the irritating , aggravating and totally ridiculous procedure of registering to vote . If there is anything calculated to discourage a citizen from exercising his franchise , that is it . There seems to be an unwritten law that each registration team must contain at least one elderly lady with a hearing loss . As a result , each item must be repeated twice for her benefit , and one has the additional discomfort of having one 's vital statistics proclaimed in stentorian tones to the entire line of registrants behind . I happen to have considerable professional concern for the placement of both the elderly and the handicapped . But I submit this job is not suitable for persons who become easily confused or can not hear . Of course the real answer is permanent registration . Failing that , can not we at least have registrars with adequate clerical skills to make the procedure as painless as possible ? JANET 0 . WOLFE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Military Service To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I was much interested in Eugene Victor 's letter , published in your issue of Oct. 3 , proposing modifications in the reserve program for Rendition of Anthem Queried To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES ! ' Only in this country of ours could we hear a miserable presentation of the national anthem such as we have been hearing at the opening of each world series game . Instead of a proud and meaningful anthem we have been given a halting , hesitant ; out-of-tune and rhythmically incorrect and uninspiring performance . JOSEPH KNITz:sft , String Department , Eastman School of Music : Rochester , N. Y. , Oct , 7 , 1956.                     