@@719789

txt In the news at the moment is the deep-seated quarrel between the pro-Western Lebanon of President Chamoun and the neutralist United Arab Republic ( Egypt-Syria ) of President Nasser . This quarrel , serious in itself , is part of a- deeper cleavage between the traditional rulers of the Arab world and ' a new revolutionary class springing up through Arab universities and armies . Politically reflected , the cleavage finds the governments of Lebanon , Jordan , and Iraq pitted against the United Arab Republic , with the desert princes of Saudi Arabia - Wavering somewhere in between . Leadership Undermined Initiative at this stage belongs to President Nasser and his U.A.R. For one thing , ' the peoples even of Lebanon , Jordan , and Iraq respond warmly to Colonel Nasser 's call for pan-Arab unity beneath the hegemony of republican Cairo . This causes the Kings of Jordan and Iraq , their wealthy landowner supporters , and the Christian President of Lebanon to inhabit shrinking political islands undermined by a swelling Nasserite tide . This is most visible in Lebanon , where the government of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quell an armed insnrrecton led by pro-Nasser elements opposed to Mr. Chamoun 's alliance with the United States . Latest reports from Beirut , capital of Lebanon , tell of two separate clashes  --  June 8 and 9 ? between large rebel hands and Lebanese Army columns in the northern part of the country . Attack Forecast In the first clash , Lebanese Air ' Force jets strafed and bombed an estimated 500 men carrying arms and ammunition from the direction of Syria toward the Lebanese cities of Baalbek and Beirut . The second fight occurred when rebel fighters attacked an Army column north of Tripoli , on the Lebanese sea coast . These major engagements dif- Since most of the rebels are Moslem and many of Mr. Chamoun 's supporters are Christian , the possibility of religious strife ? never far from the surface in half - Christian , half - Moslem Lebanon  --  loomed uncomfortably large , Plea to U.S. Hinted Meanwhile , the United Nations Security Council prepared to continue its debate June 10 of Lebanon 's charge that Colonel Nasser 's U.A.R. was actively fomenting the rebellion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Charles Malik 's case against the U.A.R. , was expected to back Lebanon fully . Reinforced units of the United States Sixth Fleet continued to steam in the eastern Mediterranean , available to evacuate the large American colony from Lebanon should the fighting grow worse . Progovernment sources in Beirut indicated Lebanon might ask the United States for military assistance under the Eisenhower Doctrine if the UN failed to act decisively against the U.A.R. What the Security Council could do was unclear , since any punitive motion against President Nasser was subject to possible Soviet veto . Ranks Closed Within Arab inner councils the Lebanese crisis has caused Jordan and Iraq to close ranks with Lebanon against the common threat posed to them all by President Nasser . As one Arab diplomat said recently : " Lebanon today , the rest of us tomorrow . " Thus the cleavage within the Arab world is visible for all to see . Since the Kings of Iraq and Jordan could be expected to put un as stiff a fight as President Chamoun to save their regimes , the future of the Middle East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is found siding with the traditional rulers now threatened by the popular forces of President Nasser . The latter is backed militarily , economically , and diplomatically by the Soviet Union .                     