@@719600

txt President Eisenhower today reviewed the sagging economic situation in a two and a half hour cabinet meeting again 's ' : a background of mounting demands for federal action . As the cabinet studied conflicting reports on the extent and probable course of the ailing economy , a major tax cut was being mapped by the administration as a frontal assault on the recession . Labor Reports on Jobless The tax cut proposal was being prepared for emergency Presidential use . The White House has said the President will not make a decision on cutting taxes until the eco . nomic picture becomes clear er . During the cabinet session .. the AFL-CIO sent a memo-1 random to Mr. Eisenhower stating 111 a t indications are that unemployment . in midMarch is at least as high as the 5.173,000 for February , the highest for any month in 16 years . Labor wants personal income tax exemptions increased from $600 to $700 . Benefit Claims Rise Mr. Eisenhower had told his news conference he expected the upswing to begin in March . Other government experts have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ April and May will permit more accurate measurement of the need for federal action . Late today the labor department said new claims for unemployment benefits rose to 440,000 in the week ended March 8 , which was 4,500 more than the number of new claims in the previous week . The total of persons drawing such benefits at the end of the March 8 week was 3,282,400 , the department said . Department Store Sales Up Partly offsetting the discouraging reports for the cabinet was a federal reserve board study showing department stores sales rose 7 per cent last week , the strength shown in the stock market , and a 70 per cent increase in applications for government insured housing loans . Govern . ment experts reported a March decline in employment is not in the cards . At the cabinet meeting the President 's plan to provide additional unemployment payments was reviewed . After the meeting the President asked Congress for an emergency appropriation of $125,250,000 for rivers and harbor work , and $46,200,000 for federal aid to hospital construction . More for Mississippi The army engineers would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ funds for flood control work on the Mississippi river and its tributaries . Rep. Clarence Cannon D. , Mo. , chairman of the House appropriations committee , said the requested appropriation amounted to a restoration rather than a completely new program , and that no new projects were involved . The funds asked for hospital construction would permit keeping such work at the same level in the next fiscal year as in the present year , the White House said . No Decision on Taxes Secretary of the Treasury Robert R. Anderson reported at the cabinet meeting that no decision will be taken on a tax cut until the situation is given further study . During the afternoon the Senate rejected a proposal to cut federal excise taxes by 2.2 billion dollars . The rejection was by voice vote and constituted the third unsuccessful attempt to write a gen ? eral tax reduction into an insurance tax measure , already passed by the House : The measure would save some life insurance companies 124 mil-1 lion dollars on their 1957 taxes . In a night session the insurance tax bill , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed and sent to the White House . The vote was 61 to 19 . Then , by a 64 to 19 vote , the Senate rebuffed an attempt to hike the individual income tax exemption from $600 to $800 . The proposal was offered by Sen. Tom Yarborough D. , Tex . . Douglas Tries Again The cut in excise taxes was sought by Senators Douglas D. , Ill . , John 0 Pastore M. , R. Li , and Charles E. Potter II. , Mich. over the opposition of the Democratic and Republican leadership . The three senators contended the cuts would create new jobs . The Senate public works committee gave unanimous approval to an anti-recession roads program , which is expected to create as many as 88,000 jobs in highway building and related programs . The bill will parcel out an additional 1.5 billion dollars in federal funds for roads .                     