@@720812

txt President Eisenhower Monday ordered the justice depart ; ment to seek a court injunction. to halt the 97 day old steel strike . T h e presi- ? dent , acting a Rogers few hours after his fact finding board told him it had failed to break the steel bargaining dead- ' lock , called Monday a " sad day for the nation " because " America 's hopes for a voluntary responsible settlement have not been fulfilled . " Goes to Court Tuesday The White House , in releasing the President 's letter of instructions to Atty . Gen. William P. Rogers , said the back to work injunction will be sought by government attorneys in federal District court in Pittsburgh Tuesday afternoon . Under the 1947 Taft-Hart. ley labor act , an injunction if ? granted would order the 500 , - 000 striking steel workers back to their jobs for an 80 day cooling off period during which bargaining talks could ' continue . The strike could then be resumed if no agreement had been reached . The Taft-Hartley injunction. process has been invoked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ safety , six times by President Eisenhower and 10 times by former President Truman . It has never been used before in a steel strike . Sees No Alternative David J. , president of the AFL-CIO United Steel Workers , said bef or e President Eisenhower's.action that the union will fight a back to work court order , but will order its workers to comply if the court fight fails . said the union would carry its legal battle against an ? injunction to the United States Supreme court , if necessary . James C. Hagerty , White House press sdcretary , told reporters that Pr esident Eisenhower , while deeply reluctant to seek the strikeending court order , was convinced he had no alternative after getting the report Monday morning of his three man fact finding board . Board Report Failure The board , headed by George W. Taylor of Phila- ' delphia , told the President its 10 day effort to mediate the dispute had produced no agreement on any major point and that " we see no prospects for an early . cessation of the strike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Paul N. Lehoczky , submitted a 37 page re , port to the President and d !  - -  - cussed it with him for 75 minutes . Taylor told reporters later that the board made its report with " sad hearts " because it had failed to bring the parties to a voluntary agreement , " which is their duty in a democracy such as ours to avoid the possibility of an imposed decision . " Confers with Aids After conferring with the fact finders , the President held a special meeting with Secretary of Labor James P. Mitchell and other aids on the steel crisis . He pondered the question further at lunch and at midafternoon signed the instructions to Rvers to seek the injunction . The President wrote Rogers that he believes the steel strike , if continued , will " imperil the national health and safety . This finding is a prerequisite under the Taft-Hartley law to seeking a back-towork order in court . In a separate statement the President said " it is essential to the national interest , that , production be resumed immediately in the steel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he continued , " has not worked in this dispute despite the dedicated efforts of the federal government and the fact-finding board of inquiry composed , of eminent and impartial citizens . , Acting in Public Interest " In order to protect the interest , of all the American people , this leaves me with no alternative except to seek an injunction under the existing law . " The steel strike is the longest in this industry in the nation's. history . It has idled 250,000 workers in steel-dependent industries . besides the half a million steel workers . Bargaining talks , ' which have been off-again , on-again several times since last spring , collapsed again Sunday night when a last-ditch effort by the fact-finding board to mediate the dispute collapsed . Work Rules Main Obstacle The board reported that the chief roadblocks to a settlement were wages and work rules , but it indicated that the work rule question was the biggest hurdle . It said the union and . management bargainers were only one cent an hour apart on basic wage boosts , exclusive of cost-ofliving wage adjustments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " on the work rule issue . The steel companies want a freer hand in the interest of efficiency to change established work practices covering crew sizes , wash-up time , and other items that vary from plant to plant . The union has bitterly fought such a move on the ground it would lead to speed-up tactics and loss of jobs for its members .                     