@@719616

txt President Eisenhower pledged his Administration today to take any action , including tax reductions , that would lead to a healthy economic recovery in the nation . This Presidential promise , in an address to a luncheon meeting of 1,800 cheering Republi can women , carried several qualifications . One was that any such recession remedies be considered " desirable and necessary " after consultation with Congressional leaders . Another was that private enterprise , rather than government , was the mainspring of the American economy . No Tax Cut in Sight General Eisenhower 's assurance of timely and well-considered action to counter the recession appeared to bring no nearer to realization any general tax reduction . After a meeting of the Republican Congressional leaders with the President earlier , Senator William F. Knowland of California said there was no prospect of " imminent presenta tion " of a tax revision bill . Round after round of applause greeted the President 's remarks to the Republican women . One of the most ptolonged demonstrations was set off by his assurance that " this Administration is not going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make those present hardships not temporary but chronic . " Opposes Farm Controls In his address the President . made these chief points : 9The Administration will undertake by Executive action or proposal to Congress " any ' measure  --  including tax reduCtion if , after consultation with Congressional leaders , such actica should prove desirable and necessary  --  that will assist . healthy economic recovery . " CAny lasting increase in farm incomes requires greate. reliance on the " natural operation of the free market forces " to which wartime controls must progressively give way . Sur .. ; pluses must be reduced and then eliminated and price ? support policies so devised as to avoid new and greater farm surpluses . 9 " I am flatly opposed " to " make-work activity , " a reference to mass public works proposals . Such a program " tends to supplant rather than to supplement private activity " and " threatens to turn a temporary recession into a long-term economic headache . " q The standard of official conduct in government " must be the highest standard known to human behavior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's primary protection lies in the assurance that the country 's administrators are affected by no conceivable interest other than the public interest . " gAmerica wants the " kind of world in which peace can really grow and flourish . But if we are to have that kind of world , we must help to build it . And two of the most indispensable building-stones  --  without which it can never stand  --  are the Administration 's Mutual Security bill and ' the extension of the Trade Agreements Act . " The President 's address to the luncheon meeting of the Republican Women 's National Conference was made against a background of mink stoles and new spring styles . Wives of members of his official family had just finished modeling a dozen spring hats donated for the occasion by a Washington department store when General Eisenhower approached the podium over the same platform . To Meet Governors Back at the White , House after the conference , the President called for a meeting tomorrow morning with his chief economic and fiscal advisers . This will be preliminary to his session @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee of the Governors ' Conference . General Eisenhower invited the Governors to Washington to discuss the Administration 's proposal to extend the period of unemployment compensation for an additional thirteen weeks before sending , the plan to Congress . State action would be required to implement Federal legislation . There were differing versions among the Republican Congressional leaders who took part in the meeting with President Eisenhower as to the extent to which tax reduction had figured in the discussion . Senator Knowland , acting as official spokesman for the group , told reporters that Rob- ' ert B. Anderson , Secretary of the Treasury , had touched ow the subject only to explain the " general understanding or gentleman 's agreement " between the Treasury Department and the Republican and Democratic leadership in Congress . This provides that neither side will sponsor a tax reduction vehicle until after a bipartisan White House conference sometime in the future . . Senator . Knowland then ' , gave it as his personal estimate that it might be two months , at the earliest , before the Administration would be ready with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was because it would be necessary to study the effect of counter-recession measures already taken , to bring revenue estimates up to date and to reassess business conditions and employment . In the end , the only point on which the various participants appeared in agreement was that President Eisenhower himself had said nothing that might validate Senator Knowland 's estimate of a two-month delay before a decision was reached on a tax reduction vehicle .                     