@@716678

txt French Premier Pierre MendesFrance today rejected a United States request that French forces stop using American gift military equipment in battling nationalist elements in France 's North African colonies . This was reported by diplomatic informants after day long conferences between the visiting premier , State Secretary Dulles , and their advisers . North Africa , where native elements of Tunisia , Morocco , and Algeria are demanding freedom from French rule , was a major topic at today 's session . American officials , distressed at being allied with French colonialism thru the French use ' of American made arms in Africa , proposed to MendesFrance that French arms be substituted , informants- said . Calls Move Impractical The premier was said to have replied that such a move was impractical during t h e fighting , that American equiplment supplied under the maiJary aid program is mixed with French arms used ? by troops in Africa . Dulles and his aids reportedly settled for a pledge from Mendes-France to withdraw American arms from North Africa if and when the fighting subsides and some troops are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out on the possibility of the United States ' using its influence in ' having the Egyptian government tone down Arab support for the freedom movement among French colonials . Concern Night and Day In a luncheon address to the National Press ' club today , Mendes-France said the North African problem is " causing ' us concern night and day , " but that he hopes for an early solution " in keeping with our principles . " He said the French forces are dealing with rebel elements aided in part by " arms and infiltration " from Arab sources in Egypt and from communist Hungary . The committee for Freedom of North Africa denounced t h e premier 's charge in a statement declaring that " no Hungarian or Egyptian arms " are involved in the North African liberation ' movement : The committee charged ? that American arms , on the other hand , are being used by " foreign elements , " including former Nazis , to abet French " agression " in Africa . Wo n't Barter Arms Pact In his speech , MendesFrance rejected the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mean scrapping the western plan for bringing a rearmed Germany into the European defense system . He predicted quick ratification of the plan by , the French parliament . He declared it would be " childish , unrealistic ; and even dangerous " to enter into the Kremlin - proposed 25 nation conference on European problems at this time . He said Russia 's proposal , urging such a meeting for later this month , ' was obviously unrealistic , in that it would call for " improvising solutions to problems that have not been solved for 11 years . " Not Seeking Dollars Mendes-France said that altho spectacular global settlements with the Kremlin are unlikely , solutions to " specific tensions , " if they can be reached ; may lead to solving larger problems . This , he added , " is the constructive meaning of the search for peaceful co-existence . " Contrary to some reports , the premier said , he is not- on this mission seeking any new American commitments for financial aid to France , which lie said had been generous in the past . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " problems . Mendes , - France plans to leave for New York City , tomorrow . He has postponed his departure from morning until afternoon to have more time for talks with Dulles.                     