@@712686

txt Edward Alonzo Francis , 41 , cashier of the First National bank here , was found shot to death in his automobile shortly before noon today under circumstances which led Dr. Jeff Burke , Montgomery county coroner , to call his death a " clear case of suicide . " Associates of Francis in the bank told local authorities the cashier had been " greatly depressed " for the last two weeks as a result of the arrest by federal authorities of two employes of the state bank at Wolcott , Ind. , where Francis formerly was employed . Those under arrest in the Wolcott case are Miss Norma Genevieve Benner , 23 , bookkeeper of the Wolcott institution for the last five years , and Donald J. Heater , 28 , her fiance and cashier since January , 1949 . Miss Benner is accused of embezzling $13,722.66 and Heater is charged with misapplying $3,517.78 of the bank 's money . Both are under bond pending action by the federal grand jury at Hammond , Ind . Helps Organize Bank William A. Collings , president of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ married and has two children , came here in January , 1949 , and has been cashier of the local bank since that time . He previously helped to organize 1 the bank in Wolcott , a village of 800 persons 50 miles north of here , and became its first cashier when the bank was opened five years ago . Francis is understood to have hired Miss Benner as the Wolcott bank 's bookkeeper , and to have been influential in the selection of Heater as his successor in the cashier 's job . When Miss Benner was arrested , agents of the federal bureau of investigation said her embezzlements covered a period of 41h. years , beginning shortly after her employment . When word of Francis ' death was received in Indianapolis , Harvey G. Foster , FBI agent in charge of the Indianapolis office , said Francis voluntarily went to the FBI recently and discussed the Wolcott shortage . Foster said Francis denied any connection with it . Aware of Deficit Heater first became involved in the case as a result of a voluntary appearance before the FBI @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told agents he had been aware of the deficit for some time . After his own arrest he said he was still in love with Miss Benner and that " our engagement stands . " When Francis failed to appear at work today , a bank official called Mrs. Francis , who said her husband had left at the usual time . Shortly before noon she noticed that the family car was still in the garage . She found Francis dead in the front seat with a bullet hole in his head and a .45 caliber pistol on the seat beside him . Police said Francis left no note .                     