@@720445

txt President Eisenhower 's address at the Symposium on Basic Research is regarded here as an encouraging symptom of a growing understanding of the nature and needs of American research at the highest levels of government . Much of the credit for this is believed due to the efforts of Dr. James R. Killian , Jr. , Special Assistant to the President for Science and Technology , and to the Science Advisory Committee he heads . Both the tone and substance throughout Mr. Eisenhower 's address showed he is well informed on the status of American natural science and sympathetic to its needs . There was nothing new or spectacular in what the President had to say . Even his announcement that he is requesting funds for a $100,000,000 research machine to be built at Stanford University was somewhat anticlimactical , the proj ect having been discussed several times in the press before . All this is beside the point . The fact that the Chief Executive spent time and effort ' to address a meeting concerned with strengthening basic research and that he talked knowledgeably about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since the rise of Sputnik . In the presputnik era , basic research usually was given little notice by the executive branch . Some high-ranking officials even scoffed at it publicly as a kind of academic " boondoggle . " Optimism Cautious Referring to this attitude as having been typical of the country in general , President Eisenhower noted that " the uninformed often reLt ! ed in slurring terms to what we called the impractical scholar . ' " 1-P , added that " fortunately much progress has been made in overcoming this misunderstanding . We have learned that the apparently visionary researcher is likely to produce unexpectedly practical results . " The scientists themselves are not quite so optimistic on this score . They feel there is a tough job of informing the public yet to be done . On the other hand , the Washington attitude to basic research does definitely seem to be changing . One of the major points so far brought out in the papers and discussions here has been the need to increase . federal support of basic natural science , but at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eisenhower picked up this theme in commending the three sponsors of the symposium  --  the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation , the National Academy of Sciences , and the American Association for the Advancement of Science . Privately Sponsored " I derive special satisfaction from the fact that this conference is sponsored by private interests , " he said , adding " we must recognize the possibility that the federal government , with its vast resources and its increasing dependence on science , could largely preempt the field or blunt private initiative and individual opportunity . This we must never permit . " Queried at a press conference , Dr. Alan T. Waterman , director of the National Science Foundation , said that the question required detailed study . He hazarded the opinion that the $670 , - 000,000 per year presently spent by the government on basic research could profitably be raised to a billion dollars as far as supporting research workers themselves is concerned . On top of this , large sums are needed for expensive research equipment . One of the things the government should do , he explained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today . Again Mr. Eisenhower picked up this theme in his speech : " And now let me cite one example of the ways in which it is appropriate for the federal government to further our basic scientific research effort , " he said , and then announced the $100 , - 000,000 accelerator project . This would be a machine called a " linear accelerator . " It would be two miles long and might eventually accelerate electrons to energies up to 40 billion electron volts , although initial operation wouldnbe at levels of 10 to 15 billion electron volts . He ended with a plea for the country to raise its sights in education and in intellectual and artistic fields . Electron raceway would run two miles : Page 5.                     