@@713394

txt Cutbacks of 20 per cent in the production of such items as radios , television sets , and refrigerators early in 1951 were announced by General Electric at dedication of new gas turbine laboratory in Lynn , Mass . Page 4 . Dissension among Massachusetts Republicans continues to spread as more unsuccessful candidates in the recent election blame present party leaders for the lack of necessary coordination among the " top brass . " Page 2 . Europe : Grant to West Germany Conditional The Organization for European Economic Cooperation has agreed in principle to grant West Germany a special credit of $120,000,000 on condition that West Germany provide $60,000,000 of its own dollar reserves to help bolster its nearly exhausted credits ? in the European Payments Union . Page 13 . Delegates are pouring into Warsaw for the reopening of the Communist World Peace Congress on Nov. 16 . The congress , originally scheduled for Sheffield , England , was canceled when Britain barred many delegates as undesirables . Danish , Norwegian , and Swedish foreign and trade ministers are to meet in Copenhagen Nov. 20 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European Economic Cooperation . Washington : Closer Foreign Policy Effort Seen Senator Homer Ferguson ( R ) of Michigan said he looks for much closer foreign policy cooperation between Democrats and Republicans as a result of GOP gains in the congressional elections . Secretary of State Dean Acheson assured the Chinese Communists again that the United States has no military designs on them . Mr. Acheson promised that the United States will help to see that Chinese Communist interests along the Manchurian-Korean border are protected . Story : Page 17 . National : Hearing on Legalized Gambling Held In Las Vegas , Nev. , Senator Estes Kefauver 's Senate Crime Investigating Committee opens an inquiry into the Far West underworld today with a one-day secret hearing on Nevada 's legalized gambling . Senator Kefauver ( D ) of Tennessee said the local hearing will give his committee its first opportunity to study legalized gambling , its impact on neighboring states , and possible tie-ups with national vice syndicates . In Port Arthur , Texas , seven - explosions rocked a Gulf Oil Company refinery as flames shot 200 feet into the fog-laden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bringing the fire under control . They stopped the flames just short of the refinery distilleries . Three men were injured . Mideast : Zionist Party Gains in Israel Vote Unofficial returns in Israel 's municipal elections have given in ' creased strength to the rightist General Zionist Party , while the Social Democratic Mapai Party of Premier David Ben-Gurion lost heavily in Haifa and the Jewish-controlled section of Jerusalem . Eight more Egyptian generals have resigned during investigations into charges of graft in arms purchases . The Egyptian Army commander in chief and the chief of staff were ousted last week end .                     