@@718017

txt The Motormen 's Benevolent Association was restrained yesterday by a State Supreme Court order from carrying out its strike threatened for midnight tonight . rne order , signed by Justice Vincent A. Lupiano , forbids the independent union from " instigating , promoting or carrying on a8 strike " pending a hearing on June 28 on an application by the Transit Authority for a tem. porary anti-strike injunction . The union was involved in last Thursday 's wildcat strike that ' crippled subway transportation for more than nine hours and inconvenienced 750,00.0 riders . Forty-one officers and mem ? bers of the motormen 's union were named as defendants in yesterday 's court action brought by the Transit Authority as a preliminary to a move for a. permanent injunction . Louis Waldman , who was retained Sunday as counsel for the union , asked for the adjournment to June 28 to , have time to prepare his case . He told the court there were " three main statutes involved " and indicated that he would contest the constitutionality of the Condon-Wadlin Act . This act provides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strikes or enIgages in a slowdown , . with severe disciplinary measures in case of rehiring . Meanwhile , Michael J. Quill , president of the Transport Workers Union , appeared before the , Kings County rackets grand jury to tell what he knew about Thursday 's strike by the rival subway union . After leaving the grand jury room , he said he expected another subway strike tonight , in which " more groups than motormen will be involved . " However , Mr. Waldman assured Justice Lupiano that he ; had been authorized by officers of the motormen 's union to announce that nothing would occur " Tuesday or Wednesday insofar as these defendants are concerned " to cause any disruption of service . Mr , Waldman declared that the case involved " grave constitutional questions " and noted that the constitutionality of the Condon-Wadlin Act never had been tested . He also charged that last Thursday 's strike was the result of a " deliberate provocative act " by the Transit Authority . " You ca n't expect union men to train men who might be scabs if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We wo n't let them deliver 3,200 men to the vest pocket of Mike Quill . " The reference was to the present contract between the Transit Authority , and the Transport Workers Union , which now has exclusive bargaining rights foi all subway employes . The motormen 's union , which says it has 2,000 members among the 3,20C motormen , is seeking bargaining recognition . Waldman Opposes Stay In offering to promise the court at first that there would be no strike if the Transit Authority did not engage in " provocative acts , " Mr. Waldman held that a legal stay might prejudice his contention that the Transit Authority 's action for an injunction had no legal basis . However , Daniel T. Scannell , general counsel for the Transit Authority , objected to an informal promise and demanded a formal court agreement . " To hear Mr. Waldman talk , " he said , " you would think that Thursday had never happened . " Justice Lupiano then said that if Mr. Waldman wanted an adjournment , the agreement must be reduced to a formal stay and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a temporary restraining order on condition that it did not affect legal rights , court adjourned to permit both counsel to work on he wording of the order , Mr. Quill told the Brooklyn grand jury that Thursday 's strike was a " criminal conspiracy . " Ellis Van Riper , secretary-treasurer of the union , also testified . Other officials of the union were scheduled to appear later . District Attorney Edward S. Silver said he had invited Mr. Quill and the others to . testify because of a telegram sent by Mr. Quill and his associates asking : " What is the truer connection between the walk-out leaders and former Transit Commissioner Harris J. Klein and Klein 's connection with the waterfront ? " Mr. Klein , who was a member of the Transit Authority until last June 30 , acted on Thursday at the motormen 's request to bring the strikers back to work . Mr. Quill declared last night on a television broadcast that " supervisory employes " of the Transit Authority had encouraged the motormen 's strike . He asked that the Transit Authority investigate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ IND division , the surface line despatcher in Flatbush and the superintendent of operations of the BMT division . " Retired members of the T. W. U. attended yesterday a , hearing of the Public Service Commission into plans for purchase of the bankrupt Third Avenue Transportation Corporation . Originally , the union had planned a work stoppage by 3,500 Third Avenue operating and maintenance employes to attend the hearing . The pensioners saw a letter introduced in evidence from John E. McCarthy , president of the Fifth Avenue Coach Lines , Inc. , to . Matthew Guinan , president of the New York local of the T. W. U. , promising to carry out all existing contracts if Fifth Avenue should obtain possession of the bankrupt system . John O'Donnell , counsel for the union , objected to the introduction of the letter without Mr. McCarthy 's presence to explain how jobs and pension rights would be protected under the proposed Fifth Avenue merger plan .                     