@@718240

txt President Eisenhower has opened his television campaign with an address which stressed the administration 's peace-promoting achievements at home and abroad , but which also managed to take Adlai E. Stevenson to task on three major points : 1 . The President disputed the Democratic candidate 's statement that there is any prospect of abandoning the'aritil it I the foreseeable future under present world conditions . 2 . He dismissed as a " theatrical national gesture " any proposal to " suspend unilaterally our H-bomb tests . " Mr. Stevenson had proposed that the United States take the lead in suspending H-bomb tests , but added that this policy be conditioned upon the willingness of other atomic powers to do likewise . 3 . The President deplored " public speech which erroneously asserts our economic weakness . " This was an oblique reference to a Stevenson charge that American prosperity is " a lopsided prosperity " in which 14,000,000 persons have incomes of under $1,000 a year . Soviet propaganda has picked up and embellished the Stevenson statement . The Record ' Cited Simultaneously , Mr. Eisenhower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ achievements of the Eisenhower administration in this field . Thus the President , in making at a broadcast studio the first of six or seven major campaign addresses to the nation by television , adhered to the Republicans ' announced dual purpose : to talk about " the record " and to correct distortions and misstatements by the Democrats . At the outset , he reiterated his own fitness . He spoke of the " personal kind of peace that 1 possess "  --  the conviction " of my own physical strength to meet all the responsibilities of the presidency , today and in the years just ahead . If I were not so convinced , I would never have accepted renomination to this office . " Mr. Eisenhower in essence launched a new kind of television campaigning . It was not a fireside chat , but at the start he asked for the privilege of " coming quietly into your homes to talk with you on some serious national subjects ? without the noise and extravagance usual during a political campaign . " He thus made a virtue of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a CBS network studio in Washington . Theme Expanded At no time did the President mention his Democratic opponent by name , leaving his audi ence to infer , in those paragraphs where he took issue with Stevenson proposals , to whom he was alluding . Mr , Eisenhower expanded his peace theme to embrace not only peace abroad , but industrial peace , peace in the home , and domestic peace between the races . Mr. Eisenhower at his press conferences has listed the global areas to which peace or improved conditions have come in the past four years . He listed them again in his campaign speech : Korea , Iran . Trieste , West Germany , Austria , Guatemala . He called the Suez crisis " grave , " and added in reference to Suez policy : " We have spoken with care and restraint . We can not yet know whether the issue can be settled with justice and fairness to all . But we can know that the world will know that America has spared no effort to save peace . " The Eisenhower administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to " a new kind of war , a declared total war , not upon any human enemy , but upon the brute forces of poverty and need . We have been waging this kind of war in the world , as in our own land . " In proof of this , the President referred to the American offer of nuclear material for world use , to the American disarmament plans including the " open skies " proposal , and to what he called the " open minds spirit of diplomacy " displayed at the Geneva summit conference . Eisenhower speech : Page 18                     