@@719569

txt EISENHOWER SEES MENSHIKOV TODAY : ON SUMMIT MOVE President and Dulles Will Seek Meaning of Bid for Foreign Ministers ' Talk ADMINISTRATION IS WARY , Moscow 's Action Heightens Significance of New U. S. ' Board on Disarmament By DANA ADAMS SCHMIDT Special to The New York Thea . WASHINGTON , March 2 ? President Eisenhower will try to find out from the Soviet Ambassador tomorrow the meaning of Moscow 's sudden willingneSs to hold a foreign ministers ' meeting to prepare a conference of heads of government . Ambassador 1/likhail A. Menshikov , who requested the meeting , presumably will have some explanations to offer . Secretary of State Dulles will be present at the meeting with Mr. Menshiltov in the White House , starting at 11 A. M. Meanwhile , Administration officials confined themselves to raising two key questions about the new Soviet note . 1 , Is the note merely a concession in form , meant to mislead world opinion into believing the Soviet Union has made a real substantive concession ? 2 . Is the Soviet Union insisting on a huge meeting of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ note , or will it settle for something more manageable ' . New Proposals Possible The Soviet move toward a foreign ministers ' meeting to prepare a summit conference lent new significance to the establishment last week of a new panel of disarmament advisers to review the United States disarmament position . In addition to naming James . T. Wadsworth to take over some of the functions formerly exercised by Harold E. Stassen , the President appointed a disarmament advisory board composed of Walter Bedell Smith , Alfred Gruenther , Robert A. Lovett and John J. McCloy . One of the board 's first problems will be whether to try to break the disarmament deadlock , at a summit meeting or outside it , by making a new , simplified United States proposal for the suspension of nuclear tests . Another issue requiring immediate consideration , as a possible subject for discussion at the summit , is a revised pro // posal for a zone of mutual aerial and ground inspection in Europe . A third subject to which the Administration attaches particular importance is outeespace control . The United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been met hitherto by Soviet insistence that such ' regulation must be linked to nuclear disarmament . On the surface , Soviet willingness to attend a foreign ministers ' meeting was merely an acceptance of a proposal that the United States had already dropped as nonessential . Secretary of State Dulles ' made it clear at his news con-I ference Feb. 11 that the United States Government did not care whether a summit conference was prepared on the diplomatic or the foreign ministers ' level as long as it was prepared , and prepared substantively . That is , preparations should not only deal with mechanical problems such as the time and place of meeting and the list of agenda subjects but also should involve discussion of the issues so as to determine the chances of agreement . Except for the reference to foreign ministers , the United States position as stated by President Eisenhower in his Tan . 12 letter to Premier Nikolai A. Bulganin still stands . He said then : " It would be essential that prior to such a meeting these complex matters should be worked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ministers , so that the issues can be presented in form suitable for our decisions and o that it can be ascertained that such a top-level meeting would , in fact , hold good hope of advancing the cause of peace and justice in the world . " On the second question , officials here would prefer a meeting of the foreign ministers of the United States , Britain , France and the Soviet Union . However , the United States would probably compromise on the addition of Poland and Czechoslovakia . It would not like to see a neutral nation , such as India , added to the meeting , since this would greatly complicate the process of negotiation . But some officials thought the Administration 's mind was not closed on the subject . The State Department has been more than usually careful not to reveal the details of the note handed to Ambassador Llewellyn Thompson in Moscow , Friday . As long as the Soviet Union does likewise it hopes to give quiet , unpublicized diplomacy a chance to attain the kind of results that public exchanges of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ felt that the Soviet move had brought a summit conference nearer . They saw good possibilities foilb'compromise on the issue whether a meeting to work out a summit agenda was merely a mechanical exercise or whether it would permit substantive discussion of the issues that divide East and West . A. debate on an agenda , it was pointed out , can be revealing , as it was . in 1955 when the heads-of-government meeting in Geneva had to agree on the questions to be referred to the foreign ministers .                     