@@719339

txt Superintendent of Schools William Jansen yesterday condemned as unthinkable a grand jury recommendation that a uniformed city policeman be assigned to every public school in the city . The proposal was made Monday by a special grand jury investigating lawlessness in public schools in Brooklyn . It had asked that police " patrol the rridors , the stairways and the 4. ecreation yards " of schools throughout the city to help prevent outbreaks of violence . " To me , " Dr. Jansen said , " the proposal to have an armed poregularly stationed in el- 5 , school is unthinkable . " " We do not want a Little Rock in New York City , " he added . ? Dr. Jansen 's statement followed the third charge to the jury , made yesterday by Kings County Judge Samuel S. Leibowitz , who is presiding over the investigation . He said : " The court feels certain that this grand jury would not have made this unusual request were it not for the fact that the grand jury has evidence before it to establish that conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incapable of coping with the situation . " The jury has been meeting three times weekly since Nov. 6 , // when it was given the task of searching the causes and possible remedies for the outbreaks of violence in some of the public schools in Brooklyn . The investigaton was inspired by an incident last September in Thomas Jefferson High School . There a 17-year-old truant hurled a bottle of lye into a classroom , partly blinding one boy and spattering eighteen other pupils and the teacher . Responding to the grand jury 's recommendation Dr. Jansen said yesterday : " Schools do not operate in a vacuum . They inevitably reflect the behavior of the community . It is inevitable that in a public school population of one million children there will be dffenses committed in ? schools which are sometimes serious . " He called it ? unfair to draw a generalization from such cases clined to comment on any part of the controversy . " But through Deputy Commissioner Walter Arm , he indicated that the proposal was being studied . Mr. Arm said the commissioner or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Police Department also released the results of a hurried new survey of what police action had been taken since the first of the year in , the city 's public schools . The survey , completed at 6 A. M. yesterday , showed that 1,280 arrests had been made on school grounds in the period . Most of the offenses were not serious , but they included rape and murder . There had been 2,152 complaints made to the police concerning alleged crimes at the schools . In some cases , only the names of suspected juveniles had been taken for --  police reference . And some of those arrested , it was pointed out , were not pupils . Mr. Arm said that the school crime report was " unevaluated . " He said it . was still unknown ' how many crimes listed had occurred during school hours or how many had been perpetrated by students . The Board of . Education has made several studies itself on what might be done to protect pupils from the minority who are unruly or emotionally disturbed . Last Monday , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ created a year and a half ago . The report suggested that new schools be established for problem boys and girls . Judge Leibowitz touched on this ' report yesterday . He described . it as " another grain of sand on the dunes of the.Sahara Desert . " " After eighteen long months of surveying and conferring , " the judge said , " the committee discovers that there are , in fact , dangerous delinquents in our public schools ; that they are , in fact , corroding the school morale and should be ousted . " While the public waits for this " panacea , " he said , " gangsters and disturbers will continue to run amok in our public schools . " Still another solution was proposed yesterday by . Mrs. Rose Russell , legislative representative of the Teachers Union . She suggested that , the'anone5 it would cost to assign police . men to the schools might bet ? ter be spent to hire remedial reading teachers , psychologists , guidance counselors and others . " It is clear , " he said , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a public school house in order to perform the duties which devolve upon them . " Sports Stadiums Cited He pointed out that police officers were posted in sports stadiums and other places of entertainment to protect those in attendance , even though the places might be privately owned . " Our schoolhouses , " the judge added , " are public buildings , wheroin are sheltered children and their teachers . Under the law , and as a simple matter of common sense , they are certainly entitled to as much protection by the police as are adult spectators in a place of amusement . "                     