@@720907

txt Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru , in what appears to be his strongest words yet , has assured his nation that " if war is thrust upon us , we shall fight . " peaking to a tumultuous and sometimes rowdy session of the Lok Sabha ( India 's lower house or Parliament ) , Mr. Nehru made clear Nov. 25 that his government still hopes to prevent war and will use " every means in our power " to do so . But the unmistakable import of his message to Parliament , opening a two-day debate on the government 's handling of the Sino-Indian border dispute , is that India 's resolve to maintain its borders intact has been firmed up . Mr. Nehru said his proposals to Chinese Communist Premier Chou En-lai for settling the border dispute were " fair , reasonable , and honorable ? both for India and China . " He indicated that his plan for dealing with the border dispute has been to allow Communist China every conceivable avenue for making face-saving gestures . This is in line with India 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which can not be shelved in time of crisis . " But he added that India is ready for any eventuality . " I am quite confident our defense forces are well capable of looking after our security . . . . At no time since our independence , or even before , have our defense forces been in better condition , " he told Parliament . Mr. Nehru reiterated this point several times during his opening remarks ? and each time was cheered as he said that Indian defense units have never been in better condition or in finer fettle . Changes Recognized The Prime Minister 's statement calve only hours after . heavily criticized Indian Defense Minister V. K. Krishna Menon admitted " it is unfortu- ? nate that we trusted China . " The surging public opposition to the Indian Government 's slow and careful action in the border question has borne down most heavily upon Mr. Krishna Mcnon ? as the top exponent of what many Indians term the government 's " ostrich-like handling " of the border crisis . Mr. Krishna Merlon said Nov. 24 that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist China , lying across the Himalayas , but that conditions had altered his belief . " Now the danger is come and we arc fully prepared for it , " he added . Speaking to the executive committee of the ruling Congress Party , which gave him overwhelming support in his post , the defense chief said the anger of the Indian people was " justified . " He added : " I can assure you we have taken all measures to protect the border to the best of our ability . " Mr. Nehru in his opening remarks to Parliament took a sharp tack on the Indian Communists . He said he had been " amazed and ashamed " at recent demonstrations in Calcutta in which local Communists backed Communist China in its border dispute with India . ; Queries Tossed Although the opposition to Mr. Nehru is considerable throughout . the subcontinent , there is strong support from observers of the scene in New Delhi for the belief that Mr. Nehru will easily weather the current storm . Repeatedly heard in debates in the restaurants of New Delhi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what alternative is there to the Nehru policy ? " " What would India gain from trying to force Chinese troops out of some of the rugged mountainous terrain of the Himalaya region ? " This undoubtedly will be the prevailing mood . despite the tumult and shouting now going on in the Indian Parliament , as India settles down to the long winter of Himalayan inactivity when the snow-ice blanket across these mountains , coupled with the chilly winds , makes any clash between Indian and Chinese forces unlikely . The winter offers India opportunity to rcgear its efforts and to realign defense establishments along the mountain frontier . And the winter allows six months in which much can happen to calm the border dispute . This is the Indian hope now .                     