@@716347

txt The battle for Guatemala is on , Foreign Minister Guillermo Toriello announced today . Speaking from his office in the National Palace , he said that unidentified planes from an undetermined take-off point bombed the country 's gasoline stores last night . He did not identify the location of these stores , but it was believed one target was San Jose , major port on the southwestern Pacific coast . Shortly before 10 A. M. today word reached this correspondent that shooting had broken out in Puerto Barrios , an East Coast port . No details were available . A half-hour later word came that the uprising had begun in the town of Retalhuleu , about thirty miles south of the Mexican border . In a broadcast heard in Tegucigalpa , Honduras , Senor Toriello confirmed that an invasion had started in Puerto Barrios and San Jos ? . Guatemalan resistance forces under Col. Carlos Castillo Armas , calling themselves the Army of Liberation , have attacked at San Jose , the capital city of Guatemala , Puerto Barrios , Zacapa and Retalhuleu , a spokesman for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Plane Raid Senor Toriello began his press conference with this announce-ment : " As most of you know , Guatemala is faced with a grave situation . At this moment our country is under attack . " He did not say that land forces had invaded Guatemala , but he constantly used the word " invasion . " He said planes had invaded Guatemalan territory . The Guatemalan Ambassador in Mexico said the barracks of the Presidential guard in the heart of the capital had been the target of a bombing raid . Saner Toriello continually referred to " Guatemalan exiles . " When asked whether the invasion forces were composed only of ( , Guatemalans , he replied : " There were including Cubans , Nicaraguans , Dominicans and mercenaries . " Asked whether the attackers were led by Colonel Castillo Armes , exiled Guatemalan Army officer , the Minister replied : " Exactly . " Senor Toriello emphasized Guatemala 's friendship with Honduras and exonerated that country from participation in the attack . He spoke bitterly of Nicaragua , especially President Anastasio Somoza . He charged that Nicaragua @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had had the direct assistance of General Somoza . Foreign elements , especially the United Fruit Company , are helping the invasion and trying to establish tyranny over Guatemala , the Minister asserted . Only once did Senor Toriello mention the United States directly . He showed a copy of the Mexican newspaper Novidades in which President Eisenhower was quoted as having endorsed a statement by Secretary of State Dulles . In this statement , according to Novidades , Mr Dulles said that Guatemala was " under a reign of terror . " " We can not accept this harsh language , " the Minister declared . He added : ' We Guatemalans can not understand why a great country like the United States should want to make such an attack as this against a small country like Guatemala . " He charged that " high officials in the United States Government , as well as Congressmen , have backed attacks against Guatemala . " Such persons are " poisoning the minds of Central Americans against my country , " he protested . Expects to Get Help Senor Toriello emphasized , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , from our program , because it is a just one . " He said the battle would be fought by loyal Guatemalans who " will have the help of other countries in Central America and other countries in the entire world . " Asked whether this meant that Guatemala would beclare war on Honduras , the Minister answered quickly , " No , we shall maintain our great friendship for our neighboring country . " The Minister told of a two-day attempt to stave off hostilities . The Guatemalan Ambassador in Honduras was asked to make representations to both President Juan Manuel Galvez and Foreign Minister Jose Edgardo Valenzuela in respect to the massing of hostile forces on Honduran territory opposite Guatemala . The Ambassador could not reach President Galvez , but reported that Senor Valenzuela had agreed to " take the most energetic means to impede subversive activities and prevent mobilization , along the Guatemalan border . " Yesterday Senor Toriello sent a cablegram to Senor Valenzuela that said : " In spite of assurances given by Your Excellency in the name of the Honduran Government , you have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former Col. Carlos Castillo Armas , have moved from Honduran territory up to the Guatemalan frontier , perfectly armed and financed by known foreign interests with the intent of launching an attack against Guatemalan territory . " The people learned for the first time late yesterday that foreign unidentified planes not only had flown repeatedly over the country without permission but had dropped a significant amount of arms and ammunition . Also made known in the last twenty-four hours was the fol-lowing : 41Wholesalers and retailers have been notified that further upward price adjustments of basic commodities will be punishable . I/Officials are considering the creation of a special police agency to combat smuggling , which has been increasing in the national emergency . cThe Information Ministry revealed that the appearance of unidentified aircraft had been responsible for the country 's first blackout Tuesday night . The blackout caught the populace completely by surprise . It was evident that many had thought it to be simply a power failure . The drone of planes was the conselusive clue , however . According to an official comment , a plane flew over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the area around Tiquisate , where large United Fruit Company holdings are situated . Packages containing the arms were quickly discovered and turned over to the civil guard , the Government said . " Great numbers of farm workers , " residents in the area , were said to have cooperated " with great efficiency and patriotism in the work of locating and turning over these parachute drops . " Unofficial reports Tuesday morning said that an agent of the International Railway Company in the Tiquisate area had spotted at least six paratroopers at the same time the arms were dropped . The parachuted packages were said to have contained machine guns , automatic pistols , rifles , hand grenades and a ' large amount of cartridges of various caliber . The machine guns had no particular markings . to identify their manufacture . The cartridge belts appeared to be of a type used by ' the United States , the announcement said . Markings on the rifles " lead us to believe they were manufactured in the Soviet Union since they bear a little circle in which is enclosed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on . There were reports of shots having been fired at Civil Guard headquarters this morning , Two United States correspondents , Tom Gerber of The Boston Traveler and Patrick S. Catling of The Baltimore Sun , sought to inspect the situation at the barracks and were apprehended by the police . They were released after having been questioned half an hour . No unusual excitement was evident on the streets . This could have been attributed to a rainfall and also to the fact that most persons were staying close to their homes . Associated Press Foreign Minister Guillermo Toriello , avho announced the attack on his Government .                     