@@716764

txt WASHINGTON , Jan. 14 ? The Organization of American States asked Nicaragua tonight to try to stop war equipment from moving from that country into Costa Rica . A resolution adopted unanimously by the organization at a late night meeting said its investigation commission on the scene of the current disturbances had reported " a substantial part of the war materiel was introduced over the northern border " lof Costa Rica . Nicaragua is Costa Rica 's neighbor to the north . The report from the fivenation commission reached headquarters here earlier today . The organization 's Council went into emergency session at once . One secret meeting was held in the afternoon , and a second tonight . The resolution adopted just after 11 o'clock , told the investigating commission to stay on the job and send observers to all airports " in the region affected . " Later , Jose Mora , president of the Council , said this " of course includes Nicaragua . " All places that might be used for transport of troops or military equipment toward Costa Rica are to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Senor Mora , who is Uruguayan Ambassador ko the United States , also seeks a meeting in the near future of foreign ministers of the Western Hemisphere . It asked that the Governments of the twenty-one republics belonging to the organization consider a date and a place for such a meeting . George Hazera , representing Costa Rica at the session , said he had hoped for a " firmer stand " by the Council , but added : " We are grateful to the Council for going as far as it has . " p , " Costa Rica wishes ? to lemind the Council that its Government has asked miiltary aid to repel the invasion of which it is now the victim , " he stated . " I make an earnest appeal to give u 's the arms with which to defend ourselves . " Guillermo Sevilla Sacasa , Nicaraguan Ambassador , told the Council that his country wished to make clear that " although the commission 's report mentioned Nicaragua as a possible source of the arms shipments into Costa Rica , this does not in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measures to avoid any intervention in the internal affairs of Costa Rica . " Denying that Nicaragua was participating in the Costa Rican outbreaks , Ambassador Sacasa said his country would certainly tighten the measures already taken to prevent help for Costa Rican rebels from flowing across the Nicaraguan border . The investigating group sent to Costa Rica earlier this week urged the hemisphere organiza // eproduced with permission of the copyright owner . Further reproduction prohibited without permission . Americas Urge Nicaragua to Bar Arms to Rebels1 Associated Press SPORT SHIRT FOR MILITARY BLOUSE : An enlisted man reports for duty at San Jose , capital city of Costa RicaContinued From Page 1 .. ion to emphasize the " increasing seriousness of the present situa ' : ion " in an immediate formal cal ! to the Nicaraguan Government . This first official finding that he invading forces were supplied ' rom Nicaragua warned that . here were " grave presumptions hat war gear- is continuing to arrive from abroad . " It said that the " territorial integrity , the sovereignty and the political independence " of the Costa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secret at P. M. and , after a brief open session to which reporters were admitted , went back into closed session to consider the resolution offered by Ambassador Mora. , He proposed that the five nations represented on the investigating commission station more military attaches and observers on the frontiers and at airports " within the affected region " to determine the source of the men and military equipment going into Costa Rica . Costa Rica 's representative , Senor Hazera , warned the Council against postponing further action until a formal meeting of the American republics ' foreign ministers could be called . Argentina and Chile took the lead in urging the Council to fix a time and place for an early meeting of the foreign ministers upon receipt here of the cabled report , signed by the commission chairman , Luis Quintanilla of Mexico . U. S. for Firmer Inquiry The United States called for immediate consideration of Ambassador Mora 's proposal to send " more military advisers " into Costa Rica so the commission could extend and improve its surveillance . Henry F. Holland , United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council had acted promptly in sending the commission to the scene but that its obligation " has not ended . " He reported having talked by telephone today with Ambassador John Dreier , United States member of the investigating commis ; ion . According to Mr. Holland , the Ambassador reported that at least four planes were now making observation flights over the troubled area . The commission had reported earlier that " planes from abroad " were participating illegally in the Costa Rican invasion . It reported that military operations still were under way near the Nicaraguan border although the ore ganization had called on all American states to keep the peace . Five of the republics , the 0 . A. S. announced earlier , have offered the use of airplanes to make observation flights over Costa Rica . The offers were made by Costa Rica , Ecuador , Guatemala , Nicaragua and Venezuela . In its second report today , the commission took an increasingly grave view of the situation . " All of the facts obtained authorize the conviction ' that at least a substantial part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frontier of Costa Rica 's , territory , " the report said . " Therefore it the commission believes it is pertinent to recommend to the Council " * that it " send immediately a formal call to the Government of Nicaragua emphasizing the increasing seriousness of the present situation . * " Likewise the investigating commission wishes to recommend to the 0 . A. S : Council that it contemplate at once the " measures which , in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty of Rio de Janeiro , should be applied if the circumstances thus demand . " Under the Rio de Janeiro Treaty of 1947 , the twenty-one American republics are.committed to help defend any member attacked by another country . The New York Times Jan. 15. 1955 Preparations were under way for an attack on the rebel forces hemmed in near the Nicaraguan border ( cross ) .                     