@@713698

txt Long worked over plans to reor ; anize the top-level structure of the Department of Defense afe so far along that several changes are expected to be announced during the next few weeks . Of an internal administrative nature for the most part ; the changes are designed to spread responsibility in some cases , to centralize it in others and generally to clear up some chronic " Pentagon confusion . " Both the Secretary of Defense , General of ' the Army George ' C. Marshall , . and ? his deputy , . , Robert A. Lovett , are known to have been chafing at the cumbersome ' arid top-heavy organization they inherited early last fall . A new " organization chart " for the Defense Department has been completed and awaits only publication . It iA expected that it will improve the highly complex interrelation between boards , committees , sections and divisions that steer the activities of the three armed services whose headquarters are housed in the Pentagon . Nothing like a " shake-up " is is process ; rather , a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both important divisions themselves and their methods of " coordination . " For example , in the Research and Development Board , whose chairman is William Webster , it was recently found that skilled personnel assigned to the specialized task of providing technical information on weapons for the Joint Chiefs of Staff were " bogged down " with administrative paper work at the expense of their primary duty . The Munitions Board , which had been found lacking 1 ) 3 ; top officials in many respects , is being gradually tightened up as its chairman , John D. Small , has talked some industrial figures into taking over specialized phases of  --  the stockpiling and procurement program . Mr. Small has announced the appointment of Cornelius W. Middleton of Babcock &; Wilcox Company of New York as executive vice chairman . A professional engineer , Mr. Middleton is to relieve Mr. Small of the demanding responsibilities of the Munitions Board 's production and requirement activities . Other internal changes scheduled to be announced will reflect the department 's subscription to the principles of management engineering and the recommendations of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; headed ' by former President Hoover . A Defense Department official pointed today to the well-advanced program to place all three armed services on a " performance type " budget as a more realistic measure of viewing the separate activities of the services . . Management engineering was introduced to the Defense Department in mid-1949 by former Secretary of Defense Louis Johnson , who established the National Deense Management Committee with Gen. Joseph T. as its head . General had been chief of the Air Force 's Materiel Command and a member of the Research and Development Board . At the same time the Defense Department created a Management Advisory Group and retained Robert Heller and Associates of Cleveland , experts in business management . It was learned today that the Heller Associates , who have been paid $620,000 in fees so far , are winding up their services for the Defense Department . Essentially , these services consisted of over-all guidance to the management committee and the armed services in ferreting out wasteful practices that had developed as a result of World War II . Still in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permanent management division within the Defense Department . Indicative of the trend is the imminent formal naming of Maj. Gen. Ewart G. Plank by Secretary Marshall as an aide to the Defense Secretary to deal with management problems . General Plank is a retired member of the Corps of Engineers . A Transition Stage The management committee itself , which is credited with pointing out wasteful military practices , is said to be in a transition because of the switch from the pre-Korea budget-paring mood of the Defense Department . The management committee , it is said , as presently constituted , is in no position to " watchdog " the services in the bloom of expansion . However , its continued existence in some form , according to authoritative sources , would provide a continual surveillance on the armed services as they develop their expansion . The management committee under the military build-up has devoted itself chiefly to three fields : Organization of the Defense Department manpower and supply and distribution . The demands made on Assistant Secretary of Defense Anna M. Rosenberg in the draft study undertaken by Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the confusing conditions under which at least eight groups within the Pentagon dealt with military manpower without any authoritative head short of the Defense Secretary himself are expected to be pulled together . One thing Secretary Marshall has already managed , without waiting for a new organizational chart of the Pentagon , is the delegation of a great deal of authority . It was indicated today that more authority  --  and concommittant responsibility  --  will be the new Pentagon rule , even if it . means that a number of- officials inside and outside of the Pentagon , who once enjoyed the prestige of having direct access to the Secretary of Defense , will have to deal at other levels of the Military Establishment .                     