@@718085

txt ATLANTA , July ** chairmen in seven Southern states warned the party leadership in the rest of the country today that a national convention split en civil rights would result in the loss of this year 's Presidential election . They proclaimed their willingness to help draft . a civil rights plank that could be acceptable to all the party . They recognized that the question had raised problems for leaders in other states , they said , and they insisted that these other states recognize the problems it raised in the South . In a joint statement issued after two days : of conferences behind closed doors the seven chairmen also specifically disclaimed any intention of bolting the Democratic party this year . On the contrary , they said that they hoped and expected to work for the success of the Presidential ticket to be nominated at the national convention . The states represented at the meeting were Georgia , Florida , Alabama , Tennessee , North Carolina , South Carolina and Virgina . These states will have 196 of the 1,377 votes at the convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the declaration approved unanimously today are being sent to four other Southern states that had been invited to send representatives to the meeting but did not do so . They are Texas , Mississippi , Louisiana and Arkansas . These four have 128 convention votes . Some of the wording in today 's declaration seemed intended to be an indirect rebuke to // Governor Harriman of New York , a leading candidate for the party 's Presidential nomination , for tactics he has recently used in his campaign for the nomination . He is regarded by southern Democrats as the leader of a drive to bring party adoption of a civil rights plank the South can not accept . Most of the ? tates represented at the sessions that produced today 's declaration are reported favoring or leaning toward the nomination of former Gov . Adlai E. Stevenson of Illinois for President . He was the party 's 1952 candidate . Those at the meetings here insisted that the question of Presidential candidates had not been discussed . They announced that they were recommending a joint preconvention caucus of all southern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opening of the national convention . The purpose of the caucus would be to make the most effective use of southern votes in the convention to obtain recognition of the South 's political problems . Coordinating Unit Named No date or place for the caucus was set . A. committee of three of the seven chairmen was named to coordinate future activities of the party leaders in the seven states . John Sammons Bell , Georgia State chairman , was named chairman of the coordinating committee . The other members are Herbert S. Walters of Tennessee and Neville Bennett of South Carolina . The declaration adopted today did not mention the civil rights question specifically , but had unmistakable reference to it . It declared that " those who would defeat us would first seek to divide our Democratic party . " It added that , with that " in mind , " the seven had " met to consider the elements of possible division within the party , hoping to contribute toward harmony in the ' national convention . " " The difficulties arising from our differences are not insurmountable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we recognize the problems and necessities of other states ; we insist that they , in turn , recognize ours . We urge responsible Democratic leadership everywhere to work toward this end . " The statement asserted that " the people of the southern states look to and expect the Democratic party leadership in our respective states to stand firmly , calmly , intelligently , and with determined resolve to protect the sovereign rights of the states . " " We believe , " it went on , " that the South should work together to protect itself and to preserve the rights of the people as guaranteed by the Constitution and as contemplated by its framers. "                     