@@717446

txt WASHINGTON , Oct. ** Secretary of State Dean Acheson contended today that the Democrats had proved themselves superior to the Republicans in developing the unity- and strength of the free world . Breaking a long silence on controversial foreign policy questions and personalities , Mr. Acheson criticized the Republican party 's foreign economic policy and characterized Secretary of State John Foster Dulles ' threats of atOmie retaliation as " a classic illustration of the way a leader among free nations should not proceed . " He also asserted that the difference between party attitudes on foreign affairs " may determine the success or failure " in the " cold war " and implied that the Republicans had not only followed wrong policies , but that they had shown little " hospitality to intelligence . " His observations on " The Parties and Foreign Policy " were published in the November Harper 's Magazine and will be included in a book called " A Democrat Looks at His Party . " Cites ' Renaissance of Thought ' " In the conduct of our foreign relations in the years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were welcomed and respected . Men capable of having them were welcomed , respected , and both stimulated and supported . " The result was a renaissance of thought and inventiveness which was unexcelled  --  and , it is not too much to say , unequaled ? in any chancellery in the world . " Mr. Acheson did not say so , but he left to the reader to infer that the State ' Department had not been exactly a triumph of intellectual genius since Jan. 20 , 1953 , when Mr. Dulles took over , Mr. Acheson 's remarks were expected to revive the public dispute that divided hint from many Republican and some Democratic leaders during his years in the State Department . The Republicans are eager to debate the foreign . policy issue in the coming Presidential campaign . They believe they can concede many disappointments in Indochina and Formosa , Ger // many and Eastern Europe . Nevertheless , they think the big issue is on their side . Their major argument On the foreign field is that there was war in Korea when the Democrats were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They are perfectly willing to let the Democrats condemn Mr. Dulles for raising false hopes about China , Indochina , Germany and Eastern Europe , for they are confident they can always have the last word with the claim that they , and not the Democrats , stopped the fighting . In the ensuing argument about bipartisanship in foreign policy , moreover , the Republicans will now be able to claim that not only Vice President Richard M. Nixon but also Mr. Acheson who chase to Make invidiousl comparisons about which party ' was better equipped to guide Amer can foreign policy. , Nixon Query Recalled Mr. Nixon asked last year , " Is n't it wonderful that we now have a Secretary of State Mr. Dulles ) who stands up to the ' Communists ? " This stung Mr. I Acheson , who was a central figure in the decision to fight the , I Communists in Korea and'who is generally regarded ' as the author of the " positions-of-strength " policy that has been carried on , in large measure , by the present Administration . Mr. Acheson conceded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attribute principles , behavior or attitudes to men or linstitutions on . the basis of supposed fundamental characteris tics . He argued , however , that in the great fluid periods of the twentieth century ? just before , during and after the two World Wars  --  the " Democrats were in a position of responsibility and the Republicans were in opposition , and that this great fact had tended to form and harden different party attitudes . " Froth this -. historical experience come , I ' think , the major influences in the formulation of political attitudes toward foreign I affairs ? the Democrats acutely conscious that we live in a world that has cut deeply into our lives and fortunes and can do so again ; the Republicans acutely conscious of the domestic forces which they have twice used to overthrow their opponents * * 2 ' Praises Vandenberg Thus , Mr. Acheson , ? hilejPralsing some Republicans , such as the late Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg of Michigan , rested his case on the broad argument , not that some Democrats were better than some Republicans , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more dependable instrument than the Republican party in the formulation and administration of the nation 's foreign policy . He had little to say about the accomplishments of the Republicans in this field . He concentrated mainly Oh the Democratic party 's handling of the . Berlin air lift as cdntrasted with Mr. Dulles ' handling of the " massiveretaliation " threat . What happened in . China , Indochina and Korea was not explored . Accordingly , the expectation here was that the Republicans would use Mr. Acheson 's article to debate the foreign policy issue in the campaign , concentrate on Mr. Acheson personally as the spokesman of a partisan foreign policy argument and point to the fact that the former Secretary of State 's attack came precisely when Mr. Dulles was opening the Big Four foreign Ministers meeting in Geneva .                     