@@720689

txt SANTIAGO , Chile , Aug. 21 ? ! The week-long foreign ministers ' conference on Caribbean tensions that ended here Tuesday has undoubtedly added to United States political prestige in Latin America  --  at least inl the eyes of responsible govern-1 ment and public opinion . But certain post-conference reac-1 lions observed in this capitall and elsewhere , as well as a series of related events that occurred here since the hemisphere foreign ministers met , indicate that the United States headaches in the Caribbean ? and particularly in Cuba  --  may get considerably worse before they get better . As seen this weekend from this capital which is the furthest removed in Latin America from the agitated Caribbean , the ' Santiago parley and its results are becoming the major weapon in the Communist campaign against the United States in the Western Hemisphere . With the real issues cleverly distorted and the Castro brothers ap - parently lending themselves tol the game , the United States again is being presented as the friend of dictators . Tass Comment In a neat switch , Tass explained that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States scheme to intervene in Cuba . In the Santiago parley an overwhelming majority of the governments , including the United States , had in effect rejected the Cuban thesis that outside influences should be allowed to help overthrow such Latin American dictators as the Dominican Republic 's Generalissimo Rafael Leonidas Trujillo Molina . Now the Havana leadership has struck back by means of skillful innuendo and open charges of a Washington-directed opposition to Cuba with sinister reactionary and counter-revolutionary overtones , When the conference was at the half-way mark last week Premier Fidel Castro , who had opposed it from the beginning , termed it " a farce . " And his brother Raul , commander-inchief of the Cuban armed forces , announced that the Organization of American States was " no good " as he flew toward Santiago on a visit that had rather obscure purposes . While the Communist press in Chile , acting in quick concert with other Communist publications in Latin America and such influential Soviet organs as the labor newspaper Trud in Moscow , described the foreign ministers conference as an " imperialistic plot " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist newsmen at . a press conference here Tuesday night to hint obligingly that the , United States was the power I behind this conspiracy . That this should be the Com- ' munist line is neither surprising nor new . As far back as early in May the Secretary General of the Chilean Communist party , Luis Corvalan , one of the least known but most influential Latin-American Communist leaders , identified the Cuban revolution with Communist aspirations in a report to the ( party 's central committee that ' constituted the most comprehensive statement of Communist policies in the hemisphere for the current year . To judge from the actions here on the margin of the conference of Major Castro and Cuba 's Education Minister , Armando Hart , close adviser to Premier Castro , it would appear that at least a powerful segment of Cuba 's revolutionary leadership is willing to go along with the Communist campaign against the United States . During the ten days he spent here Hart several times denounced " United States imperialism " as Cuba 's foe . In his news conference earlier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States . In his forty-eight hours , in Santiago , Major Castro was assiduously courted by leaders of the Chilean popular front F. R. A. P. , which includes he tightly organized Communist party . He met the Chilean and other Latin American Communist leaders , although there is no actual evidence that the meetings amounted to more than sociability . This attitude , as expressed in Santiago in Raul Castro 's and Hart 's public statements and their contacts with Chile 's and other Latin-American Communist leaders who just happened to be here when the conference ended , evidently carries heavy implications for basic United States-Cuban relations . It comes on top of the bitter denunciations of the United States that have become a matter of routine in Havana in recent months . ' With this campaign thus developing , the question that arises is how much impact it is having in Latin America in general and how it is affecting the over-all United States posture in the hemisphere . Large Group While long-term conclusions would obviously be premature , first indications based on the ' immediate reactions to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Washington . This appears to stem as much from the relative success of United States diplomacy here , especially from the highly favorable personal impression created by Secretary of State Christian A. Herter , as from the fact that the Cubans , particularly the contingent operating outside of the conference , and the Communists may have overplayed their hand . In the first place , it was a large Latin - American bloc of nations that took the lead in reasserting the validity of the hallowed principle of non-intervention , and Secretary Herter 's unequivocal defense of it fitted snugly into the majority view of the Latin Americans . No observer familiar with hemisphere history and with the special , individual problems of many of the Latin-American nations took seriously the allegations emanating from certain sources that the United States had to twist their arms to make them stand up for the principle of non-intervention  --  and there are Latin-American foreign ministers who resented this implication . As a corollary to the agreement on non-intervention , the conference was able to give new powers to the Inter-American Peace Committee to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new invasion attempt by exiles against Trujillo 's dictatorship or any other country . Whereas this decision will doubtless have the effect of affording external protection to Trujillo  --  and nobody here was happy about that  --  it will also serve to discourage the Dominican dictator from his constant meddling in Cuba 's internal affairs . Having thus set up the best mechanism it could devise on short notice to deal with the Caribbean troubles  --  and one that in the long run can be just as useful to Premier Castro as to Trujillo  --  the conference devoted much of its effort to making it abundantly clear that the hemisphere is sick of dictatorships . Expressions or this repugnance were vividly inscribed into the " Decaration of Santiago , " the parley 's principal document , and conveyed in vehement speeches by most of the foreign ministers  --  including Secretary Herter , who stressed that the United States is equally opposed to dictatorships of the left and the right . Whatever else it may have accomplished , the Santiago conference therefore at least has served the purpose of clarifying hemisphere issues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first time in a long whsle , its position in relation to Latin America . Few quarreled with it , and as first reactions were beginning to roll in it was possible to eistinguish between the hemisphere 's responsible opinion and the outcry of extremists that so often is mistakenly taken for Latin America 's true voice . And while the United States still faces difficult , immediate Caribbean problems and still has to resolve many other longrange ones with the rest of Latin America , it has emerged from the Santiago experience in a reasonably favorable light .                     