@@720595

txt The second session of the foreign ministers conference here has not moved off briskly . On the contrary , the first two days have produced two surprises . The first was the unpleasant insistence of the Soviets on reraising the question of East German recognition by demanding East German representation at the informal private sessions which proved so much more productive the last time around than the routine formal sessions , with their set speeches and emphasis on propaganda postures . This one presumably will be gotten over in a day or two , but at the expense of another concession to the Soviets . The second was a suggestion from the West Germans that the West untie the issue of Berlin from the issue of a summit conference and even be willing to contemplate holding a summit in a recess of the foreign ministers , leavlng the Berlin situation on ice during the interval . * The Washington position has always linked a summit with a Berlin settlement . But it did so on the basis of an assumption which has been greatly eroded of late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a summit and would be willing to pay the price of withdrawing the threat to Berlin in order to reach the summit . The West was using the bait of a summit to get a settlement on Berlin . But who is it who really wants a summit ? Moscow has long wanted what it calls relaxation of the tension , and there was a time in recent history when a summit meetIng was the standard means to that end . There 's no doubt that the 1955 summit did relax tensions . Whether it relaxed tensions to the West 's advantage is still a highly controversial matter . Moscow now is widely believed to have obtained a substantial advantage . But times have changed . There are other means of relaxing tension in the world atmosphere . There has been no summit since 1955 , but the evidence is all around us of relaxation . Here in Geneva it is difficult for even a foreign minister to get a hotel room  --  and almost impossible for a journalist . The town is bursting with tourists , mostly American and all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Geneva ' concerned by any talk of crisis . There may be a crisis , but the atmosphere is far too relaxed to cause any traveler to hesitate about his European holiday this summer . The Soviets do not need a summit to relax tension  --  not with Moscow becoming the favorite target for a summer of politicking by travel . In the old days , American political candidates made the famous " three I 's " tour  --  Ireland , Italy , and Israel . Now votes arc presumed to he made by traveling to Moscow , not by shunning it . The most ardent summit climbers are no longer the Soviets but the British Tories , who see in it the last magic step to victory at their next elections . There is no evidence here that Moscow is prepared to pay a price for a summit . Khrushchev still seems to want to visit the United States , and for that he might pay something . But with Nixon coming to him after Kozlov 's journey around the states , Moscow has all the relaxation it needs or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germans have added these facts together and proposed that which has several earmarks of common sense about it . Berlin is proving to he very difficult to settle , and the Soviet price shows no sign 01 corning clown . But the British thirik they want a summit , and the West Germans are growing a bit tired Of the season of bad AngloGerman relations . Besides , if summits were routine rather than exceptional things , there would not he so much harm in going to them . So why not think in terms of just fitting a summit in during a recess in the foreign ministers conference ? It is unlikely that such a summit would settle Berlin . But it is doubtful that during a summit Moscow would do anything to make the Berlin situation worse . The Tories would be happy . A decided improvement could result in A nglo-German relations . In the meantime , the experts could go on working away at the Berlin problem , which in part would he momentarily defused . As long as Berlin and the summit are tied together , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may find ourselves making excessive and ' unnecessary concessions over Berlin . A A There is some danger in playing the hand anyway , But a summit has lost much of its value as a bargaining counter . There no longer is much chance of either gaining or losing seriously at a summit . It could become more a social than a working affair at which every one of the great men would be on good behavior and foreign ministers would be slightly more tractable  --  perhaps .                     