@@713864

txt Conferees for the Senate and the House agreed today to extend the draft law until July 1 , 1955 , and to lower the draft age from 19 to 18% . At earlier sessions , the conferees had agreed on a twenty-four-month service period , instead of the present twenty-one . The present Selective Service Law will expire July 1 . The conference committee was unable , however , to make a final report to Congress today because it failed to agree on the length of service to be demanded of Reservists called to active duty involuntarily and on the machinery by which a system of Universal Military Training might be instituted in the future . They agreed , however , that Universal Military Training , whenever it might come into effect , would begin for youths when they became 18 . After a three-hour executive meeting of the committee , Senators Richard B. Russell of Georgia and Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas , along with Representative Carl Vinson of Georgia , all Democrats , announced the points on which agreement had been reached . Differing versions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House several weeks ago . Initial Training Period Set The draft machinery approved today would require all men to register on becoming 18 . They would be examined and classified before they were 181/2 and would be eligible for induction thereafter , providing the pool of men from 19 to 26 in their individual draft districts had been exhausted by the local boards . If that pool no longer existed , the local boards would be required to call first men of 18% before calling those 181/2 . Such inductees , as well as regular recruits , would be required to receive four months of training before they could be sent outside the continental United States . Recruits for the Navy , however , could be assigned to ships for initial training . Both bills required a period of initial training , and the House version required training of six months before assignment to a combat area . The spokesmen pointed out that the prescribed four months  --  of training , plus processing and transportation time , would mean that a recruit could not reach a combat area before he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 19 . The conferees decided that physical standards for induction must be no higher than those that prevailed in January , 1945 , at the height of the Selective Service system of World War II . It , was explained that the Army , which is the only service now inducting men , had already returned to about that level . In the way of mental requirements , it was decided to lower the existing standard , but to a level still higher than that in force dur1 ing World War II . Mr. Vinson estimated that this change would make eligible for induction about 150 ' 000 men now classified as 4-F . It was agreed that the existing limitation on women in the armed forces-2 per cent of the total troop strength  --  would be suspended until July 1 , 1954 . An over-all ceiling of 5,000,000 for the Army , Navy , Air Force and Marine Corps was written into the bill . The House bill had set no top limit , and the Senate bill had put the ceiling at 4,000,000 . Administration plans call for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of pot:ntial importance was the deletion of a proviso contained in both Senate and , House bills , under which Congress could terminate Selective Service or Universal Military Training by concurrent resolution , a procedure that does not require the signature of the President to complete its validity . As the matter now stands , it would be necessary for Congress , if it wished to terminate the draft before July 1 , 1955 , to pass a bill repealing the pending measure . Such a repeal would be subject to veto by the President and could be enacted despite his objections only by a two-thirds vote of both the Senate and the House . Another section on which agreement was reached today concerned conscientious objectors . The conferees decided that local draft boards could defer men who had religious scruples against bearing arms , but only so long as they were doing work under civil direction contributing to the national defense , although not necessarily essential to it . Men who claimed deferment on grounds of conscientious objection and then refused to enter employment deemed by the local board to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ draft evaders , subject to maximum punishment of five years in prison and a fine of $10,000 . Further meetings of the conference committee , to iron out the remaining differences between the two houses , will depend on the progress made by the hearings on the dismissal of General of the Army Douglas . Senator Russell is chairman of the joint committee holding those hearings , and the other Senate conferees are members . Mr. Russell said he hoped another meeting of the conference committee could be held next week .                     