@@718612

txt President Eisenhower and Premier Guy Mollet of France found themselves in agreement today on a series of problems affecting Europe . This was revealed late this afternoon by James C. Hagerty , White House press secretary , after the two Men and ' their advisers had been in conference for most of the day . Mr. Hagerty disclosed that they also discussed Middle Eastern matters both this motrning and this afternoon , but he refused to have any comment on that subject " while it is a matter for active negotiation in New York // before the United-Nations . " He cautioned that his remark should not be taken to imply that the French and United States . positions on this subject were in disagreement . Both United States and French officials subsequently explained that the two sides were in no sense " negotiating " on ' the Middle East . The Eisenhower-Mollet talks are not aimed at settling the problem of - Israeli troop withdrawal . Although the attitudes of the two countries toward that specific problem have differed somewhat , it was understood today 's talk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solution that would not involve pressure by the - United Nations . The subject of economic sanctions against Israel ; it was reliably reported , - did not even come up . Mr. Hagerty announced this morning that M. Mollet had brought with him acceptance of an invitation from President Eisenhower to President Rene Coty of France to visit the United States in the first week of June . President Eisenhower , Mr. Hagerty said , " is particularly pleased that Vresident Coty will be coming to the United States at a time when the bicentennial of Lafayette 's birth will be commemorated in both countries . " Mr. Hagerty said this afternoon that " a good measure of agreement " had " emphatically " been reached on these topics discussed during the day : diThe " progress being made in European integration . " Mr. Hagerty said the President " expressed great interest " in the negotiations that led last week to agreement on a common market and joint atomic development by France , West Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Belgium United States backing tor these integration projects and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forthcoming economic discussions with Britain and the other members of the organization for European economic cooperation for a free trade area linked with . the-common market . The . common market , which aims to remove trade barriers within the six-nation region , will impose common tariffs on imports from nonmember countries . Members of the free trade zone could impose individual tariffs on imports from nonmembers. cThe " common problem of European defense . " Here , it was understood , both the United States and France took a position that amounted to opposition against unilateral Atlantic Alliance force reductions by Britain or any other member . They agreed that such reductions should be Made only after full consultation with the Alliance . Both sides also agreed , it was reported , that modern weapons must be incorporated in the Western armies , but that conventional forces must also be maintained . Algeria to Be Discussed Only these matters were formally discussed today . The'problems of Algeria and France 's current economic situation will come up tomorrow . ' Today 's talks began with the President and M. Mollet by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ joined for a half hour by Secretary of State Dulles and French Foreign Minister Christian Pineal ' . Mr. Dulles was unable to attend the White House luncheon for M. Mollet because of the hurried trip here by Abba Eban , the Israeli Ambassador . The luncheon included the entire French party , members of the French Embassy , and a large group of Cabinet officers and other United States officials . This afternoon the talks were held in the Cabinet room of the White House . Tonight M. Mollet was the guest of honor at a large dinner given by Mr. Dulles.                     