@@719062

txt Partisan battle lines stiffened today over procedure for breaking a parliamentary impasse , on the civil rights bill . Democratic and Republican leaders stood their ground and sought to fortify themselves by exchanging recriminations . There was no sign of a retreat by either side . The political jockeying produced sharply worded statements from Senator Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas and Representative John W. McCormack ' of Massachusetts for the Demo-1 crats and Representative Joseph ) W. Martin Jr . of Massachusetts ' for the Republicans . Each side attempted to put the blame on the other for pro-I moting a stalemate . Each ac- ' cused the other of advocating a course that would result either ' in an inadequate bill or no bill . Thrust at Meade Alcorn The day 's most vigorous thrust came from Mr. Johnson , the Senate Democratic leader , and was directed primarily at Meade Alcorn , the Republican National , Chairman . The Texas Democrat charged " backroom politicians " with , bringing pressure to bear upon , legislators in an effort to kill the bill . The reference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Representative ) Martin had conferred by telephone and were " in complete agreement that the bill must be strengthened in every way possible before final passage . " " It is a sad day for the country , " Mr. Johnson told the Senate , " when the chairman of a political committee openly boasts that he is on the telephone laying down the line to the elected representatives of the people . " Senate Version Pressed Representative Martin , ignoring the Johnson accusation , told reporters that if Democratic leaders were " genuinely interested in , a civil rights bill . " they would agree to a formal SenateHouse conference on differences between versions passed by the two chambers . " If they just want to play politics , " he asserted , " they will continue to do what they are doing now . " The Democratic strategy is to avoid a joint conference by seeking House approval of the Senate version with a single modification . The proposed change would narrow the scope of a Senate provision guaranteeing jury trials in criminal contempt cases arising from violations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trial guarantee to cases involving the right to vote . The Democrats can not Barry out this plan , however , without the help of Republican votes . The Republicans are opposing it with the Eisenhower Administration 's backing in the hope of producing what they call a " stronger " bill in a Senate-House conference committee . The next move , expected next week , will be for someone to ask unanimous consent in the House to take the bill from . the Speaker 's desk . The inevitable objection will put the measure before the Rules Committee for a recommendation on the procedure to be followed by the House in seeking to accommodate the ' House and Senate texts . Republican Shift Sought Democrats said they needed to recruit at least one Republican member of that committee to clear the Senate bill with a " rule " ? that is , a procedural recommendation  --  permitting approval of the measure with the limiting proviso . The committee consists of four . Republicans , four Northern Democrats and four Southern Democrats . All four Republicans were understood to be adamant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rule " calling for submission of the bill to a joint conference committee . At least two of the Democratic members , Representative Howard W. Smith of Virginia and William M. Colmer of Mississippi , apparently intend to vote against either proposal . In insisting on a joint conference , House Republican leaders had the active support of Vice President Richard M. Nixon as well as William P. Rogers , Acting Attorney General , and other Administration spokesmen . Nixon Phones Keating Representative Kenneth B. Keating , Republican of upstate New York , received a telephone call from the Vice President yesterday and reported that the Vice President had urged him to stand fast for a " strong " bill . Mr. Keating , chief Republican manager for the bill in the House , said Mr. Nixon snared his view that it would be " abject surrender " to accept the Democratic plan . Representative McCormack , Democratic leader of the House , issued a statement in which he endorsed the Senate bill for the first time . He called it a " strong " bill . Mr. McCormack added : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be protected . It also has other effective provisions . We can now get a bill passed . If it goes to conference , its passage is in danger , and it may be years before we again arrive at this point . " As soon as President Eisenhower and the Republican leaders become practical and politically rational , a bill will pass . If a bill does not , it will be due to President Eisenhower and the Republican leadership lining up with the outright opponents of such legislation , who will take every measure to try and prevent passage of a bill . "                     