@@713690

txt There were kids in the front row 's so tense they did n't bother to shuck their peanuts . Behind them , equally absorbed , were row after row of Chicagoans  --  young , old , and middle aged  --  terraced up almost to the very roof of Chicago Stadium . And out beyond the stadium walls last night were millions more , some listening to radios , some watching television screens , who were following , blow by blow , one of Chicago 's most dramatic spectacles ? the Golden Gloves championship bouts . Keeps Spectators on Edge It was an ages old attraction that kept the watchers on the edges of their seats . Conflict was the lure that kept all eyes fixed on the square of brightly lighted canvas . It was man-to-man combat , fierce , skilful , unrelenting , and yet not brutal , that brought cheers for the winners and applause for the losers . There were some sentimental favorites among the 32 young men who had won their way to the championship bouts . Mostly they were the soldiers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or from army posts scattered around the country . ? Crowd Is n't Bloodthirsty They boxed three two-minute rounds in each bout , and the action was fast and furious . The big leather gloves thudded as viciously as the lighter weight gloves of the professionals , but they did n't do as much damage . Little blood was shed . The referees awarded technical knockouts whenever it appeared that a boy CHAMPIONS CROWNED Eight win titles at 24th annual Golden Gloves tournament . Stories In : marts section . had been cut or severely shaken . The strongest protests ' against the interruption of such a bout always came from the boy who was hurt , for this was not a bloodthirsty crowd . For example , there was Bob Goodman and his son , Bob Jr. , 11 : They had come to the . fights to celebrate young Bob 's birthday . Bob ' Sr. , a clothing salesman , who lives In Westchester , has been a Golden Gloves fan since the days when Joe Louis won the heavyweight title . And they were typical of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chicagoans saw the fights , thanks to television , than ever before in the 24 year histdry of the bouts . In spite of the TV broadcast , the crowd at the Stadium was one of the biggest in recent years , 18,835 . Charities to Get $82,000 Thus the proceeds for the Chicago Tribune Charities , Inc. , were greatly increased because W-G-NTV and the Du Mont network paid $25,000 for the television rights . Arch Ward , sports editor of THE TRIBUNE and chief promoter of the Golden Gloves show , estimated that the bouts would raise about $82,000 for charity . And . the crowd was the largest indoor audience for a boxing match in the United States this year . It drew a bigger gate than the Ezzard Charles-Joe Walcott fight in Detroit last Wednesday , which was attended by about 14,000 persons .                     