@@715768

txt The Republican winds that blew so strongly toward economy and a balanced . budget all winter , spring , and summer are shifting toward military security first and solvency second . Within a week have two significant statements marking this shift : From Secretary of Der . fense Charles E. Wilson and from Representative W. Sterling Cole ( R ) of New York , the man in Congress who knows most about atomic weapons . Mr. Wilson remarked a few days ago to reporters that his primary job is to establish security , and that solvency , or balancing the budget , was somebody else 's worry . Mr. ? Wilson heretofore has always emphasized economy in discussing his activities . Mr. Cole , who is chairman of the Congressional Joint Committee on Atomic Energy , says that because of Soviet progress in atomic weapcms he is now " ready to surrender " the principle of a balanced budget in order to develop North American continental defenses . Security vs . Solvency Democratic leaders such as Senator W. Stuart Symington of Mistouri have consistently put security before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Truman fiscal policy Was postulated on building the nation 's military system first , at the cost of a balanced budget . On the same day that Mr. Cole spoke , Senator Symington again warned against thinking " which starts with a dollar ceiling rather than with atomic capability . " However , Senator Symington has consistently argued against any extensive continental defense on the ground that the strategic air arm should have first priority on available funds . Jet Output Pushed Mr. Cole 's information on these matters  --  and there is none better anywhere in the United States Government ? has ? led him , he says , to the conviction that the United States should spend another 15 to 25 billion dollars over a period of several years on air defense . Mr. Wilson says he is not alarmed at the moment about United States air defenses because he does not think the present policy of the Soviet Government is directed toward major war . However , he has pushed the B-52 jet bomber production program ahead many months And likewise production of the F-100 jet supersonic iignter. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for defense and less for economy than in his opening months . Mr. Cole 's statement that if the American people knew the facts on Soviet atomic capability they would not be in favor of balancing the budget is I more air defenses , and is proposal for an air defense program , is a controversial one in two ways . The administration Is divided among its top officers on how much more the American people should be told about atomic weapons , and there are strong differences of view among the generals and military scientists as to what kind of an air defense system can be built and for how much . What President Eisenhower will do is provide the leadership that has been lacking so far for whatever type of air defense program he feels is needed . While it is true that the American peopic have been told much , there still is great confusion . Leading military scientists have declared that adequate continental defenses can ' be achieved for the United States and Canada .. But only recently Gen. Omar N. Bradley , former chairman of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Saturday Evening Post leaving the impression that even adequate , or partial , air defense would be extremely difficult to attain . Warning by Flemming Military scientists say mat this simply is not so , and there is a movement underfoot in Washington now to have some of their leaders ? Dr. Vannevar Bush could be one  --  speak out on the subject . Adequate conAinental defenses do not mean airtight defenses . If an atomic war should break out , United States cities could be attacked , The aim is to give enough defenses so that the nation would not be damaged beyond retaliation and survival , A warning that : this . kind of destruction is possible has come from many sources , but recently has been repeated formally by a high official of the Eisenhower government  --  Arthur S. Flern ; ? ming , Director of Defense Mobilization . He said ( in a quarterly report ) that " Soviet Russia is-capable of delivering suddenly and without warning the most destructive weapon ever devised by man on chosen targets of the United States . "    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        