@@716583

txt Registration for this year 's election fell behind the totals for the last such poll In 1950 , both here and in upstate cities where personal registration is required . In this city the total registration for the year was 2,461,881 , a decline of 346,713 or 12 per cent below the 1950 total , It was about 65,000 higher than registration for last year 's mayoral election . , In forty-five upstate cities for which final or approximately final figures were available last night , registration had fallen from 1,096,242 to 1,026,720 . This represented a drop of 69,522 or about 6 per cent . Republican and DemocraticLiberal spokesmen both managed , in public statements yesterday to interpret the decline as favorable to their side . But several active Democratic leaders conceded privately that ' the drop would make the task of electing Averell Harriman , their candidate for Governor , more difficult . What both the New York City and upstate figures seemed to mean unmistakably was that voters are not taking as much interest in the ' outcome of this election as they did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against Walter A. Lynch , Most Democratic leaders assigned part of the loss of interest to the fact that the state election this year does not also involve the selection of a Mayor and a United States Senator , as it did four years ago . The mayoral election Of 1950 had been forced by the resignation of William 0 " Dwyer and involved a threecornered contest among former Mayor Vincent R. Impellitteri , independent ; Ferdinand Pecora , Democratic-Liberal , and Edward Corsi , Republican . John P. , campaign manager for Mr. Harriman and his Democratic-Liberal running mates , estimated yesterday that the Democratic-Liberal ticket could amass a plurality of 800,000 in this city on the basis of this year 's registration . Mr. 's estimate of an 800,000 Democratic - Liberal plurality here was basad on the assumption that Mr. Harriman would get as many Democratic votes this year as Mayor Wagner did last year , plus as many Liberal votes as went to Rudolph Halley , former President of the City Council , and a share of the independent vote shown in the mayoral race @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tammany and national comitteeman for New York , went him one better on the Citizeps Union television program and predicted a 1,000,000 plurality for the Democratic-Liberal ticket in New York , This , he said , would be sufficient to elect all Democrats running in New York City for Congress and the state Legislature . Charles M. Metzner , campaign manager for Senator Irving M. Ives , the Republican candidate for Governor , and his running mates , said the New York City registration demonstrated " the complete failure of the Tammany ticket to . whip up the people 's emotions with a mess of phony issues , " Like Mr. , he expressed disappointment that more voters ' did not register . Despite the political rule of thumb that a high registration in New York City favors the Democrats in in state-wide contests , Mr. Metzner said the Senator would have welcomed a larger turnout . Upstate the registration was off in normally Democratic Albany and Buffalo and in normally Republican Syracuse , Rochester and Binghamton . Some Republicans were inclined to attribute the drop in the former cities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party to name any candidates identified with the upstate area for major office . But the prevailing view among both Democrats and Republicans was that it reflected chiefly a lessened interest in the outcome of the election . Thee general Democratic interpretation of the results as , making possible a victory for their candidate was shared by the Liberal party , Ben Davidson , executive director of the party , commented hopefully that registration was strongest in New York City in districts where the Liberal party has its greatest strength . Republican optimism over the meaning of the New York City figures derives from a belief that Senator Ives will do considerably - better in New York against Mr. Harriman than John Foster Dulles , now Secretary of State , did in 1949 when he ran against Senator Herbert H. Lehman for a United States Senate seat . Mr. Dulles polled 797,857 votes here against Mr. Lehman , one of the most popular vote-getters the Democratic party has produced . The city registration that year was 2,775,636 . On this basis , Republicans are confidently predicting that Senator Ives will get a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This would give Mr. Harriman a City plurality of 525,000 to 625,000 , which would not be enough , according to Republican estimates , to offset the probable upstate Republican plurality . As usual , registration in New York City was highest in middle and upper-income districts and lowest in the low-income sections .                     