@@719980

txt ? The army seized power to-1 night in Burma . Gen. Ne Win , Commander in Chief of the armed forces , was asked by Premier Nu to head a new Government and he agreed . The bloodless coup apparently was designed to prevent Bur- , ma 's shaky Government from drifting into Communist hands . Premier Nu announced the action and said Gen. Ne Win had agreed to hold general elections before April 30 . Appealing to the people to support the general , U Nu said in a nation-wide broadcast : " We intended to hold general elections in November this year , but we came to realize that the general elections to be held Li November could not be free and fair . I invited Gen. Ne Win to make arrangements essential for holding such free elections within - six months . I am glad to say Ne Win has accepted my invitation . " . Nu to Resign Oct. 28 In a letter to the general , U Nu said he would advise President Win Maung to summon , Parliament to meet Oct. 28 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ne Win would be I named Premier . In. his reply , the general , promised to follow a neutralist , policy in foreign affairs . The army apparently took , over without incident . The well-organized operation put troops in control of all the major cities and towns in this Southeast Asian republic , which has a 1,500-mile border with Communist China . The army said it was acting to preserve democracy and law and order . It said it wanted to end the political strife that had produced most of the growing pains in Burma since the British granted independence ten years ago . Armed Plot Reported Army leaders said a political group had been building up secret arms stocks to wipe out all opposition and take over the country . Army intelligence leaders said the Communists were preparing to help the plotters , who were not named . Obviously unhappy with the political intrigue that has split the party of Premier Nu , a neutralist , into pro-Western and neutralist camps , army leaders reportedly had issued an ultimatum to both factions . They were said to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that they would not stand by and let any political group take power by force . But they also promised that the army would relinquish power to any Government that could keep Burma stable and guarantee the nation 's security . These were the political events behind the coup : Early in the year a split developed in the People 's Freedom League between U Nu 's backers and those of former Deputy Premiers Bit " Swe and Kyan Nyein . Both are Socialists like U Nu , but bitter anti-Communists . In June , U Nu released two Communist members of Parliament from jail so he could have their votes for a confidence motion that he won by eight votes . The anti-Communist dissidents then voted to . expel U Nu from the party , but the expulsion did not stick . In'July the Communists announced . the end of their tenyear-old jungle war against the Government . Their People 's Comrade party was legalized Aug. 15 . Two days later the party proclaimed that its goal was a revolution leading to " the creaItion of a Communist world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and U Nu canceled the Aug. 28 session of Parliament with a view toward calling elections in the fall or winter . No party appeared strong enough , however , to gain a firm enough majority for stable government . Despite the Communists ' vow to lay down their arms , the rebellion continued to hold the nation in a state of near-civil war . For the last two days an uneasy tension hung over the capital amid rumors of a planned army coup . The rumors gathered strength as the army , in a lightning move late last night , took over key points in the city , including Rangoon 's Mingaladon Airport . Soldiers in full battle dress rapidly spread through the city and suburbs . In downtown Rangoon , the army , military police and civil police searched all vehicles for arms . The army took over the police building in Insein , twelve miles from here , with its powerful radio transmitters . Gen. Ne Win , 48 years old , is a stanch anti-Communist . He has been quoted as insisting that " we must fight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States last year for medical treatment . While in Washington , he conferred with military and defense officials . As Commander in Chief , he has headed an army of 60,000 The New York Times Sept. 27. 1958 Burma ( cross hatching ) , where Army seized power from shaky Government . to 80,000 men . He was Deputy Premier in 1950 . Plagued by Strife Since it became independent of Britain in 1948 , Burma has been plagued by internal strife . The most important revolt was by the Communists . Fortunately for the Government , however , they were split into two factions that could not unite . Other dissident groups , such as the Shans and the Kachins in the hills of the east and north , did not want alien control of Burma . But they did want their traditional identities respected by the Burmans . Burma is made up of a number of diverse areas . The Government has tried to pull them together into one effective state without violating the spirit of self-determination and local autonomy . In 1957 , eight different insurrections were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Highways , railroads and river transport were not safe . Last July there were reports that the majority of jungle insurgent groups were willing to accept amnesty terms . The strength of the insurgents , including Communists , was estimated at about 10,000 . The Burmese Army was said tol number 75,000 troops . Burma lies on the eastern side ' of the Bay of Bengal . It borders on India , China , East Pakistan , ' Laos and Thailand . It is almost as large as Texas and has a population of 20,000,000.                     