@@719418

txt En foreign policy and foreign trade , South America is beginning to search for a new and better place in the sun . - As the year draws to a close this search has not yet acquired a clear-cut . pattern , but what is apparent is that it has moved toward greater political and economic independence of the United States and the restoration of close ties with Europe . There were enough signs . in 1957 to make the general trend discernible . The motivations behind the trend were varied , but all converged upon the same goal . They were : political and economic nationalism . on the domestic level in many of the republics , a desire for selfassertion in world politics , impatience and dissatisfaction with United States economic policies in Latin America and , to some extent , the Soviet ' sputnik and its implications . Conversations with policymakers in recent weeks in six of the South American republics and general impressions gathered in the course of these visits have suggested the following points : With the increase in the United Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years , the Latin-American bloc lost , to a large extent , its decisive importance in the world organization 's votes . Whereas in ' the old days its twenty votes swung any majority , the Latin-Americans now command less than one-quarter of the votes . Need for Allies Seen This fact has impressed upon many of the foreign ministries the need for allying the LatinAmerican bloc to another ' group of votes so that its old power could be restored to some extent . The most attractive was the group of Latin nations in West Europe  --  France , Italy and Portugal  --  with the idea that this for .. of cooperation could be extended to other West European nations . Since these nations have been actively seeking Latin-American support for their own reasons the interest is mutual . For example , France 's Foreign Minister Christian Pineau toured South America before the last session ' of the United Nations General Assembly successfully marshaling support on the Algerian issue and Italian Foreign Minister Giuseppe Pella visited many of the Latin American republics recently for general purposes tightening ties . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " named after President Manuel Prado y Ugarteche , which specifically called for tighter ties with the Latin nations of rope . Many of the Latin American republics were non-committal at first , but late in November Brazil 's Foreign Minister , Jose Carlos de Macedo Soares , while visiting Peru , somewhat unexpectedly gave the idea full support . Link to NATO Weighed The next idea , also emerging from Peru and gaining some acceptance elsewhere , was for the Latin - American nations , which now , along with the United States , belong to the Organization of American States , to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . This idea had currency some time ago in certain military circles , particularly in Brazil , for strictly military reasons , but its latest emergence seems more angled toward political aims . Although thinking on the subject is still quite vague , it appears to be a further projection of the idea of tying Latin America closer to Europe and European influences in the Western Alliance . All the policy planners in South America who are discussing these plans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anti-United States moves . But they concede that if such a Latin-America West Europe arrangement is ever formalized , Washington will no longer be able to count on the Latin-American votes in the United Nations in all instances . The interest of the Latin Americas in European ties carries a rich economic background . In , recent years the flow of European investments in South America expanded vastly , and West Germany now ranks second to the United States in capital being invested in Brazil . French banks are bringing to South America capital taken out from Indochina and North Africa . The South Americans are interested in European investment and trade because they come on easier terms than from the United States . In several of the republics European concerns recently outbid the United States on major construction and industrial projects . The Latin Americans also are seeking new markets for their commodity exports because of a drastic drop in prices in the United States this year . Their trade officials often blame Washington for this because of the ' United States refusal to enter agreements to stabilize prices . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ republics are interested in fuller trade relations with the Soviet Union , Communist China and other Communist countries . An intense campaign to this effect , complete with reports that the Soviet Union is ready to offer assistance in major development programs , is now under way in Brazil .                     