@@712579

txt ALBANY , Jan. ** of a state civil defense agency with power to prepare now for meeting possible atomic bomb or bacterial warfare attacks on the United States will be recommended by Governor Dewey in his annual message on Wednesday . In the event of an enemy attack or the imminent threat of one , the agency would be vested with broad powers to deal with the emergency , including the right to order evacuation of civilians from one area to another and to regulate movements between one place and another . A detailed proposal to set up the agency and define its powers has been prepared by a special Legislative committee headed by Assemblyman Frank J. Becker , Republican , from , Lynbrook , L. I. Its outlines have already been approved by the Governor , other state officials and representatives of the Department of Defense . Evolved in consultation with state and Federal authorities , the proposal vests control and responsibility for civilian defense measures in civilian authorities . It will be ready for submission to the Legislature in definitive form within a week or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wednesday , Mr. Becker said yesterday . Referring obviously to the disclosure last summer that an atomic explosion took place in Russia , Mr. Dewey 's message will declare that the time has come for New York to set up a formal civil defense system . Twelve other states already have civil defense agencies of one kind or another . In New York for the last year there have been limited areas of cooperation between the state and Federal Governments in civil defense measures , notably aircraft spotting through Operation Lookout last summer , In outline , the proposal calls for the ereation of a Civil Defense Commission of seven members consisting of the State Health Commissioner , the Commissioner of Public Welfare , the State Superintendent of Public Works , the Chief of Staff to the Governor commanding general of the state Na // DEWEY URGES UNIT FOR CIVIL DEFENSE // tional Guard , State Safety Director and two others to be appointed by the Governor . The commission would have power to appoint a director who would be its executive officer and directly ' responsible for carrying out its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ training programs for civilian defense workers , for arranging for coordination of local protective services and for drafting regulations , and programs to meet emergencies . The commission would have power to appoint city defense directors and county defense directors with responsibility for organizing local defense measures and coordinating them into the state scheme . Broad powers to compel obedience to its rules and regulations would come int() operation in the event of a hostile attack or in the event that the Governor declared a state of emergency because of the threat of an imminent attack or outbreaks of sabotage or similar acts . In such cases severe penalties would be provided for violation of commission regulations . The commission would have power to order blackouts and practice blackouts and , if in its judgment circumstances warranted , to order evacuation of civilians from any area of the state and to direct their movement to other areas . The evacuation provisions and the regulation of civilian movements are intended to deal with panic situations . A separate bill will be introduced later , Mr. Becker said yesterday , to provide for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the National Guard would be Federalized and ordered to military duty in time of emergency . The skeletonized Guard organization would consist of a cadre of 2,200 officers who would be specially trained to form the core of the new Guard and to train recruits for an expanded Guard should the need arise . The cost of the Civil Defense Commission in time of peace has been estimated at $100,000 a year : As yet no estimates are available for setting up the State Guard cadre . Both the Governor 's message and Mr. Becker 's committee report are understood to be critical of the lack of a national civil ' defense set-ui and particularly of the distribution of planning functions among twen ? ty-seven separate and different Federal agencies . This situation , it is said , has impeded the state is its efforts to set up an effective civil defense system .                     