@@719760

txt The capital will turn out tomorrow to give Vice President Richard M. Nixon a triumphant " welcome home " from his trip to eight Latin-American countries . The plan for the gala welcome for the Vice President and Mrs. Nixon grew almost spontaneously today as a demon ; stration of national unity and purpose after the indignities they had suffered , culminating in yesterday 's mob attack in Caracas , Venezuela . The White House announced that President Eisenhower would go out to the Washington National Airport to meet the Vice President and bring him back to the White House for a private luncheon . The President will be joined in the airport welcome by Sen. retary of State Dulles , the jority and minority leaders in Congress and the members of the Senate Foreign Relations and House , Foreign Affairs Committees . Latins to Go to Airport It Was understood also that the Latin-American diplomatic corps here was planning to turn out in strength . James C. Hagerty , White House Press Secretary , said that it was " within the discretion " ' of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nixon . Long before he made the announce .. meat , heads of many bureaus circulated statements granting time off and urging their employes to go to the airport . Originally the Nixons had planned to leave Caracas at 12:30 tonight . The visit was cut short , and they left late in the afternoon for San Juan , Puerto Rico , arriving there about S P. M. The Nixons are scheduled - to arrive here at noon tomorrow . Despite the welcome for the Vice President , there was realization in Washington today that his trip , planned as a " goodwill " tour , had not been a triumph for United Stated policy south of the border . Morse Plans Investigation There was no disposition here to criticize Mr. Nixon ; in fact , there was nothing but praise for the way he had comported himself under the most trying . circumstances . Nevertheless , there was widespread feeling that some. - thing was awry with United States relations in Latin America . In Congress , expressions of shock and anger at the treatment accorded to Mr. Nixon were interspersed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demands for a re-evaluation of that policy . Senator Wayne L. Morse , Democrat of Oregon , announced an investigation ' by ' , // a foreign relations subcommittee . Meanwhile these other developments arose from the attack on Mr. Nixon yesterday . cThe Venezuelan Charge d'Affaires called at the State Department to express " the ' most sincere apologies " for yesterday 's events , and to give assurances that " all the measures necessary " for guaranteeing Mr. Nixon 's safety had been taken by his Government . At his news conference , President Eisenhower said that he thought the demonstrations ' against Mr. Nixon could be at-1 tributed in large part to " ecoinomic difficulties " Latin-American countries had been experiencing . But the President did not doubt that the Communists had tried to exploit this economic unrest , Questions 1 , 6 , 8 on page 14. ciThe Defense Department announced that two companies of paratroopers and two of marines , numbering in all about 1,000 troops , arrived at their destinations at Ramay Air Force base in Puerto Rico , and Guantanamo Bay . Cuba , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the men , who had been sent to the Caribbean for possible duty in protecting Mr. Nixon , would be returned soon , tilt was reported that LatinAmerican Ambassadors in Washington were planning a testimonial dinner for . Mr. Nixon . The first question at the President 's news conference this morning was whether he ? tributed the wave of demonstrations against Mr. Nixon to Communist-inspiration or to genuine resentments against United States policies . The President plainly indicated that he thought the underlying causes were economic . He cited the difficulties of various Latin-American countries dependent upon exports of raw materials , the prices of which have fallen in the world market . Question No. 1 . He said Communists had a habit of exploiting such troubles , as , they had demonstrated in Burma and Indonesia . Nevertheless , this is a. case of " a lot of smoke " where there is " probably some fire , " he remarked . ' He said the incidents pointed up to the critical importance of the United States aid-and-trade programs to the nation 's security . Troop Dispatch Defended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not agree with a number of legislators and diplomats who strongly questioned the wisdom of dispatching troops into an area where the United States marines are still associated with " Yanqui imperialism . " He called the decision to dispatch the troops the simplest kind of precautionary measure . ( Question 2 . ) " We could get no reports from the outside , other than telephbne calls from the embassy ; and not knowing what was happening , and not knowing whether the Venezuelan Government might not want some aid from us , ? we simply put it at places where it would be available , in reasonable amounts , and in bases that . were well within the American zone ; and that is all there was to it , " the President explained . The President said that the possibility of demonstrations had been discussed before Mr. Nixon left , " but no thought was given to concelling " his visits . On the other hand , the violence ' ? and particularly yesterday 's riot ? had not been anticipated , and everybody there was caught @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Review On Capitol Hill , Senator Lyndon Johnson . the majority lead- ' er , said that while the immediate concern was for the safety of Mr. and Mrs. Nixon , " this will not blind us to the longterm concern and to the necessity for a careful examination of all the factors which brought this situation about . " Senator Johnson said he would be at the airport tomorrow , " but there is more involved ( here than a demonstration of unity , " he added . " There is also a need for careful , thoughtful , , united reappraisal or our posi- , tion in this world . " Senator Theodore Francis Green . Democrat of Rhode Island ? and Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , said ' he was " not satisfied with ex ' planations which put all the , blame on the Communists . " ' Senator Leverett Saltonsta11.1 Massachusetts Republican and chairman of the Senate Republican Conference , joined Senators Johnson and Green in a ' call for a searching explanation ' of the incidents ' and a reevalu-t of United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of State Dulles briefed a group of Senators from the ' Foreign Relations Committee on the three major trouble spots ? South America , Algeria and Lebanon . Later Senator Green said that the situation seems ' to be " very serious . " On the House side , a resolution commending Vice President Nixon for his " courageous and dignified conduct " was approved ' without debate or objection .                     