@@717704

txt The foremost spokesman of world communism declared today that the revolutionary movement could triumph without resort to violence and even by using existing parliamentary institutions . Communism can achieve this , he explained , because Western imperialism is enfeebled . Nikita S. Khrushchev addressed the Twentieth Congress of the Soviet Communist party and an assemblage of foreign Communist leaders with the assurance of a successful corporation director reporting to a stockholders ' meeting . . The Soviet party chief freely interpreted and altered the fundamental dictum of MarxismLeninism . ' The old Communist precept that war is inevitable as long as imperialism exists is no longer valid , Mr. Khrushchev asserted , because of the strengthening of what he called the camp of peace . Proletariat Held Strong The advent of communism does not necessarily imply violent revolution or civil war , he said . Tn-1 deed , he added , in many capitalist countries the proletariat is now strong enough to convert the traditional Parliaments into " organs of genuine democracy . " Mr. Khrushchev laid down as the Soviet Union 's foreign policy the principle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neutral and former colonial countries . He called particularly for the reinforcing of bonds with India , Burma , Afghanistan , Egypt and Syria , as well as the strengthening of relations with neutral states , such as Austria and Finland . The Associated Press quoted Mr. Khrushchev as saying , " There are only two roads , peaceful coexistence , or war . " The Soviet Union will henceforth conduct " an active policy " aimed at improving relations with the United States , West Germany and the other main Western powers , Mr. Khrushchev said . He declared the same policy would be directed at strengthening ties with Turkey and Iran . Mr. Khrushchev 's words made him seem condescending in his references to the strife-torn Western camp . He mentioned " capitalist encirclement " of the Soviet Union only once , and in a historical sense . .. The Communist camp is now so strong , the party leader asserted , that each member country is no longer required to develop all branches of heavy industry at top speed . Mr. Khrushchev told 1,600 delegates in the Great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still being used to mask United States efforts to dominate the West . However , he - was complacent about the future in view of the creation of a " zone of peace " encompassing 1,500,000,000 persons in the Communist and neutralist countries . There are already signs of a more " sober " attitude among influential Western circles , he said . Pressure on the West would be still more effective , Mr. Khrushchev . noted , " were the forces fighting for peace to overcome a certain lack of unity . " Mr. Khrushchev then made a forthright appeal for the formation of popular fronts , including Communists and a section of the Socialist movement . The Soviet Union is ready to halt thermonuclear weapons tests , cut military expenditures and ban the stationing of atomic weapons on German soil , Mr. Khrushchev declared . He complained that the United States had not shown due understanding for the Soviet proposal for a nonaggression and friendship treaty . He expressed ? the hope that the offer would be properly appreciated in the United States and that matters Would change for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Khrushchev presented a far less Draconian program than many Western observers had expected . He insisted that priority development of heavy industry would be pursued , but at the same time promised more consumer goods and liberalized social benefits . Mr. Khrushchev confirmed a statement made recently by Maxim Z. Saburov , a First Deputy Premier , that a seven-hour ' day would be introduced in Soviet industry during the Sixth Five-Year Plan , beginning this year . Young persons between 16 and 18 years will work only six hours daily , Mr. Khrushchev said . The Soviet Union is to have a third integrated metallurgical center in the next ten years , Mr. Khrushchev announced . The new center , presumably in Eastern Siberia , will supplement the Donets basin in the Ukraine and , the Ural-Kuznetsk complex . Observers thought the new ! center would be in the Irkutsk- , South Yakut areas in Eastern Siberia where rich deposits of iron ore and coal are available . The new center is to produce between 15,000,000 and 20,000 , - 000 tons of pig iron annually . The party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coal reserves and 80 per cent of the nation 's hydroelectric power , potential . The party leader who fathered the new land program said the once desolate Eastern steppeland could produce at least 2,000,000 , - 000 poods ( 33,760,000 tons ) of grain annually . He said the nation 's goal remained 11,000,00Q , - 000 poods ( 180,000,000 tons ) of grain by 1960 . Mr. Khrushchev said the Soviet population ' increased by 16,300 , - 000 in the last five years . The present Soviet population is believed to be about 220,000,000 . Mr. Khrushchev endorsed the principle of collective leadership in more emphatic terms than he has ever done before . The endorsement was interpreted as an effort to kill persistent rumors that he intended to arrogate supreme power to himself . The party secretary made few references to Stalin during his seven-hour speech , which consumed most of the morning and afternoon sessions of the Congress , In discussing foreign pqlicy , Mr. Khrushchev appears to have ignored Stalin altogether . He clearly implied the Communist camp was so strong and the Western camp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pointless for the Soviet Union to waste its breath trying to modify individual Western policies like German rearmament . The Soviet Union has granted 21,000,000,000 rubles ( $5,250 , - 000,000 ) in credits to its European allies , Mr. Khrushchev said . In addition , he said , 5,600,000 , - 000 rubles ( $1,400,000,000 ) worth of Soviet industrial equipment is being furnished to China .                     