@@718071

txt As Washington had expected , that was a very mild announcement from Gettysburg , very casual and unexcited . Meeting with reporters after his legislative conference with the President , Senator William Knowland of California , Republican Senate Leader , said simply that Mr. Eisenhower told him he was still a candidate . And that was it . The decision , foreshadowed for several days , was out . And handled in a dexterous way which shows that the Republicans have learned something in political finesse . It was not James Hagerty , presidential press secretary , nor Mr. Eisenhower himself , dramatically , who announced that the decision was unchanged and that he was hewing to his Feb. 29 announcement that he would be a candidate for a second term . It was a senator , without fanfare , and without previous preparation . This technique of the offhand announcement plays down the President 's illness . It treats the surgery and convalescence as merely a brief interlude , an interruption only , in the presidential schedule . It diminishes the health issue in the campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continuing his previous plans to run . GOP Delighted Now the GOP chairman , Leonard W. Hall , can go ahead with his plans for a brief , polished Republican convention at San Francisco , unblemished by party disharmony , rivalry , or factionalism . And Presidential Assistant Sherman Adams can continue his search for " pro-Eisenhower " congressional candidates , able to assure one and all that the President 's hat remains in the ring and that the presidential coattails are available . And the plans may continue unchanged for the President to conduct a frontporch campaign with six or seven major television broadcasts to the nation . Republicans in Congress and around the country were of course delighted with the presidential news . Democrats expressed happiness that the President was sufficiently recovered to allow the announcement to be made . Democratic candidate Adlai E. Stevenson wisely remarked that " the nation will benefit in the coming months from a vigorous and searching debate on our urgent problems . " And so the press corps which has maintained an uneventful vigil at Gettysburg finally had something to telegraph their home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men , virtually commandeered a passing automobile to rush the news from Senator Knowland to the telegraph office . The automobile happened to be driven by a Democrat , but he allowed that it would be something to relate to his grandchildren . Reporters found the President , who had posed with Senator Knowland briefly after the legislative conference , more tanned and rested than when he left Walter Reed Hospital June 30 . He obviously had lost weight and his face was a little drawn , but the ten days at Gettysburg had helped . Quite evidently , in making it known that he hews to his original decision , Mr. Eisenhower is relying on the medical advice given him that things are going well , that the chances of illness recurring are unlikely in a person of his age , and that the prospects of good health for another four years are as high as they were when he announced his original decision regarding a second term to a packed , tense press conference back on Feb. 29 . Hint on July 6 Senator Knowland said the President told @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when he made his announcement last Feb. 29 . " The senator said he found the President in " excellent spirits and good humor . " " He and we are looking forward to a vigorous and active campaign under his leadership , " he added . A few months ago , when the President had not made known his own decision , Senator Knowland was announcing that he himself was a presidential candidate . The first hint that a presidential decision was imminent came July 6 when press secretary James C. Hagerty announced with a wide grin that the President that day had discussed his political future for the first time since his recent illness . Then the announcement that John Sherman Cooper had agreed , on presidential urging , to resign as Ambassador to India and contest a Kentucky Senate seat gave added substance to the view that Mr. Eisenhower was still a candidate . Under the White House view that " nothing is changed " and that all plans proceed as scheduled , it would seem that the vice-presidential nominee must still be Richard M. Nixon . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illness , the party might fix on a new vice-presidential nominee . But the party argument is that a switch in vice-presidential candidates would seem to admit that there was substance in the " health issue , " and for that reason in particular Mr. Nixon would be retained .                     