@@717549

txt President Eisenhower 's doctors found his condition " good " and his convalescence from his heart attack " normal " today after the most complete exaikination in a month . But they said they had noticed " signs of fatigue " in the Presi. dent in recent days as a result of his heavier schedule . They have urged him to " slow down , " they said . But they emphasized that " no , harm has resulted . " The report came from Mai , Gen. Howard McC , Snyder , the President 's personal physician , and Col. Thomas W. Mattingly , heart specialist at Walter Reed it.rmy Hospital , where the ninety-minute examination was conducted . . Dr. Snyder said that if he were the President he would wait until at least mid-February before deciding whether his re ? covens were complete enoggh to permit his running for re-election . ? Delivery of Speech in Doubt He added that he thought it would be unwise for the Presi. aent td attempt next month to deliver in person his State of the Union message to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President would never play golf - again . He said that heart specialists differed on whether a man who had suffered a coronary thrombosis should be allowed to play go* . Some , he said , advise no such strenuous activity at all , while others advocate it . He said that in his advice te the President he would abide by whatever the heart specialists might agree upon . .. Dr. Snyder expressed his hope that the President 's workload would lighten after Tuesday , . when he meets Congressional leaders . He said he thought the burdens on General Eisenhower would be less after Congress meets than they have been in the last two weeks . James C. Hagerty , the White House press secretary , concurred , lie noted that the President recently had been faced with major decisions on the budget and had met twice , with the National Security Council . Mr. Hagerty said there were occasions when the President had worked at his Gettysburg office until past noon and had resumed work before 2 o'clock , As a result , he said , the President has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pre ? scribed for lunch and rest . Both doctors were asked whether today 's extensive examination had revealed anything " unsatisfactory or worrisome . " Dr. Snyder said : " Not to me ? it was just as I had pictured it . " Dr. Mattingly replied : " In the physical examination , nothing . " Both elaborated , however , by saying that the President had shown some physical signs of fatigue in recent days , in the form of higher blood pressure and pulse rate and " the reactions that are expressed by an individual . " Dr. Snyder said the President had suffered emotional as well as physical fatigue . He added the fatigue was ascribed largely to the President 's dedication to his job and his conscientious effort . General Snyder gave a detailed account of the findings of the examination , covering everything from the President 's weight to the si- of his heart . He also amplifi I on the bulletin by answering reporters ' questions . Temperature , pulse , breathing , circulation , blood clotting time , blood sedation rate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satisfactory and within the normal range for a patient convalescing from a coronary thrombosis . General Snyder said the President 's heart shadow , " compared with films that were made in prior years and with those that have been made since the acute attack developed , shows no significant evidence of enlargement . " He explained that there was not enough enlargement " to be demonstrable on X-ray film . " He said there was " bound to be a modest enlargement " of the heart after such an attack , which he called " in itself a good situation . " Colonel Mattingly estimated the size of the injured portion at about four-fifths of an inch . Use of ' Acute ' Is Explained Reporters wondered about . the word " acute , " which the doctors used in the medical bulletin for the first time to describe the President 's attack . Both doctors explained it merely meant " sudden " and had nothing to do with the severity of the attack . The attack itself , they said , should still be described as " moderate . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Gettysburg until Congress convened , although it was possible he would return to Washington for Christmas . Although in his formal statement Dr. Snyder had mentioned that the weather at Gettysburg " has not always been the best , " he said he thought the President could " do as well at Gettysburg as anywhere . " The President 's doctor and long-time friend was closely questioned on his statement about when the President could decide to run or not to run . General Snyder emphasized that he had not discussed the matter with the President . He said he was giving his own opinion . He felt , he said , that there would be insufficient ev-i dente until mid-February for the President to decide . The examination included Xray , fluoroscope , electrocardiogram , blood chemistry and a series of vision tests . After the examination the President went to his office at the White House where he worked for a short period . The President had driven to Walter Reed Hospital here from Gettysburg after a morning of light work at his farm . Mrs. Eisenhower accompanied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The President will spend three nights at the White House before returning to Gettysburg Tuesday afternoon . On Monday he will meet Republican Congressional leaders for a preview of his State of the Union message . Tuesday morning he will confer with leaders of both parties on the foreign policy and defense aspects of next year 's program . Week by week the President 's work schedule has gradually increased . Thursday he had the most strenuous day since his heart attack of Sept. - 24 . He conferred with his top advisers fo'r more than five and one-half hours at Camp David , his mountain camp near Thurmont , Md . On most days at Gettysburg he has worked only in the morning , at an office in the town post office . Nearly every day one or two of his personal advisers or top officials of the Government have arrived for consultations . Next Saturday the President will undergo another complete check-up by Dr. Paul Dudley White , the heart specialist from Boston . Dr. White will go over the results of today 's examinations and make additional checks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be available on . when the President can be expected to know whether he is recovering well enough to run again for office . Dr. White and Dr. Snder said in Denver it would be late in January . or even in February , before they could tell him exactly how complete his recovery was . They pointed out then that only after he resumed a full work schedule would they be able to tell whether the heart attack had impaired his ability to perform his job . Some Republican leaders of the more conservative faction . led by Senator William K. Knowland of California , have been insisting that the President state his intentions before the end of January . Senator Knowland is reportedly prepared to file his name for the New Hampshire Presidential primary if no White House announcement has been male by that time . Senator William F. Knowland of California has said repeatedly that the President should decide before the end of January . Mr. Knowland 's friends have said that if no announcement comes from the White House before the end of January his name @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ filing in the New Hampshire primary is Feb.2 . Leonard W. Hall , the Republican National Chairman , has said the President would not have to decide before February or March .                     