@@714242

txt Senate decision in the Del-Monte case today unexpectedly was postponed until Monday , Oct. 29 by a Democratic-Republican coalition . Bay State Senate GOP leaders had been set to force to a decision today an order citing for contempt John J. DelMonte , State Commissioner of Labor and Industries , for refusing to turn over to the Senate a copy of a highly controversial report on Massachusetts economic conditions . Their plans suddenly were smashed when Senator Silvio 0 . Conte ( R ) , of Pittsfield successfully moved postponement to give him time to submit a new order asking the Supreme Judicial Court for an advisory opinion as to the Senate 's powers in the DelMonte case . The new Conte move , supported by a 21 to 18 roll-call vote , followed his defeat last night on an attempt to force a similar order out of the Senate Committee on Rules . Statement by Dever Four Republicans , Senators Conte , Ralph Lerche of Northhampton , Charles G. Miles of Brockton , and Charles W. Olson of Ashland joined 17 Democrats in favoring the delay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Flanagan of Haverhill , opposed postponement . Prior to the postponement Governor Dever 's office released an official statement by Governor Dever promising to pardon Mr. DelMonte if he is sent to jail by the Senate . It constituted the first official word from the Governor on the subject although it had been learned unofficially some time ago that , he would use his pardoning power . He asserted " a shocking manifestation of the arrogant abuse of power is about to happen in Massachusetts . . . . As soon as by Republican senatorial action the jail doors clang behind the person of John J. DelMonte officers will be there with a warrant from the Governor and council affecting his immediate release . " Censure Expected Meanwhile , it was repdrted that the Senate , if it cites Mr. Del-Monte for contempt , may censure him sharply rather than send him to jail . This report developed as a result of the wording of the order . The order provides that Mr. Reasonable Doubt Seen In the debate before the postponement motion was made , Senator Powers hammered away at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powers . He obviously was directing his remarks at the four Republican senators who favor asking the Supreme Judicial Court for an opinion as to whether the Senate has constitutional powers to force a state official to turn over demanded papers . Senaotr Powers asserted that " there is a reasonable doubt " in the situation . He told the Senate , " In my opinion , Mr. DelMonte is not guilty " of contempt . He added " - It would be foolhardly to advertise to our 47 competitors that we cited in contempt our commissioner of labor and industry . " After Senator Conte moved for postponement , Senator Philip G. Bowker ( R ) of Brookline asserted that contempt was " undeniably committed " before his Special Senate committee set up to get the report from the Massachusetts Development and Industrial Commission . Republican senators have charged Governor Dever ordered the Blanchard report suppressed because it contains criticisms by leading Bay State industrialists that the state administration is hostile to industry . During the debate on the Conte proposal for an advisory opinion , Senator Charles J , Innes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strongly opposed the move . " It is inconceivable to me , " he said , " that you do n't know when you have been insulted by a person who showed contempt for you and for the people who sent you here . "                     