@@715160

txt A proposal to resolve a troublesome dispute between Italy and Yugoslavia over Trieste by early withdrawal of American and British troops stationed there is being studied by the western governments concerned , according to a series of well-founded reports here . The proposal reportedly envisages the end of five years of Allied Military Government in Trieste 's Zone A and to invite the Italians to assume full responsibility for the City of Trieste and its surrounding area . It would leave the Yugoslays , who under the Allied Peace Treaty with Italy were authorized to maintain an occupying force in Zone B , in their present virtual possession of their part of the free territory . This in effect would produce the sort of status quo settlement between the two disputants which for a long time most observers close to the scene of the quarrel have regarded as inevitable . Topic for Talks One source suggested that the proposal may figure in talks this week between United States President-elect Dwight D. Eisenhower and Prime Minister Win- ston Churchill . It is , however , believed unlikely that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indications here are that Trieste certainly will be a subject for discussion between British Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden and Marshal Tito during the latter 's projected visit to London in March . Already , when he visited Belgrade in September , the British Foreign Secretary is said to have made it abundantly clear to the Yugoslav leader that Britain is not willing permanently ' to maintain in Trieste an occupying force of up to 5,000 troops , a commitment which represents an unwelcome drain on British resources and ties down troops who could be much more profitably employed in one of the areas where the free world , including the Commonwealth , is actively conducting a struggle against Communist aggression . Past Efforts Failed The proposed withdrawal of Anglo-American forces from Trieste is being considered only after the prolonged failure of Washington and Ldndon to per7 suade Italians and Yugoslays to get together and hammer out a settlement of the thorny problem by direct negotiations . By those who favor it . the new plan is seen as the only alternative to " tough " - policy of compelling the disputants to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dependence on western support ? a policy rejected by western governments  --  and as the one pos- , sible means of " taking the heat " out of the controversy , which everyone admits is necessary before there is the slightest chance of intter relations between the two countries . West Defense Obstacle The proposal also is seen as offering the possibility of removing what has been and remains one of the major obstacles in the path of bringing Yugoslavia more firmly into the European defense plan and thus closing a very serious gap in the whole southern defense line of North Atlantic Treaty Organization . The way the plan , if adopted , would ' be applied is , apparently roughly this : Both Italy and , Yugoslavia would be informed that it was no longer practicable Or necessary to maintain the present military occupation of Zone A of the free territory and ' that therefore it had been decided to withdraw the joint American-British forces , and turn the area over to Italy . In other words , Rome and Belgrade would be informed of , a fait accompli @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ followers amongst whom passions run high over the Trieste issue . Outlines of Plan Italy would receive the city and port , of Trieste  --  with full provisions for free port facilities for Yugoslays and part of Central Europe . It is argued that this would represent a very considerable feather in the cap of Italian Premier Alcide de Gasperi 's government , provided the allied decision to withdraw were to be announced before the Italian elections due next spring . Yugoslavia would be left with Zone B , including so-called " Italian towns " whose cession Italy still demands as its price of any agreement with ' Premier Marshal Tito . Both ' sides ; it is believed , would voice loud ' prdteSts at any such allied action , but there is a strong body of opinion which holds that once the storm had blown over the air would be cleared for a renewed attempt at an Italy-Yugoslav rapprochement . As things are now and.as they will remain in the absence of some vigorous effort to cut the knot over Trieste , any rapprochement seems at present definitely out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                 