@@718820

txt MANORVILLE , L. I. , May 18 ? Benjamin Kent Hooper Jr. , the boy who was entombed for almost twenty-four hours at the bottom of a well , was reported today to have developed a " spot of pneumonia " on his right lung . The 7-year-old lad had appeared to be in good condition until X-rays were inspected by Dr. Joseph Kris at the Bayview General Hospital in Mastic Beach this afternoon . However , after making this examination , Dr. Kris said , " We know how to treat pneumonia these days and there 's nothing alarming about this turn . of events . " Benjamin 's temperature at 10:30 P. M. was 102.8 , but lie was reported to be sleeping comfortably . He was still in an oxygen tent . Eats Hot Cereal Earlier in the day , the boy had sat up to take hot cereal with tepid milk  --  his ? first solid food since Thursday afternoon . He sassed hospital attendants , called repeatedly for food and I drink and took a lively interest in the activity of reporters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the hospital . Dr. Kris , the 58-year-old Eastport anesthesiologist who responded to a police call for help at 8:30 P. M. Thursday night , had announced the boy in good condition this morning . But he had directed that the child be kept under oxygen as a precaution against pneumonia . The only other injury that the boy was known to have suffered in the well was caused not by his swift descent down the foot // wide shaft , but by the movement of his arms at the bottom . Rescue workers reported finding more than a foot of fine sand above the jacket that had been drawn inside-out over the boy 's head during an unsuccessful attempt to hoist him from the well with a grappling hook . Some of this sand had filtered down across his face and over his shoulders to his chest . Benjamin 's futile attempts to grasp . a rope that his father dropped to him shortly after the : , fall ' and his occasional wriggling for more comfortable positions , caused sand to act as an abrasive on his chest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that Benjamin might have suffered a fracture or dislocation . A rescuer reported yesterday that he heard " something snap " as he , drew the child from his prison . Dr. Kris observed last night that , the boy was reluctant to move his left arm naturally . But since he has suffered no marked discomfort , the physician postponed further examination until after more rest and a return to a normal diet ? which may be tomorrow afternoon . The boy 's mother Borghild , who accompanied him in the ambulance to the hospital , remained with him through the night , as did the boy 's father . Mrs. Hooper , to whom Dr. Kris administered sedation three times during her long and silent vigil at a corner window overlooking the well , again received sedation at the hospital . She had not slept during her son 's entrapment . Last night , however , with Benjamin visible before her through the plastic face of his oxygen tent , she fell asleep in a chair . Attendants placed her on a bed next to Benjamin , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who had had only catnaps during his family 's ordeal , stayed up most of the night watching the boy and talking with him whenever he awakened . Benjamin at first believed himself to be at his grandmother 's house . It was said also that he had confused the oxygen equipment with a soft drink vending machine . Benjamin asked for something to eat several times in the night . Each time , attendants brought him the sweetened fruit juice and other glucose liquids that Dr. Kris had said he might receive . Father Returns Home During a wakeful moment the boy told his father how he fell into the well . " I was playing with Michael fa friend and we were running , " he recalled . " I told him I wanted to see if I could jump over the hole . I jumped and I fell . " I do n't remember much about what happened then except it got dark and I got scared . " Mr. Hooper returned to his ranch house on Ryerson Avenue late this morning , where he went to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Credit for the saving of a life for which hope had been virtually abandoned went to the more than 200 volunteers who worked twenty-three hours to release Benjamin from the well . They had excavated a rescue pit parallel to the well and then burrowed through twelve feet of shifting sand to reach the boy . But , that effort would have been wasted had it not been for the hose that poured a steady stream of oxygen over Benjamin 's face through all the hours of his uncertain fate . Early this morning , a bulldozer rolled up the Hooper 's backyard . The shoring and the piping were cast up out of the rescue pit , and the great mound of sand that had slowly grown through Thursday night was shoved back into the excavation . Workmen filled the well . They took the tools away . By noon , the whole site had been carefully smoothed .                     