@@720546

txt Traffic barriers to swift and easy motor travel in Boston were removed today as the downtown section of the Southeast Expressway was opened to traffic shortly before noon . The new expressway is expected to accommodate up to 100,000 vehicles a day . In ribbon-cutting ceremonies this morning at the Kneeland Street exit plaza of the 60-million-dollar expressway , state . city . and highway officials joined with businessmen in formally opening a four-mile section from the exit of the Dewey Square traffic tunnel to Freeport Street , Dorchester . Vehicles began to flow at 11:30 a.m .. signalizing the completion not only of the expressway . which officially begins at Boston Street overpass , but also the completion of Boston 's 110-million-dollar Central Artery . : Vast Benefits Sighted The official cavalcade of nearly 100 vehicles entered the new final section of the Southeast Expresswzly at Freeport Street , Dorchester . and drove downtown onto the finished Central Artery overhead portion to the Kneeland Street entrance plaza to the Dewey Square traffic tunnel . Civic and highway officials hailed the benefits which may he expected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first time of a speedy new direct entry by highway from the south side of the city . Dedicatory remarks were given by Governor Furcolo ; Mayor Hynes ; Anthony N. DiNatale , State Commissioner of Public Works ; H. G. Hodgkin-son , chairman of the board of Wm . Filene 's Sons Company ; and Edward R. Mitton , president . of Jordan Marsh Company , among others . Mr , DiNatale forecast immediate traffic benefits from the new highway , in relieving eong.teslion in business areas close to the downtown section . and supplementary advantages on nearby highways on which the current heavy traffic pressure may be alleviated . State and local police in Braintree also have worked out a new one-way traffic pattern at Braintree Five Corners , present ena of the expressway . This is expected to facilitate movement on and off the new roadway . A new bypass section of the expressway , which will take through traffic past Braintree Five Corners , is expected to be completed in the fall . Mr. DiNatale said the new roadway would enable people living north and south @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more quickly , more easily . more comfortably , and more safely . Yesterday he announced that parking areas beneath the roadways and ramps of the Central Artery in downtown Boston would be leased to parking concessionaires and make more space available for motorists . 20 Miles in 25 Minutes The new highway , he added , " will encourage . many more people to come into downtown Boston to patronize our fine stores , our restaurants , and our theaters . " The DPW head forecast a reduction of accidents due to new features of the expressway . He also cited savings that will be made by the trucking industry as well as by the motoring public . With the opening of the Southeast Expressway , it will be possible for a motorist to drive from Saugus to Braintree . across downtown Boston , a distance of just under 20 miles , in about 25 minutes . This can be accomplished without exceeding any speed limit or meeting a single traffic light . MoSorists in downtown Boston may get onto the Central Artery and its connecting Southeast Expressway at Oliver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Albany and Dover Streets . Vehicles wishing to head south along the new roadway can enter at Broadway ; Albany and Dover Streets : Boston Street : Massachusetts Avenue at Southampton Street , and Columbia Road . Motorists Briefed Heading north into and beyond Boston , motorists may reach the expressway at : Columbia Road , Broadway , Dover Street , Lincoln and Essex Streets , Atlantic Avenue and Congress Street , Northern Avenue , State Street , the Sumner Tunnel . and City Square . At City Square , exit ramps can be taken to the Mystic River Bridge . with direct connection to the Northeast Expressway and interchange with Route 1 at Saugus . Interchanges are also available with the Revere Beach Parkway , Route 60 , Route 1A , and Route 128 leading to North Shore points . South of Boston , motorists bound for Quincy , Weymouth , and South Shore communities , and Brockton and Holbrook , and wishing to avoid Braintree Five Corners arc advised to exit from the expressway at Neponset Circle . Milton , Randolph , Fall River Expressway . and Route @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Furnace Brook Parkway exit to ChickatawbM Road .                     