@@718349

txt It is clear that the world situation today has certain somber hues which need to be recognized . Whether these amount to a real international crisis is not , yet certain , however . Nonetheless , at the end of the second week of the " great disturbance " to the postwar pattern of world relations , the following situation prevailed : Soviet armed forces were massed on both sides of Poland and along the Romanian frontier , were ruthlessly trampling upon a seething Hungary , were deployed around the western enclave of West Berlin deep in the middle of the Soviet zone of Germany , were again adopting a frigid tone toward Yugoslavia . Soviet jet fighters had arrived in Syria . Aircraft ? from North Korea had repeatedly crossed over South Korea . ' Soviets Issue Warning Moscow had delivered an ambiguous threat to Britain and France which some obseevers interpreted as meaning .. that it might take unilateral action to " crush " the armed forces of those two countries in the Suez Canal zone . The United States has put its armed forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major naval forces " somewhere to sea " as a precaution against the possibility of another Pearl Harbor . Britain and France , faced with this new danger , had broken off military action against Egypt and were beginning to redeploy their forces into positions more suitable than Suez would be should the crisis explode into major and general war . Israel had agreed to withdraw its forces from the Sinai Peninsula after UN forces take over . This was done in response to urgent advice from Washington , which , in effect , had urged that it is of utmost importance to deprive the Soviets of the excuse they might be looking for to intervene militarily in the Middle East . Moscow Motives Mulled There were three possible different interpretations to all of this . One is that the SoViet sense of security had been profoundly shaken by the discovery that communism had failed to win over the minds of the people of Eastern . Europe . This was proved conclusively. in Hungary , and it meant that not one of the satellite armies was a reliable instrument of Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was defensive in the sense that it was taking all those measures which it regarded as necessary to prevent a total collapse of its military and political position in Eastern Europe and- the loss of its newly won position of influence in the Middle East . The second explanation , much more ominous , is that Moscow has seen an opportunity opening up out of Western disunity over Suez to open a general offensive all around the world and to try to break the Western alliance once and for all . . The third possibility is that Moscow had deliberately manufactured a World War HI scare , with its true objective being to scare the United States into a Soviet-American power settlement of the world at the expense of Britain and France . Moscow tried this in 1945 . It would not be surprising if it were . still a basic Soviet purpose . Some Washington thinkers regard this as the most ominous of the three interpretations . Washington Wary The western world could not be sure which was the correct interpretation . It could be all , because in power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an offense . Washington could not afford to take chances . If it assumed that the Soviet action was purely defensive , it could find itself the victim of a . day which would make Pearl Harbor seem trivial . . , .. ? All of this grew out of the fact that the military frontiers left over from World . War II had begun to break ' down . Moscow was relaxed and happy as long as the disintegration affected only the WestPattera Of Diplomacy ern military line . Suez was a " position of strength " in that old Western line , and British military power had previously given up Suez under Arab pressure , abetted from Moscow . Kremlin Tenses Moscow became instantly tense and threatening when events in Hungary momentarily opened a great gap in the Soviet military frontier in Eastern Europe . It was a situation in which " the point of no return " could be precipitated by some incident which in itself might be relatively trivial . World War I was triggered by the assassination of one man at Sarejevo . As of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had not taken a decisive military step across the military frontiers which have existed since 1945  --  the line ( slightly modified but substantially unchanged ) which was drawn by the locations of the respective Eastern and Western armies when Germany and Japan surrendered . There seemed QM be no doubt that the military high command in Moscow had concluded that the threat posed by the Hungarian revolution to its military front was intolerable and had taken over the power of decision in that city . The immediate question was whether it would be satisfied to regain Hungary or insist on doing the same in Poland as well  --  and other places , too .                     