@@717742

txt Letters to The Times Against Powell Proposal Withholding of Funds From Areas of Segregation Queried TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The Times has again rendered a public service in presenting Congressman Adam Clayton Powell 's letters in your recent issues , together with your splendid editorial of Feb , 21 taking different view on the subject of the so-called Powell amendment to the Federal aid bill for school construction before Congress . At Arden House in October the New York State Committee to the White House Conference on Education ( of which the writer was a member ) after several hours of debate reached the conclusion by a vote of over two to one that no amendment involving desegregation should be attached to any bill for Federal aid to schools . This in spite of the fact that the approximately thirty members of the committee present were in unanimous agreement with the fundamental proposition that desegregation was democratic and should be brought about as quickly as possible in all the schools of our nation . At the White House Conference meeting in Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a vote of nearly three to one Federal aid for school construction was approved , less than 10 per cent of the delegates " recommended that Federal aid be made available to states only for those districts certifying that they are conforming to the Supreme Court decision prohibiting racially segregated school systems . " No Place in Bill During the debates both at Arden House and Washington it was repeatedly pointed out that the place to fight desegregation was in the community and under the aegis of the courts , following the spirit of the decision of the United States Supreme Court , and not in connection with the bill for Federal aid to schools . The argument was made and accepted by the vast majority that the desegregation issue had no more place in the Federal aid to school construction bill than it would have in any or all of the other bills for Federal aid . It would seem unbelievable that even Congressman Powell would withhold appropriations for roads to Southern states conducting segregated schools because the children attending these schools used these Federally financed roads ; or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school children in states having segregated schools . The Congressman must know , however , that ignorance ( caused by inadequate school facilities ) can not be isolated any more than polio can be isolated and that substandard schools in Southern states put a burden on the New York taxpayer . Surely Congressman Powell would not withhold Federal appropriations for rivers , harbors or flood relief from states not conducting desegregated schools . Fight in the Courts The United States Supreme Court has recently held that public funds can not h2 used to maintain Pai ; : s if conducted on a segregated basis . Yet in connection with the recently introduced bill for appropriations for the maintenance of Federal parks , Congressman Powell has not advocated an amendment providing that the funds shall be used only for those parks maintained on a desegregated basis , nor has he added an amendment providing that the funds shall be appropriated to maintain parks only in those states that have desegregated schools . The reason that no amendment has been suggested in this and the other instances cited above is that Congressman Powell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the law of the land will be obeyed . It is unlikely that Congressman Powell could feel that any or all such unnecessary amendments would improve the economy , the health , welfare , education or social conditions of the Negro people in states from which these funds were withheld . The courts have the matter of desegregation in the schools before them  --  that is where the battle should be fought . FRANK E. KARELSEN . New York , Feb. 28 , 1936 . Use of Ultrasonic Therapy To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : As secretary of the American Institute of Ultrasonics in Medicine , may I express the regret of this organization that in your Feb. 18 obituary of our president , Dr. Disraeli Kobak , you alluded to the supposition that his illness and subsequent death might have been due to his work in ultrasonic therapy . After conferring with the attending physician , we find it is understood that Dr. Kobak died as a result of a leukemic condition from which he had apparently been suffering for some time . The question of exposure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or working in close proximity - to an ultrasonic generator must , in the face of all scientific evidence , be discounted . Over the past ten years there have been many thousands of people operating ultrasonic apparatus over a long period of time , and there is absolutely no evidence of any deleterious effect being produced in any of these operators . Therapeutic dosages and research on thousands of cases show no deteriorating effects to bone , soft tissue , or blood . I am sure that all considered medical opinion would agree on this point , and it is just an unfortunate circumstance that Dr. Kobak should develop this fatal condition coincidentally with his interest and extensive work on ultrasonic therapy . JOHN H. ALDES , M. D. , F. A. C. S. , Secretary , American Institute of Ultrasonics in Medicine . Los Angeles , Calif. , March 5 , 1956 . To Memorialize Clinton Naming Public Places for American Heroes Is Advocated To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I note that there is a widespread difference of opinion over the usefulness of changing the name @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the thoroughfare is to be widened and beautified . I would not want to press this suggestion , but would like to see public consideration of the proposal that more of our streets , parks and places of public assembly be used to keep alive the memories of those Americans who contributed to the welfare of our country and of humanity . I am thinking now not only of our military figures , but of our statesmen and writers and other important individuals in our history . I have been recently informed by those who should know that our schoolchildren nowadays are being given little instruction concerning our national heroes . I especially have in mind the naming of some worthy public place after George Clinton , whose name was rejected by the State Thruway Authority for the bridge that connects Nyack and Tarrytown . George Clinton was one of the most important men who ever lived in this city . He was our first Governor , he was a general in the American Revolution , his bravery at the capture of Fort Montgomery was a by-word , his defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the winning of the Revolution . He was not only our first Governor , but he held the post for twenty years , being elected four times , and he was twice Vice President of the United States . He was the one who conceived the idea of the Erie Canal , which was built by his nephew , DeWitt Clinton . Of perhaps the most importance to the present generation is the fact that George Clinton opposed ratification by New York State of the Constitution of the United States until the Constitution included the first ten Amendments , which are our Bill of Rights. : . There is historical authority for saying that the first ten amendments were as much the work of George Clinton as any other man . We are under eternal debt to him . CLINTON W. BLUME , Pre:Ai:zit , the Real Estate Board of New York , Inc . New York , March 2 , 1936 . Statement Denied on Graham To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : in your Jan. 30 issue there was an Associated Press dispatch in reference to Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's h ; ve . According to this article , Dr. Robert W. Spike of New York used Graham as an illustration of spolaismen Nvho " sometimes u : ; . ! L ? ave international issues to lutek , ter our catisu . " Dr. Spike then atiirmeu that Di . Billy Graham asserted " that Inula was perilousiY close to communis111 and that his trip there was likely to save that country from communism . " Dr. Graham never made any such statement and it is unfortunate that Dr. Spike would impute to Dr. Billy Graham some figment of his own imagination . I know whereof I speak , for I invited Dr. Graham here myself , I was at his press conferences , I was with him on the platform in the only two public addresses he made on that visit . H. J. CXKENGA , Boston , Feb. 17 , 1936 . Dimming Hopes of Peace To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YoRK TIMES : Irving ' Schechtman in ens letter published March 3 should go much deeper and blame not only Secretary Dulles but many other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States for the terrible mistake we are making in our propaganda . I think that we want peace but I know that we are throwing away hope of it . HELEN MACKAY . New York , March 3 , 1956.                     