@@720446

txt In an atmosphere of heated bickering , the Senate Commerce Committee concluded hearings today on the nomination of Lewis L. Strauss as Secretary of Commerce . The chairman , Senator Warren G. Magnuson , Democrat of Washington , announced that he would try to call the committee together next Tuesday for a vote . After several days ' lipse to permit filing of majority and minority reports on the nomination , the Senate will debate the issue . Mr. Strauss " gained one adherent on the committee and one opponent in the Senate at large today . Senator Strom Thurmond , Democrat of South Carolina , announced that he would vote for confirmation , and Senator Joseph C. O'Mahoney , Demo // crat of Wyoming , announced that he would vote against it . Mr. Strauss was given a recess appointment as Secretary of Commerce last October after having served as chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission . He was sworn in as Secretary in Novem per and his nomination was formally submitted to the Senate by the President Jan. 19 . The bickering over Presidential appointments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Relations . On the Senate floor , Senator Russell B. Long , Democrat of Louisiana , denounced the committee chairman , J. W. Fulbright of Arkansas , for his handling of the appointment of Douglas Dillon as Under Secretary of State . Senator Long , who opposes the appointment , accused Senator Fulbright of showing him ' less courtesy than he had experienced in eleven years " of Senate service under committee chairmen of both parties . Senator Long is the son of the late Senator Huey lAong of Louisiana . Recalling his father 's affinity for lost causes , he threatened to use " deliberate dilatory tacts ' ' to stop a Fulbright attempt to " steamroller " Mr. Dillon 's appointment through the Senate . Senator Fulbright was not on the floor during the long speech . Attacks by committee members on chairmen are exceptional in. the Senate . but Mr. Fulbright said he would not reply . Anderson Last Witness Today 's concluding witness in the Strauss hearings was Mr. Strauss ' most hostile critic ? Senator Clinton P. Anderson , Democrat of New Mexico , who is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Senator repeated again today his earlier charges that Mr. Strauss had been guilty of " a pattern of deception and evasiveness " both in his dealings with the atomic committee and with the commerce cornmi ttee . The Senator , however , backed away from a challenge by a Republican committee member that he say whether he questioned the nominee 's honesty ' and integrity . Senator Anderson concentrat-1 ed his testimony on two issues , ? Mr. Strauss ' participation in ' the handling of a British request in 1956 for information on an atomic submarine , and a Norwegian request in 1949 , when Mr. Strauss was and A. E. C. member , for an isotope of radioactive iron . Study Is Suggested He invited the committee to study Mr. Strauss ' testimony on the British incident , and his comments on the Senator 's own testimony last week on the episode . The Senator said that " if he twists what I said then , you can deperu on it that if you confirm him to be Secretary of Commerce he will twist reports he presents to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Senator Anderson recalled that his charge was that when a plan to exchange secrets of the atomic submarine Nautilus was before Congress , the Attorney General held that such an exchange of information with the British was legal and that Mr. Strauss should so inform the joint atomic committee . The Senator said he and some other members of the committee had serious questions about the exchange . Yet , he main tained . Mr. Strauss " sat on " the Attorney General 's report until the day after the British agreement was sent to Congress . This , the Senator said , left committee member in the dark , and could have heightened their opposition to the exchange and thus put the proposal in " severe jeopardy . " Mr. - Strauss told the committee last week that " the first I ever knew . to the best of my recollection . " of the Attorney General 's letter had been in the Senator 's original testimony . The Senator put in the record a letter dated June 29 , 1956. from Mr. Strauss transmitting the Attorney General 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been brought to the committee 's attention . He also read a letter from the present chairman of the A , E. C .. John A. McCone , stating that the commission 's records showed that the general counsel of the commission had discussed on Feb. 2. 1956. " certain aspects of the Attorney General 's opinion . " Mr. McCone said commission records disclosed Mr. Strauss ' attendance at that meeting . Suppression Charged " Admiral Strauss suppressed the papers we should have Seen , " Senator Anderson said . " I further believe , " the Senator concluded , " that he has followed his pattern of deviousness and deceit in these hearings before you , and that he will continue in this manner if confirmed as Secretary of Commerce . I grant there is a difference between the independent agency and the Cabinet post . But the man remains the , same . " Mr. Strauss in rebuttal said he had now discovered that he had indeed attended the meeting Feb. 2 , 1956 . But , he said , " I did not read the letter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have recalled it , but I did not recall it . My memory was , faulty . " At one point in today 's questioning Republican members of the committee joined in denouncing the attacks on Mr. Strauss . Senator Hugh Scott of Pennsylvania ; cried , " I protest ! " Senator Norris Cotton of New Hampshire declared , " This is outrageous ! " Senator John Marshall Butler of Maryland exclaimed , " This is harassing ! " Senator Scott again cried , " This amounts to badgering ! " The Norwegian isotope incident in ? 1949 was originally raised by , Senator Anderson in his testimony two weeks ago when he said Mr. Strauss , then a member of the A. E. C. but not its chaiiman , had opposed the shipment on the ground that , the isotope would be used for military purposes , even though the Norwegians had said it would be for peaceful experiments . Mr. Strauss in his original rebuttal noted that one of the Norwegian scientists to whom the isotope had been entrusted had since defected to the Soviet Union and presumably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I isotope would be used for mill ' tory purposes , Mr. Strauss yesterday read copies of cables sent to the State Department by the American Embassy in Oslo between June 1 and June 11 , 1949 . The department had requested the embassy for information on the uses Norway planned to make of the isotope . Mr. Strauss read two paraphrased cables , one from the department to the embassy and the other a reply from the embassy . The latter contained a sentence stating , " It is. designed to develop alio ; for jet or gas turbine use at a temperature as high as possible , i.e. , particularly above 700 degrees centigrade , if possible . " Mr. Strauss added : " This was followed by a cable some days later from the American Embassy in Oslo to the State Department which stated that , ' any premature assumption that the , alloys will be successful or can be applied to rockets or other military weapons is not presently justified . ' ' " In other words , " he said , " the first cable indicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to be presumed . I ask you gentlemen if the description of my statement as an ' unqualified falsehood ' concerning military uses was just . " Anderson Notes Omissions Today Senator Anderson , too , produced photo copies of these cables . He said that in the final cable there had been eleven other sentences in addition to the one quoted by Mr. Strauss , and that they had emphasized that " the work is of a fundamental nature and far removed from practical . " One of the omitted sentences , just preceding that quoted by Mr. Strauss , read as follows : " If and when ultimate alloys are finally developed , their use will depend on their properties which can not now be anticipated . " Asked by a reporter why he had omitted yesterday these sentences from the concluding cable , Mr. Strauss replied : " Well , I thought it was all theoretical , which is the way with so many of those experiments , anyway . " Just before the hearings ended a gray-haired woman was hustled out screaming , " This man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearings . Some time after Senator Long had criticized him , Senator Fulbright took the floor to deplore an editorial in this morning 's New York Times . The editorial criticized the committee for postponing consideration of the Dillon appointment until next week and said that this delay approached irresponsibility and had " startled many Senators . " The editorial , Mr. Fulbright noted , erred in that action had not been postponed a week but only one day to permit further testimony . In fact , it was favorably reported by the committee yesterday by a vote of 16 to 1 . Editorial Was Modified The editorial to which Senator Fulbright referred was modified after the first edition of The Times because some of the points it made were based on a. report that later proved to be erroneous . The nomination had been before the committee only fourteen days , Mr. Fulbright noted , and under committee rules was not eligible for consideration until last week . During the past week , he said , the committee had been meeting regularly on the foreign-aid bill . " I do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Times , " Senator Fulbright said . " It is a fine newspaper . But just one editorial of this kind , based on an error of a fact , has a tremendous impact on the country . " Because of Senator Long 's objections , floor action on the appointment will probably now be delayed until some time next week . Mr. Long 's opposition to the appointment is compounded of irritation with Senator Fulbright 's conduct of the committee  --  a limit was imposed on questioning  --  and a difference with Mr. Dillon over the philosophy that should animate the foreign-aid program . He said foreign aid should be more humani tarian . He conceded today that there was little likelihood of blocking the Dillon nomination . He had not been pledged a single supporting vote , he said .                     