@@714725

txt American paratroopers of the " Angels from Hell " combat team today emptied , compound 76 of its 6,000 communist prisoners of war in bloody fighting , burned the compound to the ground , and clapped Its leaders in solitary confinement . A midafternoon check showed 30 Reds killed and 152 wounded . One American soldier was killed by a concussion grenade that fell short and 13 were wounded . One other American soldier was killed , it-was reported . Find Revolt Plan Inside the wrecked and blood soaked compound , United States intelligence officers found a master plan to liberate all of the 80,000 prisoners of war on this island of hate and death . The Reds had planned to seize the island , about 25 miles long and 15 miles wide off southeast Korea , and turn 8th army guns on their captors . A 50 foot long tunnel , lined with plywood walls and containing blowers to air condition it , was found leading toward nearby cornpound 77 . The defiant Reds fought from trenches and buildings with spears and swords forged in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of the compound peacefully . Backed Up by Tanks An experienced team of 750 Americans from the 187th airborne regimental combat team waded into them with bayonets , concussion grenades , tear gas , and fists . They were backed up by tanks . A concussion grenade is an explosive aimed at stunning , rather than killing , persons in the area where it is thrown . It is about the same size as an ordinary hand grenade , but does not shoot out death-dealing fragments when it explodes . Some 6,800 prisoners of war in compound 78 , across the road from 76 , offered no resistance when they were marched out later to new quarters starting at noon . Prisoners in compound 77 were scheduled to be moved tomorrow . The paratroopers stormed into 76 shortly after daybreak . Cowboy yells from the Americans and an eerie chant from the Communists mixed with the popping of concussion grenades , the swish of tear gas rockets , and the heavier explosions of Communist gasoline dumps . The Reds fought back with spears , swords , Molotov cocktails g asoline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Not a shot was fired by the paratroopers . They had bullets M the rifle magazines but none in the firing chambers . The paratroopers charged the trenches with bayonets . They cut boles in the compound buildings and tossed in tear gas and grenades . The North Korean leader , Col. Lee Hak Woo , surrendered meekly after 20 minutes . He was " frogwalked " on his hands and legs to solitary confinement . So were about 10 other leaders . Three women were captured among the last-stand group of 300 Reds . The prisoners included an 8 year old boy , his brother , 14 , and their father . Maj. David Korn , Richmond , Va. , said he saw the Red leaders kill at least five of their own men with spears when they tried to surrender . " They were stuck in the stomach with spears , " Korn said . Bodies of decapitated North Koreans were found in the trenches surrounding all compound buildings . Blood flowed freely in the 33 foot deep trenches . American officers said each prisoner had a knife . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A search of the prisoners and grounds turned up a map detailing the Red plan of attack and ' escape . Intelligence officers said the Reds planned to seize Koje , place guns at strategic points , and hold it against attack from mainland South Korea . ? The fighting broke out at 6 a. m. 4 p. rn . Monday , Chicago time when the paratroopers charged into compound 76 to move the defiant prisoners of war to new small- , cr unit quarters . Fight with Spears , Swords The POWs had been given 15 minutes to assemble for the transfer . Instead they swarmed into hastily dug trenches and started fighting with spears and crude swords . The prisoners set fire to tents and buildings in the compounds as two battalions of the 187th airborne regimental combat team crashed into the compound . The paratroopers hurled concussion grenades and tear gas rockets as they swept down on the barricades with bared bayonets . The concussion grenades exploded in gasol ; ne stores the prisoners had hoarded for the battle . Wooden buildings ? blew up . Prisoners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a melee . The Americans leaped into ditches among the prisoners . They jammed bayonets into those who resisted . The compound was littered with wounded . Dead were strewn over the field . The paratroopers set up first aid stations inside the compound . Medical corpsmen rushed wounded Americans and POWs to doctors who gave first aid . Troops Rip Ulm Fences The prisoners were taken by surprise . They had been set for a charge thru the compoun d 's main gate . Instead , the paratroopers tore thru the barbed wire fences on the sides of the camp . Brig . Gen. Haydon L. Boatner , commander sent to the camp less than one month ago to restore control inside its 17 unruly prisoner compounds , directed today 's operation from a command post overlooking the compound . Boatner warned the prisoners by loudspeaker to assemble for the transfer within 15 minutes When it became obvious they were not going to obey his order , Boattier telephoned Brig . Gen. Thomas J. H. Trapnell , commander of the 187th airborne combat team . " Trap , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 15 minutes . Move up to phase line A and hold it until I call you . " " They intend to resist , " Boatner told correspondents . " I had hopes this would n't happen . I never thought they would do that . " Then the paratroopers crashed - Oyu the barbed wire fences , hurling tear gas bombs and concussion grenades . They stormed thru the billowing smoke and the tear gas fumes , " Hot Dog , " General Cries The mass of prisoners broke . Some , coughing and wiping tears from their eyes , ran from the trenches , their hands waved aloft in surrender . Boatner was the first to see them . " Hot dog , hot dog ! " he cried . The prisoners poured out of the trenches and one barracks building . The operation was entirely American , except for crack security guards surrounding Boatner 's command post outside the compound .                     