@@716247

txt The great April defeat to American foreign policy , climaxed by the British and French attempt to negotiate an Indochina settlement with the Communists in Geneva after Washington- had refused to back up its words by planes at Dien Bien Phu , derived from many causes . These causes will be set forth and examined in this series . Of them all , probably the most important was an unresolved conflict in American policy which dated well back into 1953 and which led inexorably , like a strand of fate in a Shakespearean tragedy , to the crucial moment of indecision and therefore of collapse of policy . It is no small wonder that United States ' , allies were baffled and bewildered and finally took matters into their own hands . They were never able to discover whether Washington was prepared to make Indochina a Greece or Korea . or considered Indochina to be one of those places where a " setback to the cause of freedom " would be considered " normal . " They did not know , and could not know , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When the test came Washington , forced to choose , chose to withhold the planes from Admiral Radford 's carriers in the Tonkin Gulf . The planes had been ready to fly to the aid of Dien Bien Phu . A A A The allies could not know American policy on Indochina because there was never , throughout the whole period of the Indochina crisis , a firm decision on that policy . Instead of a single policy there were two conflicting policies held and advocated inside the administration . Public statements over the period sprang sometimes from one and sometimes from the other. , The inclination swung backward and forward between them . But there was never a moment when the highest policy making agency in the government , the National Security Council , took its stand decisively upon the one or upon the other . The French , in their moment of agony over the fate of Dien Bien Phu , grasped at those expressions of policy which had implied a firm commitment in Washington to save all of Indochina . They had reason to believe that their plea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both the President and the Secretary of State on the importance of Indochina to the West . They had reports , later proved mistaken , that the National Security Council had reached a firm decision that all of Indochina must be saved . They had the statement by Vice- Herblocg. 0 Washington Post " Any Program for ' United Action ' Here ? " President Nixon to the editors that American troops would be sent , if necessary , to save all of Indochina . They had the presence of the carriers in the Tonkin Gulf . They had strong indications of available support from Admiral Radford , chairman of the United States Joint Chiefs of Staff . What the French overlooked was that the Washington record for the same period contained another body of conflicting statements . On Jan. 12 , speaking to the Council on Foreign Relations . Secretary of States Dulles had repudiated the doctrine of meeting the Communists at every point around the world power frontiers with total resistance . " It is normal , " he said , " that at some times and at some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Add the followingother public manifestations of the contrary policy : On Feb. 12 President Eisenhower said that all-out United States intervention in Indochina would be a tragedy . On Feb. 17 the President said that the United States is not supporting colonialism in Indochina . On March 10 the President said there would be no United States involvement in war in Indochina without the authority of Congress . A A A The truth of the matter , it turns out , is that the National Security Council never reached the decision frequently attributed to it that all of Indochina must be held . It never reached , any agreed decision on the subject at all . It did , however , have before it position papers from the Defense and State Departments dating back to the fall of 1953 which pointed in that direction , which never had been formally accepted as basic policy papers , but which never had been formally rejected either . These papers argued that southeast Asia could be defended only in Indochina and that the Communist countries never would accept in negotiation an Indochina @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The logical conclusion from these papers would have been United States military intervention in Indochina to save Dien Bien Phu . The existence of the papers encouraged the advocates of such a policy to encourage the French , and to make the kind of public statements which Mr. Nixon made to the editors on April 16 . But these papers did not commit the United States to a policy . They merely expressed a purpose on the basis of arguments which were never wholly accepted in the highest councils of government . When the test came , the validity of the argument pending before the council bloke down . Washington discovered , along with the French , that Washington did not consider total victory over communism in Indochina to be vital to the security of the United States .                     