@@720372

txt Premier Fidel Castro , about to take off for speeches and public appearances in the United States , has been armed by government officials not with rebel guns and Molotov cocktails hot with numerous speeches . facts . and figures on sugar quotas . loans , and United States-Cuban relations . He will arrive in Washington late April 15 and will be acCuba in Ferment corded the treatment due the Cabinet chief of a friendly nation , officials there said . But at this end elaborate , almost frantic preparations have been made for the Premier 's trip . i It is not that Dr. Castro is incapable of speech-making . Quite the contrary . As one observer here has said , he speaks compulsively . Different From Frondizi His speeches to the Cuban public last sometimes for four or five hours . One recent Castro ' appearance on the Cuban tole-vision version of " Meet the i Press " started at 10 in the eve ! ning and wound up after 2:30 in the morning . It will be quite an i I experience for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . His prepared speeches will be given in English , though his press conference answers are ex1pected to be rendered in Spanish l and then translated . Premier Castro is said even to fish compulsively . Recently . on visiting a Cuban lake , far distant from the cities , about which few people know , he hauled in more than 300 large bass in one sitting , one after another . As an unofficial visitor . the Castro tour to the United States differs in several respects from that of President Frondizi of Argentina in January . The Argentine President was invited to the United States , officially , soon after he entered office in May , 1958 . He did not accept immediately , however , and stipulated he would not accept until he had his government and economic situation either well in hand , or at least launched and given direction . Thus , when President Frondizi visited President . Eisenhower in January of this year , his economic policies had been enunciated . It was clear that Argentina , welcomed private foreign investments , despite the cries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had had more than one showdown with Peronist labor unions and had established the political fact that he had the strong backing of the Argentine military forces so that he dared to leave Argentina even at the time of some labor difficulties . The Castro government , on the other hand , only a 312 ' - months-old political youngster , is still in the awkward , troublesome throes of forming its economic program , of recovering from the shock of revolution , of transforming destructive acts into constructive administrative procedure . recovering stolen funds with which Batista officials had lined their pockets and safety deposit boxes . The government is still dismissing excess or ' ' disloyal " government personnel and introducing new government workers , who in their inexperience , do not always contribute to still chaotic operation . Government and business are having troubles with labor unions where Communists are endeavo  --  ing to infiltrate and take over important posts . Thus , the frenetic , anxious atmosphere of the preparation for the United States-Canada trip has spread throughout the government . Ministers who before were difficult to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them are spending time with the Premier , often staying up all night long , briefing him , working out as yet unformed policies . Red Influence Queried Cuban Ambassador to the United States Ernesto Dihigo who is quite pro-United States in viewpoint , recently spent some 10 days here in Havana conferring with Dr. Castro and United States government officials about the coming visit . It is not known how discreetly Premier Castro will speak in the United States on United States-Cuban relations . He has spoken often , here in Cuba , with extreme acrimony of the United States policy , until last April , permitting arms to be sent to the Batista government , and of the United States military mission in Cuba training Batista troops to fight against the Castro rebels . The depth of Premier Castro 's grudge on . these points seems bottomless at this point . Premier Castro will be accompanied on his visit by several moderates , including Finance Minister Bubo Lopez Fresquet Machado , former Cuban Ambassador to the United States and an official of the International Monetary Fund . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be able to handle himself well enough , in dealing with some of the hostile questions which some newspaper editors are apt to hurl at him . Premier Castro also will no doubt he asked about his views on whether Communists are obtaining too strong an influence in his own thinking and in the Cuban independence movement . There are certainly indications that Communists are trying to move in , in considerable numbers . But there are moderates in the Castro government who arc able to hold their position and point of view . No such influence has been established at this writing , according to well-informed sources here , though there is a possibility , it is believed , of such a strong Communist influence developing that military security in the Caribbean could be endangered . It is believed here also that even though Premier Castro is not yet accustomed to the United States press conference technique , where loaded questions are often asked , he has had enough experience with it in the past few months ? and smarts from some of the liberties which he feels United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself ably with the most critical elements of the United States press . It will not he his first visit to the United States . Invitations llonnt Since his casual acceptance some weeks ago of the invitation of the American Society of Newspaper Editors to speak before their annual meeting in Washington April 17 , invitations have snowballed into Havana . They have come from university groups  --  not the university administrations themselves ? at Harvard , Yale , Princeton , College of the City of New York , Columbia University . Premier Castro is expected to lunch with Acting Secretary of State Christian A. Herter on April 16 , even though this is an unofficial visit . He is scheduled to appear before the National Press Club in Washington April 20 , the United Nations Correspondents Association in New York April 22 , the Overseas Press Club in New York April 23 . At this writing , his itinerary from April 23 to 28 , when he is expected to be in Montreal , has not yet been announced . First of a Series 