@@713042

txt to THE New Yostc TIMES . SAN FRANCISCO , June 26 ? The Board of Trustees of the American Medical Association has approved the expenditure in October of $1,100,000 in a newspaper and radio advertising campaign in an effort to deliver a knockout blow to the Administration pro gram for compulsory health insurance . This was announced today in a progress report of the coordinating committee for the national education campaign of the association , presented to its House of Delegates at the opening of the House 's ninety-ninth annual session . The House of Delegates is the policymaking body for organized medicine in this country . The publicity campaign will seek to reach every American through five-column advertisements in more than 11,000 daily and weekly newspapers during the week of Oct. 8 . About 300 radio stations will carry hundreds of thirty-second and one-minute announcements . Full-page advertisements will appear in thirty leading national magazines . The campaign will aim to bring the Administration 's compulsory health insurance measure to a vote on the floor of Congress as soon as possible . The association is confident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same time the program will seek to stimulate the growth of voluntary health insurance programs . The committee report said : " Tens of thousands of doctors , all over America , who have carried medicine 's case to the people , often at great sacrifice in time and money , will continue to be heavily burdened until this issue is resolved . We can not afford for that reason , as well as others , to permit the delaying tactics of our op // ponents to turn this into a longdrawn war of attrition . It has become imperative , if we are to avert an unending , exhaustive fight for survival , that we find a way to make public sentiment on this issue unmistakably clear . " " To Crystallize Public Opinion " The expanded program , the report said , has one specific objective ? " to ? crystallize public opinion into a public mandate on this issue . " " We want an articulate public opinion , speaking with a voice that the socializers in Washington can not defy nor ignore . We are confident that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people in every section of America would say ' no '  --  and say it so emphatically that socialized medicine would become a dead issue , even in the offices of the Federal Security Agency . We intend to give them that opportunity . " The advertising budget approved by the A. M. A. Board of Trustees consists of $560,000 allocated to newspapers , $300,000 to radio and $250,000 to national magazines . About 144,500 doctors in every community in the country will share the cost of this program through the payment of annual dues of $25 , inaugurated last year . The message " will be geared to selling both a commodity and a principle , " the report said . " The commodity which the A. M. A. copy will advertise , " it was stated , " is an already widely accepted , thoroughly recognized , American product ? voluntary health insurance . " " The principle which the A.M.A. copy will seek to strengthen and bulwark is the basic American ideal of individual freedom , individual initiative and freedom of opportunity  --  under a free economy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy , " the report said . During the last six months the report added , " more than 8,000 new organizations " have endorsed the A.M.A. 's stand , bringing the total of endorsing groups ? to 10,234 . Quotes U. M. W. Journal In addition , the report continued , ' " doctors all over the nation , exercising their rights as individual citizens , are campaigning actively ' for candidates whose convictions square with sound American principles  --  and are just as actively opposing those men in public life who have espoused the alien philosophy of socialization . " The report quoted from a United Mine Workers Journal editorial commenting on the defeat of Senator Claude Pepper in the recent Florida primaries . " ' In forty years of covering political campaigns in the nation and in many states . ' " the committee.quoted , " ' your editor has never witnessed such effective and quiet solicitation of votes as demonstrated by Florida doctors , druggists , dentists , hospital staffs , insurance companies and pharmaceutical representatives ; aided and abetted by other professional men . ' " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctors $4,500,000 , of which $1,500 , - 000 was expended in 1949 . Dr. Shields Warren , director of the Division of Biology and Medicine of the . Atomic Energy Commission , participated in a symposium on atomic energy in war and peace . He said that atomic energy and its products promised advances in medical research that would surpass the gains of the past . " The use of radioactive tracers available in a multiplicity of forms has virtually revolutionized many of our techniques , " he said . " It has brought some problems that seemed difficult or impossible of solution by other techniques within the possibility of solution . " Dr. Warren also said that atomic defense could not be considered apart from civil defense problems in general . He attributed the slowness in civil defense planning to " the fact that serious decisions regarding conduct in time of war are extremely delicate and difficult to make in time of peace . " " Fortunately , the American Medical Association has not been lagging and the Council on National Emergency Medical Service of the A. M. A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ material aid in the ; solution of the complexities ahead ; " he asserted . " This program of the council deserves reiteration : " 1 . Establishment of emergency medical service committees in each state medical society . " 2 . Each state must urge upon its Governor the absolute necessity for adequate state civil defense enabling legislation . " 3 . Each state must urge its Governor to appoint a state director of civil defense with the necessary responsibilities and authority to act . " 4 . Each state should appoint a civil defense advisory committee to advise its Governor and the civil defense director . Representatives of state medical societies should , with advantage , serve on this advisory committee . " A defeatist attitude on civil defense will get us nowhere . The problem is not hopeless . The initial steps in the provision of knowledge as to medical aspects of atomic warfare and as to the means of monitoring a radioactive disaster have already been taken . " Dr. Evarts A. Graham , Professor of Surgery at Washington University School of Medicine and surgeon-in-chief at Barnes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's distinguished service award for 1950 . Dr. Graham is best known in the medical field for his pioneer work in lung surgery for cancer . Weapons Stressed , Dean Says SAN FRANCISCO , June 26 ( UP ) ? The United States is emphasizing the manufacture of " more and better atomic weapons , " Atomic Energy Commissioner Gordon Dean told the American . Medical Association today . " We would not be in this business if there were any evidence from across the water of an effort to secure a working , lasting peace . " " Our great stocks of fissionable material now fabricated into weapons can be readily turned to peacetime uses when we know , not by false words but by affirmative action , that peace is really wanted , " Mr. Dean said .                     