@@718131

txt The atmosphere is frenzied around the campaign headquarters of Democratic Presidential aspirant Averell Harriman . There is a feeling of high tension ; people rush around demanding to know where so-and-so is or who has a copy of a particular document . Practically no one who is anyone has even a minute to stop and talk . At the headquarters of Presidential candidate Adlai Stevenson , things are relaxed by contrast . People seem to be working more smoothly and calmly . Top officials take time to sit around and discuss policy with visitors . Part of the explanation , of course , is that the Stevenson people have been at this for some while now . They 've had an elaborate campaign organization for many months and have tried it out in half a dozen rough primary battles Much more of the explanation , however , lies in the fact that the Harriman camp is well aware it is still behind in the race for the Democratic nomination , and is feverishly trying to catch up . The Stevenson men , on the other hand , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still working to line up delegates , but they feel that this effort is so well along that they can also devote sonic of their thoughts to Vice Presidential candidates , campaign strategy and other longrange matters . Civil Rights Clash This all remains true despite the newest outbreak over the civil rights plank in the party platform . The Stevenson strategists still talk assuredly of the nomination no later than the second ballot . Many say it will be it on on the first ballot . But the Harriman people , while frenetic , are far from pessimistic " We 're not ahead right now , but we will be when it 's over , " one aide of tilt New York Governor firmly declares . When Stevenson 's lieutenants say they now have better than 600 of the 6S6:4 votes needed for the nomination , without even counting favorite son delegations , the Harriman men reply this is so much nonsense . Harriman backers claim some 310 delegates of their own , and predict they wo n't trail Adlai by more than 100 votes on the first ballot . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be a teal horse lace " The Harriman strategy right now Is mainly directed at preventing a quick Stevenson nomination . The second and more publicized effort involves a fight for a strongly " New Deal " party platform , and especially for a strongly anti-segregation civil rights plank . Harriman leaders have been privately conceding that their main hope of stopping Stevenson was an all-out fight over the civil rights plank . They figured this would force Stevenson to reaffirm a " moderate " stand on integration , thus angering many Northern delegates , or to swing to a " tougher " stand , thus estranging many of his Southern supporters . Either way , the Harriman men argued , the chances of an early Stevenson nomination would be diminished . Hammering Away To some degree , this Harriman strategy appears to be working . Early this week , in obvious concern over the Harriman hammering away on the civil rights issue , Mr. Stevenson said he felt the party platform " should express unequivocal approval " of the Supreme Court 's decision in the school segregation case . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Supreme Court in the party plank would be one thing they could not stomach , and Mr. Stevenson 's statement brought immediate shouts of " treason " from some of the more extreme Southern delegates . The Southerners , though , also have a problem as to just what they can do about it . Obviously , they can not throw their votes to Mr. Harriman . The only alternative , then , to voting for Mr. Stevenson would be to vote ballot after ballot for some third candidate  --  perhaps Senate Majority Leader Lyndon Johnson of Texas  --  and tie up the convention until a compromise " moderate " candidate can be agieed upon . Actually , of course , the Southerners may not have to cross that bridge Party Chairman Paul Butler and many key Northern and Southern backers of Mt Stevenson are still convinced a comp ! ? rinse civil rights plank can he fashioned to satisfy all but the most extreme Northerners and Southerners If the Stevenson forces do get that kind of " compromise ' out of the platform committee . Mr Harriman 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nights tight directly to the convention floor in a snit of last . desperate battle But right now they are heartened by the success of their strategy so fat in dividing the Stevenson supporters . And that it i Win , comparatively speaking , calm prm ails in the Stevenson vamp , while . the Harriman HQ is clamorous with the bustle of battle .                     