@@713270

txt All over the world , freedom-loving. nations are engaged in a battle to hold back communism 's enslaving chains . At first this was a defensive battle  --  but now freedom is fighting back . This article on central Europe is one of a series from different countries showing how far communism has advanced , what is being done to stem the tide , what must be done to strengthen the bulwarks of free man . Vienna Scarcely a day passes without a casualty in the fight to preserve human individuality in the Communist-dominated territories of central and eastern Europe . Exact figures of executions in Czechoslovakia , Hungary , Romania , Poland , and Bulgaria can not be estimated because there are many secret trials . But during the first six months of 1950 , the numbers of capital , life , and long-term hard-labor sentences have grown considerably , thus proving that the yearning for individual liberty , far from haying been quenched in those lands by collectivized repression , has been  --  indeed , still is ? increasing . Liberty , in fact , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ submerged temporarily beneath a swirling tide of enforced uniformity . But it goes on fighting . Its material resources are depleted , but its spiritual light is undimmed . Opposition is expressed in such ways as a greater interest in religion , in self-denials , in apathy toward daily tasks performed in an uncongenial environment , as well as in positive ' acts.of rebellion . There is , however , a new generation growing up which so far has known only communism . It is on this group that the Communist hierarchies base their main hopes of ultimate success . Power Maintained by Repression Throughout the countries in which the Communists usurped power , they maintain themselves only by arresting , imprisoning , executing anyone of either sex they think is capable of independent thought and action . If their vigilance were relaxed , or their weapons rendered harmless , in that moment they would be swept away . Thus life in these countries goes on in a state of constantly rising tension . There is a mounting sense of crisis , strengthened by the fact that at present no one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which no one can judge the end . Yet the number of persons in central Europe who see war as their only hope of regaining freedom is growing daily . Meanwhile , active and passive resistance to the standardization of human thinking on Stalinist lines is almost universal . Among the workers , it is expressed by absenteeism , apathy , sabotage , and fraud in order to avoid doing the extra amount of work now demanded from them as compared with the days when their present taskmasters were dinninginto their ears that the millennium would be theirs when they had defeated the " evil machinations of private employers . " The authorities admit that since the beginning of the year , wages have gone up much more than output . This means that costs of production of the nationalized enterprises are correspondingly higher than before the campaign to raise working norms began . The government 's intention in raising the norms was , of course , to bring costs down . As it is in Hungary , so it also is in Czechoslovakia , Poland , and Romania . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be forced into doing more work than he thinks reasonable . Like everybody else , he wants to live his own life . The same tale can be told of agriculture . Not one of the satellite countries so far has been able to " persuade " more than a fraction of the peasants to collectivize their holdings . Communists Seek to Enlist Youth The peasants have killed many of their farm animals rather than hand them over to the state . They still are doing so . They try to avoid taking proper care of their crops . " Why should we bother about collecting Colorado beetles , " they say , " when the crop is not ours ? " Foiled in their attempts to arouse enthusiasm among the adults for their dehydrated concept of society , the Communists are trying to enlist the enthusiasm of youth for the task of mass-producing human beings as well as machines . Young folk of both sexes therefore are being pushed through political indoctrination courses with all speed and then placed in positions of responsibility which in a settled society they would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special powers and privileges , and their membership now runs into millions in each of the satellite countries . But it is doubtful how many reliable Communists there are among them and whether youth always will be prepared to give blind obedience and forego the right of independent thinking on the major problems of existence . By those in the satellite countries whose eyes are fixed on the too-distant stars , the fight for the right to think and speak and act according to the dictates of the individual consciousness can never be given up . But in those countries , it is a fight against heavy odds . And it is easier to submit to Communist coercion than to fight on against what seems inevitable . There is danger of the Communist tide 's spilling out from the satellite countries into Austria , where , thanks largely to the presence of Soviet troops , support for communism has dwindled to 3 per cent of the electorate . Physically , Austria has no more hope of resisting Communist aggression than any of the other countries in this part of the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the freedom central Europe yearns for is very largely in its western brothers ' keeping .                     