@@720314

txt Relations ' between Iraq and the United Arab Republic  --  the two strong est Arab states  --  have deterio rated sharply . The Iraqi Embassy in Cairo still is open and a three-man mission still holds the beleaguered compound of the ' United Arab Republic 's Embassy in Baghdad . But each country is only going through the formality of maintaining relations . President Nasser 's ' speeches at Damascus this week , following an unsuccessful uprising in Mosul , northern Iraq , last Sunday also have posed a challenge to Moscow . The President 's speeches and the tone of the directed Cairo and Damascus press have clear- ' ly shown the line of attack on Iraq . It is that Premier Abdul Karim Kassim is a Communist , or at least a willing tool , and that communism itself is an atheistic anti-nationalist conspiracy that would destroy both Arab unity and the Moslem religion . In the latter charge , the call is being sounded for what amounts to a " holy war . " Every propaganda gun at Cairo 's command now has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press , the rad ! o and even sermons in the mosques , where the imams ( priests ) called yesterday for " victory for our leader against the enemies of the Arabs and Moslems . " These means have been effective before in rallying the Arab world against the Western powers and Israel . There have been no.announced pledges of support so far from other Arab capitals . But many Arab leaders are in Cairo 's debt , and President Nasser probably can cash in on these obligations if he wants to . In attacking Moscow directly as the instigator of the Iraqi campaign against him , President Nasser is risking the fact that this time Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev will not accept the challenge quietly . The Soviet leader made only a mild retort to President Nasser 's vehement denunciation of Sy- ' rian and Egyptian Communists in December , and he later took that back in a letter . In the last few months the United Arab Republic has become less vulnerable than it once was . As late as six months ago , Cairo was dependent on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ project and its industrialization program but for its vital wheat and oil supplies as well . With its army , navy and air force now almost wholly equipped with Communist-made weapons , Cairo would feel pressure in that respect after a time . But now the country is getting increasing supplies of oil from Saudi Arabia , and wheat from Italy , Spain and the United States . London and Cairo again are on speaking terms after the liquidation of Suez war liabilities . Western Germany , Japan and perhaps now Britain and the United States are alternate sources for machinery needed to build the Aswan Dam and set the wheels of industry whirring here . The events in the Middle East last week may have been overshadowed by the Berlin crisis and other problems elsewhere . But many observers here believe they may have represented a major turning point in world affairs .                     