@@716327

txt RICHMOND , Va. , June 10 ? Executive officials of twelve Southern states were reported to have reached agreement here today not toG comply voluntarily with the Supreme Court 's decision against racial segregation in the public schools . The agreement was made at a region-wide conference at which three border states declared it was their intention to conform with the decision of the court . They were not confronted with " as serious a problem " as some of the other Southern states , was explained . The conference , which was closed , was the first joint effort by political and executive leaders of the Southern states to come to grips with the Issue since the court 's May 17 decision . Gov , Thomas B. Stanley of // Virginia , conference chairman and authorized spokesman for the participants , stressed that while the twelve states expressed a " uniformity of attitude " against voluntary compliance there was no common agreement on what course of action should be taken to enable these states to solve their individual problems . The conference also disclosed that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time to accept the Supreme Court 's invitation to have the Attorneys General of the states participate in arguments on methods in October . It was stated that a number of the state representatives were in agreement with Gov . Herman Talmadge of Georgia that it might not be to their advantage to take part in the implementation arguments . ' Boycott ' Is Denied It was emphasized that this should not be regarded as a " boycott " of the implementation arguments , but rather that it resulted " from the fact that some just feel there is no reason at this time to direct our thinking along that line . " As a result of the divergent views on the implementation argument it was suggested that the Attorneys General of the fifteen states hold a meeting soon ' ' to discuss the situation in more detail from the legal viewpoint . " No specific date was agreed on . It also was stated that the meeting of the Attorneys General would explore further the possible avenues that could be pursued in each state that wanted to circumvent compliance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their Governors . These states were Georgia , South Carolina , North Carolina , Mississippi , Louisiana , Alabama , Florida , West Virginia , and Virginia . The other six states were represented by officials designated by the Governors . West Virginia , Maryland and Kentucky were the states whose representatives went on record that their individual problems were capable of being adjusted in conformity with the court 's ruling as it now stood . The representatives of the other twelve states took the position that their local problems precluded voluntary compliance at this time . They expressed the opinion that in varying degrees , depending on the situation in each state , they would act to attain some conformity with the court ruling and yet keep as much segregation as possible . " This was a very helpful and harmonious meeting and no one had any thought of doing anything wrong , " Governor Stanley declared . " Everyone is just trying to find a solution for what they regard as a major problem . " In the six-hour session , the various states reported on the proposals now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surface compliance with the court 's decision . For the most part these concerned administrative and supervisory powers held by the state and local authorities with respect to arranging school attendance on some basis that would omit references to race . The outcome of the conference followed rather closely the pattern predicted before the session was opened formally . It had been expected that the border states , where Negroes are small numerically , would assert their readiness to comply voluntarily at this time , while states with larger Negro population percentages would talk more in terms of circumvention of the decision . The participants left the meeting with general agreement that each state would have to , work out its own plans involving compliance and that at best they could " exchange views and information " that might be mutually helpful .                     