@@717907

txt Gen. Curtis E. LeMay disclosed today that a " serious component failure " had substantially reduced deliveries of the B-52 intercontinental bomber . The trouble , he said , is being corrected . The Boeing B-52 Stratofortress , with its eight jets , is this country 's chief weapon in the intensified airpower race with the Soviet Union . The Commanding General of the Strategic Air Force revealed in censored testimony that seventy-eight hydrogen bomb planes had been ? produced , but only forty-seven had been accepted by the United States Air Force . The thirty-one others had been rejected because of a failure in what other sources said was the electrical system . The story of the serious crimp in the production schedule of the B-52 's came on top of admissions yesterday by Charles E. Wilson , Secretary of Defense , and previously by General LeMay , that Russia was outstripping the United States with the combined production of two planes . These are the Bison and the Bear , both comparable with the B-52 . Production Is Studied General LeMay testified today before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigating the adequacy of United States airpower and missile production in the light of official disclosures that Russia has been making rapid strides in both fields . The subcommittee is headed by Senator Stuart Symington , Democrat of Missouri , who has been disputing the adequacy of the Eisenhower defense program for several months , General LeMay 's testimony showed that fifty-seven of the huge bombers had been produced by Jan. 1 , and sixteen rejected . Since Jan. 1 , twenty-one have have been produced and only six accepted . General LeMay emphasized that while the component failure was " serious , " it could be " corrected in an relatively short period of time . " The failure caused one of the bombers , which cost about $8,000,000 each , to crash last winter . The entire crew was killed . Air Force officers declared after the hearing that the defect was not fundamental and that the Stratofortress remained a formidable weapon for massive retaliation against any nuclear attack against the United States . General LeMay did not disclose whether any of the rejected planes had been repaired and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Boeing plants . Defect in Flywheel An Air Force spokesman said the defect had developed in the flywheel of an alternator in the electrical system . The flywheel spins at a high rate of speed . In the crashed plane it had broken off . Two manufacturing sources make the flywheels but the product of only one of them has proved defective . Inquiry at the Pentagon later disclosed that all rejections of the B-52 , before and after Jan. 1 , had been due to the defective flywheel from the one manufacturer . General LeMay was asked whether the strength of the Strategic Air Command should not be considerably more than Russia 's strategic air strength because this country would not make the first all-out nuclear attack . He replied that if this country suffered a surprise attack , it was reasonable to expect losses . Therefore , he said , " it is then reasonable to assume that the original force without losses should certainly be initially stronger than the Soviet force . " Senator Henry M. Jackson , Democrat of Washington , another strong critic of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General LeMay to submit his personal views of an adequate and rounded strategic airpower program . These views will be obtained without security censorship by the Pentagon and will be considered in closed session before it is decided whether to disclose them . Because vital military secrets are involved , the committee has been submitting written questions to General LeMay and ne has been giving written answers . General LeMav was handed fifty-five questions on Monday and worked on the answers until 4 A. M. yesterday . Today only thirty-one were made public . Some of the committee members were not too happy about this . However , the deletions for secu-ity were made by General LeMay himself or by Vice Admiral Arthur C. Davis . The admiral has been recalled from retirement to review the material in evidence . The Pentagon quickly reviewed the answers General LeMay gave . today , but made no changes .                     