@@718920

txt Worldwide publication of the Special United Nations Committee 's report on Hungary has focused a broad-beam searchlight on grim details of the ruthless Soviet suppression of the Hungarian people 's attempt to gain freedom . The report , released to the world for June 20 , is certain to have a strong impact all over the free world  --  and even more significantly , on the so-called uncommitted Asian nations . Besides broad , clear-cut general condemnations of the Soviet Union , this history-making international document , now being circulated to governments throughout the world , contains dozens of other findings dispelling clouds of confusion about happenings in Hungary that shrouded the United Nations when the Hungarian question was brought before the Security Council and General Assembly last fall for possible violation of human rights and other sections of the UN Charter . Major Points Clear The report establishes that : I. There was intervention by force on the part of the Soviet Union twice  --  first to crush a popular uprising , and then to overthrow a legal and properly supported government ; 2 . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the outside and not a " counterrevolution " as the Soviets have claimed ; 3 . The Kadar government was installed by Soviet force against the will of the Hungarian people and does not even now have their support . At the same time , the 140,000-word report from its inquiry committee headed by Denmark 's Alsing Andersen presents the UN General Assembly with a grave new challenge for action , even at this late date , to spotlight more heavily the shame of Hungary , at least with world moral opinion . As a first step in this direction , the United States is calling a 24-nation strategy session to discuss future steps the United Nations might take . Reuters said the United States was understood to be un willing to support a move to call the General Assembly back into session on the Hungarian issue right now . Several nations , including Britain and Australia , some Latin-American countries , Italy and Spain , were understood to favor early debate of the report , which has been in members ' hands since June 17 . The United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ session in the summer . Clarity Praised Among the arguments understood to have been raised were : interference with delegates ' holiday arrangements ; the cost of a special session ; the risk of having debate spill over into other issues , such as French actions in Algeria and British rule of Cyprus ; the undesirability of providing a forum for polemics while the Allies are trying to negotiate a disarmament pact with the Soviets in London . The Hungary report is being hailed at UN headquarters for its clarity , its unanimity , and its impartiality . Although no UN political investigator has been admitted to Hungary under the Kadar regime , numerous witnesses to the uprising have been questioned in New York , Geneva , Rome , Vienna , and London . Their testimony fills 2,000 pages . Besides Mr. Andersen , the committee , established by the UN General Assembly on Jan. 10 , 1957 , was composed of K. C. 0 . Shann , of Australia , R. S. S. Gunawardene. of Ceylon , Mongi Slim , of Tunisia , and Prof. Enrique Rodriguez Fabregat of Uruguay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : The Hungarian uprising was not only nationwide but was also spontaneous . Their efforts collapsed because of the ' Soviet armed intervention and because no support was forthcoming for them from abroad . The Soviet thesis , which alleged that the uprising owed its origin to support from abroad , did not ' survive the examination to which the committee subjected it . Although Soviet Foreign Minister Dmitri T. Shepilov told the UN General Assembly , Nov. 19 , that the Hungarians had invited intervention by Soviet troops , the committee could find no evidence that such a message had been sent by Imre Nagy who was premier at that time . Nagy Role Appraised The committee further concluded that Mr. Nagy was a man " carried along by events beyond his control , gradually aware of the intensity of the passions which the uprising had evoked and the reality of the grievances which it expresseu , and gradually convinced that he must accept the responsibilities thrust upon him by circumstances . " At the same time , the committee said , Mr. Nagy never lost , control of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armed forces . The " counterrevolution " in the Hungarian picture was not an attempt to reestablish the Horthy regime that the Soviet Union complained of but the installation of the Kadar regime against the will of the people . The fact of deportations of Hungarians by the " thousands " to the Soviet Union was established , but the committee found the deportees were not badly treated . The purpose was to frighten people and break the back of the revolution . The committee found no proof that more than a part of the deportees have been returned to Hungary . Hungary 's bid for freedom seen not anti-Soviet : Page 4 ,                     