@@720441

txt HERTER GIVES WEST 'S PLAN ; GROMYKO PREPARES REPLY ; STEPS OUTLINED Allies Urge Complete Accord in Europe in Four Stages Herter and Lloyd speeches and Western plan , Page 12 . By DREW 1%1111:1DIJETON Special to The blew ' York Times . GENEVA , May 14 ? Secretary of State Christian A. Herter presented a Western peace plan for a " permanent settlement in Europe " to the conference of foreign ministers today . The plan proposed reunification of Germany , settlement of Berlin 's future and establishment of European security in four stages . The plan , the most ambitious and sweeping Western proposals on Europe since the end of World War II in 1945 , was laid before the fifth session of the present meeting in the Palais des . Nations . Allies Hail Proposals The proposals were warmly endorsed by Foreign Secretary Selwyn Lloyd of Britain , Maurice Couve de Murville , France 's Foreign Minister , and Ambassador Wilhelm Grewe , West Germany 's adviser at the talks . Andrei A. Gromyko , the Soviet Foreign Minister , made no comment on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being studied and that the Foreign Minister would offer his views in the near future . A British spokesman thought Mr. Gromyko would speak tomorrow . Western spokesmen asserted the proposals went well beyond those offered in the past , particularly at the summit conference of 1955 , in an effort to meet known Soviet objections . Free Elections Urged Under the plan , a summary of which was published in The New York Times today , free elections would be held in all of Germany after a transitional period of two and a half years , instead of as the first step . An electoral law would be drafted by Germans instead of in consultation with the West . Security would be offered to the Soviet Union in the event of a united Germany 's joining the North Atlantic pact . Precise arrangements were offered for the control and inspection of armed forces and armaments . Mr. Herter presented the plan in a firm but dispassionate speech , in which he voiced the West 's readiness to discuss the proposals in a " thorough and // painstaking fashion . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get to the root of the problem . The Western powers consider the proposals reasonable , the Secretary of State continued , but " they are ready to develop them further in the hope of meeting the legitimate preoccupations of the Soviet Union and of the other countries of Eastern Europe . " To known Soviet objections to the package plan , Mr. Herter offered the Western view that Berlin was part of the central problem of Germany and that no European security settlement would be of value unless it was accompanied by a settlement of Germany 's future . A.speech by Dr. Lothar Bolz , East German Foreign Minister , at the conference evoked a strong statement from the Secretary of State. ? He declared that in the view of the United States Government " there is , in Germany , only one government entitled to speak for the German people , and that is the Federal Government of the Federal Republic West Germany ) , since its mandate rests on free elections . " Mr. Gromyko replied that it had . been-agreed in diplomatic exchanges that both German governments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " one likes it or not , " there are two Germanys , the Soviet Foreign . Minister asserted , according to a United States spokesman . Although there have been no public comments on the western plan by Mr. Gromyko , a senior British official predicted tonight that the Soviet Foreign Minister would " play it soft . " By this he meant that Mr. Gromyko would couch his initial comments in reasonable language and then patiently pick the proposals apart in future exchanges at the conference table . The principal points concerning the three objectives in the Western plan are : ( Merlin would be reunited through free elections as the first step toward German unity . The United States , Britain , France and the Soviet Union would guarantee the freedom of a united Berlin and would be entitled to station garrisons there . ( IA mixed German committee consisting of twenty-five members from West Germany and ten from East ' Germany would draft the law for free and secret elections in all Germany . Its decisions would be taken by a three-quarter majority . ( The draft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If the committee failed to agree , two draft electoral laws would be submitted . Me election of an all-German Assembly would occur in two and a half years on the basis of the electoral law adopted . The elections would be supervised either by the United Nations or the four powers . ilThe Assembly would draft an all-German constitution and an all-German Government would be formed on the basis of the constitution . IlThe all-German government would be responsible for negotiating a peace treaty . Until the conclusion of a peace treaty the Big Four would retain their Measures to achieve European security move step by step with this progress toward German unity . ( They would begin with a four-power declaration pledging renunciation of the use of force inconsistent with the United Nations Charter and the withholding of assistance from an aggressor . gThe over-all strength  --  of the forces would be limited to agreed maximum levels of 2,500,000 each for the United States and the Soviet Union . Quantities of designated types of armaments would be placed in storage . ( Measures of inspection against surprise attack would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ biological and chemical weapons by West Germany in 1954 would be extended to they remainder of Germany and Eastern Europe . ( 1All foreign troops would be withdrawn from the nation in the area at the request of the governments concerned on conclusion of a peace treaty . There would be a further reduction of global forces to 2.100,000 and 1,700,000 by the Soviet Union and the United States . Safety Measures Offered Adherence of an all-German government to either the North Atlantic alliance or the Warsaw pact would be followed by three security measures . These are : 1 . Regulation of the forces and installations in the area closest to the frontier between a united Germany and members of another pact . 2 . Agreements between the four powers and other European countries about joint reaction to aggression . 3 . In the event of Germany 's joining the Atlantic pact , the three Western powers would undertake not to advance their forces into the present area of East Germany . If Germany joined the Warsaw pact , the Soviet Government would undertake not to advance toward the West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conclusion of a final peace settlement with an all-German government .                     