@@719272

txt The Soviet Union announced today it had launched a second space satellite  --  this one carrying a dog . Radio signals indicated that the animal was living , the Russians said . A satellite six times as heavy as the one sent up Oct. 4 now is circling the earth every hour and forty-two minutes at a height of 937 miles , Moscow said . This means that the speed is nearly 18,000 miles an hour for the 1,110-pound satellite . The dog was reported hermetically sealed in a container equipped with an airconditioning system . Moscow Radio said data received from the second satellite indicated the " functioning of scientific instruments and control of the living activities of the animal are taking place normally . " First Trip Reported The new satellite carries transmitting equipment and apparatus for measuring cosmic rays , temperature and pressure . It also carries equipment for reporting the condition of the dog . It first passed over the Soviet capital at 11:20 P. M. Eastern Standard Time last night and then completed its first trip around the earth over Moscow at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The announcement said the second satellite was " dedicated to the fortieth anniversary of the great October revolution , " which the Communist world will celebrate in Moscow beginning next Thursday . The new earth satellite is completing its orbit in about seven minutes more than the original Sputnik , still circling the earth . Japan Receives Signals ' Moscow said the second sphere was sending out two radio signals . One , like the " beep " signal transmitted by the first satellite , is on a frequency of 20.005 megacycles . The other signal , at 40.002 megacycles , is a continuous note . In Tokyo the Japan Broadcasting Corporation announced that radio signals from the second satellite were being heard . The corporation picked up the signals twenty-three minutes after Moscow 's announcement . The " beep " was at intervals of three-tenths of a second . A three-stage rocket shoved the original satellite into its orbit . The first Moscow announcement of the second sphere did not explain how it had been sent up . Although the announcement of the satellite 's passing over Moscow indicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of years , " utes , Moscow Radio said the the article added . " Such a would be hour and satorbit ellite would be virtually a perone manent earth satellite . " forty-fwo minutes . A Soviet engineer , K. MaMoscow Radio last week an- lyutin , predicted on Oct. 26 that pounced than an animal-carry- a satellite would be launched ing satellite soon would be that would circle the earth forlaunched. ever and provide a platform for The Oct. 27 broadcast said space ships . Mr. Malyutin , writing in the prep - - : its tor launching a Soviet magazine Aviation , did new baby moon were near com- not say when such a missile SECOND SATELLITE pletion a- that a term of dogs had been conditioned to provide the first passengers to rocket off in : , s 2 . The announcement was followed by a later broadcast direct from the laboratory where the dogs were being trained . The radio audience was introduced to a " small , shaggy dog named Kudryavka , " which barked into the microphone . The Soviet Union announced Oct. 4 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around the globe 560 miles out in space . The Russians said the first satellite had been launched the day before by a multiple-stage rocket that shot the satellite upward at about five miles a second . Scientists around the world traced the first satellite in following days . Its characteristic radio signal ? " beep-beep-beep " ? provided the basis of tracking . The radio transmitter has since gone dead . President Eisenhower , at an Oct. 9 news conference , said of the imlitary significance of Russia 's first satellite : " That does not raise my apprehension , not on iota . " On Oct. 13 the Russians hinted at a premanent earth satellite that would last for hundreds of years . An article in Pravda , broadcould be launched . He observed , however , that " contemporary levels of rocket technique allow the assumption that launching such a sputnik is fully realistic . " In announcing the launching of the first earth satellite ever put in a globe-circling orbit under man 's controls , the Soviet Union claimed a victory over the United States . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first man-made satellite makes a tremendous contribution to the treasure house of world science and culture * * * " Artificial earth satellites will pave the way for space travel and it seems that the present generation will witness how the freed and conscious labor of the people of the new socialist society turns even the most daring of man 's dreams into reality " * The Russians said they planned to launch several more earth satellites . They added the development would open a way for travel to the planets .                     