@@714666

txt GEN . DODD IS NEED BY KOJE CAPTIVES UNHURT AND HAPPY Reds Yield Following Parleys Among Themselves in Their Barbed-Wire Stockade TERMS STILL UNDISCLOSED Eighth Army Was Preparing to Use Force  --  Officer to Tell About His Kidnapping By MURRAY SCHUDIACH Special to Tar Now Yams tiffs . HEADQUARTERS , Eighth Army , in Korea , Sunday , May 11 ? Communist prisoners of war released Brig . Gen. Francis T. Dodd last night from their prison compound on Koje Island where they had held him hostage since Wednesday . Unharmed and in good spirits , the former commander of the prisoner-of-war camps on Koje /eft the barbed wire enclosure into which he had been dragged after he was overpowered by North Korean prisoners with whom he wan talking . As he stepped from the compound , from which he had been permitted to talk to the prison command on a field telephone , he ended one of the strangest episodes of the Korean war and dissipated the possibility of immediate bloodshed on the hilly island , on which two serious riots had occurred previously . General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 11:40 A. M. , Sunday , or 10:40 P. M. , Saturday , Eastern daylight time , said an Associated Press dispatch . Army officers would not then permit-General Dodd to talk to correspondents , but they said he would atttend a news conference at headquarters late in the day . Possible Truce Talk Tle-In During General Dodd 's captivity , Gen. James A. Van Fleet , Eighth Army commander , threatened to use force if the man he had appointed to supervise the priSoliers was not freed . At the same time , in the Korean armistice talks at Panmunjom , North Korean Lieut . Gen. Nam Il , senior Communist delegate , accused the United Nations of planning a massacre of the prisoners to liberate General Dodd . To win the release of the general , United Nations guards permitted the Communists to assemble in their enclosure leaders from other compounds to discuss their captive 's future with his successor as prison camp commandant , Brig . Gen. Charles F. Colson . While the members of this central committee of the prisoners conferred in hiding , they could see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside the barbed-wire fence . Shortly after 10 o'clock last night , General Van Fleet issued a statement saying : " General Dodd ... Nes released at 9:30 , unharmed and in good spirits . He will spend the night with General Colson and will be flown to Eighth Army headquarters some time during the day tomoriow . " The announcement was read by Lieut . CoL Roswell P. Rosengren , Eighth Army public information officer , who added : " There is no more information that anybody here has tonight . " General Van Fleet has indicated ' some minor concessions were made to the Red prisoners to gain General Dodd 's freedom ; what any concessions came to , was not known , although it was clear that the Communist prisoners , in being // allowed to hold a conclave of their leaders , had won a point . Even more of a mystery than the Communist demands were the conversations held over the field telephone connecting the interior of the prison compound with a sentry box outside the camp . Into this telephone General Dodd relayed many messages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , General Colson talked with one or more of the Communist leaders over this telephone . Early yesterday , telephone messages in and out of the camp made it apparent there was reason to be hopeful the general would be released . On the basis of reports received from Koje , General Van Fleet revealed that , at the request of General Dodd , he would withhold the use of force until more conversations were held to determine the Communist demands . General Van Fleet revealed yesterday morning that he had " granted minor requests " by the Communists and had " asked them for a statement of their demands . " At the same time , he announced : " The Communists have been told they must hand over General Dodd unharmed . " At 6:30 P. M. yesterday , in another communique , the Eighth Army commander indicated that the release of General Dodd was imminent as a result of an exchange of messages between his forces and the Communist leaders inside Compound 76 , where the general was being held . General Van Fleet reported that General Dodd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are in near-agreement with the camp commander General Colson . " General Van Fleet added : " General Dodd reports he is well and well taken care of , and is optimistic for an early release . It is expected that favorable arrangements will be concluded in a fairly short time . " Repeatedly , Colonel Rosengren avoided answering questions raised by General Van Fleet 's communiqu ? s . He said he knew " zero " about , the telephone conversations on Koje and that he did not know the motive for the seizure of General Dodd . He said he presumed that the decision to permit the Communist leaders of several compounds to meet in Compound 76 had been made " on a United Nations level , " as contrasted with an Eighth Army level .                     