@@719259

txt United States officials were surprised and baffled today by Moscow 's announcement that Marshal Georgi K. Zhukov had been relieved as Soviet Defense Minister ; In the absence of amplification , the question for which United States intelligence aides and experts on Soviet Affairs had no answer was this : Is he moving up or going down in the Communist hierarchy ? One working hypothesis of the United States Government has been that the Soviet military , represented by Marshal Zhukov , has been in the ascendancy since July 's major upheaval in Soviet leadership . It was thought that it was Marshal Zhukov , with the threat of the army behind him , who had turned the tide and prevented the overthrow of Nikita S. Khrushchev as First Secretary of the Communist party . Promotion a . Possibility Officials in Washington suggested that today 's announcement might merely pave the way for Marshal Zhukov 's promotion to another Government post more influential than the one from which he was removed . The Defense Ministry Itself , it was noted , is not an inherent posi ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the latest report , received prior to today 's development , from Llewelyn E. Thompson , United States Ambassador in Moscow , that Marshal Zhukov was on the way up . In Marshal Zhukov 's case , his power comes rather from his popularity with the army and his position on the Presidium of the Communist party . The Defense Ministry would normally involve much comparatively routine paper work that Marshal Zhukov might prefer to relinquish in return for a more important position . Lacking any further new from Moscow , however , United States officials were reluctant to speculate on the direction the Zhukov star might be taking . There has been no evidence that Marshal Zhukov and Mr. Khrushchev have been at odds . // The Defense Minister 's tour of Albania ' and Yugoslavia , in the view of experts here , went off without hint of any friction With Moscow . The only point that caused the slightest interest was the firm endorsement he gave to the Albanian Communist regime , which has been bickering with its Yugoslav neighbor . Mr. Khrushchev has been working intensely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For at least the last three years , Marshal Zhukov has apparently been esteemed by the Soviet leadership for his wartime association with President Eisenhower , which has given him a spegial entree to the White House through personal correspondence . Earlier this month Mr. Khrushchev , in an interview with James Reston of The New York Times , charged that Moscow had been rebuffed in Washington after it had offered to arrange a visit there by Marshal Zhukov . Denial of a Rebuff President Eisenhower confirmed that " feelers " had . been put out about a Zhukov visit and had not received encouragement , but he denied that ti- e Russians had been rebuffed . Allen W. Dulles , Director of the Central Intelligence Agency , suggested in a speech last month that the Soviet military was becoming an increasingly important influence in the Soviet system . This prestige is thought to have stemmed partly from the army 's support for Mr. Krushchev in last summer 's Clash in the Presidium . One version of that conflict is that Mr. Krushchev 's policies were outvoted until Marshal Zhukov 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party . As a result , Mr. Krusnehev eliminated power threats from Vyacheslav M. Molotov , Lazar ' M. Kaganovich and Georgi M. Malenkov . These three were sent to Siberia while Marshal Zhukov 's influence appeared to be on the rise . There is no firm agreement here about just how important a figure Marshal Zhukov is in the Soviet Government . One , opinion is that he is second only to Mr. Khrushchev . Another contends that the nature of the Communist party system in the Soviet Union is such that Marshal Zhukov can not seriously challenge Mr. Khrushchev and must remain only one among his subordinates . Still other views hold that regardless . of Marshal Zhukov 's real power , the fact that he is thought to be powerful must eventually make him a menace to be eliminated by Mr. Khrushchev . Both the White House and the State Department reserved official comment . Decision Sudden , British Feel Special to The New York Times . LONDON , Oct. 26 ? Diplomatic sources here , noting that Marshal Zhukov 's removal was announced shortly after his return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it had been " clearly engineered " during his absence . Whatever the motivation , British sources emphasized that the decision on Marshal Zhukov must have been taken . recently . There was some speculation among informed circles in London that the move might be preliminary to the promotion of Marshal Zhukov to Premiership , ' replacing Nikolai A. Bulganin . There was , however , no confirmation of this from any official source and the British Foreign Office maintained that today 's move was part of a ' struggle for power . Significance was attached to the fact that the announcement by Tass , official Soviet news agency , made no mention of Marshal Zhukov 's future or his membership on the Presidium . Some Westerners speculated that Premier Bulganin would be " kicked upstairs " to the post of President of the Presidium and that Marshal Zhukov would then become Premier . 