@@718662

txt Councilman Robert E. Barnes was summoned to appear yesterday before assistants of Investigation Commissioner Charles H. Tenney to answer questions concerning his private business activities . Mr. Barnes , a Republican of Queens and a I lawyer , promptly denounced the call as " political retaliation by the Democratic party in order to take the heat off some others . " Mr. Barnes is the fifth Councilman  --  and the first Republican ? to become involved in an investigation of alleged activities possibly violating conflict of interest provisions of the City Charter . In the late afternoon , Mr. Barnes stalked out of Mr. Tenney 's office at 50 Pine Street , refusing to be examined on his private interests because the Deputy Investigation Commissioner , Patrick J. Murphy , would not open the questioning to r &; Porters . Objects to Closed Doors " Even if subpoenaed , " he would not answer questions behind closed doors " except by order of the court , " Mr. Barnes declared . The incident concerning Mr. Barnes occurred during the twelfth full-day session of the City Council 's public hearings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrat , to retain his Council seat . For the first time Mr. Quinn took the stand to answer questions by his counsel , 3 . Wolfe Chassen , involving private business activities . These activities , according to a report by Investigation Commissioner Tenney , were in apparent violation of the conflict-of-interest provisions of the City Charter . The Council is holding the Quinn hearings as the Committee of the Whole . Much of the examination of Mr. Quinn yesterday dealt with the circumstances surrounding his introduction in 1952 of bills permitting the use of fly ash as an additive in concrete and as a substitute in part for cement . Bills Voted in 1953 The bills were approved by the Council and signed into law May 19 , 1953 , by Vincent It . Impellitteri , then Mayor . In reply to Mr. Chassen 's questions , Mr. , Quinn insisted that the bills were , an effort to save the city money . They were also designed , he said , to strengthen the city 's Building Code . A few days after the bills were signed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Corporation , headed by Henry Fried , at $250 a week . The concern had a $400,000-ayear contract with the Consolidated Edison Company to remove fly ash from the utility 's plants . Fly ash was defined at the hearing as the residue of burning pulverized coal in suspension . Mr. Quinn was an eager and voluble witness , and at times was actually enthusiastic over the possibilities of fly ash in building construction . " Fly ash is a wonderful material , gentlemen , " he said at // one point . " It should , be used everywhere . " The first inkling that Mr. Barnes had come under inquiry for possible conflict-of-interest activities came abruptly at 2:45 P ; M. when , the Queens Republican told reporters covering the Quinn hearing that he had been sturunoned to Mr. Tenney 's office for questioning at 3 o'clock . Mr. Baines said he did not know what activities of his had come under official scrutiny . But he added that for " two or three months " aides of Mr. Tenney had been checking records of the Buildings Department in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Barnes ' affairs . The Tenney summons came last Thursday , Mr. Barnes said . Asked if he was fearful about the Investigation Commissioner 's findings , Mr. Barnes replied : " Would I be insisting on open hearings if I were ? " iv When Mr. Barnes appeared at Mr. Tenney 's twelfth-floor office he was met by a secretary , who invited him into Deputy Commissioner Murphy 's office . Mr. Barnes declined to enter , saying : " I do n't want any doors closed . " Mr. Murphy then appeared , and a pitched battle of words between the two ensued . When the Councilman demanded " no doors closed ? no secrecy , " Mr. Murphy wanted to know if the Queens Republican wanted special treatment ? different from that accorded to any other Councilman . Mr. Murphy further asserted i that the Commissioner 's office determined the procedures . Barnes Tells Council Back at City Hall in less than an hour , Mr. Barnes returned to his seat at the Quinn hearing , and a few minutes later demanded an opportunity to tell his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , presiding , suspended the formal hearing and heard Mr. Barnes on a " point of order . " " I went down to 50 Pine Street to cooperate with Mr. Tenney , " Mr. Barnes said , winding up his account . " But I want any questioning by Mr. Tenney to be open to the press , to the public and to anyone who wants to listen . Any questions the Commissioner asks me must be open and public . " Testifying in his own behalf at yesterday 's hearing , Councilman Quinn described opposition to his 1952 fly ash bills by the Board of Standards and Appeals as " stupid . " He contended that the bill was opposed by a " $100 , - 1000,000 combination of cement manufacturers , " who , he dedared , were fearful of losing the sale of " one lousy bag of cement . " Before the hexing closed for the day Mr. Quinn gave details of his employment by corporations headed by Mr. Fried substantially as previously outlined on the witness stand by Mr. Fried himself , He told how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Triboro company 's Gun Hill Road site in the Bronx . Mr. Quinn has been a member of the City Council since it came into being Jan. 1 , 1938 . He is 55 years old , is married and has four children and three grandchildren . He said much of his work had been in engineering , although he is not a licensed engineer . In reply to a question by Mr. Chassen , Mr. Quinn said that although he became eligible to do so last Tuesday , he had not applied for retirement from his Council post . The hearings on Councilman Quinn are to be followed by similar hearings on the activities of Councilman Edward A. Cunningham of the Bronx . Councilmen James J. Murphy of Richmond and Jack Kranis of Brooklyn have been cleared . Commissioner Tenney found that Councilman Murphy had been involved in , at most , a technical violation of the City Charter .                     