@@716388

txt A group of out-of-state promoters bent on opening a pari-mutuel race track in this dignified Granite State capital appear to be working with the odds against them . For several weeks , the unidentified New York racing interests have been engaged in persuading Concordians that what their city needs for its economic well-being is conversion of its old defunct race track into a modern $500,000 night harness racing plant , complete with betting windows and all . While there has been no official action as yet , public sentiment at a recent hearing came out 20-to-1 against the track . Despite this show of opposition . City Councillor William A. Stevens will present to the Council on Monday a petition for an advisory referendum on the issue . While such a referendum by the people has a merely advisory function , it could conceivably sway Council action in case of an unexpected vote in favor of the track . At present , however , observers forecast a 10-to-5 alignment within the City Council against the track . Old Law Recalled The petition for the referendum originates with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , former Attorney General of New Hampshire . It is based on a state law which has not been heard of since the turn of the century . Members of the track group have not stated whether they will push their project in case of an unfavorable referendum . They say , however , they are ready to take the issue before the public by means of loudspeaker-car campaign if necessary . A door-to-door opinion poll conducted by the promoters reports that " an overwhelming majority of the people want the raceway in Concord . " Through newspaper advertisements , the track group has promised 100 seasonal and 10 permanent jobs at the race track , with a payroll of up to $40,000 a year and an influx of 20,000 visitors a week . Estimated revenue from the track would run up to $25,000 or 1 per cent of the city budget , it is asserted . The track group last month invited the Concord City Council to visit Vernon Downs . N.Y . ? expenses paid ? to witness what it described as the exceptionally beneficial effects a newly opened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city councilors accepted the invitation . Next , the track promoters brought in Leverett Smith , executive vice-president of the Vernon bank , who told Concordians that Vernon merchants have noted a tremendous increase in sales during the racing season . Every line of retail sales and service has benefited , he asserted . Concord 's opposition against these promotional activities has rallied around a citizens ' committee , which was formed virtually overnight . Through newspaper advertising of its own , the committee warned that the economic benefits of a track would be small and would be outweighed by its disadvantages . Track Seen Drain The committee told businessmen that the track profits would come out of the purses of their customers ; that the track personnel would burden unemployment funds for more than 300 days a year , and that a raceway would attract undesirable elements . The economic prospects of the proposed raceway are questioned even in professional racing circles . Concord is too far away from major population centers , it is pointed out racing officials . Even the projected Boston-Concord turnpike can not be expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can reach Rockingham Park , Salem , N.H. , in half the time . The Rockingham track , the only permanent pari-mutuel establishment in the state , is situated just above the Massachusetts state line . It draws patrons from Boston and smaller cities nearby . If the Concord race track should become a reality , it would be the 11th in New England , an area which as late as 1933 did not have a single track with pari-mutuel betting . In addition , there are now countless short-term pari-mutuel racing establishments conducted by county fairs and charity organizations .                     