@@714189

txt Dr. Henry Townley Heald , 46 years old , president of the Illinois Institute of Technology in Chicago , has been selected as chancellor of New York University . This ended a nation-wide search that began nearly a year ago when Dr. Harry Woodburn Chase , chancellor of the university for the last eighteen years , announced that he would retire on July 1 of this year . ' Many of the nation 's top college ' leaders were considered before the choice fell on the Midwestern educator . The selection of Dr. Heald was made known yesterday through the offices of Dr. Fred I. Kent , ' president of the Council of the University . As chancellor , Dr. Heald will head America 's largest university , with a faculty of 4,000 and a student body , as of last year , of 68,000 . Dr. Heald is expected to assume his new duties early next year , although the exact date has not yet been determined . He is widely known throughout the Midwest as an educator , business executive , administrator , engineer and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president of Armour Institute of Technology . He became president of Illinois Institute of Technology in 1940 , when Armour Institute ' was combined with Lewis Institute in Chicago to form the new institution . In addition , he is president of Armour Research Foundation of the Illinois Institute , one of the country 's largest independent , scientific research organizations . He // also heads the Institute of Gas Technology in ' Chicago . The new chancellor spent his entire academic life at the institu-I tion he is leaving . He joined the Armour Institute staff in 1927 as an assistant professor of civil engineering . He was successively assistant to the dean , dean of freshmen , dean of the institute and in 1937 became acting president . Since Illinois Tech 's formation in 1940 , Dr. Heald has guided its tremendous growth . The institute 's assets have quadrupled , its annual operating budget multiplied nine times , its area expanded from seven acres to eighty-five acres , and its research increased phenomenally . In the last six years his administration has built eleven new buildings valued at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under construction . A native of Lincoln , Neb. , Dr. Heald received an undergraduate degree in civil engineering from Washington State College in 1923 and a master 's degree in the same field from the University of Illinois in 1925 . " Illinois Institute of Technology is one of the nation 's great institutions of higher learning . It has made and will continue to make an impressive record in engineering and scientific education and research . Its contribution to Chicago and the nation has been outstanding , and it will continue to be a great credit to the community and the country . " It is with the deepest regret that I terminate an association to which I have devoted my energies for twenty-four years . I leave only because the chancellorship of New York University represents an important challenge and opportunity in a broader area of public service . " N. Y. U. Has 14 Units Founded in 1831 , New York University is a privately endowed institution with fourteen schools , colleges and divisions offering thirty . four separate fields of study in six centers of instruction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , law , engineering , liberal arts , commerce , education , dentistry , nursing , business administration , public service and general education . The university is developing a new $6,000,000 law center and a $30,000,000 medical center in conjunction with Bellevue Hospital . When he announced his plans to retire , Dr. Chase , who is 68 , told his faculty that " I feel that the time has come when I should seek a rest and a relief from responsibility while I can still hope to look forward to some years of freedom . "                     