@@717088

txt President Eisenhower renewed today a campaign pledge that his Administration " will never wreck " the Tennessee Valley Authority . That was his answer to a news conference request for comment on a Hoover Commission task force reconimendation. that T. V. A. be stripped of its multimillion-dollar steam and hydroelectric power plants . The task force recommended that the Atomic Energy Commission , biggest customer of T. V. A. , take over those power plants supplying its facilities and that the other power producing units be offered for sale or lease to private companies . The T. V. received today the Administration 's stand on the authority 's April 4 proposal for self-financing of power needs . The Administration stated its position in a letter from the Budget Bureau . However , the bureau refused to disclose details . The General Accounting Office had attacked the T. V. A. plan for the issuance of revenue bonds to provide new capital . The G. A. 0 . assailed the bond plan in a report to the Budget Bureau , which circulated the plan for comment by various ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General who was named by President Eisenhower , had found the T. V. A. bond idea financially ? objectionable because the bonds would not be included in the United States ' public debt . He . said that while the bonds would state they were not guaranteed by the Treasury , they would be moral obligations on the Government to avoid risk that involved the Government 's credit . This sy.me reasoning was applied by Mr. Campbell in opposing the Administration 's plan to finance its $101,000,000,000 highway program . The President declined to discuss specifically the recommendations of the Commission on Organization of the Executive Branch of the Government , saying they would not come before him until the commission itself had acted . He said that the T. V , A. was // " a going historical concern " that I had served a useful purpose . " It was put up for particular purposes and , actually , if you go back to the original bill , I do n't think many people can quarrel labout the purposes for which it was originally set up , " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Albert Gore , Democrat of Tennessee , who led the fight against the Administration 's controversial Dixon-Yates contract . Under this agreement a private company , rather than T. V. A. , was chosen to build a steam plant at West Memphis , Ark. , to meet Atomic Energy Commission power needs . " He 's said that before , but he seems to be following the power trust blueprint to the letter , " Senator Gore said . The President spoke out in the midst of growing political controversy on Capitol Hill over the reported task force attack upon T. V. A , Democrats , especially those from the T. V. A. area , angrily demanded that the report be made public in advance of a full commission decision so that public opinion would have an opportunity to make itself felt . Representative Chet Holifield , California Democrat and Hoover Commission member , said he was attempting to obtain general release of the report , first published in The Nashville Tennessean . He said he would dissent from the recommendations if they were adopted by a majority of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former President Hoover , the commission chairman , declaring that the " public has vital interest in the recommendations since the public owns the properties involved . " He said the task force membership had been " stacked against public power . " Hoover Action Reported There was no official comment from the commission , but it was reported that Mr. Hoover and Solomon C. Hollister of Ithaca , N. Y. , Dean of the School of Civil Engineering at Cornell University , had undertaken to prepare a draft of a commission report on T. V. A. Other commission members said they had not yet received copies of the task force report . They said the commission had not met on the subject and was not expected to tackle it for another week . The president had general praise for the work of the Hoover Commission , which , ha said , included " the combined brains of some very great Amerlicans . " He noted that the work of this commission was of a broader scope than that of the first Hoover Commission , which concerned itself entirely with organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Governmental functions as well . The new charter , he said , gave 1te the Commission authority to make recommendations as to whether the Government was in ' business it should n't be in , or whether there was some business the Government was n't in that it ought to enter . The Commission , he said , " has served a very great purpose for this country . "                     