@@716853

txt high court left standing a ruling of the Massachusetts Supreme Court that the state law was constitutional . Reuben and Sylvia Goldman of Marblehead , Mass. , thus lost a fight to adopt Wanda Rita and Bruce Wilford Dome . The twins were born illegitimately on Sept. 30 , 1951 , to Pearl L. Dome , a Roman Catholic . The mother had consented to the adoption and had agreed to the twins ' being reared in the Jewish faith . The Massachusetts courts held that the mother 's consent was irrelevant . Since the mother and the " natural father of the children both were Catholics , the children , for the purpose of the law , must be deemed to belong to the Catholic faith , " the courts ruled . The State Supreme Court said that it was not prepared to hold that the law violated any provisions of the Federal Constitu- ' tion . The Federal Supreme Court 's action was taken through a brief order . No written opinions were handed down by the court as it recessed until Feb. 28 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ruling that Twentieth Century-Fox Film Corporation had a right to dismiss Ring Lardner Jr. , a screen writer . He had refused to tell the Committee on Un-American Activities of the House of Representatives whether he ever had been a member of the Communist party . The . Ninth Federal Circuit Court of Appeals in California reversed a jury verdict that had given Mr. Lardner a judgment for more than $25,000 . In.the adoption case , the Goldmans took the twins from a hospital two weeks after they were born . The mother never has seen them . The Goldmans petitioned the Essex County Probate Court for permission to adopt the children . Judge John V. Phelan of the Probate Court found that the Goldmans were fond of the twins and were financially able to care for them . Mr. Goldman operated a clothing store in Boston . Massachusetts law , how-I ever , could ' not sanction the ' adoption , the judge ruled . He said there were many Roman - Catholic families in the vicinity where the Goldmans lived that would be able and willing to provide an equally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mrs. Goldman , through Leo Pfeffer , a New York lawyer , appealed to the Massachusetts high court . Stanley E. Qua , chief judge , wrote that court 's opinion . Noting that the mother and father of the twins were Roman Catholics , Judge Qua said : " The mother did not cease to Associated Press DISMISSAL ' IS UPHELD : Ring Lardner Jr. , a screen writer . Supreme Court left standing a lower court ruling that a film corporation had a right to dismiss him after he had been convicted of contempt of Congress . be a Catholic , even though she failed to live up to the ideals of her religion . " The Goldmans argued that the Massachusetts law violated the First Amendment to the Federal , Constitution , which protects the free exercise of religion . They were joined in their appeal by he American Jewish Congress . Mr. Lardner was- one of a ; coup of Hollywood writers sub  --  oenaed by the Committee on In-American Activities in Octoper , 1947 . He became known as me of the " Hollywood ten " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever had seen members of the Communist party . Mr. Lardner was convicted of contempt of Congress . He was Fined $1,000 and was sentenced to a year in prison , which he served . The writer had a contract with Twentieth Century-Fox . After his conviction , he was discharged on the ground that his conduct had caused him to be " held in public ridicule , scorn or contempt , " contrary to the contract 's provisions . Mr. Lardner sued in Federal District Court . A jury found that he had not by his conduct broken his contract . It awarded him $25,789 in damages . The Ninth Circuit Court reversed this ruling . Irving M. Walker and Herman F. Selvin were the attorneys for Twentieth Century-Fox . Robert W. Kenny represented Mr. Lardner.                     