@@716012

txt Berlin 's self-respect , leveled flat with its massive buildings along the Unter den Linden in World War II , has mounted noticeably with the convening of the four-power conference Cut in two by East-West disagreements , tied to the West only by thin lifelines. and deprived of its former capital status , this city nevertheless is prepared to meet its unprecedented influx of official visitors with " normal " continental enjoyment and hospitality . Said a West German newspaper the other day : " Berlin now has its first real big chance  --  and it will be a mirror for all of West Germany to the outside world . " With each 10th person unemployed in West Berlin and with potato-lugging refugees still mingling with sophisticates in fur-collared overcoats along the wade Xurfurstendamm  --  to say nothing of the poverty of the Soviet sector  --  Berlin 's job of turning itself overnight from a mere " unshaken outpost of the western world " into a gay , hospitable city has not been easy . Rooms Scarce A preconference canvass made Safety Center that controls all flights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lead across the Soviet zone . In East Berlin the conferees will meet in the Unter , .. en Linden residence of the U.S.S.R. high commissioner in Germany , and the press will work in a building formerly occupied by the propaganda ministry of Joseph Goebbels . Press Eager to Serve Much of the night life subsidiary to the conference will be concentrated in the Soviet sector since the quadripartite division left Berlin 's leading opera in that sector . Also for the conference , the Soviets have promised to bring their top ballets and other leading cultural divertissements from Moscow . West Berlin still offers the sparkling political cabarets for which the capital was famous even in the darkest days of Hitlerism , but only those visitors who thoroughly understand German will be able to enjoy these to the fullest . By coincidence , the four-pow er conference is opening during Berlin 's Grime Woche , or Green Week , a happy time for the Berliners when their thought is turned from winter 's drabness to the coming of spring by an extensive exhibition of green things glowing . Press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side  --  are extremely anxious to avoid some of ? the mistakes of the recent Bermuda conference , where newspapermen were hampered by a lack of understanding on the part of official delegations as to what could or should be said about the closed-door meetings . In an attempt to be a gracious host , Berlin tried to get a resumption of citywide telephone service , uncontrolled distribution of newspapers . and other loosening of restrictions during the conference , but this could not be accomplished . by Allied authorities showed 7,500 rooms available in hotels and pensions of this much-bombed city , but these must take care of a heavy business traffic . Not much room is available to outsiders . The old clays when diplomats always stayed at the famous Ad Ion Hotel are gone . Today , a hotel by that name is Only a makeshift building in the Soviet sector of Berlin , and no westerner stays there . Most pre-1 tentious " international hotel " is the modernistic Kempinski , built ' with Marshall Plan funds after the war . However , it can not begin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of at least 1,000 newspapermen expected from throughout the world . Among those who have been deprived temporarily of travel privileges to Berlin are the large number of GIs who normally spend their leave there and take the exciting daily bus tour through East Berlin culminating in a ride down the pretentious Stalin Alice , the one show street that has risen thus far from the terrific ruins in Soviet Berlin . Maj. Gen , Thomas S. Timber-man , United States commander for Berlin , has announced that no person not on official business will be cleared for Berlin for an indefinite period starting Jan. 21 . The restriction was made necessary by the housing shortage . GIs ' Click ' on Fun Before the Jan. 21 deadline , the GIs had their innings . They built four snowmen in front of the four flags on the Allied Control Council Building , put official-looking hats on them , and snapped hundreds of photographs on their PX-acquired cameras to send to the folks back home . Pleasant as Lugano would have been for the four-power conference , the sites finally chosen in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Building where the conference meets the first week is the old Supreme Court of Prussia . It was damaged only slightly during the war but was chosen as four-power headquarters for its strategic location not far from the ' Soviet sector border . President Eisenhower sat there as first military governor . Certain quadripartite functions have continued in the building since the Soviets walked out of the Control Council in March , 1948 . Chief among these have been the meetings of the Air                     