@@716207

txt John Foster Dulles ' London visit had all the externals of a May Day coming unexpectedly in the middle of December . Seldom has a United States Secretary of State been so denounced ' ? before his arrival as Mr. Dulles had been . Seldom has a visit been attended by such expressions of mutual joy , sympathy , understanding , and apparent agreement as was the actual sojourn . The . contrast between London 's anticipation and London 's actual experience with Mr. Dulles is not , I think , difficult to understand or explain . Before the Dulles arrival London was under the impression that he desired to bolt the diplomatic door against any slightest possibility of an agreed settlement Of the Indochina war arising out of the Geneva conference . During the visit London learned that Mr. Dulles had not , in fact , bolted the door and was not unalterably opposed to a negotiated settlement , provided such a settlement would not mean the progressive abandonment of Indochina . What London wanted above all was reassurance that the door to negotiation would remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the assurance of a united western front against appeasement at Geneva . The compromise between the two positions worked itself out inevitably in the communiqu ? which committed London to a southeast Asia alliance after , but not before , the Geneva conference . Thus Mr. Dulles left London with the appearance of a restored western front for use at the conference , and Anthony Eden stayed in London in possession of an open door for negotiation at Geneva if , by any chance , the men of Moscow are willing to walk through that door . The above produces two questions : First , is there any real possibility that Moscow and Peking are prepared to accept a settlement at Geneva which would relieve the West of the fear of eventual loss of southeast Asia , with its important strategic resources , to the Communist bloc ? Second , is there any visible mechanical method whereby a truce could be achieved even if both sides were willing to accept one ? There can be no sure answer to the first question until the diplomats have completed their negotiations at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in advance . They go into such conferences demanding everything . One never knows until the last moment whether their first position is their final position . It may be that there is no room for maneuver in their position at all . On the other hand , they may be prepared to make concessions which would permit a settlement . There is a theory that the latter is the case . There is no solid evidence behind the theory . It is only a theory . It derives from tenuous intelligence reports that the Chinese are having food troubles which make it desirable for them to obtain a breathing spell and from equally tenuous speculation that the Soviet Union is a trifle uneasy over the possibility that Chinese ambition might involve the Soviet Union in a situation which would be unpleasant and unproductive for the Soviet Union itself . The answer to the second question is no easier . However , there already exists on the official record a detailed French proposal for a settlement which might well be the basis for negotiation . The proposal was made by Premier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Its details are : 1 . The Communists would evacuate Laos and Cambodia entirely . 2 . The Communists would be disarmed or evacuated entirely from southern Vietnam . 3 . Communist forces in central Vietnam " would return to zones of encampment marked out in such manner as to guarantee the security of our French troops and of the people . " 4 . In northern Vietnam the Communist forces would retire from the periphery of the Red River Delta and sort of no man 's land " would be established between the French Union forces in the delta and the Communists beyond the delta . This is the basis on which the French Government is ready to settle officially . Its net effect would be to leave the Ho Chi Minh Communists in possession of a military base in northern Vietnam under the Chinese frontier . The ultimate fate of northern Vietnam would thus remain in doubt . However , southern Vietnam , Laos , and Cambodia would be cleared of Communist forces , thus giving the West an opportunity to build in those areas political and military " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ renewal of Communist pressure southward . Is such a settlement possible ? It 's a good guess that London would be delighted to take it . It would not represent total victory for the West , but if supported vigorously it could mean security for southeast Asia . What Mr. Dulles is probably most anxious to avoid is further French concessions beyond the Laniel plan .                     