@@715757

txt ' The Korean repatriation commission has proposed a five-day delay before the Communists and Allies try to coax home prisoners refusing repatriation  --  apparently because of disagreement over rules . The United Nations command promptly agreed to postpone the start of prisoner interviews  --  a phase of the truce which an Allied spokesman called " the psychological battle of our time . " But it insisted that the five days be deducted from the 90-day interview period fixed by the Korean armistice . There was no immediate Communist reply . Meanwhile , Gen. Mark W. Clark has demanded anew that the Communists either return immediately more than 3,400 Allied men missing in the Korean war or produce an " honest accounting " of what happened to them . Total Raised Simultaneously , the UN command raised the total of Americans on the list from 944 to 958 . The UN Far East Commander made it clear in a letter handed to the Communists at Panmunjom that his demands included United States airmen held without prisoner-of-war classification because the Communists insist their planes crashed in " neutral " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the Communists ' reply Sept. 21 to his original demand Sept. 9 for an accounting . That answer was to the effect that most of the men listed never had been captured and that others died , escaped , or were released at the front . General Clark pointed out that the list included many names of men who had been listed by Communist broadcasts as prisoners of war or who had written home from Communist camps that they were prisoners . During the 90-day interview period , 22,600 former prisoners of the UN and 359 prisoners captured by the Communists  --  including 23 Americans  --  are to be I questioned by their original side . The five-nation neutral commission , composed of India , Sweden , Switzerland , Czechoslovakia . and Poland , said the delay was necessary because " arrangements and facilities " for the interviews had not been completed . There are these main points of conflict between the allied and Communist views : 1 . The Communists insist on interviews with individual prisoners ; the Allies demand groups of 25. 2 . The UN command wants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the explanations ; the Communists demand that all prisoners listen . The Allies object to individual interviews , arguing that a prisoner appearing before Communist explainers might be intimidated by threats . The UN holds that chances for coercion would be at a minimum in a crowd . Moreover , the UN view is based on the belief that the groups of 25 who have been together while in captivity are under the orders of their leaders and would resist repatriation to communism . The UN command says a prisoner should be allowed to refuse to go to the explanations on the ground that he already has made his choice and that any reversal must be clone by " an overt " act on his part  --  that is , by applying to the repatriation commission for repatriation . The Communists also demand that the explainers be allowed to talk to the prisoners repeatedly . Guarantee Sought The Allied command is prepared to let the prisoner make his decision after one explanation . Those still undecided could be interviewed as often as they wished but only voluntarily . The UN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no force , threat , or affront . to personal dignity be permitted against prisoners . Terms of the agreement on prisoners attached to the armistice document clearly state that no intimidation should be permitted , and on Sept. 24 the repatriation commission gave prisoners such assurances . The temper of the nearly 8,000 North Korean and 14,600 Chinese anti-Communist prisoners is such that some are expected to resent efforts by the Communists to win them back and may even resist appearing for the explanations . On their arrival at the compounds in the demilitarized zone , anti-Communist prisoners hurled rocks and shouted abuse at Communist observers outside . Within minutes after they arrived , these prisoners put up signs and banners proclaiming " Down With the Communists " and other such slogans . They raised hundreds of Nationalist China and South Korea flags over the compounds .                     