@@718023

txt The leaders of France 's powerful Communist party revealed tonight their discontent with the course and methods of the current de-Stalinization campaign by the present leaders of the Soviet Union . A. statement issued by the French party 's Politburo declared it was " not just " to heap blame on Stalin alone for " all that was negative in the activity of the Communist party in the Soviet Union . " By clear implication , it blamed Stalin 's associates , now his successors , for permitting one-man , arbitrary rule to develop . The statement 's criticisms , both overt and implied , of the present Soviet leaders , paralleled in many particulars those leveled over the week-end by Palmiro Togliatti , secretary of the Italian communist party . There were similarities , too , with the dissents uttered by United States and British Communists . The party statement found unsatisfactory the explanations given thus far by Soviet leaders on Stalin 's rule , and called for a " profound Marxist analysis " of the circumstances that permitted Stalin to achieve personal power . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the dark on ideological developments and had had to read about the antti-Sttalin critique by Nikita S. Khrushchev , Soviet party secretary , in the " bourgeois " press . The statement plaintively demanded that the French party be supplied with copies of Mr. Khruschchev 's report to-the Soviet Communist party congress last February before its own party congress opens next month . The French party leaders and their press had remained silent until now on the full disclosures of Mr. Khrushchev 's charges against Stalin that were published in the non-Communist Western press . Maurice Thorez , the French party 's secretary , and his principal lieutenants have long been regarded as being among the most " Stalinian " of Western , ommunists . The theory has been seriously advanced here that , without the " Stalinian " discipline imposed by M , Thorez , the French Communist party could not remain an effective , monolithic force . Many observers saw a significant straw in the wind when it was authoritatively reported that there were no fewer than fifty-four expressions of opinion at a recent joint meeting Of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's attitude toward France 's Socialist-directed Cabinet . Never , before had such free , wide-ranging discussion been tolerated in the formulation of a party position . Solidarity Formally Stated Today 's statement began and ended with formal expressions of solidarity with the positions defined by the Soviet leaders . But the strength of the criticisms in between confirmed the reports that the French Communists were finding the de-Stalinization campaign indigestible . " The bourgeois press publishes a report attributed to Comrade Khrushchev , " the statement declared . " This report , which adds to the errors of Stalin already known the announcement of very grave faults committed by him , arouses legitimate emotion among the members of the French Communist party . " The Politburo expressed regret , however , that ' the bourgeois press " had been in a position to publish facts that the French Communists had ignored . " Such a state of affairs , it continued , was not favorable to the normal party discussions of these problems but favored instead " the speculations and the maneuvers of the enemies of conimunism . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reports caused surprise here . The Politburo said that it had asked the Central Committee of the Soviet party for the text " of this report of which the members of certain Communist and workers ' parties have had knowledge . " It had been assumed in Paris that the leaders of all major Communist parties had been supplied with ' full texts of the Khrushchev reports . " The explanations given up to now on . the faults of Stalin , their origin , the conditions in which they were produced , are ' not satisfactory , " the party declaration stated . " A careful Marxist analysis is indispensable to determine the combination of circumstances in which Stalin ' came to exercise personal power . " Like Signor Togliatti , the French party leaders blamed those who treated Stalin as a demi-god during his lifetime , including , necessarily , all of those who now wield power in the Soviet Union . They said it had been wrong " to attribute to him all merit for all the successes carried out in the Soviet Union . " " This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personality and to influence , in a bad direction , the international workers ' movement , " the statement said . " Today it is not just to attribute to Stalin alone all that was negative in the activity of the Communist party of the Soviet Union . " Whatever - internal difficulties may be indicated by the statement , expressions of independence with regard to the Soviet Union may bring the French Communists domestic political benefits . The isolation in which the party has existed for the last nine years has been largely due to the conviction held by most non-Communist Frenchmen that the Communists were a " foreign " party . Khrushchev Voices Assurance Special to The New rork Times . MOSCOW , June ** S. Khrushchev was asked tonight at a reception given by President Tito of Yugoslavia what he thought of Signor Togliatti 's statement last week-end . Mr. Khrushchev said he had not read the statement but that he knew Signor Togliatti and whatever the Italian Communist party leader said was all right . Anastas I. Mikoyan , a First Deputy Premier , then declared that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " Togliatti is Togliatti. "                     