@@715475

txt Britain decisively rejects the Pravda contention that the west ern Big Three powers will be using the Bermuda talks to gang up on the Soviet Union with prearranged demands in anticipation of an East-West meeting . The British would not accept as a condition of any East-West top level meeting that there should be no preliminary meeting of United States , Britain , and France . The Bermuda meeting , it is stressed here , will be a right and proper consultation between friendly allied powers . The Soviet Union , it is pointed out , probably will do precisely the same thing , but very likely in secret . It is felt in London that on this point Moscow will not be successful if it hopes to increase Anglo-American differences . Caution Stressed On the other hand , the Pravda article is seen as showing how doubly careful Britain and the United States will need to be against having their differences magnified in the new peace moves . A full version of the Pravda article was sent post haste at the week end to Prime Minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in Kent .. parlia7 ment is in recess , But a Cabixidt meeting is ' due May 27 tappu the Bermuda arrangements an prospects . In several ways , the Pravda article shows , a warmth toward Sir Winston which is expected to encourage him in the initiative he started in his foreign-policy speech May 11 . It Commends him on the constructiveness and timeliness of his move for a top-level East-West meeting . kgreements Accented In particular , the Prime Minister is likely to be gratified by Pravda 's echoing of his own declared sentiments that there should be more emphasis on points of agreement between East and West and less on points of disagreement . On the other hand , Sir Winston is not thought likely to be able o see any more evidence than do official quarters here of the Russians being yet ready to offer anything of substance to furtherance of peace and in particular to settling the German question , which the Russians emphasize once again as the key to world peace . The latest Pravda article is not seen here as making the task @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it twdoubtedly will confirm Sir Winston in his conviction that there is more to be lost in not trying than in try-inc . Hazards Cited And in this , he undoubtedly is being backed by a great mass of opinion not only in Britain but throughout the world . Sir Winston is aware that he is undertaking not only an immense but also a hazardous task . Among the hazards are the dangers of upsetting international , relations , straining political loyalties at home , and , perhaps most serious of all , raising hopes which if dashed might leave the situation worse than before . Sir Winston 's position in his own party is a case in point . In Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden 's absence , Sir Winston has taken over foreign affairs in a characteristically individualistic way . He is operating . largely on his own . There are Conservatives who are concerned because one might- say they are nearer to the Eisenhower line in how to deal with the Russians . Labgrites APPlaud of the loudest applause fog . Sir Winston's- peace . , *dative is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Labor comment is the view of Richard Crossman , a member of Pernam'ent , writing in the Sunday Pictorial . He says that it has been shown beyond question these past two weeks that Britain can exert a decisive effect on world affairs . Mr. Crossnian sees America 's Walter Lippmann on his side in this view . Britain 's mass circulation Daily Mirror asks what ordinary Britons think about the new peace bid . It answers that they see the Bermuda talks as " a chance to get away from Joe McCarthy on one side and anti-Americanism on the other . " The Liberal Manchester Guardian newspaper is not particularly hopeful as a result of the new Pravda statement . It says , " Much of it is at first sight a siren song designed to lure intending voyagers of the West away from the course that leads to agreement at Bermuda . "                     