@@715957

txt There are indications that Japan will increase her effort this year to patch up bad relations With her Asian neighbors upon whom she must eventually rely for food : ' and raw materials , and as markets for manufactured goods . " Active " negotiations are now contemplated with Burma , Indonesia . and the Philippines , , the Foreign Ministry has m de known . Eiji Wajima , Minister to Jakarta , is expected to start talks shortly with Indonesian officials looking to the conclusion of extended interim reparations agree , - ments . A bargain has already been made for ship salvage by the Japanese off Indonesia . Japan also has asked permission to send a minister ' to Burma to open similar negotiations . At the same time , there is increasing official , and press discussion here of the possibility of resuming diplomatic talks with the Philippines and South . Korea , neither of which has subscribed to the terms of the San Francisco peace treaty , and certainly enlisting as much as . possible mediatory assistance from the United States . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that time is running out for Japan to come to some long-term arrangement with the nations Japanese imperial troops once overran . There is the expectation of settlements even at a certain short-term cost in the form of reparations , which the post-war governments here have been consistently unwilling to discuss on anything approaching the scale demanded . Impetus recently has been given to a reconsideration of the stand by several new factors . One is the now generally accepted belief that resumption of the Korean war is now increasingly unlikely . The " windfall " of the Korean war and the consequent heavy dollar buying here by the United States ' armed forces , it is- now realized , will not be repeated . The second is an apparent reluctance by the Western nations to accept large ? quantities of Japanese exports . Official forecasts here are that Japan again faces an unfavorable trade balance during 1954 . A final underlying factor is that , despite the surface prosperity of Japan , largely based on inflationary practices , an ominous population increase is showing no let-up . Just before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these overcrowded islands had reached a population of 87,100,000 , an increase of 1,180,000 in twelve months . This increased population will have to be fed either from the same area of arable land now available or through imports for which Japan is finding it increasingly difficult to pay . Look to Southeast Asia Under these circumstances , the lush fields to the south are beginning to look more attractive . After a long delay , increasing attention is being paid to suggestions by United States advisers that . Japan must look to Southeast Asia for markets , rather than rely indefinitely on Western aid . One indication that Japan , faced with a new set of conditions , might reconsider the stand against reparations in cash , which is the principal issue between this Government and the former occupied nations , has come from the Philippines . This is a report , substantiated in Manila , but not here  --  perhaps for political reasons  --  that the Japanese negotiators suggested V50 , - 000,000 as compensation . The reported offer was quickly rejected in the Philippines as " disappointing " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibly significant , some observers here believed , that Japan was willing to go even so far beyond her offer of " goods and services . " This was the form of reparations payment set forth in the Sian Francisco agreement . However , some of the Asian nations involved regarded such services as so far offered by Japan as , a means of economic infiltration , rather than bone fide reparations payments . One difficulty in the negotiations with the Philippines , as it is seen ? here , is the supposed " anti-Japanese " attitude of President RamOn Magsaysay , who fought as a guerrilla during World War II . As far as Burma and Indonesia are concerned , what is contemplated , it is made known here , is the conclusion of bilateral agreements similar to that between Japan and India . Thus far there has been no indication that any pattern of over-all agreement has been worked out . A new round of negotiations with the Philippines is slated to begin here early this month , or as soon as the Magsaysay Government has been securely installed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A Foreign Ministry spokesman recently told the Japanese press that it was " hoped " that some agreement , though not a fullfledged peace treaty , with the Philippines might be reached by June . No indications are seen by observers here that even such a partial arrangement can be reached with South Korea , particularly since the Seoul Government has undertaken to arrest and try Japanese Citizens there , even when they were employed by agencies affiliated with the United Nations Command .. Probably the next most difficult nut for the Japanese to crack will be Burma . The Japanese so far have offered no reparations payments to Rangoon . The only proposed deal , as far as is known here , would be the dispatch of some Japanese'medical services to Burma , in exchange for which a bamboo and wood pulp concession would be expected . Thus far the Burmese have not indicated that they were even willing to talk on such a basis .                     