@@716243

txt Amerada Petroleum Corp . ' s earnings for the first three months of this year were $1.47 a share , A. Jacobsen , president , told the annual meeting of stockholders . For the like period last year , the company reported $1.38 a share on 3.154,700 shares of common stock . Mr. Jacobsen estimated that earnings for the full year 1954 " will come pretty close to what they we , e in 1953 , perhaps a bit better . " Last year 's profits were equal to $5.85 a share on 3,154,700 shares . To the perennial question ! " what is your feeling about a stock split this year ? " the Amerada president replied : " There is no stock split under consideration at the present time " He indicated , however , that a stock split was likely eventually . " If things develop as we have reason to hope they will dikvn the road . " Mr. Jacobsen said . " the logical thing would be a further stock split . " Amerada split its stock two-for-one on June 1 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to defer another stock split until the action could be accompanied by an increase in the dividend , so that the total dividend which stockholders would receive on the new stock would amount to more than they got on the old stock . Asked about the prospects for any reduction in the price of crude oil , Mr. Jacobsen said , " the best guess I can make now is that there will be no change in crude prices . " Amerada 's current crude production is about 1,000 to 2,000 barrels a day less than a year ago , Mr. Jacobsen stated , because of cutbacks in allowable output by Texas and other states . The British government continues to be a big Amerada stockholder . On April 15. it owned 340,957 shares of an original 532.000 shares taken over from British stockholders during World War II . Commenting on the company 's exploration and development activities , E. H. McCollough , executive vice-president , noted as a " development of interest " an Amerada discovery oil well about three miles east of the southern end of the Tioga Field @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and time alone will tell whether the discovery is important or not , he added . In the Sturgeon Lake area in Alberta , Amerada has confirmed two producing areas , a north area and a south area , Mr. McCollough said . In the north , the company has completed six widely distributed oil wells and is drilling two , he explained . In the south it has completed " three even more widely distributed oil wells " and is drilling another . Asked about the company 's holdings in Florida . Mr. McCollough said Amerada has about 800,000 acres under lease in that state and has just started the geophysical part of an exploratory program there .                     