@@719811

txt A full-scale Democratic preprimary convention battle for the gubernatorial endorsement was apparently assured today wnen Daniel ituctsten , former Boston state senator , announced he will enter tomorrow 's conclave as a candidate against Governor Furcolo . At the same time ' he warned he will withdraw his name and oppose the governor in the September primaries , if the Furcolo convention forces block a Rudsten appearance before the convention to outline his case for the endorsement . Meanwhile , Governor Furcolo formally announced his candidacy for relection . He coupled his announcement with a pledge to make a strong effort for the reelection of Senator John F. Kennedy ( D ) of Massachusetts , who is being boomed as a 1950 presidential prospect . Secret Ballot Sought The Rudsten stipulation regarding a convention appearance is aimed at a proposed convention rule to prevent candidates who are not delegates from addressing the session . Furthermore , a rule has been proposed to bar candidates from attacking other candidates , which might cramp the Rudsten presentation . The Rudsten development is a prelude to the convention which opens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a.m. , after a preconvention dinner tonight at the same location . Mr. Rudsten can be counted on to support the demand by Endicott Peabody of Cambridge , forcer executive councilor and one of three candidates for Attorney General , that the vote for endorsements be by secret ballot . Both Mr. Peabody and Mr , Rudsten believe their convention prospects would be far brighter if each delegate could vote in secret . Mr. Rudsten entertains no illusions about his chances against the Governor . But he contends that if he should go into the September primary , other candidates will also enter against Governor Furcolo and as a result of a multicandidate primary fight the Democratic Party would be weakened for the November election . Battles Shape Up While there may be momentary interest in the Rudsten attempt to unseat Governor Furcolo , the main convention interest will be on a possible platform battle over the sales tax and the three-man contest for Attorney General . The contestants for Attorney General are Boston City Councilor Edward J. McCormack , 1956 nominee : Joseph D. Ward of Fitchburg , former state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The contest has been bitter with charges and countercharges being hurled with abandon . All three candidates are corn- ? milted to a primary battle regardless of the convention outcome . Of secondary interest is a fireman struggle for the State Treasurer endorsement . State Treasurer John F. Kennedy is bypassing the convention in favor of a direct primary appeal for a third term . In the past two conventions he failed to get the endorsement but went on to win in the Democratic primary and in the election . Seeking convention endorsement to oppose him in the primary arc George F. Hurley , chairman of the Boston School Committee ; Mayor William G. Shaughnessy of Woburn ; Myron D. Donoghue , Saugus selectman ; Michael J. Ward , Framingham selectman , and Paul A. White of South Boston . Position Explained Opposing Secretary of State Edward J. Cronin for convention endorsement for a sixth term is Representative William F. Keenan ( D ) of Boston . Slated for endorsement by acclamation are Senator John F. Kennedy ( D ) of Massachusetts , Lt. Gov . Robert F. Murphy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ term . Despite his year-long campaign for Governor , Mr. Rudsten is expected to win little real delegate support at the convention . If any substantial block of votes were to be cast for Mr. Rudsten , it would be an open indication that the Governor faces real trouble in the November election . Mr. Rudsten made his candidacy position clear in a long statement , charging wide voter dissatisfaction with the Furcolo administration . " This dissatisfaction coincides with my own views of his administration . I have sincerely and diligently taken issue with him for his lack of accomplishments , his failure to confront and act on the most serious problems of state government , his lack of response to Democratic principles and standards , his unilateral decision to support a sales tax in violation of the party platform , his sabotage of the graduated income tax legislation , his passive consent in allowing his House leadership to attempt to pigeonhole bills in the rules committee , and his race from headline to headline without achieving one good objective . " Related stories : Page 2    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        