@@714427

txt A troubled world . seeking ways to salve its problems is turning increasingly to those inexhaustible spiritual resources of moral strength and moral courage as a practical way-to rebuild better government . business . labor . society , and every human . activity . How these fundamental Christian . principles can be applied to solve the problems that face the world today is told in a series of interviews with outstanding leaders . to be published Mondays , Wednesdays and Fridays in The Christian Science Monitfir . The following interview with Dr. Charles Malik , chief Lebanese delegate to the United Nations , is the ninth of a series of 24 articles . The western world needs a " deep religious revival " with greater awareness of God 's law and fuller obedience to it if genuine peace is to be attained in this atomic age . Dr. Charles Malik , Lebanese philosopher and diplomat , is convinced . " There is a paucity of fundamental ideas in the western world which is at the base of all its ills , " Dr. Malik told an interviewer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lebanon as chief delegate to the United Nations . " In a sense , ideas are far more powerful than instruments or arms , " he said . " Although it is difficult to contrast the two , and , of course , there is a desperate need for both at the  --  moment . Patience Essential " What are the ideas we need ? What guiding principles are essential to our struggle for peace ? " We must be deeply grounded in God and in a life of prayer . " We must have patience , absolute , undespairing patience . " We must have an absolute certainty in the truth . " We must be absolutely humble , placing our strength in something outside ourselves . " And we must be strongmateriall ? , since force is necessary ; strong economically ; but above all strong intellectually , for it is from the rightness of the mind that everything else flows . " Guided by these principles , we have done our human best . and the rest must be left to God . " Dr , Malik , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the UN , with degrees from universities in a number of countries , believes that the Christian church has a very great responsibility in building world peace . He himself is a member of the Greek Orthodox Church , The " rudiments " of God 's law are written in every man 's heart , he says , but frequently are " darkened and overwhelmed " by " desires , passions , ignorance , and self-will . " " These darkening clouds have to be dispelled for God 's law to take firm hold on us . Missionary Job " The dispelling agency is always those who are particularly chosen . of Gad to do the jpb . For us it is undoubtedly the Christian church . " It follows that to the extent the Christian church obeys God 's law and propagates it , you have the necessary preconditions for peace , " according to Dr. Malik . Those who do know God 's law themselves should " obey it more , " and should " do their utmost to spread its knowledge , " Dr. Malik says . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that Isaiah 's famous prophecy applies to the present day , according to the Lebanese diplomat . Isaiah declared that " in the last days " all nations would ascend to " the mountain of the Lord 's house " and would learn to obey his laws and " walk in his paths , " beating " their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruninghooks , " and not learning " war any more . " Throughout the struggle for peace , however , it is important to keep in mind the kind of peace                     