@@712963

txt Speculation to the contrary notwithstanding ( as the phrase goes ) , the UN 's genial Secretary-General Trygve Lie did not go to Moscow . and visit Stalin because he had any hot tip that the Russians might be ready to try doing a little diplomatic business for a change . Usually such " missions to Moscow " result because some Russian somewhere has whispered sonic cryptic phrase into some other car . It was such a whispered phrase which led to the ' discussions which ended the Berlin blockade . But not since then have the Russians made what might be called a diplomatic approach . True . they have put out endless reams of " peace " propar'imda . And they have actually changed their position on one international issue . This last was over Jerusalem . Originally they had favored internationalization of the old city . They changed that to favor any solution satisfactory to the two countries principally interested . Israel and Hashemite Jordan . A A But propaganda " peace " offensives have no value in the coinage of diplomacy . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which can have no serious bearing on the general question whether sonic alleviation of tensions might be attainable . So Mr. Lie did not take oil on his own private Mission to Moscow because he had re ccived any tip- that the Russians wanted to revive diplomatic business between East and West and were ready to use him as a channel . The only specific thing he even remotely hoped to accomplish was something which might end the present Russian walkout from the Security Council of the UN . It is his minimum job to keep the UN organization functioning . The Security Council is not functioning because the Chinese Nationalists still sit in the China seat and the Russians wo n't sit in the same room . Conceivably , he might find a formula to end this walkout . A A A But Mr. Lie is a realist . He also recognizes that even if he gets a formula which brings the Russian delegate back into the Security Council . then he has the Russians back in the council  --  and so what ? The council was deadlocked before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they came back . The administrative result of bringing them back would merely be to relocate the East-West stalemate inside the council . In other words , no one expected . or expects , any positive results from Mr. Lie 's trip . At the most it could produce a formula to end the walkout over China . which in itself makes almost no difference to the state of the world . But from the negative point . of view there can be one little bit of use in it . Real diplomatic intercourse between East and West ended in December of 1947 . Not since then has any serious effort been made on either side to resume negotiations toward a more stable world . The Berlin blockade was settled because the Russians themselves agreed that it " no longer accorded with existing fact . " But that settlement was not part of a general attempt at settlement ; it was only one realistic adjustment of fiction to fact . When the practice of diplomacy is in abeyance for more than two years there is some doubt Whether the non-practitioners could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limb withers . The time has passed when Moscow could approach Washington directly . or vice versa . No overture would be received as sincere on either side . Thus there is some use in retaining an outside piece of mechanism for the off chance . Suppose someday the Russians decide that their whole world position is as out of step with reality as their Berlin blockade was in the spring of 1949 . Suppose they then decide that they want to negotiate again to bring fiction and fact together . So long as both sides speak to Mr. Lie there is a channel through which such talks could be reopened . The channel may never he used . But it does no harm to have it . And it just might some day be useful .                     