@@719465

txt A multimillion-dollar urban redevelopment in Brookline is nearing the action stage . Final plans for the 20-acre " Farm " area have been approved by the Brookline Redevelopment Authority and filed with the federal government , according to Francis W. Cappers , chairman of the authority . The redevelopment authority has decided on apartment buildings and an auxiliary commercial development because of its - excellent location " overlooking a part of Jamaica Pond , according to Mr. Cappers . Mrs. Jacob Wallace , vice-chairman of the Redevelopment Authority , added that there is " a need for more housing in Brookline . " Dimensions ! inset tied Exact dimensions of the project remain to be worked out with potential private developers , according to Mi 's . Wallace . Present plans call for apartment buildings within reach of " moderate " income families , said Mrs. Wallace . She empha sized that they would not be in the " luxury " class . At present , the authority estimates that the town will derive between $235,000 and $350 , - 000 a year in taxes from the area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , - 000 to $6,000,000 in new construction . The town is currently taking in about $57,000 in taxes from the area , of the 364 dwellings , 325 in the project area are rated substandard . Boundaries of the project would be Washington Street ( Route 9 in Brookline Village ) High Street , Allerton Street and Pond Avenue ( which runs along the Jamaica Pond reservation . ) One of the several private groups which have expressed tentative interest in the project is that headed by S. Pierre Bonan , Theodore Shoolman , and Jerome L. Rappaport , the developers of Boston 's 48-acre West End urban redevelopment project . Decision Withheld Mr. Rappaport confirmed this today , but noted that the interest of his group depended upon Brookline 's objectives and plans for the area . Several other developers also have expressed an interest in the Farm . Among the factors which will influence the detailed plans for the project will be the master plan for the town now being drawn by the consulting firm of Adams , Howard and Greeley , and intentions of the State Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Village . Adams , Howard &; Greeley has completed the first year of a two to two-and-a-half year study of the city under a $22,500 contract . It is expected that the town will be asked to approve an extension at the March town meeting . Since 1946 the Department of Public Works has had plans for the improvement of Route 9 in Brookline Village . These provide for the cross-state highway to pass under the village through an open cut . . Setback Anticipated However , the Redevelopment Authority is providing for a setback in its plans for the Farm area in the event that a. widening of the present road is approved instead . Pond Avenue also would be widened by the town during the period of redevelopment . Although the area included in the project totals 20 acres , only 13 of these would be devoted to residential redevelopment , according to Mrs. Wallace . The federal share of the redevelopment would be S1,775. - 000  --  a pproxi ma t ely two-thirds of the cost of land acquisition , planning , and site improvements . The town @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which only $667,000 would he contributed in cash . The fen-Mink r would be in the form of improvements to the rca , tax credits , and donation of town properties . Relocation Scheduled The Redevelopment Autnorny has already set up a tentative relocation plan , according to Mrs. Wallace . There are sonic 235 families in the area . Of these 30 would be provided for In presently existing veterans housing , where they would get priority treatment ; about 75 would go into new public housing facilities approved by the Public Housing Administration for Kent Street . and 10 would be provided for in housing for the elderly now under construction on Marion Street . In addition , the town would help in relocating some 75 single IIICIIViduals living in the area , said Mrs. Wallace , The Farm is the larger of two substandard areas in the town . An adjacent area is the " Marsh . " for which plans have not yet been advanced .                     