@@713102

txt Not a voice was raised today in the House of Representatives in opposition to the bill to authorize $1,222,500,000 of new appropriations for a second year of military assistance to nations resisting communism . However , in day-long debate , there came from the Republican side a barrage against the Administration on Eastern policies and actions that the Republicans said precipitated the danger of a third world war . The vote on the bill is due tomorrow , and no one in Congress expressed doubt that continuation of the arms-aid program would win overwhelming and perhaps almost unanimous support in the House . Men who had fought it last year announced that they would vote for it now . There was , however , much bitterness in the debate . Many speeches were construed as being tuned to the election campaigns for which Congress has been trying to adjourn or at least recess . The message of President Truman on the Korean situation , due at the Capitol about noon tomorrow , was expected to indicate whether Congress would stay on the job or disperse early next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coudert Jr. , Republican of New York , predicted that the President would make a plea in his message for unity in the face of foreign aggression . " There can be no true unity without confidence , " Mr. Coudert told the House today . " The record of the White House over the past three years justifies no confidence . On the contrary , it eitcites only the most lively apprehensions . If the United States were operating under the parliamentary system , there can be no doubt that this Administration would now be voted out of office . " Fiasco , Says Coudert Mr. Coudert called the Korean situation " iasco , " through which " the very ffistence of the United States is threatened . " At issue , he held , was " a two-fold menace : first , the ruthless ambitions of the Kremlin and , secondly , the blundering incompetence of the Truman Administration . " Congress and the people , Mr. Coudert contended , should reappraise the situation and seek to establish a relationship between tr country 's foreign commitments and the strength @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is a further deterioration , " he said , " we shal have to make an immediate decision as to how far we may safely permit the commitment of American military resources in Korea , in the light of our far-flung obligations in Europe and elsewhere throughout the world . " Representative Coudert suggested that Congress establish a joint committee to sit continuously to police Administration action during the present crisis . Representative John M. Vorys , Republican of Ohio and a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee , accused the State Department of following " the Lattimore line " in its Eastern foreign policy . The reference was to Owen Lattimore , a Far Eastern expert who has figured in charges by Senator Joseph R. McCarthy , Republican of Wisconsin , that Communists and fellow travelers had infiltrated the State Department . A majority report of the Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee investigating the McCarthy accusations cleared Mr. Lattimore yesterday . Mr. Vorys told the House that the Soviet Union had done a better job of arming aggressors , as demonstrated in Korea , than the United States had done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where the United States had not adequately provided arms has fallen " directly on us , " he asserted . Representative Charles A. Eaton , Republican of New Jersey , ranking minority member of the Foreign Affairs Committee anal its former chairman , urged his colleagues to " break through the mist and-see the facts . " " We 've got to pull down our flag and surrender , or we 've got to stand up and fight . There is no twilight zone . The aggressor must be destroyed or we much give up . This bill before you must be considered as a symbol of the strug- ' gle in which the soul of man must ' be freed or lost . " Representative Walter H. Judd , Republican of Minnesota , a member of the Foreign Affairs group and a former medical missionary to China , brought the House to its feet with a denunciation of Far Eastern foreign policy . Many Democrats joined in the applause . " Our chickens have come home to roost , " Dr. Judd declared . " Call back our real experts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been thrown out of the State Department . We need them now . " Dr. Judd cited Joseph C. Grew , , former United States Ambassador to Japan , as an example of what he meant by " real experts . " With the arms-aid bill having received a 66-to-0 favorable vote in the Senate and having been accepted in its Senate form by the House Foreign Affairs group , it was indicated that the House would oppose changes in it now . Several proposed amendments were awaiting test , however . It was predicted , nevertheless , that the measure would get to the White House this week for the President 's signature .                     