@@719113

txt Mr. Al Hayes , president of the Machinists Union and head of the A.F.L.-C.I.O . Ethical Practices Committee , celebrated labor day with the charge that there are no more crooks in labor than in business and industry . Although we are n't at all sure of Mr. Hayes ' arithmetical comparison , let it stand for a moment . The attractions of larceny are certainly not confined to labor leaders . Let 's turn , rather , to the opportunities for larceny and the fate of the larcenous in the two places . And here any businessman with the thought of thievery in his heart must be full of jealousy toward his opposite number at the bargaining table . The businessman operates under what Mr. Hayes and Mr. Meany would consider " restrictive legislation . " If he has a notion that he would like to set up a monopoly of the w idget market and cheerfully gouge all the customers , he finds himself promptly afoul of the Federal anti-trust laws . If such a businessman were to put a greedy eye upon the corporate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few dollars if he " borrowed " them , he first has to circumvent stockholders who have rights in court ? and know they have them . In the case of htisinessmen trustees for other people 's money , " borrowing " by the trustees is definitely frowned upon by sheriffs . Or if a conniving businessman were to think it profitable to put out a phony stock issue , he would have to run the gantlet of Federal  --  and often state ? regulatory bodies . And if he is caught in any such shenanigans , he can ruminate upon the perils of larceny from his jail cell . His penalty is not just a denunciation from some Ethical Practices Committee that there is " no room " for him . With labor leaders things are somewhat different . In the first place , if they wish to set up a hionopoly over all the workers in the widget industry , there is no one to stop them . In fact , the laws actually protect them in their monopoly . This provides a temptation to larceny right off , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . With the protected monopoly , no man can work in the w idget industry unless he pays the levy . And when the labor union leader decides to " borrow " from the till , his conscience is about his only guide . The Senate investigators have lately uncovered instances where labor leaders found it profitable to set up phony unions . There have been many cases where labor leaders borrowed from the union till . There have been other cases where individual citizens got knocked in the head to make them knuckle to the union leaders and where business men were forced to yield to union force . All these things have been deplored by the " honest and responsible " elments in labor as much as by other citizens . President Meany of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. says he is going to kick the Teamsters out of the parent union if they do n't behave themselves . But the jails are n't full of former labor leaders whose crime was " corrupt labor practices " ; any that are in jail were put there on some other charge . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the privilege of skullduggery will be untouched . The Becks and the Hof fas are as uncontrollable out of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. as they are in it . They will keep right on being uncontrollable until society adopts precisely what Mr. Meany and Mr. Hayes call " restrictive labor laws . " There may not be more larcenous hearts in labor than anywhere else but in no other field are larcenous hands so free to practice their chosen profession .                     