@@714471

txt The Idaho , aristocrat of the potato trade , was denounced yesterday by produce dealers here and in New Jersey as a black market villain . The Office of Price Stabilization sent agents to the wholesale markets to investigate charges of over-ceiling prices , tie-in sales , and selling by the potato instead of by weight . Retailers , distributors and trade group officials said that the big Idaho variety , a showpiece in restaurants and a favorite with many housewives serving baked potato with steak or roast , was " almost 100 per cent in the black market . " Because the demand for large Idaho potatoes often exceeds the crop , it has been traditional with many prime receivers here to require purchasers to take also some of the smaller ones or a quantity from Long Island , Maine or New Jersey . This arrangement , which antedated price controls , became illegal when ceiling prices were established and forced tie-ins out lawed . The situation , according to the trade , gave rise to over-ceiling prices and under-the-counter payments . As the stocks of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allegedly became worse , reaching its deepest hue when the 0 . P. S. ordered a rollback of all white potato prices ' last month . A spot check among the trade , indicated that most secondary distributors and retailers were being made to pay more than one cent above ceiling a pound of Idaho or else tie in with purchases of other kinds of potatoes or of onions , turnips and other slowmoving produce . Several said that the fifty-pound bags of Idaho con-I tained more bad or small potatoes ) than ever before . With one exception , the produce dealers feared to have their names disclosed . To identify them with their complaints would mean the primary receivers would shut off their supply . An official of a buying organization for retail stores said : " The primary receivers of Idaho potatoes have a firm grip on the market , You go along on their terms or you do n't get any Idahoes . " Not Afraid to Say So Edward Hausman , executive secretary of the Allboro Retail Fruit Association , whose members deal also in vegetables @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know that every vegetable man who handles Idahoes can put the finger on them as black mar1 keteers . Somebody has to stand up and say so , and I 'm not afraid to do it . " Arthur Neafsey , acting food chief of the regional 0 . P. S. , said that " the first inkling that something might be amiss " in the potato trade here had come to him yesterday . He said he had sent in ' vestigators to the markets after learning that some dealers were selling the Idaho at 10 cents to 12 cents a potato , instead of by weight . i Mr. Neafsey said agents would ! return to the wholesale markets early today to check on all sales practices . He said that retailers and distributors could help 0 . P. S. end black market practices by making specific complaints instead , of general charges . One group of Idaho potato buyers who have apparently been ( spared the black market overcharges is those long-established ( restaurants that through the years received their produce from the same source . Paul Henkel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had checked with several members of the society and found no complaints of potato overcharges . " I ca n't understand all the demand for the Idaho potato , anyway , " said Mr. Henkel . " Some people come into a restaurant and are more interested in the baked Idaho potato than in the roast it goes with . It looks like an overstuffed pillow and it 's got a mealier taste than the Jersey potato , for instance . Now there 's a potato that deserves greater popularity ? the Jersey . It 's longer and thinner and has n't got the glamour buildup of the Idaho , but what an allaround potato for frying , boiling , mashing , and baked it 's fully as tasty as any Idaho . "                     