@@718916

txt All-out patronage pressures exerted by Governor Furcolo 's attaches on House members today snatched from defeat the Governor 's bill to add six new associate justices to the Superior Court . Only two days after the Democratic-controlled House defeated the so-called " court - packing " bill by a 112-to-109 vote , the House today voted reconsideration by a margin of 114 to 106 . The measure was then advanced to a third reading . A new test will come next Monday when the bill will be up for a vote on engrossment but the Furcolo victory today indicates he has regained control of the House on the issue . Decision UP to Senate Thus the final decision will be up to the Senate , with its 21-to19 Republican margin . Some Republican leaders are concerned that some of the GOP senators may succumb to administrative pressures and support the legislation , either by vote or by absenteeism when the roll call is taken . Long before the House vote on reconsideration several members of the Governor 's staff were observed buttonholing legislators to urge their favorable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its intensity showed the extent of the administration 's desire for passage of the bill . Representative Charles D. Doyle ( D ) of Boston , who was one of the Furcolo campaign leaders in the 1956 election , was a leader of the opposition to the Furcolo bill which he characterized an " outrageous court-packing " effect and a " job grab . " Mr. Doyle told the House , " I am aware of the pressures being exerted on members of the House . " He asserted that the people " do n't want to pack the court . That is what the man in the corner office is trying to do . " Politics Charged The House debate on the court bill was sharp and sometimes personal on both sides , with each party accusing the other of playing politics on the issue . Chief spokesman for the Governor was Representative John F. Thompson ( D ) of Ludlow , House majority leader , who made the successful motion for reconsideration . He argued that the bill , which would increase from 31 to 37 the number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good sound proposition . " Mr. Thompson added that the court had not been expanded for a great many years although the population of the state has greatly increased and the business of the court expanded tremendously . When Representative Frank S. Giles . Jr . ( R ) . of Methuen . House minority leader , attacked the Furcolo use of patronage in seeking votes for his court bill , Mr. Thcimpson reported ' ' that is how you pushed through legislation in the last four years . " Patronage Admitted Mr. Giles , who was the House patronage staff chief during the Herter administration , readily admitted use of patronage in that period and pointed out that Democratic members had benefitted by it . At one point Mr : Giles said , " I am not na  --  ve enough ' to believe that any administration in complete control , having 132 votes in his party in the House with all the patronage advantages available , that it is not possible to get a majority vote on the court bill , particularly after the day and night the administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ referred to the views of the 1956 Judicial Survey Commission in opposition to adding any new judges to the Superior Court . The commission , in its report . stated : " We do not recommend that additional judges be appointed to the Superior Court . Much is being done and more can be done to relieve the present congestion without increasing the size of the court . " Viewed as Palliative After recommending a series of steps to help eliminate congestion in the courts , many of which were adopted by the 1956 Legislature , the commission stated : " We are emphatically of the opinion that these measures which strike at the root of congestion should be given a fair trial before the number of Superior Court judges is increased . Merely to create new judgeships , we feel , would be a palliative at best , instead of a cure , and would soon lead to conditions fully as bad as prevail today . " Senator William E. Hays ( R ) of Waltham , a strong opponent of the Furcolo judges ' bill , stressed today that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ July 1 , 1957 . This act , along with other steps recommended by the Judicial Survey Commission , is designed to help relieve Superior Court organization . Senator Hays insisted that " before new judgeships in the Superior Court are created , effect of the district court reorganization should be determined . " Although backers of the Governor 's bill repeatedly insist additional judges are needed to speed action on Superior Court cases , Judge Paul C. Reardon , chief justice of the Superior Court , has reported considerable progress in clearing the log jam .                     