@@716976

txt A new era dawned over Britain yesterday when Sir Anthony Eden succeeded Sir Winston Churchill as Prime Minister and began to shape the policies he will pursue . Inevitably he will labor at first under the shadow of his titanic predecessor . But in the words of President Eisenhower , Sir Anthony is a statesman of world stature in his own right . We can be certain that he will put his own stamp on the Government and the nation he now leads , The change of regime should entail no change in fundamental policies . This is assured by the sixteen years of intimate political association between the new Prime Minister and his predecessor , of which Sir Anthony spoke so feelingly yesterday in the House of Commons , and by the lessons he has learned from that association . But the times and Sir Anthony 's own personality suggest a change in emphasis to adapt Britain to a changing role in a changing world . With all the concessions he had Made to the new age , Sir Winston , who began his career in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world , stood primarily for empire , for British world leadership , at times for insular independence echoing the " splendid isolation " of the past . The Olympian stature which he attained gave " luster to his position and assured I him a political dominance at home I as well . Sir Anthony is no less a defender of the empire , far removed from the exponents of a " Little England . " He is an equally firm adherent of the closest possible alliance with the United States , cemented by the North Atlantic alliance . But he is ready to take account of the fact that in view of the rise of the Communist empires the best defense for the free world is collective defense , and that in the interest of such collective defense Britain must make the same adaptations in her traditional policies that the United States made by abandoning its traditional isolation in favor of a system of permanent alliances . This realization has been the guide of his work as Foreign Secretary and will no doubt continue to guide him as Prime Minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ symbolized by the United Nations and British participation in the Korean war , he joined Britain to the defense of the Eutopean Continent under the Paris pacts and agreed to put British troops under collective control . In th  --  interest of the same policy he led Britain into the Southeast Asian defense system and the developing Middle Eastern defense structure , arid reached an agreement regarding the Suez Canal . In all these steps he has seen completely eye to eye with the United States . And though there remain differences between Britain and the United States regarding the Chinese offshore islands , it is significant that there is gradual rapprochement of views on the necessity of defending Formosa . Most important of all , Britain and the United States are as one in adhering to the idea that the goal of all their policies is and must be peace  --  not peace at any price , but peace with honor and liberty . As an experienced diplomat Sir Anthony sees the wisdom of the American policy of pursuing that goal with all the necessary safeguards , including adequate preparation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , under the new regime as under the old , the United States can look forward confidently to the closest kind of collaboration with Britain in the interest of the free world and of a peace the free world can accept .                     