@@720018

txt Agriculture Secretary Benson set himself up as a political pollster , and staked a claim for reliability greater than that of those who practice the " art " profeslionally . He pooh-poohed polls which point to a Democratic landslide November 4 in the traditionally-Republican farm belt . " It is my judgment that we 're going to hold moat Republican seats and possibly pick up a few , " the farm chief argued . " I doubt if any of these pollsteris have met and talked to as many farmers as I have . . . in groups and individually on their farms and at the crossroads . I ca n't help but feel that the Republican Party is going to come through all right in the farm belt . " A Tireless Haadshaker The Secretary has traveled 20,000 miles , made 31 major speeches , and visited 27 cities in 15 states since late August . He has nine more speeches scheduled . A tireless handshaker , he often stops to chat with farmers en route to a speaking engagement . Mr. Benson 's never-say-die line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course of his verbal jousting with some three dozen reportera , he charged that " scare talk " by former President Truman has driven corn prices down , and warned that Democratic gains might lead to a revival of " left-wing " farm policies . Through it all , Mr. Benson firmly insisted Republican candidates will hold their own when voters go to the polls 11 days from now to elect 33 Governors , 33 Senators , 432 Representatives , and hundreds of lesser officials . Opinion-sampling in his chats with farmers , the Secretary declared , has convinced him he has broad support for his drive to free the farmer from Federal controls . Some of the newsmen , recalling the anti-Benson sentiment turned up by many polls , seemed frankly Skeptical . One wondered aloud if the Secretary considers the Minnesota Senatorial race , where G.O.P. Sen. Edward J. Thye , a bitter Benson opponent , is trying to turn back the Democratic challenge of Rep. Eugene J. McCarthy , a fair test of his farm program 's popularity . " Asset Rather Than Liability " " Sen. Thye @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answered , " so you have no real test of the Administration 's farm program in that state . It 's my judgment that people who have supported our program will find it- an asset rather than a liability . " Then , pounding his desk for emphasis , the Secretary said : " Our program is sound and farmers are recognizing it . " Next , a newsman asked the Secretary what he thought would happen if the polls proved correct and the Democrats boost their House and Senate margins . " I think I have usually said that a Congress dominated by the left-wing element in the Democratic party would take us back down the road toward a socialized agriculture , " Mr. Benson responded . Left-wingers , he added , are Congressmen who have " opposed me very vigorously and have been very much for controls and regulations . " " Are you ' referring to such men as ( Sen. ) Hubert Humphrey , ( D. , Minn. ) ? " a reporter wanted to know . " Naturally , " the Secretary said , as reporters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time Mr. Benson ' refused to be goaded into naming any more names . Go Back to Old Program " I wo n't get into personalities when I can avoid it , " he said belatedly . " But there is a group without any question that would like to go back to the old program of price fixing and acreage controls and more and more domination of agriculture , which I think would be bad for farmers and would tend to socialize agriculture , and I 'm against it . " Then a reporter asked if Mr. Benson would back a Democrat who favors low price supports over a Republican such as Sen. Thye who thinks props should be raised . " I might , " confessed the Secretary , who added that he has often spoken out in appreciation of the pro-Benson votes delivered by such Democrats as Sen. Byrd of Virginia , who is up for reelection but has only nominal opposition . " Are you backing Byrd ? " a reporter asked . " I have n't been supporting him particularly , " Mr. Benson answered , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Democrat or Democratic ? Another reporter took up the questioning . Is the Secretary , the newsman wanted to know , one of those Republican politicians who describes the opposition as the " Democrat Party " instead of the ' ' Democratic Party " ? This colloquy followed : Mr. Benson : " I do n't remember . . . do they object to using the word Democrat ? " Reporter : " Paul Butler of the Democratic National Committee sounded off a little bit about it and he noted the President used it a time or two . " Mr. Benson : " Of course , I do n't agree with everything he sounds off on . " Reporter : " The President or Chairman Butler ? " Mr. Benson : " Chairman Butler . What are you trying to do to me ? " Earlier , Mr. Benson set the tenor of the news conference by labeling as " demagog. uery " a Democratic charge that the Eisenhower Administration is trying to drive farmers off the farm . 