@@714955

txt Out of the vast and murky flood of words that Stalin , Molotov and Malenkov have let loose upoi/ the Communist party congress in Moscow there emerges a sinister symbol in the shape of a mailed fist representing the constantly expanding ambitions of Soviet imperialism . This symbol , pointed first at the United States but menacing all free nations , is thinly disguised by Stalinist dialectics and the usual Soviet upside-down language ; but the argument is plain for all who take the trouble to wade through the most presumptuous verbiage since Hitler 's " Mein Kampf . " According to Molotov , Soviet Russia now stands at the head of a powerful bloc of some 600,000,000 people who , as a result of the last war , have been " transferred " from the side of " capitalism , " meaning freedom , to the side of " socialism , " meaning Soviet tyranny . Malenkov bluntly amplifies this boast by stating that Soviet Russia is not afraid of any new war and that " no force in the world can halt her advance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their armed might , to winch the entire Soviet ant ' satellite economy is now devoted . For that same purpose they must further activate Communist fifth columns and their " progressive " allies in other countries in order to overthrow " vnilitaristic " Governments ; this , in Stalin 's words , would be " good , very good . " And they must continue every other kind of warfare in which the Soviets have become masters . This includes a continuation of the " peace offensive , " symbolized at the moment by the " Asian-Pacific Peace Conference " at Peiping . It includes continued ! efforts to divide the free nations , to wreck their unification efforts and their alliances by exploiting any " contradictions " between them and by arousing new suspicions and new hostility among them . Finally , it includes economic warfare which attempts to lure some free nations with the phantom of largely non-existent Eastern markets and to scare others by threatening economic collapse in consequence of a contraction of existing markets . On the other hand , any nation which , in sheer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guilty , in Soviet upside-down language , of " criminal purposes . " Any preparations for such self-defense , whether political , economic or military , is preparation for a new world war , on the theory that since the Soviets will not shrink from a new war to realize their ambitions the intended victims who refuse to surrender are guilty of provoking it . Only those who do surrender and are ready to engage in " peaceful cooperation " with Soviet Russia in preparation for joining its galaxy of satellites are exempt from this condemnation . Now the United States is not willing or likely to bow " peacefully " to Soviet dictates , and as long as the United States stands up to Soviet pretensions other nations will rally around this power center of the free world for their own self-preservation . For that reason all the Soviet venom is turned at the moment against this nation . American support of the United Nations action in Korea is misrepresented as an American " attack " which marked the " transition of the Anglo-American bloc from preparation of aggressive war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sense , to an overture to the new world war for which-the North Atlantic alliance is represented as a further instrument . This flood of words does not mean that-the Soviets are ready now to unleash new war . On . the contrary , since Soviet actions rarely match Soviet words , the opposite may , be assumed . But there is nothing in these words that even faintly suggests any easing of international tensions . The free world must remain on guard and continue its preparations for collective security .                     