@@719990

txt President Eisenhower wound up the major reorganization of his personal staff Caused by ' Sherman Adams ' departure with selection of two more top White House aides . Gerald D. Morgan , currently the President 's counsel , was named to the No. 2 staff job as deputy assistant , right behind Maj. Gen. Wilton B. Persons , the new chief of staff . Washington attorney David Kendall , former Assistant Treasury Secretary , was chosen to succeed Mr. Morgan as special counsel , the top legal job in the White House . With appointments take ' effect November 1 . Although two lesser posts in the Legislative Liaison division remain to be filled , the selection of Mr. Morgan and Mr. Kendall ends the principal reshuffling of Mr. Eisenhower 's staff that has seen the power once concentrated in Mr. Adams become more widely diffused . At the White House , Mr. Morgan , who has been on the Eisenhower team since the start of . the Administration in 1953 , will work under Gen. Persons and generally supervise the wort ! ' of the ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Morgan , in effect , will be dividing up the main chores Mr. Adams handled himself until he resigned September 2 , under fire from political leaders of his own party . Two other recently-named deputy assistants , who will report directly to Mr. Morgan in the new order of things , will also absorb some of Mt . Adams ' responsibilities . They are Robert E. Merriam , in charge of interdepartmental affairs , and Bryce Harlow , chief White House liaison to Capitol Hill . Before he came to the White House , ' the 49-year-old Morgan , among other things , served for 10 years on the bill-drafting legislative counsel staff of the House , was a consultant to the Hoover Commission and worked in the legal department of U.S. Steel Corp . While in private practice , Mr. Morgan was hired by House Republicans to work on the Taft-Hartley Bill and ' was , as much as any other man except the late Sen. Taft , an architect of that historic labor law . Mr. Morgan is described by friends as " a lawyer 's lawyer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's considered quiet and friendly " in a retiring sort of way . " But associates say he can be as firm with the staff or other Administration officials dealing with the White House as any other Eisenhower lieutenant . In many ways he is a sharp contrast to the affable , extrovertish " Jerry " or " Slick " Persons , as his immediate superior is nicknamed . . Mr. Kendall , 55 years old , unlike his predecessor , brings to the White House considerable political background to go with his wide legal experience . He was Republican National Committeeman from Michigan from 1953 to 1956 , before becoming general counsel of the Treasury Department . He served as Assistant Secretary under both George Humphrey and Robert Anderson before resigning last December to go into private practice here . People who know Mr. Kendall describe him as among the more liberal members of the Republican Party . He was an outspoken Eisenhower backer during the Taft-Eisenhower battle for the Republican nomination in 1952 . Mr. Kendall was a friend and political adviser to the late Sen. Vandenberg of Michigan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " when that lawmaker turned practically overnight from an arch-isolationist into one of the staunchest internationalists in Congress . As for Mr. Adams , no one knows for side just yet when he actually will leave the White House . Still on the President 's payroll , the former New Hampshire governor is sticking around for what White House Press Secretary James Hagerty calls the " transition period . " Just how long this will last , Mr. Hagerty could not say . 