@@719620

txt Canada 's current election campaign is perhaps the most confusing of modern times but it has clarified one fact beyond doubt : The government elected on March 31 must immediately face a series of formidable problems hardly suspected a year ago and little understood in the election of last June . No Canadian Government since World War II has been compelled to grapple with so many difficulties or to make so many hard decisions . In its final phase the partisan struggle of politics is overshadowed by a profound change in Canada 's former buoyant economic climate . The Progressive Conservative government of Prime Minister John G. Diefenbaker now estimates ( though final figures have not been completed ) that about 600,000 Canadians are out of work , This is an increase of some 80,000 over the figure for mid-January and it means that more than 10 per cent of the labor force is idle . Unemployment has never approached such a total since the days of the great depression . Charges Fly In the election debate Mr. Diefenbaker blames the former Liberal government for these conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's government for them altogether but says his mistakes have greatly magnified them . The Prime Minister believes that the worst of the recession is over , that unemployment has reached its peak and will soon fall in a spring pickup . Lester B. Pearson , Liberal Party leader , does not share Mr. Diefenbaker 's optimism , says that the government 's public works program will have no real effect on unemployment for many months , and insists that a tax reduction of $400,000,000 a year is needed to stimulate public purchasing power . He acids that many American economists and Vice-President Richard M. Nixon believe in the same kind of policy if the recession does not lift soon . " Mr. Nixon has benefited from our Liberal platform , " Mr. Pearson said recently . The electors will decide between Mr. Diefenbaker 's decision to rely mainly on public works and Mr. Pearson 's promise of a tax reduction which is large in Canadian terms , but the decision of the polling booths will not necessarily be final , Tax Cut Weighed The new government , whether Conservative or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exit during the spring . If they have not sharply improved by then any government will be compelled to reassess them . and its own ? policies . ? Though Mr. Diefenbaker has not advocated it in the campaign , a tax cut would not be excluded by . a Conservative victory . For even if the . ' ecOnomy shows definite signs of improvement during the next few weeks , unemployment seems certain to remain Canada 's No. economic and political problem until midsummer- at least , possibly much longer . Closely allied to it , is the problem of Canada 's foreign trade which will be high on the agenda of the new government . Here , too , unforeseen difficulties have lately arisen to divide the political parties and alarm the people . Trade Shift Pledged In his latest speeches , Mr. Diefenbaker has redoubled his attacks on the clumping of American products in the Canadian market . He has assured farmers that under his government they need not fear any more dumping of such American larmstuffs as vegetables and poultry . He has promised the textile industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this score by Mr. Pearson , the Prime Minister has never retreated in the least from his plan to transfer 15 per cent of Canada 's present imports from the United States to the British and Commonwealth market . Actually , the trade policies of both political parties are far from clear after weeks of campaign oratory but both are equally alarmed by the danger of further blows to Canadian goods in the American market . Both are awaiting with equal attention the report of the United States Tariff Commission on imports of'lead and zinc and PresidentEisenhower 's subsequent action . Both would be equally shocked by American restrictions on imports of these metals and on any curtailment of the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act . Policies Wait Meanwhile , American politicians and businessmen can assume only that a Conservative government would ? be more inclined than a Liberal to discourage American imports . Beyond that , no assumption is safe since neither of the Canadian partieS has made up its mind fully on trade pclicy . Both are waiting to see what the American President and Congress will do . Boun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the problem of Canada 's production costs , as raised by successive wage increases during the last year . Businessmen and economists are continually warning the nation that its cost of producing goods threatens to price itself out of domestic and foreign markets , but the labor unions argue that these goods can be sold if wages are sufficiently increased to provide more public purchasing power . ' , Strike Threatened The increasing struggle between management and labor is centered at the moment in the Canadian railways where the unions seem prepared to strike for higher wages . They are also considering a strike against the decision of the Canadian Pacific Railway to eliminate firemen from some of its diesel engines ? an economy move approved by a royal commission . To all these items on the next government 's agenda must be added a rising cost-of-living index despite a business recession ; a national budget sure to be gravely unbalanced during the next year even without tax reductions ; the demand of 30 provincial governments for a larger share of falling federal revenues ; the financial plight of most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .                     