@@713661

txt Letters to The Times To Check Inflation Methods Reviewed of Financing and Refunding Public Debt The writer . of the following letter , a member of the Institute for Advanced Studies , was formerly Director of Research and Statistics of the Federal Reserve System . to THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In a statement made on Feb. 2 to the Joint Committee on the Economic Report , John D. Clark , vice chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers , took the position that any action by the monetary authorities that might result in a rise in interest rates at this time would be unnecessary and would be harmful to the economy and to the defense effort . It would be unnecessary , in Mr. Clark 's opinion , because , with the existence of vast amounts of liquid funds , it may be expected that before long funds would be superabundant and would find no adequate outlets other than Government securities . It would be harmful because it would undermine the strength of the Government 's credit , result in an avalanche of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This view is quite out of line with the opinion of a large number of professional economists who have expressed themselves in testimony and in public statements . History ' of Public Debts Mr. Clark thinks the situation is unprecedented . One wonders why . A large public debt has been a familiar phenomenon in this and other countries for centuries . So many countries all over the world have been confronted with similar and more acute situations right before our eyes that it surely would not be wise to close our eyes entirely to experience and to be guided solely by a priori reasoning . The lesson of such experience is that whenever a Government attempts to meet its financial requirements or its problem of debt management by the creation of ? money or by facilitating such creation through central bank policy the result in every case is inflation . Conditions change from time to time and from place to place but fundamental principles remain the same . What economists believe in the present situation is not , as Mr. Clark says , that the volume of money alone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regulating the supply of money prices can be controlled at all times . What they contend is that the volume of money is never an indifferent factor in the economy , and that its importance , as compared with other factors , varies in accordance with circumstances . They are convinced that under conditions such as prevail at present availability and volume of money are extremely Powerful No Increase in Output This is because the economy is working at capacity , so that the creation of new money can not result in a rapid growth in output , and because military requirements " produce a demand for ? goods greatly in excess of the amount now available . This is a perfect set-up for monetary inflation . This is ? what the economists have in mind when they say that restraint of credit for private use is essential in the present situation . The economists are convinced that , even with ? taxation , which is slow in being enacted and in taking effect , there is a large volume of demand for goods that can be increased or moderated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If any individual or corporation , desiring to profit by the existing strong demand for goods , can easily obtain a bank loan to finance expansion , or to pile up inventory , then inflation will be fed by the new money created by the banks , even though a part of the income is diverted through taxation . The purpose of extra taxation in present circumstances is to limit private purchases Of goods and release them for Government use . If the door for the acquisition of additional money through the banks is kept wide open , taxation , though it will be just as painful , will not accomplish its purpose of preventing inflation . What is the bearing of all this on debt management ? The economists maintain that such increase of the Government debt as may be necessary should come out of current income of the people and not out of borrowing from banks . What is argued is that so long as the Federal Reserve must buy any Government security that is in danger of falling below par the Federal Reserve can not discharge its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time a. security is bought by the Federal Reserve the banking system gets new reserves on which it can erect a 6-to-1 additional expansion of bank credit . What is necessary to control credit expansion is for the Treasury to pay such interest on its securities as will induce private investors to buy them . Then these securities will not decline in the market and there will be no need for the Federal Reserve to support them . If outstanding securities should fall below par this would increase the yield and would facilitate placing them in firm hands . If the Federal Reserve will exert pressure on bank reserves and lending power , then the Treasury 's commodity , its securities , will be bought and held outside the banking system . If in  --  the process the rates on the securities should  --  rise , the extra cost to the Treasury will be a much smaller burden even to the Treasury itself and to the taxpayer than S. rise in prices for everything the Treasury must buy . And the disastrous cost to the nation of an inflation will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a subsidy in order to market its securities  --  a clumsy , expensive and inequitable subsidy to be paid by the people through inflation ? The answer is ? no , it does not need it ; by pricing them right it can sell its securities without such assistance . By demanding a subsidy the Treasury reveals a lack of confidence in the soundness of its credit ; fortunately it is the only place ( so far ) where this confidence is lacking . Furthermore , the subsidy works against the Treasury 's own purposes , for nothing makes people more reluctant to buy fixed-return securities , even of the highest quality , than does a lack of confidence in the buying power of the dollar . Mr. Clark may be right that the need of bank support for Treasury issues may soon be a thing of the past . This would be a consummation devoutly to be wished . In the meantime it is necessary in the interests of the country to be prepared to finance and to refund the public debt without feeding inflation  --  even if this should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To disregard experience , to depend entirely on fallible reasoning , and thus to run the risk of disaster on the financial front , would be extremely dangerous . It would be as little justifiable as abandonment of all preparation for military defense on the basis of a theoretical conviction about the peaceful intentions of possible aggressors . Whatever we may hope-and believe , we must be prepared for the worst . E. A. GOLDENWEISER . Princeton , N. J. , March 5 , 1951 . Morale of Colleges Issue Is Taken With Findings of Survey on Reaction to Crisis The writer of the following letter is author of " Our Independent Schools . " To THE EDITOR OF Tus NEW YORK TIMES : As one with a lifelong association with education , and specifically as a school consultant and former member of college and university faculties , I wish respectfully to register a protest against the implications in two recent articles by Benjamin Fine in THE NEW YORK TIMES . The tenor of both articles is that the morale of colleges ? of both faculty and students ? is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on what a hospital would call the ' ' critical list . " In the Feb. 12 article , perhaps the most extreme phrase is used in the headline : " Wrecking of Academic Profession Feared . " This headline is elucidated in the second paragraph by the following statement : " Proposed drastic reduction in this number ( of staff members ) , probably the worst in recent years , will cause serious repercussions and may destroy the morale of the academic profession , spokesmen for higher education warned . " That such a forecast is an unwarranted assumption is not only my owe opinion but that of educators with whom I discussed the matter at a recent meeting of a national association at the Hotel Commodore . There arises the instant ' question : " Who are these ' spokesmen for higher education ' who are thus quoted ? " I wonder who would assume the responsibility of making such a statement and , if made , could it possibly be ' considered representative of the academic profession ? Views on Draft . It seems to pie that a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Draft Fears Upset College Students . " In the headlines are at least seven words whose direction is destructive and negative . Applied to college students , in a blanket sense , we again find the phrase " have lost morale . " Other prominent phrases are " a sense of panic , even hysteria . " Since these and later statements are said to be conclusions based on a " nation-wide survey conducted by THE NEW YORK TIMES , " there is doubtless considerable room for choice among items found in the survey , in the interpretation of those items , and in the " conclusions " drawn . The three specific statements from colleges , quoted in the second article , register chiefly the general sense of restlessness and confusion which is being felt by all classes of people throughout the country . It may well be maintained ( and the fact is referred to in these articles ) that , the major cause of the restlessness lies in the confused policies of Government bureaus themselves  --  policies now gradually becoming clearer . Only in the brief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some colleges to ameliorate the students ' sense of uncertainty . Students ' Stand I am confident that college students : furnish far more examples of intellectual and moral courage than of socalled " wrecked " morale . Can any useful or patriotic ends be served by the apparently heavy weighting of these stories in favor of negative and destructive conclusions ? Personally , I raise the question whether this is truly objective reporting . Also , whether it is the kind of attitude which we are all urging each other to take in time of national crisis ? namely , the attitude of encouraging and upholding those things that bolster morale and strengthen the will to win , whether in college or Korea . The above opinions I respectfully submit because of the tremendous influence on public opinion which your great paper exercises throughout the . B. CHAMBERLAIN . I nation . New York , March 2 , 1951 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Since the problem of the best methot of reapportioning seats in the House o Representatives , a thorn in the path @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come up again this winter , the presen situation deserves to be more widel : understood . There have been two attempts tt stabilize the size of the House . The first , made a century ago , which tries to fix its size at 233 members , failed But in doing so it pointed the way is success sixty years later . The secons attempt began in 1910 and ripened Intl effective legielation in 1929 , and as i result the present size of the Holm ( 435 members ) has not changed fo : forty years . A bill sponsored by Congressmai Celler and now before his committee provides for no change in the size cr ' the House or in the method of appor tionment but does aim to obtain greater equality in the population of Congres sional districts . This objective slat Congress tried to attain as long ago as 1872 , but without success . We mad trust that this effort will succeed . Effective After Census The present ? method deserves to bi considered on its merits . It was adopter recently for political reasons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presented to Congress . hope for a chance to do that wirer hearings are arranged . If Congress should decide to , change the method the amendment should not go into et feet until after the next census . Only so can the case be argued on its merit : and with no possible reference to which party or which states would suffer . No change is likely , however , unless the public can be persuaded that one it desirable . About the results of differ . ent methods much new evidence ha ' accumulated . They are of three types ? two extreme methods , known to the initiated as rejected fractions and inchided fractions , and a group of intermediate ones . The difference between the extreme methods is akin to that between two ways of measuring a person 's age . One Who is 20 years old , for example , may be described equally well as in him twenty-first year . By the more common method of stating age all fractions of a year are rejected ; by the year-of-life method they are included . Computing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assumed standard population of a Congressional district to be divided into the population of each state , the quotient will take the form of a whole number ' and a fractional remainder , Different methods differ in the weight given to these fractional remainders . The method of rejected fractions disregards all fractional remainders , however large . The method of included fractions gives extra seats for all fractional remainders , however small . Both are mathematically impeccable ; objections1 to either must be drawn from other sources , mainly from examining their results . The results of these extreme methods differ in the fact that the method of rejected fractions gives the largest possible number of seats to states above the average size , while the method of included fractions gives the largest possible number to states below the average site . The number of these " transferable seats " has increased ; in 1790 it was only two , now it is sixteen . The methods which Congress has recently examined , major fractions and equal proportions , give intermediate results , dividing the transferable seats almost or quite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Equality Advocates of both methods agree that the object of apportionment is to hold the scales even between the two groups of states , or , in other words , to make the average district population in the two groups of states as nearly equal as possible . We have had seventeen censuses , in. nine of which the results of the two methods agree . In eight they disagree . In all these cases equality is more closely approached when the method of major fractions is used . The following results based on the 1950 census figures are typical : District ( - Population inn 15 Large 30 Small Differ . Method . States . States . once . Equal proportions.347,458 348,912 6,546 grajor fractions .... 346,235 343,215 3,020 Thus , if Congress believes that the object of an apportionment is to equalize the population of Congressional districts in the two groups of large and small states , it should return to the method of major fractions . WALTER . F WILLCOX . Ithaca , N. Y. , March 1 , 1951 . Congressional Seats Methods for Determining Housi Representation Explained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ am Statistics at Cornell University , is that author of " Introduction to Vital Ste. tistics of the United States ( 1900-30 ) . '                     