@@717778

txt Heavy French reinforcements were ' reported on the way to Algeria today . A harassed French , Government thus began to execute plans drawn up last week by the civil and military leaders . The new troops were said to be in the strength of at least a division , about 15,000 men , and some estimates put the forces to be sent over in the next few weeks as high as 30,000 . The Government is expected to receive full powers from the National Assembly Monday to restore order and institute social and economic reforms . Premier Guy Mollet has told the rebel bands to lay down their arms or face . an all-out offensive . This warning is expected to be renewed by the Minister Residing in Algeria , Robert Lacoste . But in view of the extensive attacks made by the rebels in the last few days , the impression here is that the Government has already had a negative answer . In a radio speech tonight , the Premier said : " For Algeria the French must agree to many sacrifices and show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by way of introduction to a tribute he made to the 1,100 miners who were killed by a mine explosion at Courri  --  res in northern France fifty years ago today . The State Department in Washington said the Paris Government had apologized for the attacks by a French mob on two United States installations in Tunis . France has offered to pay the cost of repairing the damage . Officials were also preoccupied by the surprise strike and demonstration staged by Algerian workers here yesterday . The response these workers gave to clandestine orders from a nationalist organization headed by Hadj Messali , who is under close French surveillance in Angoul ? me , showed they were under strong anti - French influence. ! About 2,700 of the 10,000 demon- strators were arrested but most have been released after registration of their identity and fingerprints . Tunisia also called for attention today following the attacks by a French mob on the United States Consulate and Informa1 tion Service library and two newspapers in Tunis . Alain Savary , Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs , extended his regrets for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was reported that the traffic of Algerians from France to their homeland tad almost doubled in the last three weeks while movement from Algeria to France had decreased considerably . Telegrams were said to have been received by many of them saying : " Mother ill . Return Africa urgently . " Algerians being French citizens , they can enter or leave France without formality . There are perhaps 350,000 of them in the Paris area and 20 , - 000 in the north . The attack in Tunis weighed heavily on the already difficult negotiations between the French and Tunisian Governments . Premier Tahar. ben Ammar and Mongi Slim , Minister of Interior , returned to Tunis in view of the tension there . France Apologizes to U. S. Special to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , March 10 ? France condemned today as " unpardonable acts " the wrecking of United States installations in Tunis last night by an enraged French mob . The French Government conveyed its formal apology to United States Ambassador C. Douglas Dillon in Paris and offered to pay the full cost of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States Information Service library . Alain Savary , French Secretary of State for Tunisian and Moroccan Affairs , also promised Ambassador Dillon an investigation into the actions of the French police in Tunis . The State Department said that Morris N. Hughes , the United States Consul General in Tunis , had ' reported the consular offices " half wrecked " and tile Information Service library , about a quarter of a mile away , destroyed by rioters armed with crowbars and axes . French Kill 84 Rebels Special to The New York Times . ALGIERS , Algeria , March 10 ? French paratroopers were reported today to have killed thirtyfour nationanilst rebels and to have captured three in a major action in the Nemencha Mountains in eastern Algeria . The rebels were engaged Thursday morning near Taberdga on the rugged eastern slope of Mount Chechar . The action came to an end last night . The captain commanding the French commando was killed and four paratroopers were wounded . Twenty-four army rifles , 5,000 cartridges and a radio set were seized by the French . In the Khenchela area north @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three Wounded in an encounter with a rebel band . Rebel losses were not reported . Ten rebels were killed and four wounded in two other clashes with security forces , one near Arkou in Kabylia and the other near El Hanser , between Djidjelli and El Milia . Pierre Raymond , civil administrator at Tablat in the Aumale area , forty-two miles southeast of Algiers , escaped unhurt today when rebels ambushed him seven miles from Tablat . Two ' native guards accompanying M. Raymond were killed in the  --  etack . A Government architect and a native sergeant were seriously wounded .                     