@@716998

txt Except for one small detail , the Democrats who return to Washington for a two-day Maine to-California rally here would be exultant . They won Congress in 1954 ; they won the governorship of Maine and other states along with just about every congressional by-election since then . Furthermore , they have got the Republicans fighting fellow Republicans in the controversy over Edward J. Corsi , Secretary of State John Foster Dulles ' ex-aide . The one detail that blunts their happiness is a man called Dwight D. Eisenhower . In other circumstances the Democrats would be confident of election victory next year . As it is they are so uncertain  --  whatever they say publicly  --  that most of them do not attack Mr. Eisenhower direct . It is an almost unprecedented political situation . White House Bidders The Democratic get-together is the big party rally for 1955 with the spotlight turned on 1956 . Former President Truman and Mrs. Truman are back in the capital . Former presidential candidate Adlai E. Stevenson will introduce Speaker Sam Rayburn of Texas at the testimonial dinner April 15 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And with these celebrities will be 10 Democratic Governors including two possible presidential candidates , Averell Harriman of New York , and G. Mennen Williams of Michigan . Others include Gov . Edmund S. Muskie of Maine , National Chairman Paul M. Butler , and former National Chairman Stephen A. Mitchell . The crowd is so big That it has been moved over to the armory  --  the same place where Mr. Truman told Democrats he did n't intend to run in the 1952 battle . Chief purpose of the present rally is to rouse enthusiasm and raise - funds . ' Democrats are rather self-consciously trying out the phrase " Ike is beatable " and wondering if they can make themselves and others believe it . A more aggressive attitude is visible . The reaction stirred by Mr. Stevenson 's speech on Formosa shows what a formidable figure he is , many declare . There is a new disposition to make direct attacks on the President . " The President is responsible , " said Chairman Butler , referring io the alleged " failures , frictions , and inconsistencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Senator Barry Goldwater ( R ) of Arizona , chairman of the GOP senatorial election committee , says that Mr. Eisenhower is far more popular than his party . Mr. Goldwater goes so far as to say Republicans ca n't win if Mr. Eisenhower does n't run . In 1953 Democrats won seven out of eight special elections for the House of Representatives . They won control of Congress in 1954 ( Democrats 49 to Republicans 47 in the Senate , 232 to 203 in the House ) . They now control a majority of state governments ( 27 out of 48 ) and there has been a steady string of grass-roots victories at city and local level which is quite impressive though not generally realized outside of professional political circles . Latest elections of all in 1955 have given the Democrats new victories . The trend still continues . For the first time in 20 years in an off year the Democrats captured local judicial and school offices in Michigan . while in Chicago they turned back a Republican independent mayoralty drive . In Connecticut the Democrats captured a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figures are impressive . They point to a Democratic victory in 1956 . The trouble is that another more significant sign points emphatically to a Republican victory in 1956 . This is the token of the President 's personal popularity . Mr. Eisenhower in two years of office has lost little of his enormous support . In a " trial heat " run by the Gallup Poll last February , the service reported that Mr. Eisenhower today would beat Adlai Stevenson by an even larger margin than in 1952 . In 1952 Mr. Eisenhower got 55.4 per cent and Mr. Stevenson 44.6 per cent ; now the estimated figure is 59 per cent to 41 per cent . These two contradictory political trends leave political speculators with plenty of scope . Most of them put first emphasis on the Eisenhower popularity . With a vote getter like that , it is widely felt , no party should have too great difficulty . There is a growing theory , however , that next year 's election might return Mr. Eisenhower but continue a Democratic Congress . Such a result would be almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his party with him . Mr. Eisenhower ran 5,000,000 or so votes ahead of his party in 1952 and just managed to get a Republican congressional majority . The gap between President and party has probably not lessened . Task for GOP On the Senate side . Republicans face a harder task next year than in 1952 . A batch of Southern Democratic senators come up for reelection . Seventeen Republican senators run next year and only 15 Democrats . Ten of the Democrats are from the South . It will not be easy to overcome this handicap . On the House side , 63 of the sitting Republican members won election in 1954 by close " marginal " majorities ( less than 55 per cent ) , while only 31 of the Democrats squeaked through by such a low majority . Mr. Eisenhower campaigned harder for his party in 1954 in a midterm election than almost any other President before him and it is widely believed that his intervention saved Republicans from what otherwise might have been a major defeat . Mr. Eisenhower will probably run again , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrats are beginning to boast that they can beat him next year just as they defeated another " invulnerable " candidate in 1948 , Gov . Thomas E. Dewey . Most of them , however , do n't really think so , whatever they say . There are 17 months to do it in any case . That is the atmosphere in which the cocky Democrats return to Washington .                     