@@717881

txt In his speech before American newspaper editors , whose aid he invoked to carry his message to the world , President Eisenhower has issued a double challenge to the new Kremlin rulers . He has pitted against the brutalitarian principles of the Bolshevist revolution , which these rulers continue to espouse and which lead to individual or " collective " dictatorship , to slavery and to subjugation of nations , the principles of the American revolution started at Concord just 181 years ago  --  the principles of freedom , national independence and self-government . In keeping with these latter principles , which brought freedom and independence to 650,000,000 people during the past decade , while the Soviets enslaved even more millions during the same period , he has called on the Soviet rulers to right the wrongs perpetrated by Stalin not only at home but also abroad by freeing the captive nations , including in particular East Germany , North Korea and the subjugated countries of Eastern Europe . In issuing this double challenge , President Eisenhower made it plain that it does not in any sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he characterized war as an anachronism in the atomic age that could only lead to the virtual destruction of mankind , Furthermore , he gave credit to the Soviet rulers for recognizing this fact and , in consequence , shifting the emphasis in their policy from violence and war to safer methods of political and economic penetration . In so far as this shift has reduced the danger of nuclear war it can be welcomed . But President Eisenhower , speaking after a searching reappraisal of Soviet " new look " tactics , again stressed that the change in tactics does not mean a change in Soviet aims . On the contrary , rejecting a good deal of wishful thinking in Europe and Asia , he pointed out that , as shown by their own declaration , the Soviet rulers still plot to conquer the world . For that purpose they not only continue to build up their military machine , already the biggest in the world , and to reject the effective controls that would permit disarmament . They also continue and intensify their efforts to split and disarm the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them individually to the pressure of Soviet power and to economic penetration and political subversion aimed at a " peaceful " conquest on the Czechoslovakian model . In this situation President Eisenhower continues to hold , again in contrast to some European and Asian opinion , that we must first of all maintain both our own military power and the collective shield of our alliances , which he credits with stopping outright Soviet aggression and forcing the change of tactks . . Whatever political dispute there may be about the last part of this statement , the American people certainly agree to the first part , and the only question raised is whether our defenses are adequate . But President Eisenhower has also taken increased account of the new Soviet tactics and has in effect called on the whole nation to help the Government to meet them . True to his view that American policy should not consist of fitful reactiens to every Soviet move but should develop its own ways and means of reaching its ends , he has sought to mobilize public support behind the measures he has ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measures include his $4.9 billion foreign aid program , for which he asks both continuity and increased flexibility to aid especially the newly independent but underdeveloped nations of the East , without attaching political or military strings that would repel the recipient . His measures also include his program for expanding world trade , including trade with the ' Communist world where ? as , for instance , in Japan  --  such trade may become necessary to feed the nation . However , apparently conscious of criticism that our policies have become too " static , " President Eisenhower has made two further suggestions . He has suggested a citizens ' committee of the nation 's best minds to review our policies and to recommend additional ways and means of meeting the Soviet threat . He has also called on all citizens , and in particular on the nation 's extensive information media , to help spread the message of America in order that freedom may be preserved and may advance where it is now suppressed . In the success of such efforts , he rightly pointed out , lies also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and prosperity .                     