@@720921

txt The main sticking-point in the contract dispute between the New York dock union and the shipowners was automation . And in the settlement just reached , the union won the principle it advocated  --  more men on a given job than technological advances justify . Automation also figures in the steel dispute . In part the work rules which the union wants to keep unchanged are designed to give the union control over the ways , a : i the pace at which , further automation is introduced . For a further instance , the railroads claim featherbedding is costing them half a billion dollars a year . Featherbedding is another way of describing a union 's insistence on more jobs than are needed as a result of automation or mechanization . So in more and more industries automation is a present or looming issue . As a news roundup in this newspaper the other day reported , there is as increasing amount of concern and debate over what should be done about automation 's impact on workers and who should be responsible for doing it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goal , but in practice many impede it . And it is true that automation can eliminate specific jobs even while helping create more work . What does not necessarily follow at all is that the people temporarily ? displaced by automation are thereupon doomed to permanent unemployment . For one thing , that kind of change goes on all the time , for more reasons than automation , and most individuals still try to support themselves even when they have to change jobs to do it . Also , it is characteristic of our society that increasingly managements are assuming responsibility for training automation-displaced workers in other jobs or . for helping to tide them over . If a further social responsibility exists it would seem to devolve on the unions , many of which have treasure chests that could provide retraining and the like . For it is the unions that are taking it upon themselves to slow the rate of technological advance . This is no speculative matter of possible future concern . It is a matter of immediate national concern . Ironically , the unions themselves are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excessively high wages make it imperative for industries to introduce cost-cutting equipment as fast as possible . But the savings become mythical as the unions succeed in operating featherbeds as their answer to automation . Already the upshot is that U.S. products are being undersold in world markets . The end of that road is as plain as it is ominous  --  the U.S. can lose out commercially , and if it succeeds in doing that it may be asked in what other ways it is also likely to fall . No one wants to see a man lose his job through no reel fault of his own . but today the individual , the union and management can provide shock absorbers if they choose . It is even worse to see a man continuing to do " work " at a " job " that in fact no longer exists . And it is still worse to see a nation 's progress held back by short-sighted attitudes of union leaders . It will be a nation with low sights indeed that cho6ses to ignore the irrefutable evidence of history : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not fewer , opportunities for labor . And that what is now called automation has in this country been the way to a more abundant life for all ? including , notably , members of unions . 