@@713598

txt Russia has tried hard ? and probably succeeded  --  in forcing the western Allies to hold a four-power conference with Germany as its central theme Fortunately , at least three developments in the past few weeks ha.e strengthened the West 's hand for any such session . There seems little likelihood that four-power talks at this juncture will produce a millennial peace  --  perhaps not even a temporary accommodation . But , given imagination , boldness , and careful preparation , there is no reason why the United States , Great Britain , and France should not be able to turn any such meeting to their distinct advantage . Check on Kremlin Aims The Kremlin is aware that , since it proposed a big-four conference three months and eight notes ago : 1 . Its Communist allies and puppets in Korea have suffered serious losses in manpower and armaments , losses sufficient to upset China 's timetable of Asiatic aggression , if it has one . This must require a reassessment of prospects for aggression all around the Soviet perimeter . 2 . Moscow itself has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Five-Year Plan . This absence of fanfare is being ascribed here to Prime Minister Joseph Stalin 's decision that the Five-Year Plan 's results are totally insufficient when yardsticked alongside the United States new rearmament drive and the West 's rearmament programs . In short , it is reasoned that Stalin and his colleagues have concluded it will require another Five-Year Plan or more before Russia can sufficiently match the West 's war potential  --  that Russia is not now ready for a showdown or war with the United States . Stalin Communism Skids 3 . Stalinist communism is losing its grip here and there on West Europe 's columns while dissatisfaction is increasing inside the satellites . " Nationalist " communism is growing in Italy , while a minor purge in Czechoslovakia and grumbling in other satellites confront Russia with the necessity to divert energy and effort to tightening its embrace . of its supposed allies . All these matters have their impact when the Kremlin is considering what are its maximum and minimum terms for German settlement . In Britain , where the Cabinet has just discussed the latest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  and quite outside the parchment of the official note  --  enlarged its appear- ' ances of being accommodating : about Germany . For instance , the Kremlin 's agent in Germany , Otto Grotewohl , ha 's commented that East German " police " could perhaps be partially demobilized , while the East German Legislature has suggested it would be willing to " discuss " the holding of free and secret all-German elections . Quite possibly these are mere blandishments to West Germariy . Or perhaps , just perhaps , the Kremlin has come to the conclusion that Russia could use a period of European peace  --  including a neutralized demilitarized Germany  --  a period in which to develop its armament and atomic program . Analysis of the various Soviet proposals , including the Prague declaration , does indicate the Kremlin will have more than one asking price at the proposed conference . Obviously Russia would like to halt the rearming of West Germany without agreeing to any parallel disarming of the East German " police . " It also would like to secure unconditional withdrawal of all occupation troops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ takeover via rigged elections and the Czech-type coup . But the western Allies  --  although themselves just now in a strange disunity of policy regarding Germany  --  will almost certainly be prepared eventually to put some vigorous counterproposals to the Russians . For one thing , of course , they will demand demobilization of the East German Bereitschaften or " police . " And for another thing , as Secretary of State Dean Acheson hinted , they will ask that the swollen satellite armies in Romania , Hungary , and Bulgaria , now menacing Yugoslavia , be cut back to limits prescribed in postwar peace treaties . Lever for West If Moscow agreed to this demand , it would- take the pressure off Yugoslavia . If it fails to agree , then the western Allies have a strong case for refusing to abandon their arming of West Germany . As for the second major Soviet demand , namely , withdrawal of all occupation troops from Germany , the western powers would require some very genuine evidence of Soviet good intentions throughout Europe before complying with this . A neutralized , demilitarzed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe . The western allies could safely permit this only if Russia abandoned its current belligerency . Will Russia agree to any of these allied counterproposals , beginning with demobilization of the Bereitschaften ? This depends on the Kremlin 's assessments of several things : The danger involved in the ; West 's resuscitation of a German army , chances of the successful Soviet occupation of western Germany and/or Yugoslavia this summer , and the advisability of postponing a showdown with the West . in the interests of building greater preparedness.                     