@@714254

txt Letters to The Times IMRE KOVACS , LEOPOLD KOHR.FRANK BAER.SAMUEL P.G . ALTMAN.Queuing Up for Buses A ... pg . 28 Letters ? to The Times To Liberate East Europe Demand for Free Elections Urged in West 's Proposals To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It seems to Me that the peace proposals of the Western Powers to the Kremlin are not complete without a proposal for free elections in the " people 's democracies . " In 1945 at Yalta the Allied Powers agreed to free elections and selfdetermination in East Europe , from the Baltics to the Balkans . Yet subsequently this area was left to " democratic " indoctrination by Soviet Russia . ' After the war the democratic parties of the East European countries came together with the Communists in ' coalition Governments to attempt to build up truly democratic states based on human rights , private property- and social truth . The Communists tolerated this policy for a short time . They had their own programs and policy and they wanted to reach their own goal in eight to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitutionally " these countries by 1953-55 . In the winter of 1946-47 the Kremlin called on the Communist leaders of East Europe to speed up the timetable because of the ? war hysteria , resulting in the series of coup d'etats in 1947 in Hungary , Bulgaria , Rumania and Poland , and which culminated in the Prague putsch in February , 1948 . The protests at the liquidation of the democratic parties and the conviction or forced exile of their leaders amounted to no more than diplomatic formalities by the West . Neglecting the execution of the Yalta agreement increased the mistakes of the Yalta policy , virtually led to a second Yalta , and the short-lived democratic era in East Europe was over . The proposed arms census and general disarmament , without political conditions , can not bring and guarantee world peace . East Europe is an integral part of Europe ; its history , culture ; traditions and ideas belong to West Europe and not to Russia . The East European peoples can not and do not want to live under Communist rule . Some circles at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the United Nations declare underground activity behind the Iron Curtain illegal . The suppressed peoples of the satellite states can not fight for their liberty without equipment and the moral support of the Western World . If the West will not give them a chance for free elections or declines to support their underground movements against Red totalitarianism , if the Western Powers accept the present status quo in East Europe , it will be a third Yalta and will make the Iron Curtain tragedy complete . IMRE KOVACS , Former Member , Hungarian Parliament . Cambridge , Mass. , Nov. 11 , 1951 , Ambassador to Vatican TO THE EDITOR Or THE NEW YORK TIMES : Paul Blanshard , in his letter to THE TIMES of Nov. 9 , draws attention to the fact that the only nations sending full Ambassadors to the Vatican are Catholic nations , and that the United States , pioneering advocate of the separation of church and state , would thus be the only non-Catholic nation occupying so high a diplomatic rank . Why should we resent claiming the highest of all diplomatic ranks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an Ambassador when even Haiti has one ? Mr. Blanshard says that only Catholic countries have Ambassadors at the Vatican . Protestant Germany was represented not by a Minister but by a full Ambassador , and will undoubtedly again be so represented in the future . Mr. Blanshard enumerates as being Catholic and maintaining Ambassadors at the Vatican , Poland and France . But surely as states neither France nor Poland can be . called Catholic . Poland is Communist and France quite as steadfast an advocate of the separation of Church and state as are we . Has a nation , though advocating the separation of church and state at home , any right to impose its preference on a foreign sovereign , even though this be what Mr. Blanshard calls a church-state ? Would Mr. Blanshard have opposed sending an American Ambassador to the church-state of Tibet ? Would it not rather have benefited us if we had been represented there ? It might conceivably have kept the Communists out . Though atheists , Communists have never shown any ideological scruples about the Tibetan church-state relationships . Finally , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Americans will relish their new role . In this he is probably correct . But what has this to do with diplomatic representation ? Does Mr , Blanshard relish an Ambassador in Moscow ? Or in Czechoslovakia ? LEOPOLD ROHR . New Brunswick , N. J. , Nov. 9 , 1951 . Rights ' of the Egyptians To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In his letter of Oct. 30 , Judd L. Teller undertakes to reassure your distinguished military writer , Hanson W. Baldwin , that the Egyptians and the Arabs are not united , and therefore will not be , able to wage even a guerrilla campaign against the British . His object is evidently to reassure the British that they can defy the Arab world with impunity . . Throughout her history America has stood for the ideals of liberty and justice . She has fought two world wars to vindicate her belief in these ideals . Today she is the recognized leader of the free world , and has told the world that she will not stand for aggression anywhere . Britain is bound by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now comes Mr. Teller and tells us that the Egyptians are weak , and hence Britain can continue to occupy their country by force with . out fear of retaliation . Need I say that this attitude can only disillusion the Arab and Moslem worlds and furnish the Communists with the most effective arguments against the West ? Are the rights of the Egyptian people to liberty and independence to be decided solely on the basis of military strength alone ? Are we to understand that " liberty , " " justice " and " democracy " are mere empty words , and that force alone shall determine the fate of nations ? FRANK BAIZ . Washington , Nov. 3 , 1951 . Delinquency Causes Outlined Responsibility Believed to Lie in Other Factors Than the Schools To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Judge Panken , in his letter of Nov. 1 , states that " a change in curricula of our school system is long past due . Courses in parental responsibility and marital relationship are imperative if juvenile delinquency and adult crime are to be measurably prevented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ geometry " while such time ? may be better used in preparing pupils for life . While Judge Panken 's aims are corn . mendable , it appears that he is aiming at the wrong whippingboy . The decrease of such evil activities ' may be induced by proper education in the schools , but by far the responsibility or blame must be placed elsewhere . Although few pupils may find their way to courses of study not associated with their interests , in the main pupils are taught courses of prime interest to them , These courses are designed for the purpose of training each pupil according to his capacity . Of equal importance with ' learning subject-matter is the intangible training that is inherent in each lesson taught . In any course of study the teacher has as his goal the inculcation of proper attitudes , habits and character traits that are necessary to living in a democratic society . Although this learning is indirect , it is none the less present for , those who are amenable to " catch ' such learning . I fear that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the very many contributory causes that are apparent to the casual observer : sensational newspapers which glorify crime and lewdness ; motion pictures and publications which depict the high living of people outside the law , despite retribution in the end ; poor neighborhoods with their crowded living conditions ; , the " easy money concept . " Obviously , there are more reasons than these , but the point is clear . No , it is not the school ; it is the community around the school which Li the big contributor to juvenile delinquency . The school is doing its best under the circumstances . ? One way of tending toward correction of the problem is to project the school into the community and to draw the community into the school . However , the big task lies in mitigation of the aforementioned prime causes . SAMUEL P. G. ALTMAN . New York , Nov. 4 , 1951d Queuing Up for Buses Asked To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : A daily rider on both Queens 8414 Manhattan buses , I have noticed that riders in Queens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to imitate . In eastern Queens , espe ? cially in the Jamaica and Flushing areas , commuters have acquired the habit of getting in line at bus stops , single file . This orderly ' practice not only speeds loading of the bus but also eliminates blocking of the sidewalk by waiting passengers ' and rules out the possibility of arguments as to who if entitled to board the bus first . In contrast with this , the situation at busy bus stops in Manhattan ( such as Fifty-third and Lexington , Seventyninth and Second Avenue , Herald Square , etc. ) is exasperating , to say the least . Waiting passengers block the sidewalk , get into petty arguments as to who should go first and , in general , move more slowly boarding the bus , hesitating to let another go first , or trying to get on at the same time as another rider . Now , it would be extremely difficult for Manhattan riders to initiate this practice on their own . Therefore my suggestion would be that the bus companies and the Board of Transportation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by painting colored lines on the sidewalks to show riders where to line up . RICHARD K. GORGAS . Hollis . N. Y .. Nov. 3. 1951.                     