@@720676

txt George Meany predicted today that Congress would pass a " killer " bill on labor reform . The president of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial , Organizations virtually threw in the towel in the fight against the Administrationbacked Landrum-Griffin bill . He asserted that anti-labor forces were " riding high " in Congress , determined to push through a bill to render unions impotent . Mr. Mtany 's views were set forth in a gloomy news conference after the federation 's executive council had denounced the measure as " unfair " and declared that its final enactment was " inconceivable . " Some Hope Held Out Mr. Meany made it clear that the federation 's maximum hope was that the final bill would contain some " less detrimental " features of the differing versions of union control passed by the House of Representatives and the Senate . However , he emphasized that he was not optimistic about that . The federation concentrated its bitterest attack on the Landrum-Griffin bill , which was ' passed in the House last week by a coalition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I no enthusiasm for its milder Senate counterpart , the Kennedy-Ervin bill . He said labor was " quite definitely in a bad fix " with a conference committee obliged to fashion a compromise bill out of such distasteful ingredients . Part of his defeatist attitude , he explained , ? stems from the Senate 's decision yesterday to fix a one-week deadline for an agreement by the conferees . He said this meant that the joint committee was " meeting with a blackjack poised over its head " in the form of a ? requirement that it hammer out an accord or clear the way for a vote by the Senate on the House version . About the only cheer Mr. Meany could muster was an expression of confidence that labor would survive the impact of any bill Congress might pass , even if its intent was to " kill " unions under the guise of combating corruption . " I know it will be a big disiappointment to some of our ' friends in the National Association of Manufacturers , who were the real authors of this bill , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what they intend to be a killer law , " he declared . He bridled when asked whether the outcome of the House vote would upset " relations " between the federation and the Democratic party , to which most of its political support has gone in national elections . Mr. Meany said he had " no relations " with either party , and wanted none . Asked whether the ' federation might form an independent labor party to demonstrate its lack of confidence in either of the major parties , he replied that he did not think " we have reached the point of a third party . " He said the federation would continue to evaluate candidates on the basis of their individual records and programs , without regard for party affiliations . In its resolution on the Landrum-Griffin bill , the council contended that it would tip the scales more heavily in favor of employers than had the Taft Hartley Act twelve years ago . The resolution charged that the bill would discriminate against small unions by putting them under state regulation ; deprive unions of their constitutional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sweatshop " companies and frustrate legitimate organizing endeavors through curbs on " blackmail picketing . " " Under the guise of promoting democracy in union elections , " it declared , " the House opens the membership lists of trade unions to the Communists , company agents and crooks who had long desired to lay their ' hands on them . " It charged that the bill would encourage " harassing law suits " by persons interested in disrupting union activities and rendering suspect labor 's contributions to civic welfare . It asserted that the bill put no comparable restrictions on employers , even those engaged in corrupt practices . The resolution reaffirmed the federation 's determination to continue its war on racketeering and to cooperate in all constructive measures by the Government to root out abuses in labor-management activities . prosperous America . " A beneficial offshoot of Congressional moves to " handcuff " unions was cited by Mr. Meany . He said he had detected a greater willingness among council members , all heads of powerful unions , to seek cooperative solutions of jurisdictional problems . He attributed this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tougher " management attitudes , reflected in such develojmnents as the steel strike , had made it urgent for unions to avoid civil war and present a united front against outside enemies .                     