@@716558

txt The International Fur and Leather Worker 's , Union , independent , announced today , the resignation of , Ben Gold ' as its president . ' The announcement said the union 's executive board . elected Abe Feinglass of Chicago , Midwest regional director , as his successor . Gold , a controversial labor leader who is appealing a conviction on charges of having filed a false non-Communist oath under the Taft-Hartley Law , said he would devote all his time to fighting the Brownell-Butler Law passed by the recent Congress . That law would deny legal privileges to unions that were found by the Subversive Activities Control Board to be Communistdominated . In a statement Gold said that " I do not want the demagogues to interpret my activities against this and other Fascist reactionary laws as a pretext for intensifying their attacks upon our union . " I , therefore , deem it advisable at this time to withdraw as international president effective immediately . " G. 0 . P. Called Anti-Labor In his acceptance Mr. Feinglass said he considered the " most important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican Administration which is striving to undermine and destroy the conditions and rights the trade union movement of our country . " Mr. Feinglass has been a member of the union for twenty-seven years . He was active in the negotiations that brought about the merger of the fur and leather workers unions . The union credits him with leading the campaign in his area to organize open shop tRnneries and to help increase wages from 60 cents an hour to more than $1.95 an hour . He is 45 years old , married and the father of three children . Gold , a member of the union since 1912 , has been president for seventeen years . The union credits him with leading the fight to oust the Lepke Murder , Inc. , gang from the fur industry and labor movement . An avowed Con ! cmunist for thirty years , Gold filed an affidavit with the National Labor Relations Board saying ' he had quit the party . Last May 30 the union was barred from using the Labor Board facilities because it had kept Gold as president . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's affidavit was " a fake and a fraud " and that although he had formally disclaimed Communist membership , he actually remained a party member and sympathetic to Communist aims . Last April 30 he was convicted and subsequently sentenced to one to three years in prison for falsely denying his Communist party membership . He has appealed and is now free on $10,000 bail . Wrote for Daily Worker After Gold announced he had left the Communist party in 1950 , The Daily Worker , its newspaper , continued to carry articles written by him attacking the leadership of the American Federation of Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organizations . The day after Gold finally left the party , The Daily Worker wrote : " Gold at the same time made it clear that he did not abandon the convictions gained in nearly thirty years of membership in the Communist party . " Russian born , he began working in the fur industry as a boy of 14 . During twenty-four years in which he was an officer of the union , he saw the membership rise from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a member of the national committee of the Communist party . His resignation enabled the union to comply with the provision of the Taft-Hartley Act that precludes a labor organization from using the services , of the National Labor Relations Board unless each officer swears he is not a Communist . At his trial , Gold was defended by the late Vito Marcantonio , former Representative and himself a controversial Left-Wing figure . As late as last April , the shop chairmen of the Furriers Joint Council of New York had voted unanimously to support Gold in his appeal of the conviction . The union was expelled from the C. I. 0 . in 1949 as Communist-dominated .                     