@@713105

txt The famous United States First Cavalry Division went ashore yesterday in a full-fledged amphibious landing on the east coast of Korea at the little harbor town of Po-han General 's headquarters announced that the Twenty-fifth Division also had arrived in Korea . The announcement said that elements of one division already had entered combat and that the other division would follow shortly . The landing , which was made in almost full division strength , brought artillery fLnd a half dozen light tanks ashore and pushed rapidly inland , meeting no opposition . An Associated Press dispatch said the American troops had driven inland as much as seven miles . The operation marked the first time concentrated troops of division strength had been landed in Korea across beaches . The position chosen indicated the cavalry division now could be used either to strike northward along coastal road ? toward the Thirty-eighth Parallel or move inland , flanking the Communist drives down the central sector near Hamchang and toward Communist attackers on the Kum River line . " Submarines All Around " The actual landing was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moved a thousand miles from Japanese bases through waters that , according to the Navy commander , Rear Admiral James H. Doyle of the Far East naval forces , showed submarines " all around us . " ( An Associated Press dispatch said it was known that Russian submarines operated in this area . The convoy moved with only the lightest destroyers and air screen . Green - clad troops streamed ashore at 9 A. M. yesterday after the convoy had moved into the shallow , muddy bay at the head of which is the little fishing port of Pohang : Five thousand were in the operation . The first contingents moved immediately to consolidate the beachhead while the First Cavalry 's commanding general , Maj. Gen. Hobart R. Gay , set up his headquarters at the edge of a secret air base the United States had built within ten miles of Pohang and whence United States fighters have been operating against North Korean columns moving down , the east coast and faced by a single United States battalion . Under . General Gay 's command were two regimental combat teams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the promise of a naval bombardment and air support by carriers of the United States Seventh Fleet if necessary . Since last reports before the men climbed into the landing boats were that no North Koreans were in the immediate neighborhood the firing was confined to a few shots by a cruiser off the coast shelling an area to the north where Communist troops had been operating . The troops went ashore on a stone pier , avoiding the slowly shelving beaches , which would have been used in ease of opposition and which would have required a long wade under fire . Most of the troopers landed dryshod from four transports , which with the command ship Mt . , veteran of South Pacific campaigns , represented the main part of the convoy . Less than an hour after the troops had gone ashore the first of the expedition 's seventeen LST 's ( landing ship , tanks ) to reach the pier started unloading the guns and supplies of the first echelon . Mobile artillery was quickly pushed inland behind the troops along the dusty roads through rice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area and the organized North Korean forces were only about thirty miles away , just north of the coastal village of Yongdok , the only Koreans we saw were a few staring villagers , townsmen and laborers hurriedly perfecting the United States airstrip from which Mustang fighters took off over our heads . The dismounted cavalry troopers gagged and cursed in the white adhesive dust as they moved out along the road and railroad toward Taegu , center of the American build-up behind the tottering defense line behind the Kum River and toward the airstrip . One of the correspondents who accompanied the expedition called the landing the most peaceful the cavalry division has made since it came under General 's command  --  at the taking of the Admiralty Islands in the Southwest Pacific campaign of 1943 . The transports entered Pohang Bay just as the sun rose . Admiral Doyle 's communications ship and the transports anchored as the LST 's moved up . We had overtaken the slowmoving landing craft the night before . Blunt - nosed landing boats dropped overside and the men ? clumsy and encumbered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slung over bulwarks . The boats circled , then dashed shoreward . Word that landing would be unopposed reached the convoy as it crept into the bay from an advance party of twenty-seven Army , Navy and Air Force men who had entered the area days before and had made a survey of the potential boat-landing sites , the condition of the beaches and other necessary information . Members of the party boarded the flagship just after dawn , steaming out from Pohang in a harbor tug to give the final findings to General Gay and Admiral Doyle . We went ashore in a sleepy , smelly Korean town where the constabulary and detachments of the South Korean Navy were herding inhabitants off the streets to make way for passage ' of heavy American vehicles . Korean townsmen and women gazed at us apathetically , perhaps sullenly , from behind shop fronts and upper windows . There was . no cheering as the United States troops moved into the little town which for the past week had been threatened by the Communist advance down the coast . The only apparent recognition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sign that hung from two bamboo poles over the street . " Welcome U. S. A. Amiy3 " the sign said . It was an attitude in strange contrast to that of occupied Japan . As the convoy passed through the narrow , twisting Shimonoseki Strait on the way to the Sea of Japan , Japanese vessels dipped their ensigns to the United States flag flying from the warships . Fishermen and women waved wildly . In Korea no such demonstration was seen . Both the Army and Navy officers commanding the operation commented on the smoothness with which the Armed Forces cooperated in the first major combat operation since unification . General Gay told the correspondents that no one in the cavalry division doubted the Navy would put the troops ashore " in the best manner possible . " The Navy men praised the way in which the troopers cooperated in all the ships ' tasks . They pointed out that the situation was even mote remarkable since the operation  --  which during the war would have taken at least ninety days to plan and operate  --  actually was begun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the forces were compelled to use various makeshifts because of the lack of such essentials as trained boat crews and combat transports . ? The landing in force was an encouraging sign in the Korean war . Previously , in order to bolster the tottering South Korean forces and allow time for a build-up of supplies behind the line , United States troops had been thrown into the line more or less in details . This was a divisional landing , which gave the United States defenders a solid body with which to strike . The cavalry landed , however , with less than wartime strength . During the occupation all divisions in the Pacific had been cut about one-third below the tables of organization they used during the 1941-1945 campaigns . Some rear divisions also had to give up their weapons and noncommissioned personnel to bolster front-line outfits . There had been some speculation that a division would be landed north of the South Korean lines to strike a blow from the rear . With comparatively green troops ? the cavalry has only about 10 per cent combat veterans in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a safer course was adopted . Americans Plunge Ahead ON AMERICAN BEACHHEAD in South Korea , Wednesday , July 19 ( IP ) ? Advance American parties had gone into the invasion area as much as a week before , D-Day . The landing site was carefully selected to insure a minimum of , opposition . But reports indicated the North Koreans were not very far away . H-hour was 0700 ( 7 A. M. ) . Within a short time the Americans had moved inland five to seven miles , with a strong force building up in front of the northern advance in that sector . The American landing was the biggest movement of troops into the South Korean front since the Twenty-fourth Infantry Division was committed to action in small units in the first delaying actions against the Reds . The commanding general told news correspondents : " Our job is to kill North Korean troops until the United Nations has won a victory in Korea . " The amphibious fleet moved through waters where Russian submarines have been known to operate .      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      