@@719342

txt Letters to The Times Combating Communism Religious Organ Advocated for Counteraction to Propaganda Municipal Modernization Use of Electronic Machines by City Departments Urged TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Recently we read in The Times that the Hungarian writer Tibor Dery had been sentenced to nine years ' imprisonment . This recalled to mind Howard Fast 's moving letter of some weeks ago to The New York Times on Dery 's behalf and his complaint respecting the ineffectualness of the democratic world in taking the case of an individual before the court of world opinion . The reason , however , for what seems to Mr. Fast to be the disturbing superiority of the Communist movement is not and was not its intrinsic justice or morality . At heart communism never had this but was blood and iron and arbitrary might . Individuals , both .... , on the periphery and at the center of the movement , may have had , as we are convinced Mr. Fast did , a passionate sense of justice . But this sense was secondary to the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the power of protest and agitation . It must be confessed that the lack of 9. nything in the free world remotely comparable to the Communist apparatus , centrally directed and abundantly financed , is a great handicap in the present struggle . " This is a struggle of ideologies , of a religious way of life against atheism , of freedom against dictatorship . " ( President Eisenhower in tuasting Queen Elizabeth . ) These ideologies could also be described as commitment to the dignity of the human being , with all this implies , versus faith in bloodless abstractions like economic determinism , historical materialism , class war and the classless society . Basis for Judging This is the background from which it is necessary to judge the splendidly vehement book " The New Class " by Milovan Djilas , a hero not of communism but of humanity , who now rots in a Yugoslav jail . It is also the background of Howard Fast 's secession from communism and the status of hero in the Soviet Union . We of the free United States can not but applaud @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a power , for good in the feee world . And this is the background of the Polish and Hungarian revolts and the bankruptcy of the human and spiritual pretensions of communism throughout the globe . Such a condition is ripe for powerful counteraction in the name of God , of man , of conscience , of liberty . What is wrong , what is missing , what explains the notable weakness in the free world which Mr. Fast feels and finds so disturbing ? Partly there is in our society a lack of the divine discontent . Our unconscious mind is to shore up the status quo and to avoid that which is disturbing and troublesome . And we are very busy about many things . More important and decisive , however , is the lack of an organ which could function nationally and internationally for freedom and justice , in a manner not dissimilar to the propaganda and agitational aspects of the world-wide Communist apparatus . Such an idea may be distasteful to many in our society , but we have no choice . Normal conduct , even the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is insufficient . Communism is organized for continuing civil war at every level on a planetary scale , and we can meet it only by devising tools and techniques of our own choosing and of a character appropriate to our society , and nourishing the verve and the will to act in extraordinary ways to meet an unparalleled international emergency . Need for Organization It was this reasoning which led four years ago to the establishment by leaders of major American faiths of the Foundation for Religious Action in the ' Social and Civil Order ( FRASCO ) . We can not say that FRASCO , despite the interest of many in high places and some solid achievements , has yet met the challenge it originally dreamed of accepting boldly and without compromise . But we can say that some ' organ of this kind is indispensable . We can say further that it must be based upon ethical and religious principles . It must be inclusive . It must be entirely voluntary . It must be nongovernmental . It must operate primarily by liai , son with the basic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dedicated support of tens of thousands of Americans of every creed , race and color . Within these limits and safeguards the ends of liberty and justice are safe . At the same time moral and religious action can be . a reality . Is it not time the free world and , in particular , this great country with its spirit of free enterprise , its ingenuity and its wealth , take to heart the elemental lessons that freedom is the true form of human existence and that the prizes of history are for those who believe , venture and care the most ? - CHARLES WESLEY LOWRY , Chairman , FRASCO . JOHN F. CRONIN , S. S. , Social Action Department , National Catholic Welfare Conference . EDWARD L. R. ELSON , Minister , National Presbyterian Church . NORMAN GERSTENFELD , Minister , Washington Hebrew Congregation . Washington , Dec. 11 , 1957 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : ' Just three years ago the Citizens Budget Commission raised the question of the use of electronic data processing machines in the conduct of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York ought to be alert to the limitless opportunities for more efficient use of tax dollars by modernizing its data processing methods and using the newest electronic devices . Three years have passed and a heavy fog has settled down on the proposal . . The purpose of this letter is not to fix blame , but to provoke action . We realize that the . Controller has installed an electronic device of limited scope and is now studying a large-scale installation for payroll processing . We commend him for it . But what he has done is not what the whole situation calls for . It is not his function to administer the methods and clerical operations of the whole municipal government . The basic objective of modernizing data processing is to save manpower costs by increasing productivity . An important value in studying the feasibility of using electronic machines is the opportunity it allows for a fundamental review of procedures . This enables the elimination of operations which may have become unnecessary with the passage of time , and the simplification and modernization of necessary operations . Now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ study by the city is essential . We believe that the office of the City Administrator is , or should be , ideally situated to make a study for all municipal departments . It has no jurisdictional axes to grind and no special activity concerns , so it ought to be able to do a first-rate objective and productive job . The City Administrator could make the necessary studies with a minimum of motion and a maximum promise of results . An order from the Mayor would do the job . Let 's not all vegetate just because Khrushchev has a sputnik . The world has n't stopped moving . JOHN M. LEAVENS , Executive Director , Citizens Budget Commission . New York , Dec. 6 , 1957 . Ban on Gun Permits Queried To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It was recently announced by the New York City Police Department that pistol permits issued to some of the underworld figures who attended the meeting in Apalachin last month have been canceled , and that an investigation is under way to determine how many other underworld figures have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grim humor : New York City probably has the toughest , most restrictive gun law in this country ; very few permits are issued every year and these entirely at the pleasure of the Police Department . Despite this , more crimes involving guns take place in that city than in any other place every year . It is almost impossible for an average citizen to obtain a pistol permit in New York City . I know of honest citizens who have to overcome almost insurmountable difficulties every year to retain their permits so that they can continue to engage in the sport of target shooting . The fact that mobsters can obtain and retain such permits for years should cause some reflection among the well-meaning citizens who every year cause innumerable anti-gun bills to be introduced . The only effect of this kind of legislation is to disarm the honest citizen . The hoodlums either keep their guns illetally or can even obtain the nee . ' essary permits . JOSEF E. HERZ . New Brunswick , N. J. , Dec. 6 , 1957 . Nixon Speech Praised To THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nixon for his common-sense speech of Dec. 6 . Sputnik  --  jusi ; another science advancement to enjoy , not to worry about . The passing now of statesmen like Adenauer , Chiang Kai-shek , Syngman Rhee could mean more . We should keep alert that oriental renaissance started is. 1945 , so that forty years from now Asia will count 4,000 million people , with new and better antibiotics , insuring their mental capacity and longevity . This should be our only preoccupation , the solution of which must be based upon real diplomatic , human and spiritual achievements . CARLOS QUIROS , Argentine Ambassador ( Retired ) . EDUARDO SIVORI , Buenos Aires , Dec. 10 , 1957.                     