@@720947

txt The U.S. intends to take an active part in any future peace talks between Europe 's rival trading blocs  --  the Common Market and the newly formed European Free Trade Association . This could be one of the more far reaching results of Under Secretary of State Douglas Dillon 's present " trade and aid " tour of Europe . Mr. Dillon flies back to New York today after a week in Europe trying to get promises of further easing of discrimination against dollar imports and greater European contributions to aid for underdeveloped countries . On both counts he seemingly has had some success , though it will be weeks or even months before his whirlwind round of conferences can show results . The U.S. interest In talks between the Common Market . the so-called six , and the sevennation E.F.T.A . is twofold : To make sure any agreement between the two groups does n't discriminate against U S goods and to try to prevent economic divisions from turning into political splits . No Thought of U.S. Joining Although the U.S wants to sit in at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there 's no thought now of the U S also joining any trade arrangement the Common Market and Free Trade Area countries might reach . Such a move . American officials explain , would imply making special trade concessions to the Six and the Seven at the same time : the U S. piefers making such concessions through the broader General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs , a pact under which 37 free world nations negotiate trade agreements . The Common Market links the economies of France . West Germany . Italy . Holland , Belgium and Luxembourg . The Free Trade area has a more limited goal  --  freer trade among Britain . Scandinavia . Switzerland , Austria and Portugal Undersecretary Dillion also has been trying to ease America 's pi esent balance of payments problem by getting European countries to lower their barriers against dollar imports He reportedly has gotten promises that both Britain and France will reduce dollar discriminations further in the near future Germany has begun to relax quotas on imports from the ti S but American officials belie%e the prosperous Germans could go further , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make an immediate payment of 5190 million on its postwar debt to the U S to help ease Washington 's balance of payment tioubles. the Associated Press repotted . Bonn agreed to make the payment at once Some of the bill falls due in 1961 sono . in 1n67 IChancellor Adenauer also promised Mr Dillon to contribute a sizable amount of funds to a Joint Western prop ant of aid to underdeveloped lands , the AP said Present trade talks are aimed at easing quotas rather than lowering tariffs However the U S intends to push for lower foreign tartuts on goods from the U.S in GATT meetings during the coming year . In the American view . there 's no practical way tariffs can be attacked before the next GATT sessions . In the campaign to get European countries , notably Germany , to take on a greater share of the economic aid burden . Mr. Ddlon 's emphasis has been on long-term loans to the underdeveloped nations of - Asia . Africa and Latin America . A common need in all underdeveloped countries is electrical generating equipment , but American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to five years for such equipment . Hence the effort to work out longer credit terms , perhaps 10 to 15 years under some sort of government . guaranteed loans . No Cub , in Aid Planned American officials emphasize that the U.S does not intend to reduce its aid to underdeveloped countries . The U.S. view is that the aid job now is so big that more European countries must contribute , especially when the U S is running a balance of payments deficit of more than $4 billion annually . No specific arrangement has yet been made for trade talks between the Common Market and the Free Trade group , or for American participation in such negotiations . American officials , however . are opposed to " summit " type sessions designed to solve all problems : it once . They fear that should such a large scale meeting fail , the result would be even deeper divisions Some U S. officials think the Organization for European Economic Cooperation . which embraces both groups , could be reorganized as a forum for talks between the Six and the Seven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goals , specifically the drive to lower trade harries among member countries , is viewed as a good thing by U S obsem. et s so long as it does n't result in discrimination against American products .                     