@@714026

txt Defense Mobilization Director Wilson has suggested a study of the possibility of channeling some of the rawmaterial production of East and South Asia to the industrial plant of Japan . Japanese production is considerably below capacity on the one hand , and raw-material production in several areas can be greatly expanded on the other . A good synthesis would give Japan a better economy , take some of the industrial production load off the United States and offer a valuable and expanding market to raw-material producers at a time when its returns could well be used in economic and social rebuilding . This is one side of the picture , and it is admittedly inviting . We are already committed to getting a higher degree of viability in the Japanese economic structure , and this would be one way of getting it . We are also hopeful of advances in devastated or underdeveloped areas , and their commitment to increased raw-material production for an assured market would bring some of those advances . There are , however , some other elements in the equation that suggest the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This should not be regarded as some magic panacea for all the economic ills of East Asia . ' What is done will have to be planned and carried out with many things in mind . Most important of these things is the attitude of the countries that can be rawmaterial suppliers . Some of the most important of those countries  --  India , Pakistan , Burma , the Philippines and Indonesia  --  have recently emerged from a dependent to an independent political position . One of the most vigorous arguments for the necessity of this change was the condemnation of a " colonial economy " that made these countries merely producers of raw materials for a distant industrial market . It was repeatedly urged that once their political independence was achieved they could build a better balanced economy and be rid of this economic dependence . There are two things basically wrong with the " colonial economy . " First , it is to the advantage of the entrepreneur to keep original  --  that is , labor  --  costs as low as possible . Second , the return on raw-material @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over which the producer has no influence , much less control . Thus , while the " colonial economy " did , in many areas , substantially raise standards of living , it was not responsive to large accretions of profit . The rubber , sugar , copra or tin worker did not enjoy a gain at all commensurate with the spectacular advances in the end price of the product that he helped to produce . It will readily be seen , therefore , that these raw-material producers will be hesitant to go into a plan that might restore a " colonial economy " with Japan as the beneficiary . Most of them have programs for developing a diversified economy and have hopes for at least some degree of industrialization . If this plan is to work , therefore , it must be accompanied by adequate safeguards for the original producers . One living standard safeguard could take the form of minimum wage laws , such as that which has recently been enacted , for example , in the Philippines . There would also be the need to find some formula @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these there would have to be the assurance that a predatory Japan was not in process of rebuilding . These are large problems , and they indicate why this planning will have to be approached thoughtfully and with the full agreement and cooperation of those who would be affected .                     