@@720246

txt Widespread rejoicing over the Cyprus agreement is tempered in part by the recognition here that a long road still lies ahead  --  and that more hard bargaining certainly will be necessary . Cyprus , in effect , nas been snittea nom the roster of inter ! national trouble spots as a consequence of the settlement arranged by Greece , Turkey , and Britain , with the concurrence of Greek and Turkish Cypriote leaders . But it is inescapable that countless details now remain for the local leaders and colonial administrators to arrange at a national level before full Cyprus independence is worked out to everyone 's satisfaction . Noted in London is the fact that while Archbishop Makarios , the Greek Cypriote leader , appears to have bowed to the pressure of the other participants in the Lancaster House conference here , he also may have been able to insert an important " escape clause " in the agreement signed Feb. 19 . ' Maneuvering Foreseen Whether or not this is the case , seasoned Whitehall diplomats and veteran experts are well aware that although the broad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubtless will be more keen maneuvering when it comes to filling in the details of an actual Cyprus constitution and a pact for military bases . The British , however , do not permit doubts about the future to overshadow heartfelt relief that a dispute that divided friendly powers at last has been expunged . The liming could not have been more propitious for Prime Minister Harold Macmillan , who can embark upon his Moscow mission Feb. 21 with added confidence stemming from this achievement . If nothing else , the Cyprus settlement serves notice on the Communist bloc that the Western powers can iron out complex internal and colonial problems at a conference table , rather than solely by recourse to arms . Reaction Awaited Yet those in power here are aware that imposed settlements seldom work easily . And so attention now is shifting to the problems of the transitional phase and focusing upon the probable reaction of the Cypriotes themselves . " Governments may propose , " says The Times , of London , " but to a great extent , it is the Cypriotes themselves who dispose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occasion in London , as some contend . Or , outnumbered and outmaneuvered , he may only have bided his time . Meanwhile , he is free Ito return to Cyprus for the first time since he was exiled in March , 1956 . And some London observers are convinced the controversial prelate has accepted the present agreement only as " the agreed foundation for the final settle . merit . " This clause he reportedly insisted upon inserting at the last moment in the agreement , which is not to be published until Feb. 23 . The quoted words are subject to any interpretation  --  and the Archbishop may not give them the same meaning as the other signers . So a definite note of caution is being sounded here as well as in Nicosia , despite the welcome " miracle " of agreement and the hope that a new era has opened in the eastern Mediterranean . Buoying . up people here is evidence during these few hectic days of negotiation that statesmanship still can be manifested  --  and still counts more than bayonets in reaching a solution . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and strife , " said Mr. Macmillan to the House of Commons . Britons were not alone in hoping he was correct .                     