@@716620

txt Three major developments featured the final week of the 1954 congressional election . President Eisenhower dropped his original intention of remaining on the sidelines during the contest and campaigned as vigorously as any other Chief Executive at a two-term election in modern times . Democrats , through Senate Minority Leader Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas , pledged themselves to back President Eisenhower on foreign affairs if they captured Congress . Mr. Eisenhower tonight will give the nation his view of economic conditions  --  a major issue in the campaign for control of the next Congress . The address will he televised by station WBZ at 11:30 o'clock daylight time and broadcast by station WNAC . And Republicans made a lastminute switch in campaign strategy , changing emphasis from the milder " peace and prosperity " issue to a hard-hitting attack on " Communists in government . " In New York they opened a rolling drumfire of charges and accusations against Averell Harriman , Democratic candidate for Governor . Republicans appeared to be making a supreme effort to put their opponents on the defensive . They reached the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great technical skill . Backed by abundant radio and TV time . the Republican National Committee announced 250 speeches in 36 states in the final , week . Vice-President Richard M. Nixon moved to a total for the campaign of 200 speeches in 31 states . President Eisenhower prepared to make two more major political speeches in addition to the eight he already has delivered , of which four were broadcast or televised . Democrats threw their forces into the final week , also , with Adlai E. Stevenson invading the East . with particular attention to New York State . Control of New York , if won now , will be of key importance in the presidential race in 1956 . The campaign , as it developed , saw the gradual eclipse of Mr. Eisenhower 's original plans to stay aloof , and also to base the struggle on the record of the 83d Congress . Mr. Eisenhower originally stated that he hoped the campaign would be fought on the Republican record , involving a sort of popular plebiscite on the administration 's first two years . More and more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ role in the campaign with repeated direct appeals to the voters to give him a Republican Congress for his next two years . Results of polls taken by national and local agencies indicated , meanwhile , that Republicans in many areas are in trouble . The poll probably most affecting GOP strategy is that of the New York Daily News , which shows Mr. Harriman well ahead of Senator Irving M. Ives ( R ) of New York in the governorship race . Republicans have made a dramatic switch in strategy both on the national and the New York battle front . On the national front , Mr. Nixon has swung with all his strength at the " Communists-ingovernment " issue , This issue is now a feature in half a dozen western states . At Butte . Mont .. Mr. Nixon declared he had evidence in a " secret memorandum " that Communists are attempting to infiltrate the Democratic Party and want them to win . He cited the 6,926 security risks discharged by the administration as evidence of the presence of " the Communist threat " in government . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward communism , and later asserted of Mr. Stevenson that the 1952 Democratic presidential candidate - has not changed since he testified for Alger Hiss . " The statement by Senator Johnson was of considerable interest here to foreign observers . Senator Johnson said that he was speaking in his official capacity as Senate minority leader for the Democratic congressmen as a whole . He said that if his party won control of Congress , the United States would continue to speak with " one voice . " in foreign affairs . and added that that voice would be President Eisenhower's.                     