@@720016

txt On this page yesterday we expressed our views on a number of the important Senatorial contests . Today we begin a series of four editorials on candidates for the House of Representatives in the metropolitan New Yotk area , covering northern New Jersey , the lower Hudson Valley , southwestern Connecticut , eastern Long Island and the five counties of New York City . From the standpoint of the independent voter it is frequently difficult to make an intelligent choice between Congressional candidates  --  especially in and around big cities  --  because both party machines are still too prone to nominate for the important office of member of Congress men either without visible qualifications or without special distinction . In some of the more lopsided districts the situation can become particularly intolerable when the opposition puts up totally inexperienced or uninspiring candidates to make a merely token race against a firmly entrenched mediocrity . Looking at the New Jersey Congressional elections from the Third to the Fourteenth District inclusive  --  which means all of the state from Burlington and Ocean Counties northward  --  we believe as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Representatives Frank Thompson Jr . ( Democrat ) in the Fourth , Peter Frelinghuysen Jr . ( Republican ) in the Fifth and Mrs. Florence P. Dwyer ( Republican ) in the Sixth . We supported the candidacies of the first two in 1956 , and of Mr. Frelinghuysen in 1954 , as well . Mr. Thompson is an alert young Democrat from Trenton ; Mr. Frelinghuysen of Morristown is , as we said two years ago , a " liberal , intelligent , high-minded young legislator . " In Union County , where Mrs. Dwyer is running for her second term against a political neophyte , Jack B. Dunn , both candidates are acceptable ; but the energetic Mrs. Dwyer has the advantage of legislative experience and a good voting record . We also endorsed Representative Gordon Can- , field of the Eighth District in 1954 and 1956 ; but the vote of this generally liberal Republican veteran from Paterson to kill the reciprocal trade bill early this year reduces our enthusiasm . In the Seventh District , curling around the top of New Jersey from Bergen County almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is highly regarded . Republican Representatives Auchincloss ( Third District ) and Osmers ( Ninth ) and Democratic Representatives Rodino ( Tenth ) ap.d:Addonizio ( Eleventh ) leave us cool ; but their opponents are either , political unknowns or as uninspiring as the incumbents . In the important Twelfth District ( part of Essex County ) two ' respectable citizens are contending for the seat vacated by Republican Representative Robert W. Kean , whose Senatorial candidacy we endorsed yesterday while reaffirming our almost equally high regard for his opponent , former Representative Harrison A. Williams/ Jr . The two contenders in the Twelfth are Thomas J. Holleran , Democrat , and George M. Wallhauser , Republican , neither of whom has ever held political office . Here the only thing the independent voter can do is to judge for himself whether a liberal Democrat would be better in the House than a pro-Administration Republican . The two remaining districts in northern New Jersey divide Jersey City between them , with all that that implies in machine politics . We pass over in silence the two candidates in the Fourteenth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Cornelius E. Gallagher , vice chairman of the New Jersey Turnpike Authority , who does seem to be several cuts above the normal run-of-the-mill Hudson County politician .                     