@@715881

txt Vigorous efforts to shape hard-hitting issues which will win the crucial mid-term elections of 1954 am resoundingly under I way . At Ndw York . Senator Joseph R. McCarthy , Republican lone wolf from Wisconsin , his offered himself and his special methodology for handling  --  the " Communists-in-government " problem as a major issue for next fall . At Atlanta . Adlai E. Stevenson , Democratic candidate for President in 1952 , has sought to identify Republican tactics on the Communist issue with the waving of the " bloody shirt " by reconstruc'tionist Republicans after the Civil War ,  --  a historically flaming war cry to Solid-South Democrats . Meanwhile : other Democrats and Republicans have entered the fray ; arguing variously whether the issue ? of " Communists in government " will survive and override the farm-price , issue , labor legislation , and kindred upcoming problems through 1954 , Bid for Leadership ? Senator McCarthy 's half-hour nationwide broadcast Nov. 24 in reply to former President Truman is being assessed by political observers as virtually a bid for leadership of the Republican Party . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope that the issue of Communists in government would be a matter of past history by November , 1954 . In his broadcast . Senator McCarthy said ? that " communism " would be an issue in 1954 . But the full implication was that he meant " Communists in government . " . The senator also criticized the Eisenhower administration for not doing all it could to root out Communists , while praising . its efforts to date to separate security suspects from the government . He also , in effect , attacked Secretary of State John Foster Dulles 's policies by calling for a halt in the payment of what he termed " blood money " ? meaning foreign or military aid funds  --  to any American ally , Britain in particular , that traded with Communist China . Back in Limelight The whole shrewd performance , including Senator McCarthy 's detailing of his latest subcommittee hearings at security-sensitive electrical factories , is being regarded as the Wisconsin senator 's bid to move back into the limelight from which he was excluded by the administration 's handling of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General Herbert Brownell , Jr. , and the Jenner Internal Security Committee took the play away from the Wisconsin senator . It represented an effort by the administration to substitute its own tactics in handling the sub version issue for those of the McCarthy committee . But the Wisconsin senator , who had demanded a full half hour on radio and television to answer Mr. Truman 's 10-minute reference to " McCarthyism " in his recent broadcast , sought to do more than regain lost ground . He also advised his listeners specifically that their votes , determining which party controlled the Senate in 1954 , would determine whether or not he remained as chairman of his powerful Senate investigative committee . Thus he has sought not only to pose as champion of his , party in rooting out subversives from government , but to make his own viewpoints , policies , and methodology a dominant issue in 1954 . Sharp Republican Rift This marks the sharpest rift yet to appear between the Eisenhower administration and the Wisconsin senator . The McCarthy radio-television speech is regarded in political quarters as setting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here on , and the is ' sues on which he will either move to greater power or gradually lose influence . Meanwhile the Democrats are readying their reply to the issue which Senator McCarthy labeled " Trumanism " and the Republican effort to make capital out of " Communists in government . " Democratic Senators Richard B. Russell of Georgia , Robert S. Kerr of Oklahoma , and Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota all expressed doubt , in statements to reporters , that the Communist issue would hold voter interest for another year . They nominated farm policy , labor legislation , social security , the high cost of living , and laek of confidence in ? Republican leadership as major issues for 1 ' 954.                     