@@717131

txt The Communists are easing pressure on the free world because they realize the implications of nuclear warfare , Sir Roger Makins , British Ambassador to the United States , said here today . Another underlying cause of the thaw in the cold war , according to Sir Roger , is " economic difficulties within the Soviet empire . " Speaking before 927 degree winners at the 89th commencement ceremonies of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , Sir Roger forecast a gradual easing in world tensions . " We stand , perhaps , at the beginning of a period in which our minds and will can reach out to master the additional threats which the progress of science has imported into international relations . Sees Gradual Progress " Bit by bit , step by step , we may hope for at least modest progress toward better relations between East and West . " A balanced scheme of disarmament and the control and ultimate abolition of weapons of mass destruction are the avowed objectives of all the leading countries . " There is a great reservoir , which must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these objectives can he attained . But perhaps we are on bur way . " Sir Roger noted real progress the Western nations are making " in mitigating defects of our so-clay . " Gradually , " bringing about better relations between classes within nations . and between nations themselves . Unrelaxed Effort Vital " This has been another factor in bringing the Russians to change their diplomatic approach and , seemingly , to contemplate a reduction of international tension . " This position of strength has only been attained by a great deal of hard work in the West , in both the scientific and the political fields , and we shall not long retain it if we persuade ourselves that we have achieved enough now , and can relax our efforts . " This is not the only aspect of the competition between the West and the Communist world . .. There is no doubt that the eyes of many nations , and particularly those who were recently assembled at the Afro-Asian Conference  --  the uncommitted third of the world , in fact ? are watching the rival merits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves , is more likely to give them the economic , technological , and administrative assistance they need , and provide the pattern for their own development and progress ? Double Challenge " On the answer that they find to this question , much will depend , including perhaps the balance of power between the Communist and the free worlds . " Sir Roger sees a double challenge from this : First , " We must hammer out a sound which the two great groups of powers can et live without fear or aggression . " Second , " We must muster the technical and political intelligence , the initiative , and the wisdom , needed to improve our own society both in its control of material things and in harmonizing the social consequences of this increased control . " We must so organize our own economic life and lay out our resources  --  human , material , intellectual , and moral  --  that our system not only keeps on improving , but will be more satisfying and more worthy of emulation to those peoples who are still in doubt about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be more than technical experts . They also must be aware of and participate in political and economic activities " not only national but international . " This is the wider role that all men and women trained in natural science and technology must play in today 's world , he insisted . Dignity Stressed " It is not only in science that we must advance : it is the application of science to the widening of our horizons , to the elevation of our habits of mind and thought . " We must constantly strive to bring our scientific progress into harmony with our social objectives , with our moral and , religious values . Dr. James R. Killian , Jr. , president of MIT , told the graduates their success will be found " in the dignity and poise which you reveal in meeting both the failures and successes of life . " Dr. Frederick May Eliot , president of the American Unitarian Association , gave the baccalaureate address , He urged that " religion must return to the minds and hearts of educated men if we are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " It can not be too often stated in plain words that without freedom the search for truth is impossible . "                     