@@715901

txt The attack delivered in Washington this week by Senator Joseph R. McCarthy ( R ) of Wisconsin on the person and foreign policies of Secretary of State . John Foster Dulles focused in one place the great issue around which the affairs of a whole world were revolving . ' Whether the senator from Wisconsin realized it , he was in affect challenging and attempting to stop and to reverse the trend of the.times . Senator McCarthy says the trend is marked by a " whining , whimpering appeasement " involving " phony truce " and " perfumed notes " to America 's allies and a " blood trade " with Communist China . Senator McCarthy indicates that the right course of action for the United States to pursue is to break with this trend , deny American aid to any ally which trades with China , force upon China the disgorgement of all remaining Korean war prisoners , and perhaps , although this is by remote implication , even resume active hostilities with Communist China and attempt to break that regime . Dulles Stresses Allies Whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purpose is highly problematical . Mr. Dulles stressed in his spirited defense that the most likely result of attempted coercion of the Allies would be to destroy the alliance and to expose the United States to the grave danger of the atomic threat from the Soviet Union without the system of overseas bases which alone can give a measure of protection to American cities . It is also highly unlikely that the McCarthy policy , even if applied with utmost vigor , would bring back a single missing American soldier . That they still live is itself doubtful . That Communist China would give them up under pressure seems even more doubtful . Asiatic countries and the Soviets do n't behave that way  --  or at least they never have . However , Senator McCarthy was accurately putting his finger on what is happening in the world . The labels he puts upon it are subjective and partisan . Another way of stating the trend would be that it is a flow of governments away from atomic war . bishment of President Chiang on Formosa . Now the pressures are declining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maoe to formalize it in a peace settlement . The 38th parallel , the original postwar power boundary in Korea , is in fact reestablished , and while neither side is satisfied with it , neither side is willing to resume the effort to change it by arms . The Soviet Union has accepted its loss of Yugoslavia by resuming diplomatic relations with that lost satellite , and has abandoned direct and overt pressure on Greece and Turkey . It has accepted its failure to win the loyalty of Austrians to communism by reducing its original occupation control to the point where it does little more there today than maintain a garrison , now down to 40,000 men , along the Czech frontier . On their side the Western Allies have abandoned any major effort to break the Soviet satellite system in Europe by " liberation . " Also , no secret is made of the fact that . General Chiang is not expected ever to see Nanking or Peking again . United States Vice-President Richard M. NiNon has been telling the Asiatics he visits that Washington accept- ' ance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter of time provided the Chinese themselves do not commit new aggressions . Indochina Truce Talk There is no doubt either , for good or ill , that once a Korean peace is signed there will be a resumption of Western trade with Communist China . And the French and Communist leader , Ho Chi Minh , are both talking about a negotiated compromise of the Indochinese war . The foreign policy of the Eisenhower administration is moving with this trend . It has not led the trend , but it is moving with it , albeit a little behind some of its allies . must move with it or break with the alliance . This it dares not do , for the whole fabric of American military security is woven into the web of the alliance . A reacceptance of . the 1948 power frontiers does not necessarily mean that they will become permanent . On the contrary , their permanence is impossible . German reunification , Austrian recovery of complete independence , a reopening of the satellites to Western commerce in both goods and ideas must come some day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the governments of the world plainly prefer the stability of a reestablishment of the 1948 frontiers to continuation of the effort on both sides to break them . Trend Challenged This present trend to the reestablishment of the 1948 power frontiers is what Senator McCarthy is challenging . Mr. Dulles is going along with it , Senator McCarthy is attacking Mr. Dulles for doing it . Senator McCarthy would coerce the alliance into resuming Western pressures upon the 1948 frontiers . Mr. Dulles answers that the Allies will not be coerced and that to attempt to do so would not only thwart the McCarthy purpose , but leave the United States exposed and friendless in the world , Senator McCarthy 's allies are General Chiang , South Korean President Rhee , and the refugees and exiles from the Soviet empire , all of whom are united in a single common bond . They can regain their losses in the visible future only by an early forcing of the re-forming frontiers . Mr. Dulles 's allies are the leaders of all the members of the Western alliance and also the neutral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gain control of American foreign policy , the United States will at least acquiesce , if not push , in establishment of a cold-war truce line around the whole world . Mr. Dulles cleared his own way toward working with the Allies in this direction by his decision to resist the McCarthy attack . On that basis he meets with Sir Winston Churchill and Joseph Laniel in Bermuda this week and almost certainly with the Soviets somewhere in Europe in January . New Pattern Looms nowever .. wnetner , one prefers to call it " appeasement " or " a rescue of civilization from atomic war , " the fact is that something is happening which no longer fits the old patterns of either the " cold war " or the Republican campaign foreign-policy posture of 1952 , with its emphasis on " dynamism , " " boldness , " and " liberation . " The best way of grasping what is really happening is to note that all around the world there is a perceptible tendency to reestablish , reconfirm , and reaccept the power frontiers between East and West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1948 . That was the year when Moscow I captured Czechoslovakia and lost Yugoslavia and when France and Italy were rescued from the immediate , threat of internal Communist subversion . There were many subsequent challenges to that frontier . The Kremlin attempted to capture Berlin by the blockade , and its dependencies in Asia attempted to capture South Korea and Indochina by war . The West answered by threatening the satellite capitals in Europe with " liberation " of the area and communist China with the refur-                     