@@716814

txt President Eisenhower , plainly deferring to the United Nations , put the lid today on further Administration comments about the ' Formosa prob ; em . The picture fie presented at the White House news conference was of a man treading softly lest he jar the delicate mechanism of diplomacy . His purpose was " honestly and llopefully to prevent war , " the President said . That purpose was served , he assertcd , by making it crystal clear in everyone 's mind that the United States was absolutely determined to defend Formosa as an important link in the great island barrier of the Western Pacific . The Congressional resolution last week endorsing his authority to take military action , if need be , should " make certain that no conflict occurs through mistaken calculation on the other side as to our concern about Formosa and our determination to defend it , " the President said . But the President turned away other questions aimed at elaborating his policy on Formosa , the offshore islands , and the ceasefire efforts in the United Nations . Filmed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " he said , " and I do n't see how any statement of mine could do anything more than muddy the waters . " This morning 's news conference was the second to be filmed for television . The White House authorized direct quotation of those questions and answers it released to the television networks . General Eisenhower strode into the conference room three minutes late and said briskly : " I have no announcements . We will go right to questions . " He wore a gray suit and a blue shirt . in a shade much favored by television performers . Another concession to the cameras was a yellow desk blotter put on the I table before him at the request of the technicians to reflect more light on the President 's face . The first question brought out President Eisenhower 's wary attitude . Asked whether he had any indication that Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek wanted a public reassurance that the United States regarded the Quemoy and Matsu island groups as part of Formosa 's defenses , the President replied that the views of Taipei and Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ernments were in close comrnuni : . cation . He went on : " But I think that in view of the delicacy of this whole situation , . one that in its main parts is before the United Nations , that it is better to stand for the moment just on What we have said , at least publicly , and let it go at that and say no more . " , This answer set the pattern.for most of the questions on Formosa . The President was asked , for example , whether the Seventh Fleet was under orders to engage in " hot pursuit " if United States planes or ships came under Communist attack . This would mean allowing ships of the fleet to enter China 's territorial waters in chasing down attackers or , in the case of planes , to fly over the Communist mainland . Decided Against Talking The President 's reply was that he had frankly considered , before coming into the conference , whether he would talk about such matters and had decided against doing so . It was at this point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He was not trying to keep the press or the public in the dark , General Eisenhower added . It was just that. , he thought it wise to say nothing because the situation was international and involved " every kind of influence and cross current , " he declared . The President also declined to , say whether he believed that a ' stalemate was implied in the I Formosa situation . Such words as " stalemate " and " coexistence " mean different things to different people , he said . But he made clear that , in his own view , stalemate was not the worst possible outcome . ' In his definition , President Eiseenhower said , the word meant a situation in which " neither side is getting what it desires in this whole world struggle , but that ' they at least have sense enough to agree that they must not pursue it deliberately and through force of arms . " Half-Loaf Solution A half-loaf solution of this kind has , in fact , been described by high Administration officials as the best that can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entail Generalissimo Chiang 's giving up the offshore islands and Peiping 's recognizing that ' it can not capture Formosa , while they agree formally or informally to stop the fighting . When a reporter suggested that in spite of assurances from the White House  --  and Congress there was still a great deal of uneasiness in the country that the new Formosa policy might lead to fighting in the Far East , the President gave a more definite answer . The Administration , he said , has avoided truculence and has been as precise as possible in stating its policy . Its purpose is to prevent war through Communist miscalculation , the President added , by making clear that the United States is determined to defend . Formosa . NO Thought to Resolution General Eisenhower said he had given no thought to.the resolution introduced by Senator Hubert Humphrey , Democrat of Minnesota , that , would put Congress on record as supporting the United Nations efforts to arrange a cease-fire in the Formosa strait . He also was asked whether the United States was considering a request to the Kremlin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temporary cease-fire while the Nationalists evacuated the Tachen Islands . He knows nothing about such a move , the President said , but it is the Nationalists who are occupying the Tachens and he does not see how the United States unilaterally could make such a request .                     