@@717609

txt President Eisenhower and Congress were moving today toward similar s o 1 utions of the farm problem ? cash p a y ? ments to farmers to slash production of major surplus Ben son crops . From the temporary White House office at Key West , Fla. , it was disclosed that the Chief Executive will present a plan in a special farm message Monday to cut big surpluses of such major crops as corn , wheat , cotton , and rice by as much as 20 per cent . Shortly after this disclosure , Agriculture Secretary Benson outlined a double barreled program for cash payments to farmers , aimed at cutting crop production . In a meeting with house Republican leaders , Benson gave what was regarded as a preview of the White House farm message . Payments for Acre Cuts He indicated that under the plan the growers of the four big surplus crops would be paid to cut their allotted acreage voluntarily . Payments would be made at current support prices less estimated production costs for the estimated crop they agreed not to grow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under which about 350 million dollars would be paid in the first year to farmers who take their acres out of production of the four major crops and turn them over to such conservation I crops as grass . Senate Group Acts Late in the afternoon , Congress went into action . The senate agriculture committee unanimously agreed to rush approval of a new program aimed at boosting sagging prices and incomes in agricultural areas . This program also was aimed at getting more cash into farmers ' pockets . T h e committee hopes to have the new program on the President 's desk by Feb. 15 . The major features of the senate program , as explained by Chairman Ellender D. , La.1 are : 1 . A 400 million dollar soil bank or " fertility bank " which would place that sum in farm pockets during the year fo withdrawing acres from pr duction . Backs Flexible Supports 2 . A combination of various means of disposing of government surpluses now on hand , which total over 7 billion dol lars. 3 . Revision of the flexible price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 90 per cent of parity " for quality commodiReproduced with permission of the copyright owner . Further reproduction prohibited without permission . ties " instead of downward from that figure . 4 . A trial of a two price system for rice , which would permit support of rice for domestic purposes at 90 per cent of parity and sale of export rice at lower world price levels . Ellender , who comes from a rice producing state , urged that the two price system for rice be tried as a trial balloon on this one crop this year . If it works , he said , it could be extended to corn , cotton , peanuts , and wheat . Battle Lines Drawn The White House program and the senate agriculture committee 's plan were seen as drawing battle lines for an early farm aid fight in Congress . Bitter battles were expected to come on the floors of Congress over conflicts in method altho both programs are aimed at giving farmers more money . The farm problem is expected to be one of the major battles in Congress in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of the sagging farm prices both by taxing Republicans with responsibility for the slump and by finding some means of putting more cash in the hands of ? farmers . Republicans are concerned over possible loss of votes in ' farm areas , but they are convinced that the administration will find a way to help the farmers . G. 0 . P. leaders want to be sure that their party gets credit for any farm aid . First of a Series Those who met with Benson were house G. 0 . P. leaders , G. 0 . P. members of the house i agriculture committee , and representatives of the Republican national committee . The meet- i ing was the first of a series1 of breakfast meetings with con gressmen by which Benson , hopes to sell administration ideas for dealing with the farm problem . Rep. Hope R. , Kas. . top Republican on the house r griculture committee , and Rep. Arends Ill. , house G. 0 . P. whip , both asserted that details of the new administration program have not been nailed down even tho @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ message . Hope said today 's session produced a " meeting of minds as to the importance of farm surpluses . " Discuss Surplus Problem " Everything we discussed related to the surplus problem , " he said . " We must rescue the surplus before any sort of price support plan will work . " Arends said surpluses and the soil bank idea were discussed but that Benson did not say anything had been finally agreed upon as the proper procedure to cure surplus problem . House Democrats , meanwhile , have come up with their own soil bank plan which would call for $750,000,000 in government payments to persuade farmers to take acreage out of surplus crop production .                     