@@716922

txt Business and social institutions should be judged by their effect on the individual . Don Mitchell , chairman ot the board of Sylvania Electric Products , Inc. , expressed this viewpoint in speaking for management at the opening session today of the Boston University annual Founder 's Day Institute . The institute is dealing with theme the " The Free and Responsible Person . " Representing labor was Victor Reuther , assistant to his brother Walter P. Reuther , president of the CIO . He declared that the benefits to the individual in the specific field of automation ( development of automatic factories with few workers ) must keep pace with the improvements automation brings in productivity . Rescue of Man Mr. Reuther next week will enter into negotiations with Ford and General Motors , asking for a guaranteed annual wage for hourly employees , which he says will cushion the effects of automation . Erwin D. Canham. editor of The Christian Science Monitor and moderator of the session , in his introductory remarks , said , " The central issue of our time is the rescue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his institutions . " The three-day institute meeting in Hayden Hall at BU is the first in a series of five annual conferences in which BU is calling in civilian and government leaders to help it evaluate its responsibility in educating the nation 's youth . Today 's session took up the question of freedom in the field of labor , management , and communications . Ground Rules Set Mr. Mitchell called attention to two major trends in industry today , neither of which need hurt the individual , namely : decentralization and automation . Decentralization he defined as the breaking up of plants into smaller autonomous units . This is evident to some extent in the movement of plants to smaller communities . " When you appoint the manager of the plant , you tell him , This is your plant . You decide what to do and when to do it . We 've set the ground rules , the broad policies and controls , but it 's up to you to figure out how to operate under them . ' This has a stimulating effect . " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this " attitude permeates down through the entire organization . " The plant becomes a group ' of . individuals with a job to do , he said . In a plant where the manager is not given that responsibility just the reverse happens , he warned . The employees sense his lack of authority and management becomes " some vague group in a far off place . The individual a cog , and that is I about all . " Glamour Synonym ' Automation eras no  - -  song term " danger to employment , Mr. Mitchell said . It is really a glamourized synonym for mechanism , a process which has been going on since the Industrial Revolution . " He admitted that there would oe " short term " unemployment and that was where management 's immediate responsibility to the worker lay . Mr. Reuther concurred with this . " Labor welcomes automation , " he declared . " But it must be harnessed so that it does not become the means of merely more profit for management , and fewer jobs for the worker . its benefits must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that no group of individuals who are displaced by automation should be made to suffer . Steps such as the guaranteed annual wage and government measures should ease the jolt and keep purchasing power expanding so there would be a market for the increased productivity , he added . Mr. Mitchell said that automation is not something that will sweep all industry . There are just a few places where it will be applicable . In many plants only certain departments will be made automatic . Mr. Canham stated that : Capacity to Think " The question of the free and responsible person becomes the most urgent question we face in human affairs . " It is commonly said that we have solved the problem man 's relation to nature and must now solve the problem of man 's relation to man . This may be true , but it is not quite that simple In altering our retionship to nature , with magnificent results , there are two dangers : of exalting materialism , and of creating a juggernaut . " What is it that has conquered nature ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spiritual sense , of his reflection of God . Thus we need to understand the spiritual meaning of our new relationship to nature . " Humility and gratitude can save us from pride and materialism . The dangers in out institutions  --  that is , in the police state or in selfish combinations whether of management of labor ? can avoided by a fuller understand-ling of the place and importance of the free and responsible person . " Lyman W. Plater . Stair Photographer Sneakers at Boston University Observance - ? Rights of the individual were stressed at today 's opening session of the annual Founders Day Institute at Boston University . 11. , eft to richt : Victor Reuther , assistant to Walter Reu- ther , 13resident of the CIO ; Erwin D. Canham , editor of The Christian Science Monitor , moderator , and Don G. Mitchell , chairman of board , Sylvania Electric Products . Story : Page 11                     