@@712571

txt It was most distressing to read in your issue of Jan. 6 that the 110th Street Community Center is compelled to close its doors . This recently created agency filled a literally essential need . The people who live in the area it served are miserably supplied with opportunities for recreation and cultural development . The 110th Street Center was created to fill this gap . It should have had adequate support . The catastrophe involving the 110th Street Center highlights the difficulties that every non-sectarian and interracial social agency faces in this city of ours . There is no Community Chest here . The three great sectarian Federations are able to raise funds to support the agencies within their purview . The Greater New York Fund was organized to raise additional funds , but was given a limited area within which to operate . More than half of the sums which it collects goes to the very agencies which Catholic Charities , Jewish Federation and Protestant Welfare support . These agencies could survive , and even prosper , if all of the sums gathered by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are to salvage the Neighborhood Houses , the Community Centers and the other non-sectarian and interracial agencies which serve this diverse community of ours all of the sums raised by the Greater New York Fund must go to such agencies ? or some others among them will have to close their doors . The development of understanding and cooperation between people of diverse creeds , varied national backgrounds and different racial stocks can best be promoted through just such agencies as the ' 110th Street Community Center . If the only way to save such organizations is to change the constitution of the Greater New York Fund and turn it into a great central agency for garnering funds for norisectarian and interracial institutions , is not that a solution that should be pressed at this time ? I know there will be strong opposition from those whose major interests are confined to activities serving peopl of their own denomination . I recognize that many of the institutions supported by the three great Federations do serve people of varied races and creeds . Nevertheless , there is not only room for but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and supported by people of every creed , race and national origin , and are specifically designed to serve all without discrimination . I hope the directors of the Greater New York Fund will give serious consideration to the suggestion that it become the central collection agency for such institutions . STANLEY M. ISAACS . New York , Jan. 6 , 1950 . Arbitration in Transit Matters To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In your answer , to my letter of Dec 29 , published in THE TIMES of Jan. 3 you were not fully frank with your readers . You tried to make it appeal that the Transport Workers Unior wants to limit the proper powers ol the Board of Transportation and that THE TIMES defends those powers . In fact , however , THE TIMES ' position denies to the Board of Transportation the power which every employer haz and which more and more employer . exercise in making use of arbitration as a necessary instrument for maintaining peaceful employer-worker relations . You insist that , contrary to the established American pattern for these relations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by arbitrary authority  --  without negotiation , without conciliation , without arbitration and without appeal . I wish to state for the record that TWU can never subscribe . or sebmit to such doctrine , which it considers to be the essence of what is popularly , if vaguely , known under the label of " totalitarianism . " TWU insists that the power of the Board of Transportation to adopt a policy of negotiation , conciliation and arbitration in dealing with its labor force can not be less than similar powers of United States Steel , if the established pattern of employer-labor relations is to be followed in New York transit , instead of the law of primitive conflict . And it is common knowledge that the Tennessee Valley Authority bargains collectively with the unions representing its employes . If an agency of the Federal Government recognizes its obligations as employers , can a municipal agency do less ? The question is : Is the Board of Transportation to be among the most reactionary employers , or is it to move forward into the ranks of the enlightened and progressive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It stands for the law of the jungle modified only by arbitrary and total power imposed from above . ' If your position is adopted , it leaves the transit workers no means of securing justice except the exercise of whatever power is in their own hands . MICHAEL J. QUILL , International President , Transport Workers Union of America , CIO . New York , Jan. 6 , 1950 . Resettling D. P. 's To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Upon my return to the United States from a two-month inspection of the operations of the Displaced Persons Commission in Germany , Austria and Italy , and from conversations with officials of the International Refugee Organization in Geneva , and a brief study of Israel 's absorption of immigrants and displaced persons , I find some statements in the Dec. 27 issue of THE To THE EDITOR or THE NEW YORK TIME : * Great Britain , on its own volition as well as under constant American pressure , is attempting to become independent of extraordinary dollar assistance . In the course of this endeavor , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oil from the United States which would save about $300,000,000 . To compensate for this loss in oil from imports , the British Government is buying machinery from this country , with the help of ECA funds , in order to increase British oilrefining capacity . This procedure is in perfect harmony with American reconstruction policy in Europe . Greater independence of Great Britain and other nations from the United States means a healthier world economy and is of benefit to this country . But it also and inevitably means that some interests on whose products Great Britain was hitherto dependent will , in the short run , get hurt , while others ( in this case among them machinery manufacturers ) will benefit through released dollars which can 1 ) , spent on capital goods . The American oil interests , who now suffer from the pursuit of our constructive European policy and whose interests are being sacrificed for the greater common good , have complained to the State Department , and the State Department , having surrendered , is putting pressure on the British Government to change a policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attitude of the State Department is illogical in terms of its over-all European policy ; it is undemocratic because it complies with the wishes of one small group against a policy approved by the vast majority of the American people and not entailing an undue sacrifice for that group ; it is politically dangerous because it confirms European suspicions and playa into the hands of Communist propaganda that the Marshall Plan is a device for making Europe the dumping ground of American surplus consumer goods . WERNER LEVI . Minneapolis , Minn. , Dec. 30 , 1949 . Greece and the U. N. To THE EDITOR OF THE Nsw YORK TIMES : Our thanks and deepest'gratitude go to those delegates and representatives in the United Nations who have fought the tyranny and injustices which the strong have visited upon the weak , and have backed the right of small nations to live in peace . Personally , however , I feel that a good deal more could have been accomplished toward the solution of the thorny Balkan problem , which would see the repatriation of some forty thousand Greek children , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1946 to 1949 , and forced at gunpoint to leave their beloved homeland to be brought up in slavelike fashion in the Soviet satellite states . The anniversary of the birth of Christ has just passed . All Christendom has celebrated it fittingly . But thousands of Greek mothers have little cause for rejoicing . Their saddened faces reflect simply an empty stare , holding little hope for the return of their beloved children . How long are we going to stand idly by before doing Something concrete to curb the Soviet Union ? The plight of present-day Greece should be of momentous concern not only to Greeks and Greek-Americans but to all decent and respectable people the world over . I suggest therefore that we , as true Americans , urge all delegates and representatives to the United Nations General Assembly to take a definite stand on behalf of that valiant little European nation , our most loyal ally ? Greece . Why let the issue be softpedaled and postponed indefinitely ? I am not advocating warfare . But when fifty-five nations are lined up against only six with pro-Russian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Communist propaganda ? We can afford to be firm with the Soviets , and we must . There is no other way out . ELIAS BRAILAS . New York , Jan. 1 , 1950 . The Middle , Near and Far East TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : There 's a striking sentence in your editorial of Jan. 6 , " Friction in India " : " Yet the primary consideration from the vital standpoint of peace in the Middle East is that the sixteen-monthold Kashmir dispute should be settled . " Agreed , but one question : Since when is India the " Middle East " ? This brings up the bewildering problem of the Easts . Where are the Near East , the Middle East , the Far East ? Arid near or middle to what ? Front San Francisco , one would have to go very far indeed to get to the Far East by going east . And to cap confusion , what about getting to our own version of " Down East " ? I for one am inclined to despair and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assistance . HENRY JAMES Jr . New York , Jan. 6 , 1950 . To ' Aid Interracial Centers Suggestion Advanced That Sums Raised by Greater New York Fund Go to Them NEW YORK TIMER which need clarification . Rather than suggesting to the Israeli Government its need for programs of orientation and vocational retraining , learned from them the value that such programs would have in the resettlement of displaced persons in the United States . The success that they have had with such programs in the absorption of immigrants is one of the valuable lessons I gained for our own country .                     