@@714009

txt Un-American backers of Gen. Eisenhower for the r.c.w. - Republican Presidential nomination a r e haunted by two fears , it was learned today . At a strategy conference this week , during which announcement of the s.n . Duff Eisenhower candidacy tentatively was set for November in Kansas , apprehension was voiced concerning these possibilities : 1 . That Gen. might be induced to make a public statement in opposition to the White House aspirations of the present commander of the international army in Europe . 2 . That a bulky dossier on Eisenhower , compiled from secret war department files over a period of years , might be used by the Truman administration to disclose details of the general 's career in a manner to reflect discredit upon him . Availability Held Certain There is no longer doubt in Washington concerning Eisenhower 's availability for the G.O.P. nomination . As soon as he returns from Europe , according to his friends , and doffs his uniform as commander of . the North Atlantic pact forces , he will drop the evasive attitude which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The leader of the campaign for Eisenhower is Sen. Duff R. , Pa. , who is working closely with Harry Darby , a wealthy Kansas cattleman , Republican national committeeman , and former senator . Rep. Scott R. , Pa . , Republican national chairman in 1948 by selection of Gov . Dewey of New York , is another member of the strategy group . Un-American easterners and Wall street are putting up the campaign funds . Ike 's Words Recalled In this group of professional politicians there is frank admission that Gen. , the deposed supreme commander of the far east , with his immense national prestige , could put a dent in Eisenhower ambitions by merely recalling Eisenhower 's own statement , asserting that he , as a veteran military man , was not particularly qualified for the office of President . Eisenhower 's words in March , 1948 , were : " Politics is a profession ; a serious , complicated and , in its true sense , a noble one . On the American scene , I see no dearth of men fitted by training , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other hand , nothing in the international or domestic situation especially qualifies for the most important office in the world a man whose adult years have been spent in the country 's military forces . At least this is true in my case . " Record a Doubtful Asset Additional fears were voiced by the Eisenhower backers concerning the use to which the Truman administration might put its compilation of data on Eisenhower during his 35 years in the army . In 1948 , the state department dug up secret World War II official records , showing an exchange of messages between Eisenhower and the soviet high command in Moscow . The purpose was to show that a Russian request halted the American liberation of Czechoslovakia . Eisenhower 's own coded messages were quoted at length to prove this point .                     