@@715102

txt A skin specialist ) yesterday urged American women to stop being such perfect housewives to save their hands from the punishment he asserted results from constantly dipping them in and out of assorted cleaning solutions . Dr. Matthew J. Brunner of Northwestern university medical school said " The reddened and irritated skin commonly associated with what is known as dishpan hands is becoming a leading occupational disease among American housewives who are overly /tidy in their constant pursuit of dirt . " Speaking in the Palmer House at the 11th annual meeting of the American Academy of Derma1 tology and Syphilology , Dr. Brunner blamed the widespread use of synthetic detergents for bringing on most of the difficulty . Difficult to Treat Once the skin disturbance develops , he said , it can be disabling and difficult to treat . The irritation is frequently aggravated by housewives who insist on immersing their hands in antiseptic solutions , various kinds of polishes , bleaches , and other cleansing agents . In Europe , he noted , where there is less soap and hot water CURE FOR ATOM RAYS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radioactive rays . Story on /page 18. there also is less such skin afflictions , especially the disturbance called winter itch , which sometimes comes from bathing too frequently in cold weather . Housewives Top Figures Dr. Brunner said that among his patients housewives outnumber factory workers 50 to 1 as victims of occupational skin irritations on their hands . He said most women suffering from the irritation do their own laundry and have the care of one or more children . They refuse to wear gloves because , they say , such coverings interfere with their duties . Some detergents are less irritating then others , Dr. Brunner said . He urged the manufacturers of such compounds to do additional research to remove the irritants and retain " the wonderful cleaning properties " which the detergents possess . Tells Danger of Sun - In another report to the meeting ending tomorrow , Dr. Harold F. Blum of Princeton university , said the result of animal experiments begun 12 years ago supports the conclusion that sunlight is the principal cause of two kinds of skin cancers in human beings . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most frequently in outdoor workers . The cancer producing rays strike the earth in the form of ultra violet light , Blum explained . Persons living in the southern part of the United States probably should avoid all exposure to sunlight in the middle of the day thruout the year , he said . Blum said sunlight sufficiently intense to burn persons exposed to it can cause cancer , but the exposure must be repeated over a considerable period before malignancy will develop .                     