@@714187

txt ATTACK ON JESSUP ENDS AS FREIGHT LASHES M'CARTHY Foe of Ambassador Is Called Arrogant and Rude as He Closes Senate Charges FERGUSON IN ASIAN GROUP Republican Says He Has Ended Nominal ' Affiliation With Pacific Relations Institute By WILLIAM S. WHITE Special to Tile NEW YORK Tams . WASHINGTON , Oct. 2 ? Senator Joseph R. McCarthy , Republican of Wisconsin , ended tonight a long attack on Ambassador-at-Large Philip C. Jessup and himself received a tongue-lashing from Senator J. William Fulbright , Democrat of Arkansas . Speaking from the bench of a Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee , which is considering whether to recommend Senate confirmation of Dr. Jessup 's nominaR tion to the United States delegation to the United Nations , Senator Fulbright declared to Mr. McCarthy : " I want to say for the record that in all my experience in the Senate I have never seen a more arrogant or a more rude witness . " Senator McCarthy , who was confronting Senator Fulbright across the five or six feet that separated the witness stand from the dais of the subcommittee , turned his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrat of Alabama , complimented him for " a fine job " in conducting the hearings , and walked from the room . Jessup Sits in Silence Dr. Jessup himself , who from 9:30 this morning until after 6:30 this evening had sat in silence while Senator McCarthy accused ' him of long faithfulness to Com-1 munist designs , will testify to-1 morrow . Meantime , it was brought out that Senator Homer Ferguson , Republican of Michigan , still was listed in the current Who 's Who as a member of the Institute of Pacific Relations , an organization that Mr. McCarthy and other Republicans had been attacking as infiltrated by Communists . Mr. Jessup 's past affiliations as an officer of the institute had been many times stressed by Senator McCarthy in his attacks on Mr. Jessup 's Americanism . Senator Ferguson , hearing that I his name had been brought in , went before the subcommittee and made a statement that he had I never been more than a " nominal " 1 ' member of the institute and had left it in 1944 , not having had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Senator Fulbright observed that // this illustrated " the dangers and injustice of guilt by association . " Mr. McCarthy retorted that Dr. Jessup had been more than a member of the institute , as an official guiding it along a Communist line . Whether Dr. Jessup was " merely stupid " or actively disloyal , he declared , was immaterial to the issue whether the Senate should ratify or reject his appointment to the United Nations , which it could do by simple majority vote . During the day Senator Sparkman put into the record a letter from Hiram Bingham , head of the Federal Loyalty Review Board , the highest in the field , stating that the board had ruled that there was " no reasonable " doubt of the loyalty of Dr. Jessup . This finding had been reported last week by THE NEW YORK TIMES . Senator McCarthy asserted to reporters that Mr. Bingham , a former Republican Senator from Connecticut , had informed him , however , that if the board had possessed the authority to " turn him Dr. Jessup down as a bad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Disputes McCarthy " I never told McCarthy any such thing , " Mr. Bingham informed reporters . He added that since the board had taken up the Jessup case he had had " no communication with Senator McCarthy , " nor had he ever expressed any opinion of his- own about Dr. Jessup as a security risk . To be a security risk , in the Federal definition , is to be a person of indiscreet habits or associations ; not a disloyal person . Senator McCarthy and Senator Fulbright had collided with increasing bitterness all during the day , beginning with an incident in which Mr. Fulbright charged the witness with a deliberate attempt to deceive the subcommittee . Their sharp controversy reached its peak , however , only toward the very end and at the cumulative point of Mr. Fulbright 's crossexamination . Threatens to Leave Mr. McCarthy , accusing the Democrat of " making speeches , " rose from his chair and threatened to leave the hearing unless Senator Sparkman gave him a specific promise that it would be ended within ten minutes . Earlier he had said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " important busi-ness , " It was then 6:19 P. M. Senator Sparkman assented to this demand by Mr. McCarthy and five minutes later , at 6:24 P. M. , Senator Fulbright had ended his interrogation and Mr. McCarthy gathered up his papers and left . The subcommittee went on for a few minutes , with Senator Fulbright complaining that Senator McCarthy had " apparently not wished " to stay long enough to be questioned about letters supporting Dr. Jessup 's loyalty that had been written last year by Generals of the Army George C. Marshall and Dwight D. Eisenhower . Though there had been a dozen collateral issues , the two great issues of the whole day had been these : 1 . Senator McCarthy 's efforts to establish that Dr. Jessup during the period of the Hitler-Stalin pact had " followed the Communist line " of denying aid to Britain and of picturing her struggle with Nazi Germany as only an imperialist war until in June of 1941 Hitler lunged against Russia herself . 2 . Senator McCarthy 's attempts to show , from testimony given yesterday before another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been in the forefront of a State Department group that before the Korean war had followed a China policy line of softness toward the China Communists that had been advocated by Prof. Owen Lattimore , Late in the day , the principal press officer of the State Department , Michael J. , in substance accused Mr. Stassen of poor memory or falsehood and asserted that " history " itself had proved that the Administration had taken a course " in the opposite direction " to what Professor Lattimore had recommended . Is Emphatic Among the chief of the charges made yesterday by Mr. Stassen , a former Republican Governor of Minnesota and now president of the University of Pennsylvania , had been that Professor Lattimore had urged and the State Department had followed a line of encouraging Britain to recognize Communist China . This accusation , Mr. asserted , in phrase typifying much of his retort , was " absolutely without basis in fact . " In the State Department 's answer to Mr. Stassen , Mr. denied that Secretary of State Acheson , Mr. Jessup @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed cutting off aid to Nationalist China in a move " Toward World Peace . " With regard to a Stassen statement that he understood Secretary Acheson wanted to end military aid , not economic aid , to the Government of Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek , Mr. said that the President had settled that question Jan. 5 , 1950 , when he announced a decision not to make provisions for new military aid to the Nationalist Government on Formosa . However , Mr. emphasized , this decision did not stand in the way of military shipments under way , or with existing military aid programs . " The-undisputable facts are that Formosa remains in Nationalist hands and the United States lent diplomatic economic and military aid in assuring the retention of the island in Nationalist hands , " the State Department officer declared . The Department said Dr. Jessup , who was chairman of some of the discussions at the meeting , did not recall ever having said to Mr. Stassen that " great logic " was on the side of those advocating recognition of Red China . He Jessup @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinions regarding the views expressed by the individual members of the panel , " the Department spokesman added . As to the Foreign Relations subcommittee , Democratic cross-examiners , and principally Senator Fulbright , centered their counterattacks on Senator McCarthy 's assertion that Dr. Jessup had followed the Communist line in the days of the Hitler-Stalin arrangement . Mr. Fulbright asserted that Dr. Jessup appeared to have been , in that period , simply an isolationist who was associated with the organization known as America First . In support of this he put in documents intended to show that in those days such Republican figures as Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio and the late Senator Hiram Johnson of California had welcomed an association with Dr. Jessup in their exertions to try to prevent the repeal of the arms embargo and consequently the commencement of heavy aid to Britain . " Isolationist Only to Britain " Senator McCarthy argued that Dr. Jessup had been " an isolationist only in so far as aid to Britain was concerned , " on the stated ground that-te help the British would be " unneutral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been " all-out for aid to the Communists in Spain in the Civil War and had not thought this to be " unneutral . " He presented a photocopy of a letter that Dr. Jessup , as an officer of the Institute of Pacific Relations , had written Oct. 29 , 1940 , in which he stated that if he could do so he would " be glad " to help Frederick Vanderbilt Field with a " cause " that then was the formation of the American Peace Mobilization . Mr. Field has refused under oath to state whether he was a Communist and recently was sent to jail for refusing to disclose the source of bail money offered for the eleven Communist leaders convicted in New York . Mr. McCarthy asserted that two Attorneys General of the United States , Francis Biddle and Tom Clark , had later found the Peace Mobilization a Communist front and , that Dr. Jessup had known it to be that when he had expressed his approval of Field 's mission . At the time of Dr. Jessup 's indication of approval , Senator McCarthy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mobilization was regarded as a Communist front . Pressed for direct evidence that Dr. Jessup had in fact followed the Communist line when it switched from a policy of no aid to Britain to all aid to the Allies after Russia had been attacked , Senator McCarthy conceded his inability to offer anything affirmative . Sin of Omission Charged Senator Fulbright 's charge that Senator McCarthy had tried to mislead the subcommittee was in connection with a disclosure that Mr. McCarthy , in reproducing testimony taken in the second trial of Alger Hiss , had omitted part of one of Dr. Jessup 's material answers . Hiss is under conviction of perjury for denying giving assistance , as a State Department official , to Communist spying . ' The challenged . excerpt that Mr. McCarthy had presented to the subcommittee read as follows : " Q. ? Are you a member or have you been associated with the China Aid Council ? " " A. ? I have never been a member of it . I had some association with it . " " Q. ? Will you tell us in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now is ? " " A. ? I do n't remember specific contacts . I remember that we had questions of common interest about arranging meetings , publications , things of that kind . " The Passage Omitted Senator Fulbright , reading from the full transcript , showed that after the phrase , " some association with it , " and before the phrase , " I do n't remember specific contacts , " Mr. McCarthy had omitted the following from Dr. Jessup 's testi-mony : " My association with it the China Aid Council , which Senator McCarthy testified had been found subversive were at the time when I was actively interested in the Institute of Pacific Relations , which is concerned with a study of problems of the Far East and in that connection we had contacts with other organizations also interested in parts of the Far East . I do n't remember specific contacts . " At this point the transcript picked up again into what Senator McCarthy had given . Mr. McCarthy argued that this excision was not material to his point and that the exchange as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answer at the time  --  Dec. 8 , 1949.                     