@@718322

txt Motorists arriving here from strife-torn Hung ary today reported that Russian troop movements toward Budapest from the Russian garrison at Lake Betatron began twelve hours before Hungary 's new pre . mier , Imre Nagy , appealed to the Russians for help in suppressing Budapest rioting . This led the travelers to voice belief that the riots in the Hungarian capital may have been touched off by Russian agitators on word from Moscolv in a design to bring Hungarian underground resistance into the open . This goading of a population into a premature show of largely unorganized and poorly armed strength is in the familiar pattern of the June riots three years ago in East Berlin , which the Reds suppressed with such ruthlessness that the people we 're again cowed into submission to their alien Red overlords . Refuse to Ettend Visa Reports reaching here were that the Budapest crowds were fighting with sticks and stones until they could get guns from defecting police and soldiers , just as the Berlin rioters did . The death toll from Budapest is already reported to have reached several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy in such circumstances of putting to death summarily those unfortunate citizenry caught fighting . This correspondent reached here after a trip from West Germany via Prague for what was intended to be a stay of indefinite duration in the Czechoslovakian capital . He had applied to the Czech military mission in West Germany for a Czech visa and been granted a two day transit visa with a promise that the Czech foreign office in Prague Would approve an extension on arrival . On reaching Prague , this correspondent found the forHeign office unwilling to allow . him to remain on Czech soil .. ! This took the form of an : abrupt refusal in rude terms to grant the promised extension . Silent on Revolts Before leaving Prague at noon today , this correspondent observed that Czech newspapers and radio were silent on events in ? Poland and Hungary . This correspondent concluded that the Czech government 's desire to hasten his departure from the country stemmed from fear that the Czech people are seething with hate for their commit . fist masters and might not be reluctant to say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to sympathetic ears . Tile Czechs , however , are cautious people , not inclined like the Poles or Hungarians to martyr themselves in premature outbreaks . A Czech tailor with whom this correspondent talked confide d , " wait until we know we are goinkto win . " 