@@712629

txt A group of economists put the nation 's affairs under the microscope . About the only agreement was that prospects for the first half of 1950 look good . Opinion varied widely as to the outlook for the second half of the year . Many thought President Truman 's economic report , based on the findings of his Council of Economic . Advisers , was overly optimistic . The eight economists representing colleges and private research groups appeared before the Joint Congressional Economic Committee for a round-table discussion Seymour Harris of Harvard University differed with many in viewing the national debt as something " not to be particularly worrfed about . " The nation , he said . has a public " debt neurosis . " and he told Rep. Rich fri . Pa. ) . that he had the neurosis , too . Rep. Rich , strong advocate of a balanced budget . did n't reply directly . S%art ? of " False Optintl  --  int " Sir . Harris also held that the government has to Intervene in the economy to considerable extent to forestall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it produces . Martin Gainsbrugh of the National Industrial Conference Board , said he was - extremely concerned about the wave of opts ' mism  --  false optimism " for 1950 . He forecast a " definite problem " ahead by i mid-1950 and a lower level of economic activity by the year 's end . He got some support from Paul J. Strayer of Princeton University , who termed the outlook " very uncertain . " Mr. Strayer said Con ! gress should give the President flexible powers within certain limits to meet situations as they arise . Julius T. Wendzel of the W. E. Upjohn Institute for Community Research , Kalamazoo . Mich . said the President 's economic advisers had painted a picture " somewhat too rosy " Sees Upturn in Second Half Donald B. Woodwax ci of the Mutual Life Insurance Co contended that 1950 will be down a little from 1949 , but added : " All in all it will be a good year . " V. Lewis Bassie of the University of Illinois disputed predictions there will be a downturn during the last six months @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be higher than the first half , " he said . Arthur Burns of the National Bureau of Economic Research though it highly probable that the economy will continue to expand over the next few years . Several of the economists expressed concern over shrinking private investment , but the consensus appeared to be that unemployment could rise another 1 million to 1,500,000 over the present 2,500.000 mark before the government should take action .                     