@@712856

txt Senator Joseph R. McCarthy announced today that he was handing in to Senate investigators the names of two additional witnesses in connection with his " case " against Prof. Owen Lattimore . These witnesses , Mr. McCarthy , a Wisconsin Republican , told reporters , were respectively a former under-cover agent for the Federal Bureau of Investigation who had joined the Communist party in order to do his work , and a former F. B. agent who had been active in counter-espionage . Senator McCarthy added that , as in the instance of Prof. Louis F. Budenz , he would ask that the two former agents be subpoenaed by the Senate subcommittee that is investigating his charges of heavy Communist infiltration of the State Department . As to the announcement of yesterday by the subcommittee chairman , Senator Millard E. Tydings , Democrat of Maryland , that the group was going to conduct inquiries running beyond the McCarthy accusations , Mr. McCarthy ob served : " I wo n't believe it until II see it , but it is a good sign . " " It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " that Tydings and ( Senator Brien , Democrat of Connecticut , a member of the subcommittee ) are not completely dedicated to the proposition that the truth about Communists and perverts must not come out . " Apart from the two witnesses he now proposes to call , Senator McCarthy said : " I will also have other witnesses in the next few days who will either corroborate or supplement the Budenz testimony . " Professor Budenz , a former Communist editor who renounced communism in 1945 ' and returned to the Catholic church , is to testify before the subcommittee on Thursday . Mr. Lattimore , a Johns Hopkins University professor whom Mr. McCarthy has termed a Communist and " the top Soviet agent " in the United States , will be allowed to respond immediately . Senator McCarthy has declared that he was willing to " stand or fall " in his entire campaign against the State Department on the outcome of his charges against Mr. Lattimore . Mr. Lattimore has denied under oath all Mr. McCarthy 's charges , and has asserted that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a lobby seeking continued American aid for the Chinese Nationalist Government of Chiang Kai-shek . During the day , Senator Herbert R. O'Conor , Democrat of Maryktnd , sharply criticized the most recent recommendations by Professor Lattimore as to what American China policy should be . " Professor Lattimore , " Senator O'Conor said , " has publicly suggested that the United States representatives to the United Nations so act as to bring about the expulsion of . the Chinese Nationalist delegates , which would lead inevitably to the seating of the Communists , sent here by the Peiping regime , the collaborators of Russia . " I consider it would be a grave mistake for the United States to follow Mr. Lattimore 's advice . In my opinion the views he here expresses are not shared ' by a great majority of Americans . It is to be hoped that the State Department ! will ignore his counsel . " Ayer Declines Inquiry Post Spector to Taz NEw YORK TIMES . BOSTON , April 18 ? Frederick Ayer Jr . of Wenham , Mass. , said today that he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charges of Communist influence in the State Department . The 34-year-old lawyer and former agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation said his refusal was inspired by the fact that Senator Tydings had questioned his fitness for the post . Mr. Tydings , chairman of the committee , had objected because Mr. Ayer was a candidate for office in Massachusetts , but later the Senator withdrew the objection . In a formal statement from his Boston office , Mr. Ayer , who is seeking the Republican nomination for Attoney General , said : " Since my fitness for the appointment has been questioned by the chairman of the committee , I feel I would not have the full confidence of the committee . " My unbiased approach to facts has never before been questioned publicly or privately . ? That it is so questioned makes it obvious that I would not now be wholly unhampered in seeking the truth and having it heard . " Mr. Ayer , a nephew of the late Gen. George S. Patton Jr. , was chief of F. B. I. liaison units in Europe during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Cincinnati and Boston as an agent of the F.B.I . After the war , on a special assignment by the State Department , he was credited with laying the groundwork for the investigation that led to solution of the mysterious murder of George Polk , an American radio correspondent , in Greece .                     