@@718399

txt Letters to The Times ERNEST SIMON.ALEXANDER DALLIN.PHILIP H. BAGBY.WILLIAM FAULKNER . Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE Nsw YORK TIMES : May I somewhat belatedly ask the hospitality of your great paper to draw the attention of all people of goodwill troubled by the warlike situation in the Middle East to Dr. Halyard M. Lange 's speech in the General Assembly on Nov. 27 . The representative from Norway has made , in my opinion , a most wise , constructive and humane contribution toward a solution of the painful Arab-Jewish strife . His admirable statement may be roughly summarized as follows : Psychologically , both Israelis and Arabs are understandably disturbed ; the Israelis in their frustration and disappointment , with the United Nations as well as the Arabs in their feeling of restiveness caused by the very emergence of a Jewish state " in the predominantly Arab region . " Part of Area Both have to make " certain fundamental co cessions on a mutual basis , " in order to replace the outlived armistice of 1949 by a final peace settlement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ integral part of the whole area . The clear advantage of such a settlement for Israel would consist in the fact that her security would no longer be based on " the uncertainties of a military balance of power " but on her sound relations with her neighbors . Here I would like to add that the advantage for the Arabs would consist in gaining a highly efficient partner in the realization of those " adjustments and reforms of an economic and social nature " for which Dr. Lange asks , quite correctly , the " extensive assistance " of the U. N. but which can not be put into practice on a sufficiently large scale without the willing cooperation of all the states and peoples involved . Dr. Lange very wisely abstains from going into any detail about the concrete nature of the necessary " mutual concessions , " but his wise counsel raises a further thought . Could not the U. N. through " friendly prodding " oblige representatives of Israel and Egypt to meet in a small three-man committee including a representative of Norway for informal preliminary talks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no direct political interests either in Israel or in her neighboring states , is admirably suited for this role of disinterested middleman . Norway proved her humanitarian spirit in the years of the Hitler persecution when together with Denmark and Sweden she saved many thousands of Jewish refugees from certain death . The Jewish people will never forget what these Norwegian " pure Aryans " did for us . Norway can claim a great historical experience which has some identical elements with the emergence of the State of Israel . She regained her statehood and her sovereignty only fifty years ago , after having been united with Sweden for more than five hundred years , fhom the Union of Calmar of 1397 . But Norway proved mature and wise enough to find her way to independence without bloodshed and without endangering her brotherly relationship with Sweden , which behaved in the same laudable spirit . Perhaps both of us hostile brothers , Arabs and Jews alike , should make an ultimate genuine effort and try to emulate the Scandinavian example . True , these Northern nations may be more prudent and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are proud of a priceless heritage of old wisdom . This religious and moral legacy should now be put into practice in order to create a. basis for common life in peace . Very much is at stake . Dr. Lange was more than right in his conclu-sion : " Real world peace is inconceivable without peace in the Middle East . Peace in the Middle East is equally inconceivable without peace between Israel and her Arab neighbors . " ERNEST SIMON . Los Angeles , Calif. , Dec. 10 , 1956 . Cultural Exchanges Supported TO THE EDITOR OF Trig NEW YORK TIMES : The announcement by the Department of State of the suspension of " cultural exchanges " with the Soviet Union merits critical consideration . Over the past year it seems to have been a matter of Government policy to support such exchanges on the sound assumption that the multiplication of personal contacts with individuals in the Soviet orbit is in cur national interest . The exchanges stand to be of at least equal benefit to us as to Moscow and probably of greater long-range advantage to us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the U. S. S. R. and the satellites with various facets of American life and experience that we can be proud of ; they have given many Americans an opportunity to study Soviet life at first hand . They have provided a substantial number of Soviet and satellite specialists , artists and intellectuals with a chance to acquaint themselves with the accomplishments of . the West  --  to a degree that makes it impossible for them to swallow some of the stereotypes and distortions dished out by their regimes . All the experience with " cultural exchanges " has borne out these premises and has made the program at least a partial substitute for a more thoroughgoing lifting of the Iron Curtain . If this is so , the termination of the exchanges in protest against Soviet action in Hungary is ludicrous , ill-considered and self-defeating . It penalizes us and our friends to a greater extent than the Soviet Union . It gives Moscow an opportunity to blame us for the continuance of cultural barriers . It makes us appear unfairly and unnecessarily as less interested than the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same time it is quixotic to consider the termination of such innocent endeavors as participation in trade fairs or the performance of classic ballets as commensurate or effective means of retaliation . It is sad indeed if our policy-makers can thin : of no more appropriate way of responding to the Hungarian terror . ALEXANDER DALLIN . The Russian Institute , Columbia University . Leonia , N. J. , Dec , 5 , 1951* To Administer Suez Leasing by United Nations Proposed With Rental Paid to Egypt The writer of the following Zeiler , is a former United States Foreign Sert ; ice officer . To THS EDITOR OF Tn . NEW YORK Tams Now that the British and Trent* troops will be withdrawing ' shortly from Egypt , would it not be wise to attempt to settle the problem of the canal by using tactics of persuasion rather than military or economic pressure ? Some solution should be proposed which would be clearly to the advantage of Egypt as well as to the advantage of the " user " nations . Per . haps the simplest and most natural solution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administer the canal zone , paying a generous annual rent . Such a proposal should be made to Egypt as a genuine offer , unaccompanied by any threats . Above all , it should not be made a condition for the eventual withdrawal of the United Nations troops : It would have the positive advantages , from Egypt 's point of view , of recognizing her sovereignty and pro . viding her with sonic of the economic assistance which she so badly needs . In addition , the United Nations should be able to provide funds for the widening of the canal and thus avoid the very real danger , from Egypt 's point of view , that world commerce , as it more and more makes use of larger ships , will cease to find it profitable to use the canal . On the other hand , from the point of view of the " user " nations , such a solution would have the advantage of providing greater assurance that the canal will be administered in the general interest than if they administered it themselves . Egypt would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turn out the United Nations than to seize the canal once again from some consortium of " user " nations which would always smack of colonialism . Perfect security of passage could be obtained only by permanently stationing sufficient troops in the canal zor.e to overawe all the neighboring states . This solution was that adopted by Britain for many years , but it was abandoned in 1954 , and no one has suggested that it be revived . A proposal for a United Nations lease might well be put forward in the first instance by the United States and India acting together . Perhaps better yet , the initiative might be left to India alone in order to insure that the proposal is not tainted by any threats implicit in great-power sponsorship . PHILIP H. BAGIIY . Oxford , England , Dec. 6 , 1955 , Reaping Fruits in Mideast To THE EDITOR OP THE NM YORK TIMES : If what France , Britain and Israel did in Egypt was a crime , to throw away the fruits of it will be worse : it will be a folly ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can afford follies . Crimes , yes ; but not follies . What this country needs right now is not a golf player but a poker player . A good one ? bold , courageous , with icewater in his veins , and I never knew a good one of any other kind . With the cards which the Israelis , British and French have just given him free , without his having to pay chips to draw them , he would probably settle not just the Middle East but the whole world too for the next fifty years . WILLIAM FAULKNER . Oxford , Miss. , Dec. 11 , 1955 ,                     