@@716593

txt Hurricane Hazel , still packing winds of 100 miles an hour , smashed its way northward through eastern North Carolina ? today after striking 120 miles of I the ra 1111 inn rna0 There were no immediate re-ports of serious casualties among the well-warned residents of the coast . Most of them sought safer quarters . A few minor injuries were reported from fallen debris . Property damage ran into millions of dollars as the storm tore up coastal installations , washed away houses , and snarled communications . Heaviest damage was caused by towering waves generated by the windstorm . It was moving north at about 27 miles an hour and the weath ' er bureau said it gradually would lose force as it moved over the land across North Carolina , Virginia , and into the North Atlantic states . Heavy Rains Hurricane and gale force winds will continue for some time , especially to the north and east of the center , the bureau warned . Rains will be heavy over all the states in advance of the storm . Gales extend about 250 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All precautions should be taken against dangerous winds and extremely high tides until the hurricane has passed . the bureau continued . All storm warnings were removed south of Wilmington . Gov . William B. Umstead , from a Durham . N.C. , hospital , ordered out three North Carolina National Guard units at the request of Wilmington 's city manager . In response to a radioed appeal from Mayor Ernest Williams of Myrtle Beach , a resort halfway up the South Carolina coast , Gov . James F. Byrnes ordered the Conway tank battalion to duty to prevent looting . It is composed of several officers and 50 men . All Myrtle Beach telephone lines were down . " We 're going to have considerable damage along the water front , " Mayor Williams said . " That 's usually followed by lots of looting . " Towering Waves The tropical storm , which wrought heavy damage and casualties in Haiti Oct. 12 , struck the United States mainland a severe blow , but towering waves caused more damage along the coast than wind . Thousands of beach homes were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Most beach areas had been evacuated before the storm struck . The hurricane winds spread across a path as much as 120 miles wide as they struck . An advisory said the forward speed of the storm was 25 to 30 miles an hour and it was expected to pick up speed as it progressed . Communications and power lines were down in many areas . Small boats piled up on the shore . Coast guardsmen. police , and neighbors routed sleeping residents from their beds in the early morning along miles of coastline and warned them of the hurricane 's approach . Industrial plants , schools , armories , and churches were opened to permit refugees to obtain shelter . Storm Veers Westward The storm had veered considerably westward in the night . For a time the hurricane appeared headed more toward the Charleston area , where winds tore down some power lines and plunged part of the city in darkness . But the storm failed to turn that way . Veering to the westward and the coastline after plowing steadily toward North Carolina all day yesterday , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Not until a 2 a.m. , ( EST ) weather bureau advisory did South Carolinians learn of the swing in the storm 's path toward their coast . Hurricane warnings were hurridly hoisted from Charleston north . The people had ample warnings , however , against high winds and high tides . Despite the early hour , officials of various disaster organizations began immediate preparations for the big blow . Shelters Opened At Myrtle beach , a popular summer resort halfway up the South Carolina coast , brick ? school buildings were thrown open and residents urged to take shelter there . At Charleston . the Red Cross set up disaster headquarters at 3:30 a.m. and asked that beaches be evacuated . The Miami weather bureau ; repeatedly warned of the intensity of the storm and cautioned all coastal areas . One hurricane-hunter plane following the storm developed engine trouble and was forced to land at West Palm Beach , Fla . Its crew said the hurricane was " very severe with an eye so small that we could not keep our plane in it . " Meanwhile , storm safety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Red Cross chapters along the Carolinas ' coast were alerted for emergency aid . W. A. Miller of Atlanta . Red Cross public information officer , said 21 professional disaster workers were despatched to coastal areas .                     