@@713140

txt Warren R. Austin and Sir Gladwyn Jebb , United States and British representatives in the United Nations Security Council , today challenged the Soviet Union to submit a bona fide proposal to bring peace in Korea . " If there are any other proposals to be made that will genuinely promote peace and security in the area of conflict , " Mr. Austin told the Council , " the whole spirit of humanity demands that they be made without further delay . " Sir Gladwyn endorsed Mr. Austin 's proposal that the Security Council continue to discuss the Korean question under the same heading , " Complaint of Aggression Upon the Republic of Korea , " under which the Council has authorized the use of United Nations armed forces for the defense of South Korea . The British statesman added : - " This will , of course , in no way prevent the representative of the U.S.S.R. from suggesting means for a peaceful settlement , and we shall be the first to rejoice if he were to come forward with concrete proposals for a solution of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United Nations on which the Security Council so far has acted . " Replying to Jacob A. Malik , Soviet representative , who ended his walkout to take over the presidency of the Security Council for August , Sir Gladwyn ridiculed Mr. Malik 's statement of yesterday that Mr. Austin 's opposition to the proposed Soviet heading ? " Peaceful Settlement of the Korean Question " ? showed that the United States " fears the words peace ' and ' peaceful settlement ' . " Sir Gladwyn said this was an example " of the queer upside-down language which always seems to be employed by U. S. S. R. propaganda , " and he also attacked Mr. Malik 's assertion that a new United States resolution , aimed at localizing the conflict , was " aimed at continuing and intensifying that aggression and extending its scope . " " We really do seem to be living in a rather nightmarish Alice-inWonderland world , " said the British representative , whose speech , made at the opening of today 's session , was a thorough analysis of the parliamentary tangle Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union I is trying to advance as a result of his return to the Security Council . As it turned out , it was hardly necessary for Sir Gladwyn to expose these propaganda aims , for Mr. Malik in his closing speech this afternoon threatened that the United States would find public opinion against it if it did not comply with his demand that the Security Council take up as its first item the admission of Communist China to the Security Council , to be followed by " the peaceful settlement of the Korean question . " Would Relegate U. S. Move Mr. Malik , who blandly emphasized his desire as presiding officer to comply with both the spirit and the letter of Security Council procedure , said that he was willing for the Council to take up the United States resolution on localizing the conflict as the third item . By accepting this proposal regarding the agenda , he said , " The Council would avoid the impression that the representative of the United States introduced his proposal specifically in order to preclude the consideration of the item that was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peaceful settlement of the Korean question . " " Such a decision would be a just and logical one , " he added . " Furthermore , it could not possibly be construed by members of the Council , or by world public opinion in a way which would be most unfavorable to the intentions of the United States . " In addition to Sir Gladwyn , representatives of France , Nationalist China , Cuba , Ecuador and Norway announced today that they would support the United States proposal that the Security Council discuss the Korean question under the same heading , " Complaint of Aggression Upon the Republic of Korea , " which the Security Council has used in the series of resolutions it has adopted since July 25 for the defense of South Korea . Their statements assured the seven votes required for a majority , and in ? turn guaranteed the rejection of Mr. Malik 's proposal for the agenda when the Council meets tomorrow afternoon . However , this was another example of the Soviet Union 's practice of forcing its opponents to vote against proposals whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throughout the world . Mr. Malik is trying to force the United States to vote against taking up the admission of Communist China , and against considering " peaceful settlement of the Korean question , " so that the vote can be exploited by Communist propaganda as proof that the United States is blocking the admission of the Peiping regime and a peaceful settlement in Korea . As the past two days have shown , the United States is the principal target of Mr. Malik 's attacks . His maneuver , like his ruling yesterday that Dr. T. F. Tsiang , representative of Nationalist China , is no longer a member of the Council , is intended also to bring about the discomfiture of countries supporting the United States . Mr. Malik 's tactics place Britain and Norway in a particularly difficult position because they recognized the Peiping regime months ago , and yet , in order to counter Soviet maneuvers , they continue to refuse to support its admission to the United Nations . Sir Gladwyn answered this point today by insisting that the only thing the Korean and Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same geographical area , while Arne Sunde of Norway said that , while he would support the admission ? of Communist China , he did not think it should be taken up until after the 1Korean question had been dealt with . Mr. Austin put the situation more picturesquely by declaring that the Untied States would never agree that the end of North Korean aggression depended on any other issue , and that " so long as men are dying on the battlefields in the defense of the United Nations , this Council will not wish to cheapen their suffering or sully their heroism by seeming to engage in the consideration of deals . " Some delegates still believe that the Soviet Union , while posing as the champion of Communist China , actually is maneuvering to keep it out to prevent contacts with the Western countries , but the people of the Asiatic countries will have no way of knowing . It is still more invidious for any country to be recorded as against having the Security Council take up the " peaceful settlement of the Korean question , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avoid it . It is the custom for the Council to approve its agenda by a single vote , but Mr. Malik announced today that he planned to have the Council vote separately on the Chinese and Korean items , as he submitted them Monday . ? Reasons Against Procedure The United States is opposed to this procedure for two reasons : because it would appear that the Soviet Union had forced the reconsideration of the Chinese question as a result of its return to the Security Council ; secondly , " peaceful settlement of the Korean question " eliminates any reference to the North Korean aggression , and would be exploited by the Soviet propaganda machine as an admission that the Security Council until now had merely been sponsoring United States " aggression , " but the return of Mr. Malik changed all that . One suggestion tonight was that the Council should approve the inclusion of all three items on the agenda , thus avoiding a vote that the Soviet Union could exploit , but should fix the order in which they are to be taken up according to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and United States proposals on Korea could be joined , making it read , " complaint of aggression upon the Republic of Korea ; peaceful settlement of Korean question . " However , the majority appeared to be so irritated by Mr. Malik 's tactics that it was ready , if necessary , to go ahead and vote against his proposals . One reason was his disregard of the Council 's rules of procedures ; these provide that the agenda should be drawn up by Secretary General Trygve Lie and approved by the president , but Mr. Malik announced his agenda without consulting Mr. Lie .                     