@@715304

txt An agreement ending the possibility of a strike against eight Greater Boston gas companies was announced today by Governor Herter . The agreement , reached by Dean William G. Sutcliffe of Boston University 's College of Business Administration as moderator , is being voted on now by the 1,000 workers involved in the wage dispute , which had threatened halting of service to 140,000 homes in 21 Greater Boston communities . Details Withheld The union involved is the United Mine Workers , district 50 . Dean Sutcliffe , who had been working for about three weeks in an effort to bring about peaceful settlement of the labor-management dispute , said he could not disclose details of the agreement . However , he said he had every expectation that the settlement would be ratified by the union workers and that the ratification action may be completed before the end of the day . Dean Sutcliffe was named to seek a settlement of the dispute after the workers had gone on strike when the companies failed to meet union wage and fringe benefit demands . At the time Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name a moderator to seek settlement . He also ordered the men back to work , pending negotiations . At the end of the 15-day period allotted to Dean Sutcliffe to obtain a settlement , both labor and management agreed to a seven-day extension of the dean 's appointment to iron out the last few details of an agreement . Modet ; ator 's Statement Today Dean Sutcliffe issued a statement through Governor Herter reading : " I am pleased to report that the dispute between the United Mine Workers , District 50 , and eight Boston area utilities companies appears to be settled . " I want to thank publicly both labor and management officials for their sincere cooperation in making this agreement possible , an agreement which now has to be ratified by union membership . " The Governor also released a copy of his letter to Dean Sutcliffe reading : " I have just received the welcome news which you have conveyed to me that the dispute between the United Mine Workers district 50 and the eight Greater Boston utilities concerns is apparently on its way to settlement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in acting as moderator in behalf of the commonwealth . " May I convey to you my warmest thanks for this fine , piece of public service which you have performed so ably . "                     