@@716488

txt An eight-power conference will prob . ably be held if the French Na ? tional Assembly rejects the European Defense Community , treaty . High United States officials and foreign diplomats said the meeting had been proposed by , some of the European Defense Community powers  --  not France  --  and was under consideration here . Although the United States has not yet made any ' commitment , officials believe its reaction would be favorable . Participants in the conference would be the United States , Britain and the six signatories of the defense community treaty ? France , West Germany , Italy , Belgium , the Netherlands and Luxeitibourg . The United States officials and foreign diplomats said the time and place of the conference would be set in preliminary negotiations beginning a week from today . , The French Assembly is scheduled to vote on the defense community treaty Tuesday . Informants here thought London or Luxembourg would be the most likely meeting place . They said the task of the conference would be to work out a speedy method of integrating West Germany into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European Defense Community . Neutralists Want Soviet Talk They added that emphasis on speed would be necessitated because the Brussels conference failure had set off a race among political forces in Europe to determine Germany's-future . On the one hand are those who want to bring West Germany into the Western defensive system ; on . the other , the neutralists . The common denominator among the numerous groups of neutralists is that they believe the German problem can be solved by an agreement with the Soviet Union . In spite of strong evidence that the Soviet Union will not relinquish its grip on uranium fields , rocket stations and other military , installations in East Germany , many neutralists are convinced that the Kremlin would agree to unify a neutralized , permanently disarmed Germany . They are fighting against the rearmament of West Germany and for another " last chance " conference with the Soviet Union . So far as officials in Washington are concerned the unknown and vital factors in this race are the motives and intentions of French Premier Pierre lianasFrance . The first and easiest step toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a proclamation of German sovereignty , with some limitations , by the United States , Britain and France . In the opinion of many observers here , the next logical step // would be to bring West Germany into the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . But this is opposed by Britain and France because the mechanism of the Atlantic alliance would not provide adequate control over West German rearmament . To keep West Germany out of the Atlantic alliance and as a means of exerting closer control over Germany , M. Mendes-France is reported to have discussed with Prime Minister Churchill the formation of a " little NATO , " of Britain and the six defense community treaty signatories . Within this organization Britain would provide the offset to Gerd man power the French long have desired . Experts here said a treaty . forming such an organization , could be worked out technically ) within a few months and ratified by the first of January , 1955 ? if all the participants wanted to do so . But it is feared such negotiations might lead to another long political struggle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over ratification , as in the case of the Defense.Community project . That is the reason why United States and diplomatic officials here attach so much importance to the motives and intentions of M. MendesFrance . These officials believe that if there is long delay the groups in the United States favoring disengagement from Europe will grow in strength , and this , in turn , will strengthen the neutralist forces in Europe . In addition to the neutralists and those working to integrate West Germany into the defensive system of Europe there is said to be a possible third participant in the race to determine the future of Germany . This is the German Nationalist faction . Already Chancellor Konrad Adenauer , counted the West 's best friend in Germany , is under increased pressure from groups that desire immediate German sovereignty and have no faith in cooperation with the West . In this situation , some Western diplomats in Washington are urging the State Department not to give the impression that the United States might adopt an extreme course , such as disengagement from Europe or " going it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At the same time they are suggesting the United States urge the European powers in all events to work in concert rather than individually for a solution to the defense problems of the Continent .                     