@@713792

txt The nation has just completed one great debate over the issue of sending additional troops to Europe and now was on the verge of an equally profound controversy on Far East policy , Mr. Acheson said . He foresaw the emergence of thrce major points of view , two of which would be argued by extremists . The third position would be the present course , fighting a limited war in Korea that promised to halt aggressors without appeasement and without precipitating a cataclysm of arms . If the present policy failed to prevent a world war , said Mr. Acheson , then it would be plain that the Kremlin and its puppets in Peiping had caused it . He warned that above all , this country must avoid the responsibility for beginning it . " The American people will never choose this course , " he declared . " They will not fall into the trap of seeming to choose it . It is plain that our common safety and our common hopes for the future depend on steadiness and cool heads and unflinching determination to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be allowed to succeed ; it can not be appeased , re- warded or ignored . To meet it squarely is the price of peace . " The Second Spokesman Secretary Acheson restated this country 's policy in an address before the Women 's National Press Club , as the Administration 's second spokesman to join in the domestic conflict caused by the dismissal of General by President Truman last week . General of the Army Omar N. Bradley , Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , opened the Administration 's case in Chicago last night . Mr. Acheson , like General Bradley , avoided mentioning General by name , except when he said the returning soldier agreed with the objectives of our policy on a Japanese peace treaty . There was no mistaking , however , that he was pointing to Gen- , eral as a protagonist of the view that an all-out war should be opened on Red China and communism on the : Asiatic mainland . The other group he termed extreme consisted of those like former President Herbert Hoover . who have urged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fortify itself in the Western Hemisphere , with a few forward bases like Great Britain . " One extreme view will be the impatient one , " declared Mr. Acheson , " that the struggle in Korea can be ended only by widening the hostilities with the attendant risks , and that any willingness to , settle the problems of Korea by peaceful means is tantamount to appeasement . " This passage appeared to thrust at the view expressed by General in his now famous letter to House Minority Leader Joseph W .. Martin Jr . That letter , which apparently decided the President to remove the General from all his positions , stated that the fate of Europe would be decided in Asia , which should be the battlefield for the climactic struggle against communism . Secretary Acheson said the , ountry was about to engage in " a national thinking aloud " and the outcome would be a national agreement on the course to be followed . He said he hoped the debate would be done in responsible fashion and while he said he would not try to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be considered . In these seven points Mr. Acheson said the aggressors continue to suffer heavy losses and the effective resistance of free nations in Korea " are upsetting the calculations upon which the attack against Korea was based and upon which , no doubt , other reckless adventures had been planned . " Mr. Acheson had committed himself to speak tonight before the dismissal of General . When the fury of controversy broke out , his impulse was to cancel his appearance , as President Truman canceled a speech tomorrow before the American Society of Newspaper Editors . Then he decided the cancellation might be misconstrued , and he went ahead as scheduled , but not before a number of drafts were discard for the talk he made .                     