@@712883

txt Letters to The Times JOSEPH CURRAN , GERSON T. HERSCH.THOMAS SCHNEIDER.JAMES E. CUMMINGS.ARTHUR FALK . Letters . to The Times Importance of Hiring Hall Practices Considered to Aid in a Stable Waterfront Structure To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your recent editorial on the hiring hall was most welcome . You correctly describe the hiring hall as an important reservoir of manpower , but its value to the industry in general , and to the seaman in particular , does not end there . It has contributed greatly to elevating the caliber of men who answer the call of the sea . In contrast to the old days , when a man who went to sea did so either because he was a fool , a fugitive from the law or running away from his wife , the conditions of today are different . The sea is now an honorable calling and the seaman enjoys a self-respect his predecessor never could . Furthermore , he no longer feels that he is an outcast from society or a slave subject to the slightest whim or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ due in part to the hiring hall , which gave the maritime unions the economic strength they needed in their fight for better working and living conditions for the seaman , and partly due to the education programs the maritime unions have carried on among their memberships . Education on ' Responsibilities One of the first maritime unions to demand , fight for and win the hiring hall practices in force today , the National Maritime Union , has also been a pioneer in the matter of educating the membership on their responsibilities aboard ship . Just as we have never relaxed in our determination to force the shipowner to treat the seaman with the respect and dignity he deserves , so have we never let up in our efforts to discharge the responsibility that goes along with the hiring hall . The seaman who is not also a good citizen has no place in the industry or in the union . The membership has written . into its constitution definite provisions which make certain acts of misbehavior by members aboard ship or on the beach subject to fines and even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the expulsion of those members who are found guilty of attacking a brother aboard ship with a dangerous weapon , leaving a ship shorthanded , robbery and the use or possession of narcotics . In addition to the humane benefits the hiring hall has , directly or indirectly , brought to an industry hereto . fore known for its primitive working conditions is the important role it served in the last war and the important part it plays in the cold war today . The hiring hall received its greatest test when the outcome of a crucial phase of the war often pivoted around the success or failure of this country 's efforts to move men and arms to overseas battlefronts . The demand for seamen was exceedingly intense but thanks to the hiring hall every vessel bound for a foreign port with its cargo of men and arms was manned by seamen who either delivered the goods or died in the attempt . Military , government and shipping officials have praised the effective part played by the maritime unions and their hiring hall practices in the all-important battle of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plays its part in the delivery of Marshall Plan and Atlantic Treaty aid to the free countries in Europe . A steady flow of the necessary economic and military aid to Europe depends in a large part upon a stable waterfront . The hiring hall is the most important prop in a stable waterfront structure and to remove it could work serious harm upon our aid program . Furthermore , the hiring hall is the very lifeblood of a maritime union and no union should be expected to consent to its own destruction in a peaceable manner . Removal of the present hiring hall practices would plunge the waterfront into chaos , for seamen would once again find themselves the victims of the brutal shipping practices that once stigmatized the industry . The resulting chaos would provide rich soil for Communist disrupters and other waterfront characters . The Communists would be quick to exploit the confusion , not out of any concern for the seamen 's legitimate grievances  --  a concern they never had  --  but solely out of the desire to throw an effective monkey wrench into the operations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very statesmen who ( inveigh against the Communist threat to the world democracies would , by their short-sighted attitude toward the hiring hall practices , give that same threat a shot in the arm , JOSEPH CURRAN , President . New York , May 8 , 1950 . Function of the Architect To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : From the standpoint of public relations of the architectural profession , I would like to comment on a figure of speech occurring in Arthur Krock 's column for May 2 . Near the end of Mr. Krock 's excellent article on the preparation of a military budget he refers to earlier remarks by General Eisenhower in which the formulators of war or defense plans are characterized , as the " architects " of such plans , and those who trim them down to fit the available funds are identified as the " carpenters . " Structurally speaking , this is a popular misconception of the activities of the architect . While it is obviously the architect 's function to plan the broad aspects of the job and its ideal solution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is also his duty , on behalf of his client , to compromise with perfection , and to redesign or modify the plans to meet the latter 's budgetszy , limitations . Under the generally recommended relationship between architect , client and contractor , . the latter should be consulted for his estimates of possible savings , but the revised plans are still the responsibility of the architect , and the " carpenter " should not apply his efforts until these have been brought within the required budget . It is an unfortunate fact , especially on private houses , that the architect is permitted to prepare the plans , and thereafter the carpenter makes changes to pare the cost . Frequently the results are unsatisfactory , if not actually disastrous . GERSON T. HIRSCH . New York , May 2 , 1950 . Aid to Indo-China Queried Assistance Without Reforms Believed to Be Waste of Money To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Tuns : I regret to see that the editors are taking the position that the United States ought to give aid to Bao Dai without any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Help for Indo-China . " It is true that the problems in IndoChina do not allow for delay in our foreign policy . What we do in IndoChina will be used as evidence for or against us by the peoples throughout southeast Asia and India . But we must recognize that the question as the Asians see it is not communism or , democracy but independence and reform or Western domination . The United States , which was once the champion of nationalism and selfdetermination , is in great danger of becoming associated with " westernism " ? e. , imperialism , by associating itself with everything anti-Communist . This danger would be increased , not to say justified , by extending aid to underdeveloped areas through their former colonial administrators . Bao Dai is supported by the French politically and militarily ; this is probably enough in the eyes of Indo-Chinese to discredit him as the people 's leader . In addition , he does not now support those economic and social reforms which seem necessary for any Government if it is to survive , Giving him aid through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a waste of money because it can at best stall communism for a short time and not defeat it , and will go far in aligning the United States with the colonial powers . The editors point out that the Marshall Plan had no political stipulations attached , and that aid to Indo-China should be similarly non-political  --  i. e. , we should let the Government use the aid as they see fit . But the Marshall Plan applied , for the most part , to Western European democracies , whose Governments more or less reflected the will of the people . This seems not to be the case in Indo-China . In accordance with our principles we ought to support Governments that do reflect the will of the people . As a matter of practical politics , where no such Government exists , we ought to use our influence to reform such Governments as we do support , so as to make them capable of winning some kind of popular support . Our experience in China ought to teach us that money and arms are no substitute for reform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mass. , May 6 , 1950 . Reported Vote on School Aid To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : On March 2 THE NEW YORK TIMES , under the headline " Leading Educators , 7,000-2 , Ask Federal Funds Only for Public Institutions , " reported that " with only two dissenting votes , the American Association of School Administrators adopted a resolution today opposing the use of public funds for the support of parochial schools . " The facts , based on several eyewitness accounts , are : 1 . At the time of the vote , there were not more than 2,000 delegates in the convention hall . 2 . The delegates voted on their nineteen resolutions en bloc ; dissenting votes , therefore , might be directed at any one of these resolutions , which covered a range of subjects from Unesco to appreciation for Atlantic City 's hospitality . 3 . No ballots were cast ; no count of votes was taken ; the resolutions were adopted by a voice vote . Presumably it is true that Dr. Willard Givens , executive secretary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the vote was 7,000-2 . " But this only proves that Dr. Givens ' enthusiasm for his personal opinions on school finance raised havoc with his mathematics . As I am confident that many schoolmen at the Atlantic City meeting were opposed to the inclusio : of the resolution to bar aid for non-public schools , I hope that THE NEW YORK TIMES , in justice both to its readers and to the membership of the Association of School Administrators , will correct the inaccurate report of this vote . JAMES E. CUMMINGS . Washington . March 6 , 1950 . Taxes on Small Business To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The Government is now in the hypocritical position of making a plea for small business while picking the pockets of small business at the same time . Instead of Government loans to supply needed capital to small bustnese why not relent on the taxes taken up to a given yearly gross ? The present high personal and business income taxes draw away the needed capital from small business and a lapse on tax collection could at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . New York , May 9 ; 14 ' 59.                     