@@713659

txt Letters to The Times State Controls Proposed Legislative Action on Prices Urged as Emergency Measure To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES The American public has been editorially accused of apathy in the matter of daily increasing consumer ? costs for the necessities of life . The accusation is unfair oversimplification . The American housewife is helpless before the onslaught of a destructive economic force against which her only hope of protection lies in an efficient administration of a workable price-control law . Stabilization leadership enjoying public confidence is needed to prevent American international power from being destroyed by domestic economic weakness caused by runaway prices . Price control affects the lives of all . American living costs are as bipartisan , as war . Stabilization administration should not be used as a weapon of party politics . A study of governmental efforts to control living costs presents , a dismal picture . The man in the street Is rightfully indignant . Months ago price control was mentioned as a probability . Costs started upward . A trial period of thirty to sixty days was suggested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controls by the Federal ' Government with no " rollback " provision  --  its effective date and hour advertised in advance . Everyone knows what happened to consumer costs . Later eggs , sugar and milk were decontrolled  --  followed by a statement by the office of the Price Stabilizer of plans to issue within the next few weeks a mark-up regulation permitting wholesalers and retailers to pass along their own costs . The corner store may thus add a penny or a few cents to the price of commodities . A similar regulation is predicted for all retailers who complain that they are caught between rising costs and Government ceiling . Advance Notice It is difficult to understand how any retailer could have been hurt by a socalled " freeze " in view of the advance notice given of almost the exact effective hour for controls . The Price Stabilizer further announces that the objective of stabilized price regulation is the prevention of rising consumer costs , not their reduction . Wages are frozen . Price increaser further decrease the dollar value of the weekly wage . The Bureau of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of December , 1950 , showing that the average gross earn ? ings of " Production Workers in Se. lected Industries " as of September , 1950 , was $60.38 , or $34.70 in 1939 dollars . The problem of price control is state as well as national . The people of New York have a constitutional right to protection through state laws in mat. ters affecting public welfare . The State of New York has not , if it could , ceded its protective power over its own citizenry to the Federal Government , Governor Dewey has declared a state emergency . Acting under it the State Legislature has the right to enact emergency price-control legislation . There is a well-defined rule of law which allows the state to fix the prices of any business which is " so clothed with public interest " as to justify reasonably the imposition of regula ? tions calculated to remove abuses or perhaps even to secure benefits in regard to features which clearly affect the public . The idea of state price control is not novel . In the Revolutionary days of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of almost every commodity in the market . When the Fifth Amendment to the Federal Constitution was ratified Maryland and South Carolina by statute regulated the price of bread . The State of New York has fixed prices by state statute . The cotton industry was held to be " affected with public interest . " Employment agency fees are ? regulated . There have been New York statutes in relation to hotel rates , equalization of liquor prices in different locations , and overcharges by theatre ticket agencies . Presently on the New York statute books is an Emergency Rent Control Law . The power of the state to control food prices in the existing declared state of emergency can not be Seriously doubted . Trustees for People The exercise of this power lies in the discretion of the state legislators . They as elected representatives are the trustees of the police power of the state for the benefit of the people of New York . The enactment of federal price-control legislation does not prohibit the enactment of state price-fixing , except in so far as state legislation might delimit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neither prevents state action nor excuses state inaction . The people of New York are entitled to state protection against black-market or extortionate prices . The Economic Stabilization Agency has announced that complainants against price violators must establish price violation , The job of price control is a problem for a local investigator . The local public should not have to call upon Washington , any more than does the route patrolman , for protection against the crime of extortion. ? Only the overconfident believe that price control is temporary . We are advised that the present emergency to the extent of suffering may last for years .. We are to stay strong  --  and that means increasing cuts in civilian production over years . Nor have we any guarantee against rationing . Difficulty of administration ' and possible confusion between federal and state prices administratively fixed are not reasons in law for state legislative failure to act . The objective of any price-control legislation is the protection of the public  --  not the manufacturer or retailer . And the consumer public is now the forgotten man ? caught in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ costs . The state might at least consider supplementing federal action by state legislation . EDWARD A. MCLAUGHLIN . JOHN F. MCDONALD . New York , March 3 , 1951 . Division of Korea Historical Background Given of the Thirty-eighth Parallel To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Maurice Winograd 's recent letter which questioned whether the Thirtyeighth Parallel , as a dividing line in Korea , was " old " or " new " suggested that most Americans were not aware of the history of the Thirty-eighth Parallel . In 1896 the Japanese Admiral Yamagata suggested , while a guest at the coronation of Czar Nicholas II , that Korea be divided into two spheres of influence . The ambitious Russians were to be north of the Thirty-eighth Parallel and the Japanese to the south . This was really a bid for time while each prepared those measures which they thought necessary to gain control of the unfortunate Korean peninsula . Thus this was a " fateful " dividing line to the Koreans long before their " liberation " from Japanese rule in 1946 . We can indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take effective control of the northern part of Korea in 1946 , an area with which the Russians long have had relations . Thus they had learned the peculiar problems of a nation which once had a culture at least equal to that of China during her intellectual peak , a culture which was destroyed by the Japanese samurais of Hideyoshi in 1601-2 . Many Koreans , fleeing Japanese rule constantly since the Eighteen Nineties , found themselves in Russian Asia , where , since the Communist ascension , they have been quickly indoctrinated . As native Koreans they knew what would appeal to their people , especially those in industrial areas . Thus the Russians in 1946 had an entourage of thousands of Koreans and Russians who knew the country . The United States did not have this advantage . The wisest American move in 1946 would have been to have negotiated joint occupation of the entire peninsula . While the difficulties of working closer with the Russians might have been many , perhaps we could have hampered Russian propaganda efforts , and , moreover , the earliest militaristic movements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have evoked preventive rafts ( ures . ANDRE STEPHAN MOLNAR . Brooklyn , March 3 , 1951 . Remarks on F. D. R. Questioned To THE EDITOR OP THE NEW YORK TIMES : In answer to James A. Farley 's query as to whether he is immodest , his letter in THE TIMES of March 5 hardly reflects the ' attributes of a shrinking violet . He completely ignores the fact that despite the intense propaganda against a third term the people returned Roosevelt in , 1940 and again in 1944 , a far more convincing gauge of the popular will than the recent precipitate action of so many . State Legislatures , sadly reminding one of the ill-fated Prohibition Amendment . As for the references to the utter breakdown of Roosevelt in his third term , that is categorically contradicted in the books of Mr. Churchill , General Eisenhower , Mrs. Perkins and others who worked closely with him throughout that trying period . E. J. CORNELIS . New York , March 6 , 1951 . Spending Increase Noted To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Regarding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Costs of Living , " should n't this headline be written , instead , " The Cost of High Living " ? Am I right or am I wrong ? . I am in my seventies now . I have never seen such high living since I have been alive . Everybody is buying everything , and 75 per cent of the things people buy are unnecessary . " And vision belongs to grown-up age , but spending belongs to blinded youth . " Everybody tries to keep up with the Joneses down the street . Col. C. B. HUMPHREY , U. S. A .. R. Sea Cliff , N. Y. , March 3 , 1951 . Protecting the Unemployed Present Benefit Provisions Are Held Endangered by Hughes-Brees Bill To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : There has been so little publicity about the Hughes-Brees bill , amending the New York State unemployment insurance law , now before the Legislature in Albany , that there is danger that the general public is unaware of its implications . Furthermore , there are to be no public hearings , although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ benefits as part of a social in ? surance system to ease the hazards of joblessness as well as to maintain purchasing power during periods of de ? dining employment . At present , with mounting employment opportunities and resultant easement on the fund , we would hope to work toward improvement and extension of this program . Instead , the Hughes-Breen if enacted into law , would be a step backward in protection . Although the maximum benefit rate is actually increased in the bill , many thousands who are entitled to benefits at the present time , because of the proposed change in the eligibility formula would receive none at all ; and many others would ? receive fewer and lower benefits . Finally , those fortunate enough to qualify would have to wait a long time because of the red tape inevitably involved in administering such a complicated benefit formula . The result would be that some form of public assistance would have to be substituted in many instances and the public would be footing the bill through higher taxes at a time when the fund is large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in addition , that employers will have to pay higher taxes when the fund drops below a certain point . Thus their assessment would increase during bad times and decrease during good  --  hardly a practical arrangement . Also , it should be pointed out that the type of experiencerating proposed by this bill is unfair to small employers . Altogether the Hughes-Brees bill does little credit to New York 's record in the field of social legislation and , I am sure , would have small chance of passage if all of its implications were understood . HELEN HALL , Director , Henry Street Settlement . New York , March 9 , 1951 . Statements by Stalin To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TImES : I find it difficult , if not impossible , to understand how any reasonable men , statesmen above all , can attach any value whatever to anything Stalin or other Communist leaders may say , Have we not yet learned by painful experience the simple truth that deeds speak louder than words ? Have we not learned the Communists employ double talk and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought and concealing criminal intent ? Have they ever fulfilled a promise or even shown any honesty in their threats ? Secretary of State John Hay once remarked after listening to an egregious lie by a foreign Ambassador that he was not concerned with the lie itself but with the reason for the lie . If we must take notice of the farrago of words , such as the latest pronouncement by Stalin , published in a Moscow newspaper , our main concern need be to guess why he has resorted to this expedient . If in his " peace offensive " he really wants peace he might easily demonstrate it , not by protestations but begin simply by restoring to crippled Austria its independence and freedom . I must confess also that I have little sympathy for those deluded generousminded liberals who are taken in by pedantic talk about " ideologies , " as if this were really and primarily a war of words . After all that has happened  --  the Berlin blockade , for example ? can any thinking person be so naive as to believe that foul @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protestations ? There is much wisdom in the saying : " Never explain ; your enemy will not believe you and your friends do not want you to explain . " It is painful to note how many people have been confused by all this futile palaver , futile even from the historical point of view , because what matters are facts and deeds , not labored explanations . This is a grim business we are engaged in . We need no verbal justification for our mission to defend freedom . What the freedom-loving peoples of the world need is the inspiration of virile deeds . We are building up military power wherever we can effectively . This is the only language the Kremlin understands . Why indulge in protestations ? Why be misled any longer by the " big lie " ? PHILIP MARSHALL BROWN . Charleston , S. C. , March 1 , 1951 . Income Tax Information Queried To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Is any one of us a prophet , soothsayer or fortuneteller ? If not , how could you or I foretell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1040 ( 1950 ) , Schedule A , on Page 2 , we should keep records of each individual dividend received and from what company received ? This information has never been demanded before . The law that attempts to require it was not passed until March 10 , 1950 , two months and a half after the beginning of the tax year . Only through second sight could the taxpayer have known such a requirement was to be made . Would it help bring home to the Treasury Department the utter unreasonableness of such a regulation if you and I , while reporting the total of our ilte0Me from dividends , left the detailed Schedule A. ( Page 2 ) blank ? CURTIS DAHL . New Haven , Conn. , March 4 , 19M.                     