@@714685

txt CIO officials in Denver yesterday announced that striking employes of the Sinclair Oil corporation had voted to accept the company 's wage increase offer and return to work . Ten thousand Sinclair workers thruout the nation were affected , including 1,700 in Sinclair 's East Chicago refinery . This was one of several developments in the 20 day old nation-wide strike of refinery workers . The others : 1 . Judge Moses Leopold in Jasper county Circuit court at Rensselaer , Ind. , granted a temporary injunction ordering the city of East Chicago and various city officials and employes to raise two bridges over the Indiana Harbor ship canal and thus permit passage of the Red Crown , a tanker pf Standard Oil Company of Indiana . The tanker , loaded with 2,700,000 gallons of gasoline , has been a " captiCe " in the canal since May 1 because union pickets have patroled the bridges . Standard Talks Halted 2 . Negotiations aimed at ending the strike of 7,000 employes of Standard 's Whiting refinery were broken off . 3. 0 . A. Knight , president @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , said the settlements reached thus far will restore to production 600,000 barrels a day of petroleum products . The production loss was estimated at 2,500,000 barrels a day when the strike started . The nation 's normal daily production is ' estimated at 6,500,000 barrels . Knight said a fourth of the 90,000 workers who struck are back . The Oil Workers International union announced that company and union officials signed the Sinclair contract in New York . The offer , made Thursday , in , volved a wage increase of 15 cents an hour and a fiat $36.50 per worker in retroactive pay . Uncertain on Return Officials of the union 's local 210 had reported Sunday that the East Chicago workers had voted 4 to 1 against the company offer . However , the nation-wide vote is binding on all locals . Five hundred employes of the Sinclair plant in East Chicago went back to work on the midnight shift after agreement was reach with the management on a contract for 100 office workers who are members of local 210 . Altho the production workers had already settled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pickets of the office staff . The settlement gives the office workers $62.38 retroactive pay , a 15 cent raise , and night shift differential of 6 and 12bents . David Herring , sec retary of : local 210 , said striking employes of the Cities Service Oil company refinery in East Chicago indorsed the position of their union officials at a meeting last night in Hammond . The officials had rejected extension of a contract for a year beyond July 1 , insisting that the contract end July 1 . Six employes of the Texas Terminal at the East Chicago docks also signed up under the 15 cent wage formula . Warns of Contempt Judge Leopold said in issuing his order that any failure to open the bridges on signal from Standard tankers would make the defendants guilty of contempt of court , Company spokesmen said last night the Red Crown might be ordered moved thru the canal this afternoon after defendants in the injunction suit have been notified of Judge Leopold 's order . James J. Spillane , head of the federal conciliation service here , disclosed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders plan a meeting tonight at which the status of negotiations will be explained to the membership and instructions will be asked . Last Friday the leaders rejected a company offer of a 15 cent an hour increase , plus 9 cents retroactive to March 1 . The company asked a two year contract , with a provision for reopening wage talks after a year ; a no strike , no lockout clause , and an extension of the apprenticeship system to all ' 16 departments.1 Only 11 departments now are covered . ' Union Files Suit The union is local 100 of the independent Central States Petroleum union . Joseph J. , secretary of local 100 , filed a 2 million dollar suit for back wages , damages , and attorney fees against Standard in Superior court at Hammond . The company explained last week it had been Unable to make up pay checks due for work before the strike because pickets would not allow payroll department workers to enter the plant . American Airlines announced it would cancel 42 daily flights beginning Thursday because of the shortage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France and KLM , the royal Dutch line  --  canceled five round trip flights from Idlewild airport , New York City , to Europe . ISTRIKE DAMAGE TOLD Washington , May 19 ( W ) ? The commerce department said tonight it has received reports from steel companies that workers at some plants failed to carry out adequate safeguards against plant damage when they , went on their recent strike . Blast furnaces , coke ovens , and similar plant facilities req u ire slow cooling to prevent damage to their linings . The department said reports showed cases of serious damage to plants and cases where severe damage was averted narrowly when the CIO steelworkers union went on strike . Dollar Loss Undetermined A commerce department spokesman said figures on the financial loss were not available . He said reports of damage caused the strike resulted in an investigation at 15 or 20 steel plants and that serious damage or a possibility of it had been found in several cases . He said one company , which he did not identify , has hired an industrial engineer to evaluate its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ detailed and specific reports of the damage . The spokesman said the names of companies where damage resulted will not be made public , because the information might put them at a competitive disadvantage . Notice Given to Murray Commerce Secretary Sawyer informed Philip Murray , president of the steelworkers union , that while workers generally had taken care to preserve equipment before going on strike , this care " was not universal . " This caused Murray to denounce Sawyer before die closing session of the steelworkers convention Friday in Philadelphia . Murray told the union Sawyer had shown " an unthinkable degree of bias and is no friend of yours . "                     