@@715648

txt DOCK UNION OUSTS SAMPSON AS AGENT Members Vote to Dismiss Him on Charges He Divulged Business to the Public John S. ( Gene ) Sampson , who as business agent of the traditionally insurgent Local 791 of the International Longshoremen 's Association , A. F. L. , has been labor boss of Chelsea 's waterfront for many years , was ousted from his job last night at a mass membership meeting . Mr. Sampson , a brother of Frank Sampson , executive assistant to Mayor Impellitteri , has often been ' a foe of Joseph P. Ryan , president lof the parent I. L. A. , and under his stewardship the Chelsea waterfront local has time and again bucked the rule of Ryan , who is under indictment here on charges of misuse of union funds . While Mr. Sampson was being ousted from the job he has held for thirty-two years , Ryan , who holds the international union post that Mr. Sampson has reportedly long been seeking , was having his own troubles in Chicago . The executive council of the American Federation of Labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal appeal for one last chance to clean up his racket-ridden union . Mr. Sampson 's troubles have been coming for some time , and the brewing dissension within his own ranks boiled into positive action last night when the local 's regular monthly meeting voted " overwhelmingly , " according to a spokesman , to dismiss Mr. Sampson . The action came as a followup to charges that the business agent had divulged " union matters to the public . " This was the official reason for the ouster , based on a union by // law providing immediate expulsion for officers who publicly discuss union business . The unofficial reason for the dismissal was attributed by some persons familiar with waterfront affairs to a group of " counterinsurgents " rebellious at the local 's administration . There has long been a pro-Ryan faction as well as a pro-Sampson faction within the local , and , according to some sources , last night 's vote was confirmation that the pro-Ryan group had at last won out over the Sampson faction . One reliable informant reported a more sinister motive . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the notorious Mickey Bowers gang , which now controls the piers north of Forty-second Street , was attempting to move downtown . The gang , associated with Local 821 , is called the " pistol local " because of its record of violence along the waterfront . Business agent of the " pistol local " is Harold Bowers , brother of Mickey Bowers . Agents of the Mickey Bowers gang , according to the informant , have been working with pro-Ryan men within Local 791 in a move to take over the ten-block sectionl of Chelsea piers . Local 824 has ) been known as a notorious gang-1 ster-ruled group , and it was con-1 sidered significant that , although Mr. Sampson was voted out of office , the local 's other business agent , James J. ( Jay ) O'Connor , who was at the meeting last night and who has been indicted on a charge of extorting nearly $18,000 from the Huron Stevedoring Corporation during a six-year period was kept in his post . The voting , which took place at the local 's headquarters at 164 Eleventh Avenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the largest crowds ever to attend a monthly meeting , according to one spokesman . Mr. Sampson said nothing after the meeting beyond referring questions to the union 's press group , The membership 's decision had been predicted for some weeks . At the July meeting a five-man committee , appointed to investi gate charges of irregularity in ' union procedure , made a report suggesting that the ' ' membership , which totals about 1,500 men from , the Chelsea waterfront district , ' take final action on an ouster move . Some months ago the local adopted a rule barring any member or official from discussing union affairs for publication without authorization from the membership . At the local 's June meeting Mr. Sampson , who has been identified for year ' as the leader of the in surgent faction , was charged with having violated this rule and with ) having made false statements . One of the statements to which the ousting element specifically objected was that he favored abolition of the shape-up , a hiring method that has been the target of several official and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basic causes of waterfront evil . ' The shape-up provides the long-I shoremen on a day-to-day basis for specific loading and unloading jobs . A longshoreman who wants to ' work on a particular pier 's work ' gang must appear at the shapeup before 8 A. M. each day and the hiring boss then selects whomever he wants . One of the major waterfront complaints is that any man who wants to be chosen must be ready to kick back $2 or $3 out of his day 's wages . The ouster ends , at least temporarily , Mr. Sampson 's long career as a longshoreman 's official , a career that began in 1919 , when he was elected to a local post after being mustered out of the Army after World War I. Mr. Sampson has often been critical of the Ryan administration , and in 1951 he called a wild ( cat strike that closed the port of New York , something he had once before done about six years earlier . On Friday , it was announced , an election will be held to fill the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members , but no election /has been slated yet for the business agent 's post . The most recent of the locals ' rebel movements was on June 8 , when Mr. Sampson took his union out in a one-day stoppage in protest against the proposals of the State Crime Commission to clean up the waterfront . Ryan pleaded with Mr. Sampson to call off the protest strike , but to nit avail . Five thousand members of the longshoremen 's union took part in the stoppage led by Mr. Sampson 's local , and threw a picket line around the Bar Association Building , 42 West Forty-fourth Street , where Governor Dewey was holding a hearing on waterfront crime . Earlier in their rivalry , rankand-file uprisings led by Mr. Sampson frequently overturned Ryan-sponsored wage agreements between longshoremen and companies operating in Atlantic Coast ports . Mr. Sampson has , on these occasions , accused Ryan of being a " company man . "                     