@@720827

txt Voters in New York City have three main interests in today 's election : The school bond referendum , the choice of a Borough President in Queens and the filling of judicial vacancies in Manhattan . Politically this is an off-year , meaning that no top executive offices are at stake . For this reason the total vote is expected to be substantially less than im years when voters are choosing a President , a Governor or a , Mayor . The polls will be open for today 's voting from 6 A. M. until 7 P.M. State law bans the sale of intoxicants by bars , restaurants and package stores during the hours the polls are open . AB Voting on Machines Throughout the state all the voting will be done on voting machines . This should mean that the results of contests within the city will be known by 11 P. M. Only residents of Queens will be voting for a Borough President and only residents of Manhattan for judicial vacancies in New York County . Queens voters also kill help choose three State Supreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ embraces Nassau and Suffolk Counties . Because an amendment to the State Constitution is involved , all the voters of the state will pass on the school bond issue , known as Amendment 4 . If it is adopted , the city would be authorized to issue $500,000,000 in bonds outside its debt limit to finance the construction and renovation of schools . Fair Weather Forecast For New York City and the metropolitan area , the Weather Bureau has predicted a fair day with temperatures near fifty degrees . In northern and western New York there is a possibility of some snow late in the day . The upstate forecast may reduce the turnout there . Because forty-nine cities are electing Mayors and nearly all the upstate towns are picking Super- , visors and other local offices , the upstate vote had been expected to run substantially higher than in this city . On the three key issues involved in today 's election in this city the outlook is uncertain . // All have political implications ) extending beyond the mattersi directly at stake . Mayor Wagner 's personal and political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ G. De Sapio , leader of Tammany , has a similar stake in the Manhattan judicial elec-. tions . The future course and . leadership of the Democratic party in Queens hinges on the outcome of the contest for Borough President . The school bond question is ode of nine proposed constitutional amendments being submitted to the voters for ratification or rejection today . Besides Amendment 4 , only Amendments 2 and 6 have , aroused any substantial interest. , Amendment 2. if approved , i would permit the construction ) of a limited-access highway known as the Northway.I through the eastern fringe of the Adirondack forest preserve on its way from Albany to Canada . Amendment 6 would permit the state to turn over its barge canal system to the Federal , Government . This is opposed by railroad and some farm and conservation groups . A last-minute drive by real estate interests within the city , to defeat the school bond issue came to light yesterday . Many owners and managers of residential properties included an appeal for a vote against the ' amendment with November rent , bills @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not provide a single additional . seat in the schools but that it might lead to rent increases . William Zeckendorf Jr .. chairman of thte Citizens Committee for Amendment 4 , predicted . that the drive would boomerang . Tenants , he remarked , are always suspicious of advice from a landlord . The closing of the pre-election campaign last night brought the usual flurry of victory claims from candidates ? and their supporters . In the main contests and in many local contests in the city and its suburbs , campaigning went on last night as long as audiences could be found to listen to candidates ' appeals . Senator Jacob K. Javits , Republican , undertook a lastminute appeal for John A. Garbarino , the Republican candidate for District Attorney of Richmond , last evening . Ilsing an amplifier , he addressed home-bound rush-hour crowds at the Staten Island ferry ? terminal in Manhattan .                     