@@717521

txt Two top officials of General Motors were confronted today by three angry automobile dealers . The three charged the giant company with forcing " wilder and wilder " sales practices . " But Harlow H. Curtice , president of General Motors and Alfred P. Sloan Jr. , board chairman , assured a Senate inquiry that the company had played fair with everybody . Senator Joseph , C. O'Mahoney staged the drama before his Antitrust and Mo. , nopoly Subcommittee . Afterward he indicated he Was giving " very serious consideration " to legislation to do away with . the kind of contracts ' that General , Motors now offers its 17,000 dealers . Mr. Curtice had been scheduled to open today 's , hearing before the Wyoming Democrat 's committee . In antici.1 pation of this he had released an elaborate prepared statement . But when he took the witness stand this morning , with Mr. Sloan beside him , Senator O'Mahoney sprang the dealers on them . Mr. O'Mahoney announced that . he wanted to hear first from three dealers whom he had subpoenaed . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their grievances against the company . They were M. H. Yager , a Pontiac dealer of Albany ; J. B. Silas , a Chevrolet and Oldsmobile dealer of Conway , Ark. , and Ed Hammer , who holds Chevrolet and Oldsmobile franchises in Sheridan , Wyo . Continued pressure from the company for higher sales volume , the'three dealers said , had forced loose credit practices on dealers and had encouraged the bootlegging of cars . It also encouraged dealers to put an artificial high price on their cars so that the discounts for cash and allowances on trade-ins would appear large , they said . Mr. Curtice and other top ! G. M. officials were accused by Mr. Yager of having " adopted the policies of arrogant , selfish dictators and have attempted to brainwash first , the wholesale organization of General Motors , and second , the dealer body to their dogma of more and more production and wilder and wilder distribution methods . " Before permitting the dealers to testify , Senator O'Mahoney asked General Motors executives to assure them that there would be no retaliation against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that nobody ever retaliated against the eight dealers who testified against General Motors in an antitrust action back in 1939 , " Henry M. Hogan , vibe president and general counsel for ? the auto company , retorted . Protests made by dealers against the " razzle-dazzle carnival huckster type of merchandising methods that are not only condoned , but encouraged by General Motors , " have been ignored by the company , Mr. Yager told the committee . Mr. Silaz and Mr. Hammer emphasized the hazards of the oneyear contract under which a dealer can be deprived of his franchise unless he maintains the sales volume demanded by the manufacturer . They complained , too , that although they had thousands of dollars of their own money in showrooms and repair shops they were at the mercy of General Motors to retain their agreements . It was not until the subcommittee had reconvened . after lunch that Mr. Curtice had a chance to reply to the accusations against his company . " I know of no management organization that has a higher standard of business ethics , a greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the equities of the various groups with which we have contact  --  customers , employes , suppliers , dealers and shareholders , " Mr. Curtice told the committee . Both Mr. Curtice and Mr. Sloan termed as an " impossible concept " a suggestion by Senator 0 ' oney that General Motors d or could take over the retailing of its autos from its ! dealers . In his prepared statement , Mr. Curtice said : " Many dealers have held G .. M. franchises over a long period of time . Over two-thirds of the dealers who were active at the end of World War ' II are still active . I should also like to point out that during the postwar period , G. M. dealers have had profits before taxes of ' over $5,000,000,000 , after deducting over $1,000,000,000 of owners ' salaries and bonuses . Their investment has grown from $249 , - 000,000 in 1940 to over $2,200 , - 000,000 today , largely from reinvested earnings . " Both Mr. Curtice and Mr. Sloan disclaimed any " pattern of expansion " in the policy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " grew through good management " and that it had never consciously gone out to purchase other companies to add to its holdings . " Such activities as our manufacture of Diesel engines , and the production of air conditioning and electric household equipment , " Mr. Sloan insisted , " can about in the natural evolution of the company 's operations . " Mr. Sloan , despite his eighty years , proved a sprightly witness who appeared to enjoy matching wits with his questioners . Asked whether the lengthy hearing was tiring him , Mr. 1Sloan said he was n't in the least fatigued and suggested that the subcommittee " keep going as late as you want . " " Call me back at any time you wish . I 'll be glad to make another appearance , " Mr. Sloan said , as the subcommittee finally called it a day at 5:20 P. M.                     