@@717582

txt Highly pleased with the dragon 's teeth they have sown in Asia , Party Chief Khrushchev and Premier Bulganin have returned to Moscow . Symbolically enough , they were greeted by the Moscow press not with their own pictures on the front pages but with the picture of Stalin . It was put there ostensibly in observance of the seventy-sixth birthday anniversary of the dead dictator . But to the outside world it seems another sign that after an exercise in un-Stalinist smiles Soviet policy has now . zigzagged back to Stalinism and all that it implies . In this anti-Western campaign the Soviet leaders attempt to stir up anew the dying embers of past Asian resentments against a dying Western colonialism . Yet of all the Soviet propaganda campaigns against the West none is more fraudulent or hypocritical . It is true that some Western colonial trouble spots remain , such as Goa , which provided the Soviet leaders with their principal ammunition in India . But throughout Asia and Africa the formerly vast colonial empires of the West are in liquidation . The record shows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than 600,000.000 people have been freed from Western colonial rule , including India and Indonesia . They could be freed because under the tutelage and through the example of the colonial powers themselves they had grown to political maturity which enabled them to become free and independent nations without falling prey again to ancient native tyrannies . The same process is under way , in many cases under United Nations supervision , wherever Western colonial rule still prevails . In glaring contrast to this record the Soviets have embarked on a colonial expansion of their own which has made them the greatest colonial power of the day and has imposed not merely " colonialism " but slavery on many millions . This slavery they have imposed on many nations with ancient civilizations . Here is the Soviet record on that score since the beginning of the last war : The Soviets have annexed outright the three Baltic states ? of Lithuania , Latvia and Estonia , with a combined non-Russian population of nearly 6,000,000 , have deported a large part of that population to Siberia and have colonized the land with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bessarabia , Bukovina , the Carpatho-Ukraine , part of East Prussia , Karelo-Finland , Petsamo , Tannu Tuva , southern Sakhalin and the Kurile Islands , with a combined and predominantly non-Russian population of more than 16,000,000 . The Soviets have subjected to a colonial tyranny run by their satraps the ancient and formerly independent countries of Poland , Czechoslovakia , Hungary , Rumania and Bulgaria , in addition to East Germany , Albania and Outer Mongolia , with a combined non-Russian population of 91,000,000 , which they keep under an iron heel more oppressive than Western colonialism ever was . This contrasting record of the West and the Soviets is certainly well known to Asian leaders . But it is not so well known to the Asian masses , and their leaders do them and the free world a poor service by failing to enlighten their followers and thereby making them potential victims of the Red colonialism which the Kremlin would impose on all ' , the world .                     