@@718080

txt FORT DIX , N. J. , July 14 ? The cause of the military airplane crash that killed forty-five persons here yesterday afternoon remained a mystery today as a high-level Air Force investigation shaped up . The C-118 , bound for England from Air Force Base , plunged into a piney bog in the southwest corner of the Fort Dix training reservation . The crash I occurred within two minutes of the take-off from a rainswept runway at 3:35 P. M. . A. major question was why it I had taken fifty minutes for the air base , which adjoins Fort Dix , to get word that the f ourengined aircraft carrying sixtysix persons was down . Among the dead were five women and two children . Three of the women wee Air Force personnel , the others dependents of service men . The passenger list included six crewmen , fifty-four military perI sons or dependents and six civilians . The plane , a military version of the civilian DC-6 , was on its way to Burtonwood , near Manchester , England . With Lieut . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Service ( M. A. T. S. ) , on hand as the inquiry started , the following questions remained unanswered : ' id turbulence related to general electrical disturbances in near-by sections of New Jersey force the plane down before it had risen even 1,000 feet during its brief span aloft ? Some survivors spoke of a sudden " downdraft " ? a word much misused by air passengers , ' who are apt to apply it to any downward jolt , bump , drop or lessened // rain and a ceiling of only 500 feet at ake-off time , Col. John Williams of the 1611th Air Transport Group , said that flying conditions were " not con : sid  --  ied at all bad . " Twenty-one of those who figured in the accident were in the angle of climb in a Tising plane . qWhy , when the base . had made no contact with the plane between 3:35 and 4725 P. M. , did not some element of the air-control system start checking ? Lieut . Douglas Campbell of the public information office confirmed today that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fort Dix corporal , delivering mail to a unit on night , maneuvers , found a dazed survivor and rushed him to the provost marshal . It was 4:25 P. M. when the provost marshal set the rescue machinery in motion , and 4:45 o'clock when the story reached the public information office . In the lack of the slightest indication that anything was wrong with the plane at takeoff , attention tended to focus on the weather . But despite " hard " Fort Dix Hospital . A medical officer said : " A number of them are in poor condition . If fourteen get well , we 'll consider it fortunate . Many have serious head and neck injuries . " Colonel Williams was among officers who suggested that the toll of fatalities had been reduced by the fact that the . C-118 had seats facing to the rear . Colonel Williams ? said this design , which in general ' has been resisted by commercial ' airline passengers , " was a major factor in saving the lives of those who did survive " because it helped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Twenty - ninth Air , Transport Squadron of the  --  firtlantic division of M. A. T. S. Air Force spokesmen said its loss had broken , a perfect record achieved by both Atlantic and Pacific divisions of the , service over eight years . General Dany Heads Board Brig . Gen. George B. Dany , wing ' commander of the 1611th Air Transport Group , was selecting a board of senior officers to Conduct the inquiry . A specialist group was also on the way from the Wing Flying Safety Group at Norton Air Force Base , San Bernardino , Calif . A preliminary investigation at the scene was started last night by a unit under Maj. William H. Munn , wing flying safety officer at the base . After arriving from his Maryland headquarters , General Smith conferred this evening with General Dany . Meanwhile , pending the official findings , most officers here were reluctant to discuss technical aspects of the crash . Capt . William S. Alfstad , special assistant to General Dany , did recount that there had been no word from the pilot , Maj. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traditional acknowledgment of the control tower 's approval of the take-off . " Cleared for take-off , over and out , " the pilot said . Only one crew member  --  Lieut . Dewey L , Maples of Trenton ? survived the crash . He was critically hurt . The silver transport swung onto the rainswept runway and rose normally . But within seventy to ninety seconds , from a height of 500 to 1,000 feet , it plunged into the desolate pine bogs . It struck at a point 15,800 feet ? about three miles ? from the end of the runway  --  about sixty air miles from Times Square . There was no fire . Cpl . Rudolph H. Johnson , 22 years old , of Norfolk , Va. , on the mail run , heard the crash . He made his way through thick underbrush and deep mud toward the origin of the sound . He met Pvt . Thomas F. Kiley of Lawrence , Kan. , staggering and mumbling about the plane . Corporal Johnson rushed the victim back to the provost marshal 's office at Fort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there simply was no explanation of the role of the air-control system in the case of the doomed plane for the period between 3:35 and 4:25 P. M. An operations officer said the plane had passed off the radar screen right after takeoff . But it was explained that this was not unusual , particularly on an overcast day . The weather had been turbulent in the general area all afternoon ; a ? frealiish twisterlike storm had struck Camden . But the 3:15 P. M. weather report from to the New York City Weather Bureau was " moderate thunder showers . " At . 5 ? 30 o'clock the word was " heavy . " showers . There was no intermediary report .                     