@@715793

txt The Metropolitan Museum of Art and its uptown branch , the Cloisters , in Fort Tryon Park , were closed yesterday by a strike for higher pay by 170 guards . The museum , at Fifth Avenue and Eighty-second Street , normally is open 365 days a year . It was the first time in the eightythree-year history of the institution that it had been closed because of a labor dispute . Picketing of the stately stone edifice , which houses one of the most important and diverse art collections in the Western Hemisphere , began shortly after 8 A. M. , two hours before the museum opens . Francis Henry Taylor , director , immediately announced that the museum regretted the inconvenience to the public , school children and art students but that it had no alternative but to close its buildings to visitors until further notice . This was necessary , he said , to protect the museum 's world-famous collections . Visitors Find Picketing Pt  --  ospective visitors to the museum and the Cloisters were greeted by pickets of the Museum , iGuardians Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ picket lines found the buildings locked and were told by supervisory personnel of the indefinite closing . During the last four Saturdays attendance at the museum and the Cloisters averaged 5,500 and on the last four Sundays the average was 15,000 . The education office of the museum was forced to cancel all appointments , including visits scheduled yesterday for 100 children from Temple Israel in New Rochelle and forty Cub Scouts from Astoria . The group- from Temple Israel had planned to visit a special exhibit , " From the Land of the Bible , " which was to close tomorrow . Because of unusual interest in this exhibition of historical objects from the Holy Land , however , Mr. Taylor announced that the exhibition would be continued for at least three days after the strike was settled . In discussing the closing of the museum , officials said that the only previous time it had been closed to the public was in 1950 . During the hurricane of that year , they said , the roof of the older portions of the main building was damaged , making- it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tuesday . Main issue in the dispute with the museum guards is their demand for an annual salary increase of $500 . The current scale for the guards is from $3,005 to $3,525 per year . The museum authorities have taken the stand that such an increase is not justified . They contend that the museum already pays . the highest wages of any similar institution in the metropolitan . area . They say that the wages of the guards have been increased by more than 87 per cent since 1940 , an amount , they assert , that is substantially equal to the increase in the cost of living since that year . Wilbur Duberstein , counsel for the , union , said yesterday that an appeal by telegram was being submitted by the union to members of the museum 's board of directors . He said President Eisenhower and Mayor Impellitteri were among the directors and . like the others , would receive the message . Note six-Month Bargaining In the telegram the guards appealed to the board to reconsider their refusal to grant the wage increase . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " We have attempted for . six months through cooperative and constructive bargaining to gain a few extra dollars for our families in this time . of high living costs . Some of us take home as little as $49 per week . : ' W'e appreciate the paternal attitude of the institution in such matters as sick leave and hospitalization but %ye claim the right to a living wage also and we have R duty to our wives and children to fight for it . " The museum has made no offer of a pay increase . But the wage issue . brought to a head by the at tike , is scheduled for discussion when the executive committee of the hoard holds its regular meeting Tuesday at 4 P. M.                     