@@715701

txt ? Gen. Jonathan Wainwright , World War II hero of Corregidor , died here today in Brooke Army Hospital at the age of 70 , eight years to the day after he had witnessed the Japanese surrender in Tokyo Bay . The tamed soldier had been hospitalized since July 6 . He suffered a first cerebral thrombosis Aug. 13 , and his condition had steadily worsened since yesterday morning , when the hospital reported he had suffered a second stroke . After - he was liberated from years in , apanese prisons , General Wainwright was named commanding general of the Fourth Army with headquarters at Fort Sam Houston here . He retired in August , 1947 , and had served as an insurance firm executive and engaged in various ' other business enterprises until he was hospitalized . The general 's wife , the former Adele Howard Holley , is hospitalized . It was not known whether She had been notified of her husband 's death . With the general when he died were his son , Jonathan M. Wainwright 5th , and two old friends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to terrific air and artil- // lery bombardment and it is unreasonable to expect that we can hold out for long . We have done our best , both here and on Bataan , and although we are beaten We are still Unashamed . " A tall , sparer.Asnerican cavalry general sent this message from the island fortress of Corregidor near , Manila on May 5 , 1942 . In later years Gen. Jonathan Mayhew Wainwright recalled the effort that sending this message had cost him . He . was a general getting ready to surrender his troops and he had no way of knowing how his conduct would be judged . In September , 1945 , President Harry S. Truman placed around General Wainwright 's neck the Medal of Honor . The citation read : " He distinguished himself by his intrepid and determined leadership against greatly superior enemy forces and the final stand of beleaguered Corregidor , for which he was in an important sense responsible , commanded the admiration of the nation 's allies . " On May 6 , the day after he had warned Washington that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surrendered all the United States and Filipino armed forces in the Philippines to Gen. Tomyuki , Yamashita , Japanese commander . Second to In December , 1941 , when the Japanese attacked the Philippines , General Wainwright was second in seniority to Gen. Douglas , who commanded the Islands ' garrison of 19,000 United States troops , 12,000 Philippine Scouts and 100,000 soldiers of the Philippine Army . On Dec. 11 , from his command post near Manila 's military air base at Clark Field , General Wainwright witnessed the surprise Japanese bomber attack , during which half of the planes newly assembled to reinforce the United States Army Air Forces in the Philippines were wrecked before they could get off of the ground . Within a few days it was realized that nothing remained to be done but to put into force WPO-3 , " War Plan Orange , " which visualized a retreat to the Bataan peninsula for a last stand there and on Corregidor . On March 11 , 1942 , General left for Australia by by P-T boat and plane , taking with him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Washington made every effort to send aid to General Wainwright 's forces , the remnants of which managed to get to Corregidor after the fall of Bataan . After the command had devolved upon him , General Wainwright was compelled to authorize the surrender of the Bataan forces threatened with annihilation . Finally , on Corregidor , he presided over a force of about 11,000 persons huddled under the almost incessant rain of Japanese fire . This . ice consisted of such fighting troops as could escape from Bataan , Army service troops , hospital orderlies and women nurses , together with stranded Air Force , Marine Corps and Navy ' personnel . When he began the surrender negotiations , the Japanese were hitting Corregidor with 500-pound 240-mm. shells every five seconds for hours at a stretch . Intervened for Soldiers As a prisoner of war General Wainwright went through the anguish of seeing his men mistreated by the victors . He did not hesitate to intervene on their behalf  --  even at the risk of his own safety  --  but intervention did little good . The general and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do menial tasks so that they might lose the " face " so important in the Orient . On Aug. 24 , 1945 , General Wainwright , Lieut . Gen. Sir Arthur Percival of Britain , who had commanded the garrison at Singapore , and other senior officers in the Japanese prison camp at Sian , Manchuria , were liberated by a column of troops of the Soviet Union . On Sept. 2 , Japanese officers and representatives of the civilian government stood ' at attention on the deck of the U. S. S. Missouri . Before them on a table lay the articles of surrender that ended the military might of Japan . General , whose land forces had collaborated with the Navy in defeating Japan , curtly gave the signal for the Japanese to affix their names to the surrender . Behind General , in the place of honor , was General Wainwright and near him was General Percival . The next day , Generals Wainwright and Percival were flown to Baguio , the Philippines , where they received the surrender of General Yamashita , - the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for General never diminished . He was one of the strongest and most active supporters of the **27;303;TOOLONG movement in 1952 and was with General in Chicago when he made the keynote address at the Republican National Convention . The story of Jonathan ' Wainwright 's life carries with it the sound of bugles . He was born at Fort Walla Walla , Wash. , Aug , 23. 1883 , a son of Maj. Robert Powell Page Wainwright , acareer cavalry officer who died in service in the Philippines . Took Step for Provoo The lean and solemn young Wainwright entered the United States Military Academy in 1902 and was ' immediately named " Skinny , " a nickname that stuck to him in Army circles for the rest of his life . He was commissioned a second lieutenant of cavalry after his graduation from West Point and went through the usual garrison service including a tour or so in the Philippines . Later , after training at the Command and General Staff School and the War College , lie saw service in World War I in France on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a major general and back in the Philippines . On March 16 , after he was in command on Corregidor , he was ' iamed a lieutenant general and after his release he became a full general . On Dec , 12 , 1952 , General Wain7 wright appeared as a witness for John David Provoo , a former Army sergeant on trial in the United States District Court in New York on charges of collaborating with the Japanese after the fall of Corregidor . Although he was unable to testify concerning Provoo himself , he did tell the court that he had not known of any treasonable acts on the part of those under his command during the Bataan and Corregidor fighting . Provoo was sentenced to life imprisonment .                     