@@715104

txt A check for 875,000 from Chicago Tribune Charities , Inc. , was presented yesterday for Camp Algonquir , where each summer more than 809 underprivileged boys and girls , mothers , and infants spend happy fortnights on 52 wooded acres on the Fox river , 40 miles northwest of Chicago . The donation was presented by J. Howard Wood , treasurer of Chicago Tribune Charities , Inc. , to Philip D. Block Jr. , president of the board of directors of United Charities . which runs the camp ; John S. Loomis , vice president and treasurer , and Robert F. Nelson , executive director . " That 's a wonderful check , " said Block , " and very badly needed this year , I might add . " The money will provide needed rehabilitation to the 48 buildings owned by the camp , he explained . Founded by Tribune The camp has provided vacations to mothers and children , who otherwise would spend summers in city streets . It was founded in 1903 by THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE . The late Medill McCormick , former Tribune @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE TRIBUNE 'S present editor and publisher , Col. Robert R. McCormick , was among its fpunders and early supporters . In 1957 the camp site was given to United Charities by THE Mint/NE . Since then generous readers as well as the newspaper charity organization have . contributed $10 , - 000 annually to the camp whose service is based on need regardless of race , nationality , or religion . Other Work Planned Nelson said special attention will be given to rehabilitation of the entire boys ' unit , which includes the camp 's oldest buildings . Also projected is a special building to house boys in the 5 to 8 age group . Part of the Tribune 1Charities ' $75,000 contribution will supplement a $10,000 donation left to the camp in the will of the late Daniel M. Deininger , former treasurer of Chicago Tribune Charities , Inc. , who died in 1945 at the age of 75 . The new dormitory will be I known as the Deininger Memorial building . Other construction includes replanning the interiors of the three Jarvis t dormitories on the grounds , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workshop for maintenance . An additional cabin and washhouse is planned to complete the girls ' unit , where five small cabins have been built with previous Tribune Charities ' donations . Because of its Fox river frontage , boating has been an important part of camp life . The camp directors now have their eye on property nearby which could be used by boating and hiking parties for picilics and overnight camping . Part of the money may be allocated for the land , Nelson said . Money also will provide for repainting , for pruning and replanting the wooded camp , and for resurfacing of the road leading into the camp , he added . The money for Camp Algonquin was part . of a total of $615,212.71 distributed yesterday by Chicago Tribune Charities , Inc. , to various Chicago charity organizations . Almost the entire amount came from sports promotions operated by Tribune Charities .                     