@@713962

txt Letters to The Times T.S . CHO , M.D.THEODORE LEVINSON.SALMAN NAVIDI.MORRIS WEINTROB , M. D. , RALEIGH Letters to The Times Reunification of Korea Fear Expressed That the Country Will Again Be Divided To THE EDITOR OF THE New YORK TIMES : History clearly proves that division of a country is followed by the ruination of that country and the death of a nation . Thirty million Koreans in North and South Korea have , since the end of the Second World War , cherished the desire to reunify their country as rapidly as possible to avoid this disaster . Since 1945 there has been a considerable resentment in the minds of the Korean people against the foreign Powers who divided our country and sacrificed our nation to satisfy their own interests . , A little over a year ago the dreaded , yet anticipated , fears that Korea would be an international battlefield became a reality . The war in Korea was an opportunity for the free world to establish international order and justice . It- was also an opportunity to take definite action against lawless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imperialism and fulfill their international obligations to the people of Korea . The free world immediately took action with moral , political and military might and fought gallantly against the aggressors , sacrificing lives and materials . We Koreans sincerely appreciate the efforts that have been made . cate " suggestions prior to establishing their competence in the case . Yet from the Iranian point of view this question of competence is the crux of the whole matter , The Iranian people regard their dispute with a British oil concern as an internal affair and therefore outside the jurisdiction of the World Court . This challenge has yet to be met by that august body at The Hague . - In the meantime let us not express premature concern over the " survival of Iran as a free nation . " The Iranians seem to have done a pretty good job of surviving during the past twentyfive centuries , despite British and Russian intrigues and threats in recent decades . This survival record in itself should indicate that Iran possesses a fund of vitality , strength and wisdorit which the West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be too hasty in urging steps to " save Iran from its folly . " Let us first establish on which side the folly really lies . SALMAN NAVIDL New York , July 6 , 1951 . Insured Medical Care City Said Not to Permit Free Choice of Physicians to Employes To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : An editorial on June 16 in your estimable newspaper contains a statement that deserves commendation , yet requires amplification . You state : " Hence the issue of insured medical care turns on free choice of physicians ? whether it is better for the insurance organization to do the choosing or to leave the choice to the beneficiary of insurance . " New York State , recognizing the fundamental right of Americans to free choice , incorporated free choice of physicians in its compensation law . This resulted from many abuses when , previously , injured employes in Industry were forced to receive medical care from physicians and clinics chosen by the insurance companies or the employers . Our county and state medical societies , in cooperation with Miss Mary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , have so improved medical standards that an excellent quality of medical care has been available the past number of years to injured employes under their guaranteed right of free choice of physicians . Determination Stated To the Koreans this conflict was the most tragic incident in our history . Brushing aside our tears , we were forced to commit fratricide . The war precipitated the total destruction of our homeland and the civilian casualties amounted to one-tenth of our total population , and yet the origin of history 's unparalleled destruction and death was due to the division of our country , for which we were not responsible . We fully realize that a country must pay the price for her freedom and independence and we are willing and determined to undertake this international trial to attempt a long-cherished desire of the reunification of our country . Now , after one year of fierce fighting , cease-fire talks are starting in Korea . Are these talks going to ring a bell of real peace in the free world and bring reunification to Korea ? It appears to us that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because they think they have avoided a third world war and the United States claims it a successful conclusion because she was able to halt the aggressors and repulse the enemy behind the Thirtyeighth Parallel . However , we Koreans wonder if it is not simply a breathing space preparatory to the coming world conflict , because not one single basic problem has been solved . How about Korea ? Will Koreans be permitted to have a completely free and , independent country and obtain their long-cherished desire of unification ? Will the answer to the question also be worked out through diplomatic ne-gotiations ? Frankly speaking , it is very difficult for us Koreans to trust and to have confidence in this . With Cessation of Fighting Furthermore , once the fighting has ceased it is hard to believe that either side would assume the responsibility to start another conflict for the unification of Korea , and it is also difficult to see what degree of compulsion they would be under to agree even to a compromise . In short , it seems plain to the Koreans that the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cry of thirty million people from the trap of death . Would this indicate the existence of international justice ? Will the United Nations be able to proclaim it has done its duty as a world organization ? We Koreans appeal to the free world not to repeat the mistakes that have been made in the past . We feel that we have made more than adequate payment for the price of the freedom , our independence and the unification of our country . I pray that the fears of the Korean People may prove groundless . T. S. Clio , M. D. South Charleston , W. Va. , July 4 , 1951 . Judging Our Times and Ideals To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I should like to say that your editorial " Infamy in Prague " is one of the finest I have ever read in your newspaper . We are all familiar with Communist tactics . We have seen many defenseless nations succumb to the ravishments of an alien Power allowing no freedom of choice in matters of government or ideology . Concomitant with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American democracy , dedicated to certain unswerving ideals worthy of the highest aspirations of mankind . A hundred years from today posterity may view objectively the amazing developments of the last fifty years . What will be the verdict of history ? Perhaps it will be an unfavorable one for us , Not for our ideals , but rather for the incomplete , half-hearted way in which we propounded them , the way in which we took theirs for granteee If we continue to do this we shall have written our own tragic ending to a chapter in history which might well have had a hammier conclusion . THEODORE LEVINSON . Easton , Pa. , July 3 , 1951 . Iran and the World Court To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In your editorial comment " The World Court and Iran " you have omitted to mention the dissenting opinion of the two justices who disagreed with the majority decision to " indiMayor Quoted Mayor Impellitteri , addressing the Queens County Medical Society in January , stated : " I am unequivocally for the position espoused by your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patients belonging to the vol. - untary non-profit health insurance plans . " Yet the city itself does not permit free choice of physicians to its employes nor even free choice of prepay. ment health insurance plan . Employes desiring to take advantage of the city 's readiness to pay one-half the premium for hospital and medical care insurance must subscribe to H. I. P. ( the Health Insurance Plan of Greater New York ) in addition to " Blue Cross . " . H. I. P. , covering about 250,000 subscribers , most of whom are city employes , though it alleges free choice of physician , actually does not make this available  --  this being one of the prime reasons it has been unable to obtain the approval of the county medical societies of the metropolitan area . City employes who prefer to select their own health insurance plan  --  one which really provides free choice of physicians  --  can not receive city coop ' - eration . " Blue Shield " ( the United Medical Service Plan ) with over two million subscribers , and Group Health Cooperative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and provide hospital care in conjunction with " Blue Cross " ? are summarily withheld from many city employes because of the city 's monopolistic contract with H. I. P. Rural Care As to the problem of medical care in rural communities , that , too , is being solved slowly but effectively . Paul de Kruif 's excellent article , " What About the Doctor Shortage ? " ( Reader 's Digest , June , 1951 ) punctures this fallacy , so persistently propagandized by the Federal Security Administration , and shows how such rural areas are steadily providing excellent medical care with free choice of physician , ' without benefit of federal patronage and control . Government , whether federal , state or local , may have its specialists who think they can think better than the people as a whole ; but Americans will be better off , in the long run , if they maintain their own thinking , reserving for themselves the fundamental rights of free choice of religion , free choice of physicians and free choice/of a way of life . MORRIS WEINTROB . M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Choice of Physicians and Health Insurance Plan . Brooklyn , July 5 , 1951 . Broadway Bus Service Criticized To THE EDITOR OF Tull New YORK TWEE : " I have occasion often to use bus service on Broadway going north ? from 6 P. M. to 12:15 A. M. Waiting at the 109th Street bus stop , from five to fifteen minutes , without any bus , and then to have two , three and some . times four or five come along together , the first one making every stop to take on passengers and all the rest waiting at every stop for the first one to move on , is a common experience . At other times a single bus passes that stop with only a few passengers aboard , even though I almost get in front of it trying to attract attention . RALEIGH W. DODSONNew York , July 9 , 1951.                     