@@714961

txt Do n't look now  --  but Gov . Adlai Stevenson 's presidential campaign has definitely come out from hiding . The Governor is not counting his ballots until they have been cast , but he now sees his campaign catching on . His aides are convinced that it is Governor Stevenson himself who is catching on , and there is accumulating evidence to support their conviction . Gone for the present , and perhaps for his whole remaining election drive , is the picture of this lonely , rather reticent figure motorcading through nearly empty streets and shyly waving , now and then , at little clusters of four or five spectators . At last people are nee by the tens of and to give him a hearty hand . More Than a Name People ? They may even be voters . Adlai no longer seems to be just a name to his crowds , but a person whom they are eager to see , to cheer , even to touch . This presidential campaign is beginning to look like a presidential campaign . For the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bands playing , confetti pouring down and waving banners  --  not just two or three scattering ones  --  exuberantly proclaiming , " Forward Stevenson Strategy With Stevenson . " The dull , muted tone of the September period of the Stevenson stumping is behind . Even then his aides showed few signs of pessimism . But today there are spontaneous smiles ? not just composed smiles  --  on their faces  --  and they are sure they have reasons for their newly visible confidence . They have three reasons : The Crowds : At last the campaign is beginning to produce steady crowds day after day , state after state , city after city . The Stevenson advisers are persuaded that they are experiencing no flash-in-the-pan flare of public interest , but that finally the image of Adlai Stevenson , built slowly and with some difficulty , has come sharply into focus in the public consciousness and that public attention has become galvanized . Record Crowds The crowds started to show themselves in Madison and Milwaukee , Wis. , where he clearly outdrew his opponent . There was a good turnout in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  where , if ever , friendly crowds could be served up on order  --  and the numbers mounted in Kansas City . There was an estimated 150,000 along the streets from the airport to the World War II Memorial Building , larger crowds , in the judgment of reporters , than have ever before greeted either a President or a presidential candidate . And in St. Louis  --  more of the same ; a jam-packed convention hall seating 13,000 with 3,500 more in the adjoining Opera House and still another 3,500 overflowing into the street . The organization  --  The accumulating crowds are stimulating the local Democratic organizations to harder work and the local organizations are stimulating the faithful to help get out the crowds . It works both ways and it appears to be beginning to work for the Governor . These factors together help draw needed contributions into the camOffers Own Program By Richard L. Strout Staff Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor With Eisenhower Party , Los Angeles Dwight D. Eisenhower put his own social security program up against that of the New Deal-Fair Deal program in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to draw the contrast . At the same , time he ? expressed irrevocable opposition to leaving the fabulously rich offshore oil reserves in the hands of the people of all the 48 states , as approved by a narrow majority of the Supreme Court , and declared instead that they should be given to the people of the immediate adjacent states . The general 's position had been somewhat uncertain before , but this puts him in flat opposition to Gov . Adlai E. Stevenson of Illinois , who says the federal control should continue . General Eisenhower has concluded a two-day drive for Cali-walla s prized iz electoral votes , and has evoked crowds all along the way which were always big and in many cases unprecedented . Confetti Deluge A spectacular downtown ticker-tape reception in Los Angeles almost brought the candidate to some grief as bales of shredded newspaper waste ? previously distributed by the so-called " Eisenhower confetti wagon " ? were enthusiatically dropped out of upper-story windows entangling the general and in some cases buffeting him with unwrapped wads . Here is the essence of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been called the Democratic " welfare state " : Eisenhower Goal : " A society of stable economic progress . . . we can go forward to get rid of inequities between persons , to build a strong floor over the pit of personal disaster , and to point the way to an adundant , secure future for all our peoples . " Equality of Opportunity : Contrasted to the Democratic Party which " for 20 years " has been " making promises , " General Eisenhower pledges himself to end racial segregation in Washington and to make the capital an example for the country . Without making further specific pledges the candidate declared " there can be no second-class Americans . " He did not mention the Fair Employment Practices Act specifically ( for the enforcement of which Governor Stevenson says , in the  --  final analysis , he would approve federal intervention ) , but indiealect , his previously , , gx , rameci , cyjIere Genera Eitcaemr. again stand for leaving this up to the stressed his favorite thime that local.communities , except in the the initial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up to you and me , and must be local communities . But he said w achieved in the communities must " squarely , honestly " face where we live , " he said . the fact that education is now Ir .. Social Security : adequate in " too many places . " General Eisenhower pledged He charged that the administration answer is " federal bureaucracy and increased federal controls " and continued , " that is not the American answer . " His pro-posal : ? . . . We must now undertike to help needy states build schools . " He likened his proposal to the federal aid now being given to build local highways and hospitals . This would be done only where the community is unable to do the job , he warned . Maintenance of schools and the job of teaching , under his plan , would be borne by the localities and states themselves , without federal control or compulsion . Partial text of Eisenhower speech in Los Angeles : Page 6. 