@@717823

txt MO COURT BARS TRIALS BY STATES IN SEDITION CASES Tribunal Rules , 6 to 3 , Smith Act Has Pre-empted Field to Federal Government Texts of court's. decision and dissent are on Page 28 . By LUTHER A. HUSTON Special to The New York Times . , WASHINGTON , April 2 ? The Supreme Court decreed today ( that the states had no power to punish persons who advocated overthrow of the Federal Government by force or violence . The Smith Act , the high court ruled in a 6-to-3 decision , preempted the field of sedition for the Federal Government . This law , passed by Congress in 1940 , makes it a crime to teach or advocate forceful overthrow of the Government . Chief Justice Earl Warren ' wrote the majority opinion . He was joined by Justices Hugo L. ( Black , Felix Frankfurter , William 0 . Douglas , Tom C. Clark land John M. Harlan . Justices Stanley F. Reed , Harold H. Burton and Sherman Minton dissented . The crux of the Warren opinion was that Congress had treated " seditious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had " occupied the field to the exclusion of parallel state legislation . " Pennsylvania Ruling Upheld The dissenting opinion , writ-1 ten by Justice Reed , held that there was no clear mandate from Congress , and that " this court should not void state leg-1 islation " without such a man-1 date . The majority ruling affirmed a decision of the Pennsylvania Supreme , Court in the case of Steve Nelson , a western Pennsylvania Communist leader . . . Nelson was convicted on Jan. 30 , 1952 , of violating the Pennsylvania Sedition Act . Ha was sentenced to twenty years in prison , fined $10,000 and assessed $13,000 in cost of prosecution . The state high court reversed the conviction . It held that the Smith Act nullified the state statute . Pennsylvania appealed this ruling . Nelson later was convicted in Federal court of violating the Smith Act and sentenced to five years in prison . His appeal from this conviction is pending in the Federal Supreme Court . Nelson has been at liberty under bond . Thirty states and the Justice Department joined Pennsylvania in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Simon E. Sobeloff , Solicitor General , said in the Justice Department 's brief that , forty-one states and Hawaii and- Alaska had laws similar to the Pennsylvania statute . The states with- , out sedition laws are Arizona , Missouri , North Dakota , South // Carolina , Oregon and Washington . Louis C. Wyman , Attorney General of New Hampshire , who argued for the thirty states , said that Congress did not have power to annul state sedition laws . Harry Stambaugh , a special counsel for the Attorney General of Pennsylvania , told the court that his state could not wait " until blood runs in the streets " to stamp out Communist conspiracies . Chief Justice Warren found three grounds , however , for restricting the power of state tx cowts to punish for sedition against the Federal Government . Intent of Congress Cited First was the " inescapable " conclusion that Congress " intended to occupy the field of i sedition " when it passed the Smith Act , the Internal Security Act of 1950 and the Communist Control Act of 1954 . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which makes it reasonable to determine that no room has been left for the states to supplement it , " the Chief Justice said . " Therefore a state sedition statute is superseded regardless of whether it purports to supplement the Federal law . ' Nelson 's indictment under the Pennsylvania statute charged him with conduct designed to encourage the seditious overthrow of the " Government of Pennsylvania and the United States . " Second , the majority ? adopted the conclusion of the Pennsylvania high court that sedition was " a crime against the nation " and that it was vital that prosecutions for the crime " be exclusively within the control.of the Federal Government . " " Congress has devised an all= embracing program for resistance to various forms of totalitarian aggression , " Mr. Warren said . " Our external defenses have been strengthened , and a plan to protect against internal subversion has been made - by it . " Congress having thus treated seditious conduct as a matter of vital national concern , it is in - no sense a local enforcement problem . " ' In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious danger that enforcement of state laws would endanger the Federal program . " Since 1939 , in order to avoid a hampering of uniform enforcement of its program by sporadic local prosecutions , the Federal Government has urged local - authorities not to intervene in such Matters , but to turn over to the Federal authorities immediately and unevaluated all information concerning subversive activities , " the Chief Justice declared . Justice Reed said for ' the dissenters that " Congress has not , in any of its statutes relating to sedition , specifically- barred the exercise of state power to punish the same acts under state law . " He declared that a conflict between Federal and state laws " should be clear and direct before this court reads a Congressional intent to void state legislation into the Federal Sedition Acts . " " We look upon the Smith Act as a provision for controling inAssociated Press Steve Nelson citements to overthrow by force and violence the nation , or any state or any political subdivision of either , " Justice Reed wrote . " Such an exercise of Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over similar state powers as might be attributed to continuing Federal regulations concerning foreign affairs or coinage , for example . In the responsibility of national and local governments to protect themselves against sedition , there is no ' dominant interest . ' " The Nelson appeal was argued Nov. 15 and 16 . Besides Mr. Wyman and Mr. Stambaugh , Frank F. Truscott , a former Attorney General of Pennsylvania , argued . against the state court 's ruling . Charles V. Barber argued on behalf of the.Justic Department . Herbert B. Thatcher of Washington - appeared - for Nelson in support of the Pennsylvania 's high court 's decision . Kentucky to Push Case FfLANKFORT , Ky. , April 2 ( A1 ? J. 3.1 ' . Ferguson , Kentucky Attorney General , : said that he would continue efforts to uphold the conviction of Carl Braden for advocating ! sedition , ' despite the . Supreme Court 's ruling today . ? Braden , a former Louisville newspaper man , has appealed to the Kentucky Court of Appeals from his conviction in Jefferson Circuit Court . He received a fifteen-year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bond . Mr. Ferguson - said that " it looks as if the Supreme Court 's decision means the states ca n't prosecute in sedition cases . " However , he added , " we 'll still fight the Braden case to determine , if Braden was convicted correctly . He's. been convicted in a court and only another court can reverse-it . " . Braden , and several ? other white persons , including his wife , Anne , were Indicted on a charge of advocating sedition . The others have not been tried . The indictment came after an explosion at the home of Andrew Wade 4th , Negro electrical- contractor . Mr. Wade moved into a house . in an - all- white . neighborhood after Braden had bought it for him .                     