@@713972

txt Mass production of atomic weapons seems imminent . These will not be " A-bombs " but atomic explosive charges for mortar and artillery shells and guided missiles . Top military men have been forecasting such developments for a year . Now the quarterly report of Charles E. Wilson , chief of the Defense Mobilization Board , brings them into the sphere of likelihood . Included in the 50-page report is a brief but spectacular reference to atomic weapons . Mr. Wilson declares that atomic and other " new weapons " are now reaching the production stage . The place of primary importance he gives to atomic weapons . Says Mr. Wilson : " The most striking advances are in the field of atomic weapons . " Atomic bombs , considerably improved over those used in World War II , are being produced on an industrial basis . Development Pushed " The development of atomic warheads for artillery shells and guided missiles is proceeding , as is that of the atomic-powered submarine . " In addition , progress is being made in defensive measures against atomic attacks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decontamination of procedures . " ' The announcement that improved atomic bombs are being produced on " an industrial basis " is of major military importance . But perhaps even more so is the clear intimation that " atomic warheads " are now , or shortly will be , made available . It is the atomic warhead that Washington and the world is particularly interested in . The warhead is , of course , that part of the shell which explodes close to or at the target . New Phase of War If an atomic warhead has been developed , then modern war has entered a new phase . In the early days of atomic fission it was believed that bombs never could be reduced to a size where they could be shot out of weapons because of the large critical mass and explosive mechanism . It no longer can be doubted that this belief has been scrapped and that a new revolutionary and terrible artillery weapon has been reached . Gen. J. Lawton Collins , Army Cpief of Staff , has been forecasting this development for a year . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press conference , " it is just a question of time until we have shells with atomic heads . " The mysterious communiqu ? s from recent official summaries made public on atomic experiments at Eniwetok and in Nevada indicated that a whole new series of atomic weapons are now part of the American defense mechanism . Some reports have been heard that the reason the Communists agreed to cease-fire talks in Korea was the realization that any prolongation of the war would increase its intensity with new and more terrible weapons . If the present war should continue its scope would be expanded , it is believed , not contracted . The original A-bomb could be used primarily only against very large targets , like cities . A new atomic artillery or mortar shell , or guided missile , could be used against mass formations of enemy armies in the field . Such a new weapon would have a marked effect on military maneuver and the whole field of strategy . An estimate made by Hanson Baldwin , military expert of the New York Times , is that one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exposed persons in three square miles . Assuming that an army division of 15,000 men occupied a frontline position about 10 miles long by 5 deep , or 50 square miles , Mr. Baldwin estimates that ? if troops were evenly dispersed but not dug in  --  the casualties would be roughly 3,000 . Such a new weapon could transform war , much as did the coming of gunpowder , Brake on Invasion It could be of critical importance today ' in the defense of Western Europe against Russian invasion . Suppose , for example , Russia broke out from behind its boundaries and invaded the West . An invasion is made by driving great spearheads of massed tanks and troops forward . But it is against just such heavy concentrations that the terrible new weapons would be most formidable . As the invaders sought to make the characteristic breakthrough on narrow fronts , an atomic artillery shell or guided A-missile would have catastrophic effect on the massed enemy . Almost inevitably it would cause them to disperse , take cover , and dig in . It could slow down the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by itself , it probably could not win a war , but as a defensive weapon it might limit the war of maneuver . It could make the defense of Western Europe far more easy than previous calculations have indicated .                     