@@715939

txt As a new Christmas approaches the world has again been stirred by hope that the cold war is yielding to a more temperate climate and that the specter of atomic war has begun to recede before a new promise of peace . This hope , still fragile , was born of the armistice in Korea which , however precarious , was nevertheless accepted as a first test of Communist willingness to confer rather than to fight . It has gained more strength from the Soviet acceptance of the Western offers to confer on Germany and Austria , and more recently from the Soviet agreement to discuss President Eisenhower 's proposal for an international atomic pool . - - The latter agreement in particular has been welcomed in all Western capitals as a " hopeful " and " encouraging " development . This welcome is in itself convincing testimony of the West 's ardent desire for peace . But it is significant that even the most optimistic estimates of the Soviet attitude are mixed with cautious skepticism or outright suspicion , coupled with unanimous warnings to avoid the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indeed , there is a growing realization that the latest Soviet actions May merely be a new tactic in Moscow 's own " peace offensive " to induce the ? free nations to relax their vigilance . That is why all responsible Western statesmen continue to insist that there is as yet no evidence of any real change in Soviet policy or aims ; that , on the contrary , the danger of Communist aggression , if perhaps less immediate , will remain with us for a long time to come , and that the only safe policy for the free nations is to close their ranks , strengthen their unity and build up their defenses for the long pull . The reason for this skepticism is written in the history of our times . It is written in the record of the postwar period , when the Western nations dismantled their own military machines while the Soviets kept theirs and used their power to subjugate millions of people . It is written in the reports of the innumerable conferences regarding a European settlement , in the record of Soviet obstruction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the blood spilled at Soviet instigation in Korea . For that matter , it is still being written at the frustrating conference in Panmunjom , and in. the continued insistence in the Kremlin 's latest note on all the old Soviet propaganda themes , including the aasck on Western defensive alliances and bases by a Power allied with and drawled across two continents , the delsvid for immediate recognition of Qemnra:st China and the coupling of President . senhower 's proposal with the Soviet effort to disarm the West by an immediate prohibition of atomic weapons before there is effective control . The Soviets could begin to dispel this skepticism by even one deed done in good faith which would match their words . But neither in Europe nor in Asia is such a deed in sight . On the contrary , even their seeming concessions have always been merely a hid : . den basis for a further advance . Few will challenge the statement of Trygve . Lie yesterdalr that in his time as Secretary . General of the United Nations he " never encountered a single , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settle international differences . " Despite all this , the latest Soviet replies must be explored for whatever promise of progress they may offer . The United States in particular ' will have to work out a plan based on the President 's proposal that is both practical and fool-proof . But the free world will only fall into a Soviet trap if it raises its hopes too high too early or neglects the safeguards that are necessary to assure its safety and survival .                     