@@717019

txt Marshal Georgi Zhukov , Russian defense minister , h a s sent his best wishes to President Eisenhower and said he felt sure the President " will do his best to promote in practice the cause of peace . " The greetings were contained in a letter to the Overseas Press Club of America on the occasion of the club 's annual dinner tonight . At President Eisenhower 's vacation headquarters in Augusta , Ga. , James C. Hagerty , White House press secretary , said : " The only comment I have is that Zhukov is saying nothing that we- have n't said many times . " Zhukov Assails Politicians Zhukov , while appealing for peace , assailed politicians who he said were trying to spread the belief that war is inevitable . He said . the international situation had been aggravated by the latest developments connected with the ratification of the Paris and London treaties for rearming Western Germany . ' Inc ttussian leader cited the final sentence of the Yalta declaration issued by President Roosevelt , Prime Minister Stalin , . and Prime Minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that only by continuing cooperation and understanding among the three countries can a lasting peace be realized . Called " Excellent Words " " Excellent words , " Zhukov said . " Somebody perhaps does not like those words now ? We do like them very much , as undoubtedly do all the peoples struggling for peace . " Zhukov began his letter by expressing to the American people " friendly greetings and good wishes from the peoples of the soviet union . " He then stressed the good will that existed at the end of the war and the hopes for lasting peace . Faces Grave Threat " NoW , " he said , " only 10 years have passed since the end of the second World war and the world again faces a grave threat of a new war . . . . The common people of the world need no war . They do n't want the atomic , hydrogen and bacteriological weapons to be dropped on their homes , on either New York or Moscow , London or Paris ; they do n't want their children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tension " Only by the removal of the grounds which raise international tension , " he added , " is it possible to liquidate abnormal relations among the countries . " Zhukov then said : " I take the opportunity to convey my good wishes to President Eisenhower , my colleague in the defeat of fascist Germany and in the control council in Berlin . I am sure that he will recollect our common assurances concerning the peaceful intentions of our countries and do his best to promote in practice the cause of peace . "                     