@@712670

txt Federal Judge Richmond B. Keech announced today that he would ' issue an injunction tomorrow morning ordering John L. Lewis to send striking miners back to work unless he abandons three major contract demands . The court ruled that Lewis and his United Mine Workers had " possibly engaged " in unfair labor practices and that was enough to justify the injunction . The injunction has no connection with the Taft-Hartley law 80 day injunction which President Truman is expected to seek shortly . Effect Held Problematical The effect of the order toward getting the mines back into production was problematical . Lewis refused comment while his field lieutenants thruout the country taised a chorus of defiance . It was noted that Lewis could keep the miners on strike by dropping the demands pending determination of their legality . The national labor relations board will open a hearing Feb. 20 on the legality of the demands . The injunction would stay in effect until the NLRB rules on their legality or until Lewis gave them up . The injunction had been quested by Robert N. Denham , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Denham contending that some of Lewis ' contract demands were ' illegal . Question Three Demands Judge Keech did not rule on the legality of the demands but said that a possibility of illegality was sufficient grounds for an injunction . The injunction order will be aimed at three of the demands ? the " willing and able " clause , that only union men be employed , and that the welfare and retirement fund benefit only miners in Lewis ' union . The " willing and able to work " clause , the court declared , gave the union power to call strikes at will and nullify any agreement that might be in effect . Coal operators hailed the court decision . " This ought to be a . warning to Mr. Lewis that he can not trifle with the courts and the law , " said John D. Battle , executive secretary of the National Coal association . " It is a complete victory for the operators and will clarify the situation for any other court which subsequently may be asked to grant an injunction under the Taft-Hartley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken into consideration in such an action and it should expedite the whole proceeding . " Judge Keech held that any employers who signed a contract containing the clauses outlawed today might be subject to charges of taking ? part in " a conspiracy in restraint of ' trade . " Anti-Trust Question ' If coal output were curtailed by actions taken under such a contract , he said , the question would arise whether this " might not be in violation of the anti-trust laws . " The judge . remarked That his ruling and the forthcoming injunction would " not necessarily make for a rapid and amicable negotiation of an agreement " . But it should help to narrow the dispute , he said . Mr. Truman 's coal strike factfinding board meanwhile gave up all hope of settlement thr u re ' newed contract negotiations b etween Lewis and the operators and dug in to speedily finish the report that will enable the President to seek a Taft-Hartley law injunction to end the walkout . The board abruptly ended its hearings into the facts of the eight month @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President . The three members said they hoped to deliver the report by Saturday  --  two days ahead of the Monday deadline . Truman Move Awaited Mr. Truman is expected ' to move immediately , once he receives the report , to instruct the attorney general to seek a federal court injunction halting the strike and ordering the nearly 400,000 coal miners back to their jobs for 80 days . The President said at a press conference today that he does not have and does not want power to seize the struck soft coal mines . He said his war time seizure powers expired nearly two years ago and he does not intend to ask congress to revive them . ? The seizure question arose in connection with proposals of United Mine Workers locals in Illinois that the President seize the , mines and turn the profits into the federal treasury . Mr. Truman refused to discuss the forthcoming injunction application other than to express the hope that the factfinding board will report to ' him as soon as possible . Hopes Rise and Fall Hope that the strike could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the board successfully urged Lewis , the mine union boss , and the operators ' representatives to resume their deadlocked negotiations . The discussion collapsed without getting anywhere aftelThotel room conferences which lasted until early This morning . The board members sat in on the negotiations as observers . David L. Cole , board chairman who was optimistic a settlement could be reached , finally admitted after the negotiations broke up that further discussions appeared useless . He blamed both Lewis and the operators for the deadlock .                     