@@713093

txt City , State Agree on Defense Plans ; Jersey Ready for Million Evacuees Complete agreement among city and State civilian defense officials was reported by Mayor O'Dwyer yesterday after his first meeting with Gen. Lucius D. Clay , chairman of the State Civil Defense Commission . Meantime , the State of New Jersey was reported prepared to provide food , shelter and emergency medical care for 1,000,000 evacuees from this city in the event of an atomic attack . Leonard Dreyfuss , director of Civil Defense for New Jersey , said in his office at 60 East Forty-second Street that New Jersey defense plans had been under consideration for a year . He predicted that 100,0Q0 volunteers in that state would be wider training within six months . Local defense committees have been formed in 480 of the 566 communities in New Jersey , Mr. Dreyfuss said . In most cases , he exI plained , the committees consist of the chief of police , fire chief , a city engineer , a communications expert and a doctor . " We learned plenty in the South Amboy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case of a catastrophe , the services of voluntary policemen and firemen are most important . And you need an engineer thoroughly familiar with water and power lines in the affected area . " The Governor of New Jersey , Mr. Dreyfuss pointed out , has authority under legislation approved last January to commandeer any private services and supplies in the state to assist those in a devastated area . He also has power to direct mayors of Jersey communities to proceed with civil defense plans . Two hundred and three communities already have organized pools of volunteers to be trained as policemen and firemen , Mr. Dreyfuss - reported . In Jersey City yesterday , Mayor // John V. Kenny issued a call for 4,000 auxiliary police volunteers and 2,000 fire volunteers . Mayor Ralph Villani of Newark said ? he would ask for 9,000 volunteers . . Mayor ? O'Dwyer said , after a thirty-minute conference in his office at City Hall , that the city and state were in full accord on civilian defense measures to be taken . Prior to the City Hall meeting General Clay had held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city 's defense chief , and William J. Donoghue , executive secretary to the Mayor . " This is the first meeting on civilian defense between General Clay , Mr. Wallander and myself , " the Mayor said . " We had a general discussion of the subject as it affects New York City . " The State of New York is extremely fortunate in having General Clay in his present post . We will have frequent consultations Iwith him . I saw him in action in the last war , and I know what can be expected of him . I am extremely happy to have him with us in this work . " Asked whether there were any areas of disagreement between city and state , the Mayor said : " Oh , no  --  at the present time we are in complete accord . " Similarity of Organizations Mr. Wallander , a former Police Commissioner , also reported agreement between the city and state officials . He said both civilian defense set-ups would be based on existing public agencies such as police , fire , public works , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and city will be pretty much alike , " Mr. Wallander reported . " We went over each other 's plans and reached agreement on that . We have now established a working agreement which calls for mutual cooperation . I have a great admiration for General Clay and I believe/ we are very fortunate to have him as head of the State organization . " Both the Mayor and Mr. Wallander said the city had not yet reached the point of ordering equipment specifically for civilian defense use . All city departments have been directed to report on the status of their personnel and equipment in terms of use in a possible disaster . " Our job is the protection of life and property of the people of New York City , " Mr. Wallander explained . " We are studying all aspects of the situation involved in that job . Panic control is a subject of prime interest , and we are studying methods of evacuating New Yorkers to other communities if the need arises . " General Clay asked other communities yesterday to establish civilian defense agencies without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " We are grateful to the city and county officials who have already appointed directors of civilian defense , " he said . " We are requesting the immediate appointment of such directors where not already appointed . " We must face the realities of the existing situation in which ordinary prudence requires us to be prepared as insurance against any eventualities. ? It is most desirable for the local directors to participate in general planning from the beginning , and to be prepared to put into effect the procedures which are already prepared . " Police Commissioner William P. O'Brien designated Inspector Charles J. Graf as full-time aide to Mr. Wallander , and ordered that he be relieved temporarily of his police duties . Inspector Graf , who has commanded the Seventeenth Division at Bergen Street , Brooklyn , formerly was one of Mr. Wallander 's chief assistants . John J. Martin , First Deputy Police Commissioner ; Assistant Chief Inspector John J. Travers and Acting Captain Thomas McCormick have been named liaison officers between the Police Department and Mr. Wallander 's agency . Joseph Kaitz , deputy commissioner of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as acting deputy director for planning with the state group . He will continue as an official of the Liquor Authority . At 2:30 P. M. on Monday the Mayor and Mr. Wallander will confer with members of the New York office of the Atomic Energy Commission . Those scheduled to attetid include Wilbur E. Kelley , New York operations manager of the A. E. C. ; Merril Eisenbud , local director of health and safety ; Edward Kehoe , chief of the fire and accident branch ; and Corbin Allardice , public information director .                     