@@719792

txt ens read : " Senator Holmes demanded that Governor Furcolo appear before the Republican Senate caucus and explain his slanderous charge . Senator Holmes point . . . ed out that the slanderous statement reflected upon three Massachusetts senators , Conte , Mahar , and Burkhardt . " Senator Holmes pointed out that the Republican senators held a caucus on the judges bill before it reached the upper branch and the Republican senators abided by a decision of the caucus to kill the bill . Trio Joined Caucus " The three western Massachusetts Republican senators all voted to make it a binding caucus issue to kill the six judges bill and abided by that vote . Senator Conte said that the Governor 's charge " is an outright dastardly lie . " He said " this is ridiculous . I could have had a judgeship under Dever and I turned it down . " Senators Conte and Mahar said they never had talked to the Governor about the bill nor to any one of his secretaries . Senator Burkhardt said the Governor " is using the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor 's Statement The political explosion was set off when the Governor told his press conference : " One western Massachusetts Republican senator tried to hold up the judges bill in order to get a judgeship for himself . " I sent word to him that he could try to delay as long as he wanted , but he was not going to get any judgeship . " Referring to his own 50-million-dollar jobless relief bond-issue proposal he said he had served notice to the Senator that " he may try to hold up and delay the jobs bill for something but he is n't going to be bought off . " At the same press conference , Governor Furcolo flayed the Republican-controlled Senate for delaying his jobless-relief bond issue . The criticism came when the Governor was asked when he planned to submit his long-delayed special message ? on the Massachusetts Port Authority . Calls Senate ' Bogged ' He said : " The message has been completed for some time but the Senate is badly bogged down . " He said that the Senate delay on the gobs bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the port authority message . However , critics of the Governor pointed out that he had been promising the message for months and that last year he delayed submission of a port authority plan until the final days of the 1957 Legislature . The Governor used the port authority issue as a springboard for an attack on Republican members of the upper branch saying that he hoped they would get going on his job-relief program . He charged that the Republican Senate is " hopelessly bogged down for no apparent reason . " He said " as far as Republican members of the Senate are concerned , I have done everything possible to get them to go to work . Many people are depending on what they do . "                     