@@715825

txt The farm policy speech which President Eisenhower delivered in Kansas City two days after Wisconsin 's Ninth District voters exposed their dissatisfaction with administration farm policies was a complete example of why there is so much evidence of farmer disaffection toward the administration . First , consider the general background . Farm prices have fallen some 61/2 per cent since the Republicans took over . No matter how factually and fairly it can be argued that this was merely a projection of a decline which had set in under the Democrats and was due to Democratic policies of the past , the fact remains that farm prices have taken a drop since January which the farmers feel and which many of them resent . It is also evident that farmers as a group are anxious about this condition and want and expect something vigorous and positive to be done about it . It is at least clear beyond serious doubt that Wisconsin 's Ninth District voters feel this way ; and Republican samplings of many other farm districts have produced the same conclusion . 1 What did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condition , which is recognized openly and frankly by many leaders of the Republican Party , including the chairman of the Republican National Committee ? He offered them not a farm policy but an assertion that there would be a farm policy . Here is precisely what the President told the farmers about administration farm policy , stated in sentences and phrases from his speech : He has established an 18-member commission " to help devise programs " for farmers . The Department of Agriculture is " talking with farm groups . " Special commodity groups and agriculture colleges are " working on tech nical problems . " The House Agriculture Committee is holding hearings at the " grass roots . " The President will " weigh carefully " all the recommendations which these groups and studies will bring to hire . There is " diversity of opinion " about what should be done . The President is " keeping in touch " with these studies . Later he and his Secretary of Agriculture " will confer " with the leaders of these groups . Thus the administration will " firm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " exhaustive committee hearings and debate in the Congress . " " The end result will be as sound and as carefully thought out a farm program as prac- tical experience , expert knowledge , and good judgment can devise . To the farmer looking for a concrete end to his anxieties and uncertainties , all of this adds to just a request that the farmer wait while the administration continues the patchwork of price supports which it has inherited , plus drought relief and a few minor measures . and have confidence it eventually will get him a good farm program . The President did not describe a farm program . He described the process by which programs sometimes are worked out and put through the Congress and finally enacted as legislation . The description of the proc- ess exposed the fact that the administration , although it has been nine months in office , does not have anything which could be called a farm program . It has only a routine process in operation which it trusts will develop into a real program sometime next year . The individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he can approve or disapprove . He has only an assurance that a lot of persons in a lot of different places are giving a lot of thought to the farm problem and that there will be a program some day coming out of all the admitted present " diversity " of opinion on the subject . Now all of this is commendable as an exercise in candor , although it would have been even more candid to say simply that there is n't any farm program yet ; only an operation toward getting one . It is a lot better than the frequent political techniques of presenting unsupportable promises or ill-considered policies which later would need to be revised . A A However , from the point of view of practical politics , it is as bad as saying nothing . No Republican representative or senator in a farm district can take that speech and go before his constituents and point to a single tangible , specific promise . He can only point to it and say : " See , down in Washington they are working hard at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next year . " That puts the Republican who must run in a farm constituency at a tremendous disadvantage against a Democrat who can tick off the dollars and cents which were given to the farmers when Democrats were running the show . Up to the time the President delivered that speech , his administration had not yet faced the practical necessity of outbidding the Democrats for the farm vote . Fortunately for the Republicans , they have a year in which to work out an offer .                     