@@716215

txt New York 's traditional Easter Parade , which started a hundred years ago as an after-church stroll , was more in tune with its historic origins yesterday than it has been for many years . Not all the million- and a half persons who thronged the Fifth Avenue area between Fortyeighth and Fifty-sixth Streets had been to church . But many thousands of them had . And the carnival spirit that has threatened within recent years to obliterate the religious aspect of the Easter celebration was almost eliminated . Plenty of gaiety and high spirits were evident on the smiling faces of men , women and children who crowded the streets as well as the sidewalks , but they seemed to derive from pardonable pride and joy taken in new Easter finery , the warm , sunny weather , the end of Lent and the return I of Easter with its family associations . Whole families paraded together . There were few lone marchers . Four hundred uniformed police , in addition to detectives and traffic men , kept a vigilant eye on the crowd , ready @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capitalize on the event . With few exceptions the presence of the policemen was sufficiently intimidating to prevent the repetition of bizarre antics of previous years . In midmorning , before the crowd swelled to its peak , . several // women 's dresses were slashed by an assailant who sneaked up behind them and disappeared before the victims detered the damage . Six women c mplained to the police , and a suspect was picked up for questiomng and held for vagrancy . Official warning had been issued by the police department that the photographing of professional models on the steps of St. Patrick 's Cathedral and other commercialism would not be tolerated . The warning had added 1thaf miscreants would be arrested if necessary . The police were good-humor-I edly tolerant in the enforcement of the ban on cameras . They kept the steps of the cathedral clear , with a chant of " Deep moving , " " Off the steps , " and the like , but allowed family groups to photo'graph each other on the steps provided they did it quickly and got out of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cathedral steps and presented herself to news photographers . Somewhat amazed and not a little grateful , their assignment being a little less exciting because of the increased dignity of this year 's parade , they photographed her over and over with no interference from the police . When it was reported to an officer nearby that the girl had introduced herself as a profes-1 sional model , wearing the hat of Sally of Kings Highway , Brooklyn , he scratched his head and laughed . " Imagine her admitting she 's a model , " he said . " No one ever does . " And he ignored the photographing , which continued . According to another policeman , " nine-tenths " of those who crowded Fifth Avenue were outI of-towners . " Maybe that 's an exaggeration , " he conceded . " But an awful lot of them are not from New York . I can tell by the questions they ask . They want to know where the parade is . I tell Ahem this crowd IS the parade , but they expect a brass band and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ astonished at the actual nature of , New York 's Easter parade were ' ' New and Mrs. Leo Guerry.of Melbourne , Australia . Dr. Guerry , who had come to this country to attend a medical conference and lecture at Harvard , said : " My wife and I wondered what had happened when we saw this crowd . We thought maybe there was a fire or something . " We are not silly , " he added . " We knew something went on in New York on Easter , but we had no idea it was anything like this . " Small groups began to gather on Fifth Avenue in the vicinity of the cathedral and Rockefeller Center early in the morning , following a dawn service in Radio City Music Hall that was attended by 7,000 worshipers . Hundreds of other worshipers formed long lines outside church- ... s in the area , some standing more than an hour waiting to get in . In addition to the crowds pouring out of St. Patrick 's Cathedral after hourly masses , the Fifth Avenue throng was increased as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at four large Protestant churches in the parade area . Around 2,000 persons can be seated in each of these churches , which are Christ Methodist Episcopal Church at Park Avenue and Sixtieth Street , Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church at Fifty-fifth Street , and two Protestant Episcopal Churches , St. Bartholomew 's at Park Avenue and Fifty-first Street  --  and St. Thomas ' at Fifth Avenue and Fifty-third Street . " Our capacity is usually 2,500 , " an usher at the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church said , " but we have a lot more than that here today , because we put them in with a shoehorn . Pews that hold five we put six in , and if they 're skinny , seven , " ' Joyous Easter music surged through : the air as the crowd grew . The bells of St. Thomas rang out , their tones blending with the music of the cathedral organ and choir , which was broadcast outside through amplifiers . By 11:30 the crowds overflowed from the sidewalks to the street , . The police shut off traffic on Fifth Avenue between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ joined the throng , along with sightseers and those who had come merely to see or be seen . By Moon the avenue in front of St. Patrick 's was so solidly packed that people stopped trying to " march " and just stood still . Many tried to overflow up on the cathedral steps , and dozens of policemen were kept busy ' shooing them away . One woman , apparently surprised at being sent back to the sidewalk , said , , ' But I was supposed to meet ( someone here . " " Downstairs , lady , down the staircase , " the policeman answered , wearily repeating the , admonition he had been chanting to others . At its peak , around noon , the crowd was estimated at half a million around the cathedral , and a million and a half on the avenue between Forty-eighth and Fifty-sixth Streets by Deputy Chief Inspector Patrick Kirley . The warm , sunny weather , a , cheery change from the two rainy days it followed , was ideal for Easter outfits and undoubtedly swelled the crowd . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day were few and scattered . The s'un shone most of the time and winds did not blow as strongly aeforecast by the Weather Bureau . A breeze vaguely stirred the branches of the trees planted in the sidewalk in front of the cathedral now and then , but proved no threat to hats . Small white hats predominated among the Easter bonnets . Usually of straw , though some were pique , most of them were tailored or simply trimmed with bands and veiling of white or navy , or tiny white flowers , Pink seemed the second most popular choice for hats worn by the paraders , who also showed a preference for pastel colors and bright red , often combined with white . The warm temperature , which reached 61 degrees by noon and climbed to 70 degrees by 5 o'clock , enabled many to stroll without top coats , in light-weight suits and even silk dresses . Not all the men 's hats were lost in anonymity . At least two top hats , four homburgs and half a dozen derbies were noted . And at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Gerald Snellens , a 70-year-old New Yorker formerly of Pallas , was conspicuous in a widebrimmed Texas-type felt hat . " Nope , not afraid to wear ' em in dirty New fork , " he said . " I 've got several , and change every day . " An even more dazzling widebrimmed felt hat , bright aqua in color , was worn by another man . Freakish garb , which was reduced last year when police , clamped down on exploiters of the parade , was even scarcer this year . One woman paraded in headgear made of nothing but Plymouth Rock chicken feathers formed into a wide brim in front and a tuft on top of her head . Another had added a large , bright yellow , plush Easter rabbit to the top of her purple hat . She marched hand in hand with her son , about 11 years old , who had a Disney-type plush bunny mounted on his brown felt hat . Two teen-age girls sported black cowboy hats trimmed with white lacing and decked with large , upright , pink and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign buttons and small school pennants . . I Still another woman paraded in a low-necked , wide-skirted ' Spanish dancing dress and flowing black lace mantilla . An occasional hand-lettered , cardboard placard appeared above the heads of the crowd . Some said " Happy Easter , " others were apparently the handiwork of religious fanatics . One read : " 1,760,000 people starving and are n't you ashamed of yourself . " Not all the colors worn were bought especially for the Easter parade . White-topped hats of uniformed Waves were often seen , and multicolored ribbons signifying medals and decorations were worn on the breasts of many of the uniformed men who emerged from churches to join the throng .                     