@@713101

txt The United States will ask the other members of the North Atlantic Treaty this month to increase the size and pace of their military rearmament programs . A decision to increase this country 's rearmament , program substantially and to offer assistance . to the other North Atlantic Treaty nations in doing likewise is understood to have been recommended by the National Security Council yesterday and approved by President Truman .. The State Department announced today that Dean Acheson , Secretary of State , had summoned the deputies of the North Atlantic Council to hold their first meeting in London on July 25 . As a direct result of the Korean operations , Secretary of Defense Louis Johnson , Secretary Acheson and Presidential Assistant W. Averell Harriman are understood to have been authorized by the President to study this question about a week ago . They reached agreement on the principles of a new program two days ago . Slower Arms Flow Feared Many details of the United States plan remain to be worked out , but by the end of the month , when the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States is expected to have a series of specific proposals to place before the treaty members . One factor in winning support for the new United States proposals will be the apprehension that now exists in Europe that the war in Korea will reduce even the present slow rate of delivery of United States arms to Europe . This country has been forced to divert to Korea some material originally intended for Europe and may have to do so to a far greater extent before the battle turns in Asia . It is the present intent of the Administration , however , not only to replace all that equipment , but by introducing a far larger rearmament program , to increase the over-all defenses of the nonCommunist allies , both in Asia and Europe . The North Atlantic Council approved a defense plan in London last May , but this was before the Communist attack on Korea . The feeling here is that , as a result of the attack , it is essential for the security of the non-Communist world that the North Atlantic treaty nations should step @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Provided the other members of the treaty reach agreement on a new military production program and schedule , it is understood that the United States will be prepared to offer additional assistance to treaty members . It was emphasized here this evening by responsible officials , however , that the additional United States contributions to the North Atlantic defense pool would depend on the new contributions of the other countries , and on their willingness to pool their military production programs in accordance with an agreed plan . Last year Congress authorized and appropriated $1,314,000,000 in money and forward contracting authority for military assistance to the North Atlantic Treaty nations , plus Greece , Turkey , Iran , Korea and the Philippines . Fund Increase Planned The Senate authorized the expenditure of another $1,222,500,000 by a vote of 66 to 0 shortly after the outbreak of the Korean war , and this bill has likewise been approved unanimously by the Senate Appropriations Committee and the House Foreign Affairs Committee . It is scheduled to be debated on the floor of the House of Representatives next week . Administration officials plan to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the new program ? to be placed before the North Atlantic Treaty nations . The feeling in official quarters is that the decision of the Communists to resort to open aggression in Korea requires quicker preparation of a fully equipped defensive force , with larger ground forces and better tactical air support , than was thought absolutely necessary even a month ago . At the last meeting of the North Atlantic Council in May , the members accepted the principle of meshing their defenses , with each nation concentrating on a part of the total defense and relying on the other members to supply the rest . Officials here are convinced that this so-called principle of " balanced collective forces " must be carried even further than was contemplated in the May agreement , particularly with a view to increasing the ground forces and tactical air strength of the Atlantic community . For example , both France and the Netherlands were asked some weeks ago to build up their ground and tactical air strength and rely on the United States for some of the warships Paris and The Hague had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at this end to get agreement on an even more closely integrated plan , and if this can be arranged , the principle has been accepted here of increasing considerably the cost of the United States contribution to the larger over-all Atlantic rearmament program Washington will propose . Greater Sacrifices Urged it is realized Here tnat increasing the defense budgets of the North Atla , ntic Treaty nations will place a greater strain on their civilian economies . It is also realized that the President 's , proposals may very well mean that priority can I no longer in some cases be given to economic reconstruction projects . The feeling in official quarters here , however , is that the ominous turn in Communist strategy justifies greater sacrifices for defense , and if the Western European nations are prepared to join with the United States in making those sacrifices , the United States will offer to do what it can to increase its share of the load . In short , what the United States is about to propose is that the United States and other North Atlantic Treaty nations give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the common defense program than they have in the past . In meeting its share , the United States is expected next week to call up certain National Guard units and Reserves and mobilize part of its industry to increase the speed of arms production . The July 25 meeting in London was called by Secretary Acheson as chairman of the full North Atlantic Council . He will be represented in the meeting of the council deputies by Charles M. Spofford , who was confirmed by the Senate for duty in this new post yesterday .                     