@@718932

txt President Eisenhower ? tonight called upon the nation 's governors ' to join with the federa/ administration in the creation of a task force to preserve state rights . In addressing the 49th annual governors conference , Mr. Eisenhower recalled the struggle of early American colonists in Williamsburg , and their insistence that those who would be and who would stay free must stand eternal watch against excessive con ? Icentration of power in government . He pointed to " the dark background of eastern Europe ' ' as illustrating the terrible results of " extreme and dictatorial concentration of power . " He said the sad plight of nations where power is unrestrained and people are in chains demonstrate8 two great truths . Still Resist Tyranny The first of the truths , he said , is that people can not be enslaved by diffused power , Gut only by strong central con. : centration of power . The second truth , he continued , is that in spite of repression and ceaseless indoctrination the determination of men and women to resist tyranny will not die . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , political power is exercised thru unbridled force , but even so the Kremlin itself is coming to recognize the deficiencies of extreme centralization . He pointed to the assertion and maintenance of independence of Moscow by Yugoslavia , the unceasing unrest in East Germany , the uprising in Hungary , and the relaxing of 1Red controls in Poland . He declared himself profoundly convinced that one day  --  inevitably  --  those nations and their peoples will be free . Suggests Task Force  --  Turning to America , he said this country gains renewed determination to hew to the principle of diffusion of power . He said the governors and the federal government should join in a task force for three objectives . He defined these as : 1 . Designate functions which the states are ready and willing to assume and finance that are now performed or financed wholly or in part by the fed- ? eral government . 2 . Recommend federal and state revenue adjustments required to enable the states to assume such functions . This would indicate willingness for the federal government to surrender areas of taxation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Believer in State Rig ; 3 . Identify functions and rite sponsibilities of federal and state attention and recom , 4 mend the level of effort by each or both necessary to assure effective action . Mr. Eisenhower said he belives ' deeply in state rights . He said he is for Dreserva ; tion of the states as vigorous ' and powerful entities . However , he insisted it is idle to champion state rights without upholding states ' responSibilities . He warned the governors that the American people are intolerant of vacuum s . He , said every state failure to meet a pressing need has em abled the national government to encroach on state preserves . He said the pendulum of power has swung from the states to the federal government in recent years . lie recalled that four years ago he . told the governors1 meeting at Seattle that unlessl traditional power is preserved by the states , we will not preserve the kind of America we have known . He said he holds the same belief strongly today . ? Holds Aid Needed While he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has found it necessary to urge federal action in such areas as education . Ile . said classroom shortages have become potentially dangerous to the entire nation and for that reason he recommended a program of federal aid . The President conceded that there is an inclination by the government to persist in any activity it has begun . However , he insisted the government will get out of education , once the emergency has passed . During the day the majority of the governors had joined in an attack on federal aid , ' expressing fears that it would spell federal control of education , which states have fought to maintain at local levels , Many City Problems Mr. Eisenhower said lack of energetic state attention to urban needs had spawned a host of federal activities . He warned that unless action is prompt , the problems of cities will defy solution and mayors will come to the federal government for action . He called on governors to face up to the problems of cities , because he earnestly believes the problem should be handled by the government nearest the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off , reputedly " rich uncle " in Washington . Calls on States to Act He called attention to increasing reliance on the federal government for problems arising , from floods , drouths , hurricanes , and tornadoes . He said the government will continue to cooperate , but urged the states to take the fullest measure of responsibility for essentially state problems . In this connection he described traffic safety as still a state and local problem , He noted last year 's traffic toll was over 40,000 lives with 1,500,000 injured at a total cost to the nation of 4 billion 750 million dollars . This can not go on , he said . Someone must fill the vacuum , he added , asking if the governors would be willing that it be Washington . He said the states can overhaul tax and fiscal systems and promote cooperation among all echelons of government to regain and preserve traditional rights , or they can , by failure to act , create new vacuums for the federal government to move into . Responsive to Needs Mr. Eisenhower said the task force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would see to it that the government remains responsive to the pressing needs of the people and see to it that each level of the government performs its proper functions -- no more , no less . The governors indicated , in accepting the President 's challenge , they will appoint their members to the proposed task force tomorrow . The President will spend the night here and return to Washington in the morning . He will return on his plane which brought him to the conference this afternoon by way of Langley field .                     