@@712835

txt " TOUGH " CURBS OK 'D Senate committee approves new " tough " controls for potatoes . Details on page 5 of part 2. tehluern Tribune Pres , Service ) Washington , April ** agricultu ? e department today added butter and cheese surpluses to its domestic give-away list . Meantime orders for other free food previously listed began to roll in from around the world . A department announcement slated that it will give 15 million pounds of butter and 5 million pounds of cheese for relief or charity in the United States . It stipulated that recipients must pay transportation and handling costs from storage warehouses on these two foods . Butter and cheese thus join potatoes , dried milk and powdered eggs on the give-away list . Gifts of potatoes , dried milk , and dried eggs are not limited to the United States . The agriculture department has accumulated such surpluses of all five commodities under its federal price support programs that it is having difficulty finding storage space for new purchases . Butter surpluses total 57 million dollars and cheese surpluses 6 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that since Monday , when a law went into effect providing government payment of transportation costs on , surplus potatoes , orders have been received for six to eight trainloads of this free item . New orders arrived hourly . Officials of the food distribution division said orders for the free potatoes placed prior to Monday were being hurriedly canceled and new orders placed so that the government would pay the transportation costs . They said only 5,700 , - 000 pounds had been delivered on orders for 67,379,000 pounds placed by institutions expecting to pay transportation bills . Meanwhile , foreign governments also were seeking the free foods in large quantities . Officials said 40 governments have placed orders , with Germany and Israel getting the biggest amounts so far . Export shipments processed were estimated at 8,400,000 pounds of dried milk and 11i , million pounds of dried eggs . On hand , they said , are additional orders for 18 million pounds of milk and 4 million pounds of eggs . Block Chinese Peanut Imparts Domestically t I e department has given away 6 million pounds of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million pounds of its 52 million pound stocks of powdered eggs under the give away programs . Meantime , a move to allow the importation of as much as 100,000 tons of peanuts from communist China appeared blocked . Chairman Cooley ID. , N. C.1 of the house agriculture committee got the department to agree not to lift the ban before next week and agriculture officials said it probably would not be lifted at all .                     