@@716663

txt Plans to bring the city 's Multiple Dwelling Law up to date , compel landlords to conform to decent housing standards and halt the growth of slums were announced yesterday by Mayor Wagner . A 1,500-word law spelling out the Mayor 's views will be introduced into the City Council ' tomorrow with the cooperation of Democratic Majority Leader Joseph T. Sharkey . The bill was drafted after conferences between top City Administration aides and representatives of real estate and civic organizations . Along with this bill there will be introduced into the Council tomorrow , also at the Mayor 's request , a measure designed to end the division of authority in the Department of Housing and Buildings between the Commissioner on one side and the Deputy Housing Commissioner and the five borough superintendents on the other . In making public the test of the new legislation , Mayor Wagner called the proposed Multiple Dwelling Law revision " a long step forward on the road to improved housing conditions in our city . " Chief Objectives Outlined Its three main objectives , he said , were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perpetuation of old-law tenements built before 1901 by requiring that alterations to such tenements must not add to substandard housing . Alterations to such structures will be approved only when they will raise the buildings to higher sanitary and other standards , 2 , It provides for the elimination of existing old-law tenement conditions in stages , or steps , over the next feW years . 3 . It provides for rigid control over tenements to facilitate enforcement of the law and " brings into line tricksters Who avoid their responsibility by hiding behind fictitious titleowners and powerless managers . " In announcing the bill to end divided authority in the administration of the Department of Housing and Buildings , Mayorl Wagner asserted that under the existing set-up the Commissioner , while held responsible in the eyes of the public for operating his agency , actually is deprived by law of the means to carry out his obligations . The Mayor expressed the hope that the two bills would become law by the end of this year . Mr. Sharkey pledged early public hearings by Council committees . If the Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action by the Board of Estimate . If the board approves , there will be another public hearing before the Mayor . Mr. Wagner and his aides indicated their belief that the broad provisions of both bills would have general civic support . They conceded , however , that some details of the highly technical Multiple Dwelling Law revision might bring out Some opposition . For several years the city has been trying to accomplish some of the objectives of the new bills through measures introduced into the State Legislature . The legislation failed , however , and now the city is attempting to carry out , by local law what it could not do by state law , Improvements Required Under the existing law the owner of an old-law tenement may increase the number of apartments in his building from two to four on each floor , for example , merely by installing one additional enclosed water closet for each new apartment . Under the new code the owner of an old-law tenement wishing to increase the number of apartments would have to provide both a new , water closet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addition , each new apartment would have to be provided with hot and cold running water . An elaborate table of occupancy standards contained in the Multiple Dwelling Law revision bill would go into effect July 1 , 1955 . In general , the new standards would correct present extreme overcrowding conditions by forbidding more than two adults to occupy any room for sleeping purposes . In the case of smaller rooms , occupancy would be limited to one adult , Children of 12 years or older would be treated as adults . Two children under 12 , under the bill , would be considered the equivalent of one adult . In all instances one additional child under 4 years would be permitted to occupy any room where sleeping is lawful , Sleeping , in kitchens would be prohibited on and after July 1 , 1955 . Beginning in five years , or upon such other date as the City . Council may determine , occupancy of all existing and new apartments and rental units would be determined under a socalled " aggregate floor area formula , " in some cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1955 . This formula , in . its broad terms , would forbid occupancy of any apartment by one adult for the first 150 square feet of total area , plus one adult for each additional eighty square feet , Extensive variations of the floor area formula are listed in the bill . Would Reduce Overcrowding Among other provisions the measure would make it a criminal offense for an owner or tenant to overcrowd any apartment or other rental unit , and require owners to post signs in apartment houses giving the name and address of the owner and managing agent , Any violation of provisions of the new code would be punishable by a fine of from $10 to $1,000 , or by imprisonment up to one year , or both . Under the proposed ' reorganization of the Department of Housing and Buildings contained in the second Wagner local law , the division of housing maintenance would be placed under control of the Deputy Commissioner of Buildings , The independent powers now held by the borough superintendents would be transferred to the Commissioner of Housing and Buildings . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but they would continue to be responsible to him in the exercise of such powers . Those assisting Mayor Wagner in the drafting of the new legislation included First Deputy City Administrator Charles F. Preusse , Housing and Buildings Commissioner Bernard J. Gillroy and Assistant to the Mayor Warren Moscow .                     