@@720523

txt Graham Parsons , former Ambassador to Laos , was accused by a House committee today of having " abetted " the " railroading " of a Government auditor who was " close to discovering " mismanagement of foreign aid and bribery in that Southeast Asian country . The accusation came on the eve of House debate on the foreign aid program for the ' fiscal year starting July . 1 . Mr. Parsons has been confirmed by the Senate to be Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs . Laos , which became independent after the Indochina war , is bordered by Communist China and North Vietnam . The aid program there has been under investigation over the last two years by a subcommittee of the House Government Operations Committee . The ' report charged that Edward T. , public works and industry officer of the United States mission , had accepted bribes totaling at least $13,000 from officers of the Universal Construction Company in return " for helping them secure lucrative contracts and overlooking deficiencies in their performance . " It said the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Mutual Security Administration , had been " railroaded " out of Laos because he was " clos to discovering the truth about Universal , its bribes , its virtual monopoly of U. S. aid construction projects in Laos and its woefully inadequate performance . " The " prime mover " in ousting Mr. Miller , according to the report , was Carl Robbins , the operations director for the Laos program . However , it said , " Ambassador Parsons abetted this removal and lent it the color of his name and office . " There was no comment from Mr. Parsons and others named in the report . However , Walter S. Robertson , Assistant Secretary of State , said with respect to the report 's mention to Ambassador Parsons : " We think he did a magnificent job . " Representative Porter Hardy Jr. , Democrat of Virginia , headed the inquiry . The report concluded that the Laotian program had operated to the detriment rather than to the aid of the objectives sought . Other conclusions were : ( What the aid program gave Laos more foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grants ' had caused a doubling of the ' cost of living from 1953 to 1958.1 ( That much of the " over-1 spending " in Laos stemmed from maintaining a 25,000-man army at the insistence or the State Department in the face of Defense Department calculation that a 12,000 to 15,000 force ' would suffice . ( That the handling of the Laos program had encouraged ' Associated Press UNDER FIRE : J. Graham Parsons , State Department aide . House investigators said he " abetted " removal of an auditor in regard to mismanagement of foreign aid and bribery in Laos . speculation , profiteering anal corruption . It contended , too , that officials operating in the area accepted favors while contract ' negotiations were pending , and ! that some later took high-paid jobs with companies that had obtained good contracts .                     