@@717478

txt President Eisenhower passed his final hospital physical tests today and was cleared to leave here for Washington tomorrow morning . Although the Denver Weather Bureau was forecasting freezing temperatures and snow for takeoff time , the White House said that inclement weather was un- likely to cause a change in the President 's departure plans . He will speak for about five or six minutes before take-off over a nation-wide radio and television hookup available to all ; network stations . For this first public appearance since his heart attack seven weeks ago , he will stand on the ramp leading to the cabin of his personal plane , Columbine III . Immediately after he finishes , he will enter the plane , which will be airborne over Denver at 9 A. M , , Mountain standard time . James C. Hagerty , White House press secretary , said that the Columbine would arrive sin Washington at 4 P. M. , Eastern standard time " or shortly thereafter . " Final Bulletin Issued There the President will be greeted by an official delegation headed by Vice President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welcome , the President will again speak briefly to the nation from the airplane ramp , then motor to the White House . Officials in Washington expect 200,000 to be on hand to cheer the President . Soldiers will line the route of the motorcade to the White House . General Eisenhower 's physicians issued the final bulletin on his physical condition this morning . A series of examinations , they said , showed that there had been no developments during the week to minimize the encouraging report issued Monday by Dr. Paul Dudley White , Boston heart specialist and chief consultant On the case . " His physical examinations , laboratory studies and cardiogram are satisfactory , " it stated . " X-ray of the chest and cardiac fluoroscopy are satisfactory and unchanged from his previous examination . His heart continued to show no enlargement . " The physicians , Mr. Hagerty said , had asked him to point out that this final sentence was " very important medically because of , the increased activity in the past week . " Evidence of heart enlargement would indicate that the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few days the President has been exercising a half dozen times daily by walking up and down a twenty-step flight of stairs near his room . Today the physicians gave him liberty to walk them as : oftenas he wished to try-itcCol. - Byron E. Pollock , chief of cardiology at Fitzsimons Army . signed the medical bulletin personally this morning and - asked to add a final paragraph , . which read : ' ? , " In this , the final bulletin on the President 's medical examinations , the medical staff in direct attendance at Fitzsimmons Army Hospital wishes to ex " - press appreciation to the press for their courteous and factual handling of the President 's illness . " Dr. Pollock said that he was joined in this expression by Col. George M. Powell , the hospital 's chief of medicine ; Maj. Gen. Martin E. Griffin , hospital commandant , and Lieut . Col. John A. Sheedy , chief of the General Medicine Service . The President asked Mr. Hagerty to announce that he was sending the Republican National Chairman a white-elephant coin bank filled with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six weeks . The bank was in the shape of an elephant and was painted with such slogans as " G. 0 . P. , " " Peace , " " Prosperity , " " For Ike " and " Get Well Soon . " A present from Mrs. Allan Kemp of Santa Barbara , Calif. , it had been near the President 's ) bed since the second week of his recovery . Most of the visitors who have come since , including nine of the Cabinet 's ten member hers , have " at the direction of the President , " contributed to the fund , Mr. Hagerty said . The President had ordered Sherman Adams , : the : - Assistant - to the ? President , to carry 11* lot to Leonard W. Hall , Republican National Chairthan , ' presumably to be used in the Republican cause . There was no estimate of the size of the fund , although Mr : Hagerty- reported that it contained some " folding money . " Wkienthe - President boards his plane tomorrow , it ? will have been one day short @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to begin his summer vacation . That was Aug. 14 . For the next six weeks , he enjoyed the most complete vacation from work that he has had since entering the White House . His routine consisted of a few official callers each week , about forty-five minutes . at his desk each morning and a quick drive to the Cherry Hills Country Club for eighteen to twenty-seven holes of golf . Late - afternoons were napped away and evenings spent with his family or friends , either at the Brown Palace Hotel 's Presidential suite or at . his summer residence , the Denver home of his mother-in-law , Mrs. John S. Doud . When the golf routine began to look monotonous , the President would take offfrom Denver for four or five days fon loafing , fishing and " roughing " it high up in the Rockies , at the- Fraser , Colo. , ranch of Aksel Nielsen , Denver mortgage banker and a friend . The six-week rest was broken by few calls to assume the burdens of the White House . In late August , he made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the wake of Hurricane Diane . He  --  ? ?  - -  - stayed-  at the White House the - night- after the-tour . Next day , he flew to Philadelphia to deliver a foreign policy spench . That same-evening , aboard the Columbine , he hurried back to Denver . Later in- the vacation , he . spent a Saturday morning breakfast hour with - the fortyeight Republican State Chairrnen , . then - spoke to them about polities for about thirty minutes . His speech that day seemed , by hindsight , to have been prophetic . " Humans are frail , , he told the chairmen , warning them . not to . Pin all their hopes on the availability of one man to lead the party to victory in 1856 . The heart attack occurred in the early ' morning of Sept. 24 , less than twenty-four hours after he had returned to Denver from his second fishing jaunt in Fraser . It was described first as " mild , " then as a " moderate " attack of coronary thrombosis , a clot in one of the arteries that supplies blood to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an oxygen tent constantly . A week after the attack , in the middle of the most critical period of recovery , the nation was alarmed by medical reports that he suddenly felt tired and out of sorts .. The next . day , however , his recovery was again reported continuing well . From that day hence , all the medical reports from Fitzsimons have been encouraging . Tomorrow the President will have been in Denver ninety days , except for the one-day inspection tour of the Northeast . Forty-one days of this time was spent in vacationing and forty-nine in the hospital .                     