@@717563

txt The Temporary State Commission on Youth and Delinquency recommended today the enactment of a law under which parents could be punished for the delinquency of their children . The commission urged in a report to Governor Harriman that appropriate courts have the power to require the parents of a wayward child to take specific steps to correct him and to fine or imprison the parents if the steps were not taken . Under the proposed law , the maximum penalty for a parent would be a $250 fine or thirty days in a county jail , or both . This recommendation for enforcing " parental responsibility " was one of thirty-four contained in the commission 's report . Other proposals called for : 9 . Establishment of a permanent state youth commission with five members who would have no other state job and would be armed with the power and money to maintain a steady onslaught on youthful crime and its sources . CExtension to 19 and 20-yearold youths the provisions of the Youthful Offender Law , under which no criminal stigma is attached to the delinquent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 9Increased efforts to prevent youthful narcotic addiction through new laws to compel persons charged with narcotic violations to identify their Onfederates . This would.be accomplished by granting them personal immunity ; 9Permission for 15 and 16 year olds to take part-time employment , plus other steps to encourage a " work-school " program for young persons less well adapted to full-time formal education . Governor to Study Report Mr. Harriman said that he would study the recommendations " with great care . " Although he did not endorse any ' of the proposals himself , he said : " I commend them to the members of the Legislature and to the communities and private agencies of our state for their careful consideration . " He expressed particular gratitude to the commission chairIman , Thomas J. Watson Jr. , for his leadership of the group . The ' Governor said that in the eleven Iregional hearings held by the commission " much was accomplished in stimulating new thinking and in arousing public interest . " At a news conference at which the report was made public , Mr. Watson , Attorney General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ DeLuca and other commission members stressed that the proposals were entirely nonpolitical . Mr. Javits called them " unpar , tisan . " There was considerable quib // bling over juvenile delinquency in the last legislative session between Mr. Javits and the Republican leaders of the Legislature on one hand and Mr. Harriman and his Administration on the other . The commission was the result of a comproinibe bill . There were no predictions today on how the commission 's program might fare with the 1956 Legislature . The Watson group included six lawmakers ? four Republicans and two Democrats  --  and their support of the proposals was unanimous , they said , legislative members are Senators Arthur H. Wicks of Kingston and Walter Van Wiggeren of Herkimer and Assemblyman Frank J : of Brooklyn and Thomas J. Runfola of Buffalo , Republicans , and Senator Alfred E. Santangelo of Manhattan and Assemblyman Frank J. Pino of Brooklyn , Democrats . Parental Conduct Stressed " The significance of parental conduct in influencing moral attitudes and behavior on the part of their children can hardly be overemphasized , " the commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ role of the criminal law in compelling ' correct parental behavior is considerably circumscribed . Criminal codes with all their centuries of experience can not build character or develop desirable habits . attitudes , interests and ideals . " In this respect , the criminal law must always offer feeble competition to familiar ethical effects of church or synagogue , home , school and community . " Nevertheless , in appropriate cases of extreme and repeated parental neglect there must be intervention of the criminal law . Present statutes are unsuitable because of their vagueness , spasmodic invocation and the occasional harshness of their penalties . " The commission noted that a parent of a delinquent could now be found guilty of contributing to the delinquency of a child , a misdemeanor punishable by a $500 fine or a year in jail , or , both . Because this often seems excessive , the group said , the law is not frequently used and is of little real assistance . i .. Court Functions Defined . The new " parental responsibility " law would apply to the Domestic Relations Court in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have the discretionary power toy require parents of a delinquent child appearing ? before them to follow a written order of proper ' conduct . Failure to follow this order would subject the parent to a charge of criminal contempt of ' court and a fine or jail sentence , or both . The guilty parent would not be guilty of a crime , however . Mr. Javits said he thought the system was " pretty ingenious . " While the commission favored extending the youthful offender privileges to a broader age group , it also proposed that a new limitation be set on the program . Under it , a juvenile accused of a felony would not be able to qualify for youthful offender treatment if previously he had been adjudged a youthful offender of a felony charge . The commission said the protection of society against serious crimes made it advisable that youthful offender treatment be limited to one felony charge for each individual . The present State Youth Cornmission is temporary and is headed by a full-time chairman , ) but the , other seven members area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As envisioned by the Watson group , the permanent youth commission would have five members , none oft whom would hold any state office . . The new youth commission would have additional powers , including the collection and coordination of statistics . It would conduct research on prevention of youthful crime , set up public education programs and establish " pilot projects " on the neighborhood level : Other proposals offered by the Watson commission include those to : SISupplement the new commission with an interdepartmental advisory board in the state government and another advisory board , if laymen. glIncrease the flexibility of the " work-school " program by permitting pupils working part time to attend classes in the evening , rather , than during the day . elEnceurage the Legislature to recodify and clarify confused statutes on dangerous weapons and their use by youths . flUrge local communities to decide whether a curfew , on the basis.of existing state-wide disorderly conduct statutes , might be desirable . gAbolish present laws under which youthful offenders or persons arrested but not convicted of a crime are considered to have been " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ various state licenses.                     