@@719758

txt Vice-President Richard M. Nixon , after his ordeal of sticks and stones , was glad to be home today . He told the American people , as he stepped from his airplane , that the great majority of people in the eight South American countries he visited , " in all walks of life , " are friendly to the United States . But not all of them admire , and not all of them understand , United States policies , he added . In conferences with President Eisenhower , with Secretary of State John Foster Dulles , congressional leaders , and others , Mr. Nixon intends to advise on how American nolicv toward Latin America , and the understanding of it , can be improved . Greeted by President First to shake hands with the Vice-President  --  and Mrs. Nixon ? as cy landed nidst cheers and " Welcome lithne " banners , President Eisenhower , who had come to the airport together with his Cabinet , declared : " All America welcomes him home . Through his entire trip , he has conducted himself effectively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satisfaction not only of us but of our sister countries the duties he was sent to perform . " The President said the United States ' " affection for the peoples of those countries , and our government relationships with them , are as close as ever . " " As one ambassador said to me this morning , our whole situation of cooperation and brotherhood is strengthened because of the fact that we stand together in condemning any kind of Communist leadership in such incidents as endangered Washington Surprised Certainly the vigor and venom of the violence were both a surprise and an awakening to Washingtcin . How much United States diplomacy or economic aid to Latin America will , in the end , be altered , however , was a question . There will be a congressional i inquiry into the causes of the anti-Americanism. but other more critical areas of the world are more immediately demanding of United States aid and attention . Meanwhile , the Pentagon announced that the 500 paratroop ? ers and 500 marines flown to Caribbean bases on presidential order to protect the Vice-President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was widely recognized that Mr. Nixon had received , besides the rocks and epithets at Caracas , another boost up the political ladder to an almost unchallengeable position as Republican presidential candidate for 1960.                     