@@716934

txt Specie/ to The New York Times . LONDON , March 18 ? The British Government has rejected a United States suggestion that the secret minutes of the 1945 Potsdam conference be published , authoritative sources said tonight . Release of the verbatim text of the Potsdam discussions , in the British view , would only increase the misgivings aroused in Western Europe by publication in the United States of the full report of the Yalta conference and would further impede successful negotiation with the Soviet Union . One of the most important results of the Potsdam conference , held in July and August after Germany 's defeat , was agreement , at Stalin 's urging , that German territory east of , the line of the Oder and Neisse rRivers should be administered by the Polish Government until a peace treaty . British Cabinet Ministers and high-ranking civil servants aeplore the publication of the Yalta documents in language far sharper than that used by Prime Minister Churchill in the House of Commons . Their objection is not that the report includes any appalling disclosures but that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negotiations with the Soviet Union . The aspect of the affair that has aroused the greatest concern , however , is the report that President Eisenhower knew nothing about the publication of the Yalta documents . Persons in the civil service point out that President Eisenhower 's ignorance of the State Department 's action will enable him to escape the personal reproaches of Sir Winston . There will be many of them . The Prime Minister and his professional advisers see eye to eye on this point . Fifteen years ago , at the height of the criticism of Neville Chamberlain , Sir Winston warned the House of Commons that concentration on errors of the past might lose the future . The Prime Minister of that day and this , and his advisers , feel that this warning can now be applied to the United States . Preoccupation with the future of negotiation , specifically any future negotiations with the Soviet Union , is one of the reasons for the strong objections to publication of the Yalta documents and the suggested release of the Potsdam documents . ? Both the Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approaching the Soviet Union for high-level talks aimed at the easing of world tension . But there is a difference over timing . Excuse for Soviet Seen Publication of the Yalta documents provides the Soviet with a reason for . avoiding such a conference on the ground that it would not be kept secret or witb a pretext for using tile secrdt proceedings of any such conference for immediate propaganda purposes . The Russians in the past have often released prematurely the texts of diplomatic notes for propaganda reasons , a senior official pointed out . But they have not thus far made similar use of secret discussions with the West . The expectation is that henceforth they will do so if it suits them . The British understand that the United States is not as interested in talking with the Russians as they are . But they believe the time will come perhaps a good deal sooner than Administration officials expect when Washington will be convinced of the wisdom of exploratory talks with the rulers of the Soviet Union . It is believed here that such a conference can progress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are preceded by prolonged discussion through secret diplomatic channels . Another aspect of the publication of the Yalta papers that affronts the British is that what are regarded here as " casual " conversations between Prime Minister Churchill , President Roosevelt and Stalin at meals , or on other informal occasions , are given equal weight in the public mind with formal deliberations . The world , in the view of Brit ish leaders , is in too parlous a state to allow the erection of new barriers to international negotiation . Secret diplomacy , secret at the time and secret for fifty years thereafter , is the condition for progress toward ending the " cold war , " in the British view . What guarantees of secrecy remain , they ask ? Criticism of the United States Government over the Yalta papers does not come from professional anti-Americans . On the contrary , it springs largely from the class that is heart and soul behind the alliance with the United States and that , up to the present , thought it knew , understood and sympathized with United States policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            