@@717178

txt Secretary of State Dulles said today he was gratified , although not satisfied , by the Soviet expression of regret over the shooting down of a Navy Neptune plane . Responsible United States officials said that the conciliatory tone of the Soviet memorandum on the incident , combined with the unusual offer to pay half the damages , showed that the Soviet Union did not want the incident to interfere with prospects for a Big Four conference next month in Geneva . When Mr. Dulles arrived at National Airport from San Francisco this morning , he was asked about the memorandum , which he received yesterday from the Soviet Foreign Minister . " It is gratifying , " Mr. Dulles said , " that he expressed regret and at least indicated willingness to make some reparation . But it is not what we asked for . " No official announcement of what the United States asked has been made . It is understood , however , that the United States demanded full reparations for the loss of the plane and the injuries to seven of its crew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SL Lawrence Island in the Bering Sea . The Soviet memorandum , released at the State Department after Mr . Dulles ' return , included the charges usually made by the Soviet Union in such incidents that the United States plane had violated Soviet territory and that the Soviet plane had merely wanted to warn it to leave . But it concluded with these phrases , for which State Department officials could recall no precedent : " The Soviet Government expresses regret in regard to the incident which has taken place . Issue Taken on Other Points " Taking into account that the incident with the American military aircraft took place under conditions which do not exclude the possibility of a mistake from one side or the other , the Soviet Government declares its willingness to compensate for 50 per cent of the damage suffered by the American side , having in mind that the remaining 50 per cent of damage would be undertaken by the American side . " The Soviet memorandum made other points with which United States authorities took strong issue . It said that " a ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Air Force of the United States violated the state frontiers of the Soviet Union in the region of the Bering Straits north of Cape Chaplin ( Chukotka ) . " State Department officials , apart from noting that the plane was a Navy and not an Air Force craft , denied it had violated Soviet territory . They asserted there was " no possibility iof error " as to the plane 's location over international waters . The Soviet memorandum asserted that when Soviet fighters approached the United States plane " for the purpose of pointing out that it was within the limitations of the frontiers " of the Soviet Union " and to propose that it immediately leave the air space of the Soviet Union , there took place an exchange of shots between the American and Soviet aircraft . " A Defense Department spokesman denied there had been an " exchange " of shots . The spokesman said all reports confirmed the statements by members of the crew that they " did not fire back . " The memorandum included the observation that when Mr. Dulles and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where the United Nations held its tenth anniversary meeting , Mr. Dulles had " recognized that under modern speeds of aircraft a certain deviation of an aircraft was possible . " Dulles Words Given On this point the State Department , in a footnote to the text of the Soviet memorandum , noted that what Mr. Dulles had really said was that " while under some circumstances mistakes were possible on the part of planes flying at high altitudes and great speed , the United States was satisfied that in this case there was no possibility of error . " The Soviet memorandum said that the Russians had in the past advised the United States to issue orders that would make " undesirable incidents " of this kind impossible , and remarked that the appearance of the United States aircraft in the Soviet air space showed the United States had not taken " the necessary measures . " The Russians , their reply asserted , had issued " strict orders " to avoid " any action beyond the limits of the Soviet state frontiers . " " Such instructions were given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aircraft which took place on the 23d of June of this year , " the memorandum said , referring to Siberian time  --  Wednesday , June 22 , by Alaskan time . The last sentence , which could be read to mean the Soviet authorities knew an incident was going to take place , puzzled United States officials . They presumed that what was meant was that the orders had been made quite clear to the particular crewmen who were involved in the shooting .                     