@@716075

txt Big-time athletic sports in high School were attacked here today as educationally unsound and undesirable . The opposition to high-pressure athletics was expressed in a three-year , 116-page report made by the Educational Policies Commission and presented at the opening of the eightieth annual convention of the American Association of School Administrators . The commission of nineteen members , including President Eisenhower until his election in 1952 , is under the joint sponsorship otthe administrators and the National Education Association . Sixteen thousand superintendents , college officials and school leaders of the country are attending the sessions , which will continue through Thursday . Major educational issues are to be considered by the administrators and sixty other allied educational groups . The commission 's report , made public before 1,000 representative school superintendents at a special session this afternoon , received a mixed reception . Many opposed the recommendations , holding that it would be impossible to eliminate regional tournaments or other competetive interscholastic events . Several held the report to be biased and unrealistic . Others called the statement " one of the most significant documents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense " into school athletic programs . Such programs should be // planned to benefit all the pupils , not just a few star athletes or a sports-interested community , the commission said . It condemned practices that turn schoolboy games into public spectacles and teen-age players into privileged persons . Because of hysterical overemphasis on a winning team , the report held , teachers often are forced to pamper the star athlete , the coach forgets good sportsmanship and the pupils suffer mental or emotional damage . The costs of a school 's athletic program should come from general school funds , not from gate receipts , the commission proposed . Among the recommendations , which would drastically change the nature of school sports in many parts of the nation , are these : liEliminating highly organized competition in the form of leagues or championships . ' Eliminating tournaments , frequent contests , long seasons or " little " bowl games . gReduction of travel beyond the immediate neighborhood . qPlaying of games only on school or public property . " Athletic games , iri all cases , should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and strategy , social experience , and good sportsmanship , " the commission said . Practices Under Criticism " High - pressure competition , with overemphasis on the importance of winning , should not be sanctioned in any part of the school program , School and community leaders should make every effort to finance athletics completely out of general school funds at the earliest possible date . " To make as much money as possible , the commission said , games are now played at night during the week and too many games are scheduled . Moreover , to prevent loss of income , games are played in bad weather and to attract spectators games are scheduled with unequal opponents . The prime cause of exaggerated emphasis on winning games , the commission found , is the belief that spectators are necessary to get money to pay the bills . Such competition , whether tinder school or out-of-school auspices , is so detrimental to the welfare of children , the report held , that the situation urgently calls for self-imposed controls by enlightened parents , educators and other citizens . Bias in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every school curriculum , the commission said . This means that athletic activities should be scheduled so as not to disrupt the school day , that athletes should meet the same academic requirements as other students and that post-season championship contests should be abolished . Assailing the findings , L. V. Phillips , Commissioner of School Athletics in Indiana , called the report heavily biased . He declared it would be unwise to do away with tournaments . " A strong , healthy teen-age athlete is going to compete publicly , " he added . " Unless the schools afford him an opportunity to play in championship meets he will be exploited by outside groups . " We believe that we should stress winning . American democracy and free enterprise have been built in this country by stressing the doctrine of success . I do not think the Middle West will accept this report . " The commission is headed by Mrs. Sarah C. Caldwell of Garfield High School , Akron , Ohio . The report was presented by Dr. N. D. McCombs , Superintendent of Schools , Des Moines , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Scientific and Cultural Organization for world peace was stressed at the general evening session by Miss Myrne . Loy , a member of the United States National Commission for UNESCO . She said ' UNESCO was leading in the battle to free men 's minds from ' prejudice . At another session , Dr. Joseph E. Johnson , president of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace , declared that the United Nations had " served well the goals of American foreign , policy . "                     