@@720088

txt Senator Hubert H. Humphrey is convinced after an eight-hour meeting with Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev that the growing Berlin controversy is " fraught with danger . " The exceptionally long session with the Soviet leader , which was held yesterday , produced " a couple of interesting proposals . " Mr , Humphrey said he had cabled these to Secretary of State Dulles and hoped to present them personally to President Eisenhower . But the Minnesota Democrat said that he did not now see " any room for a compromise " of the Western and Soviet positions on Berlin . Senator Humphrey said he thought the Soviet moves in Berlin had resulted from a " very cold and calculated decision . " There is no doubt , he said , that Moscow intends to get the Western powers out of Berlin and that it hopes at the same time to set them quarreling among themselves over the question of Germany . Uncertain on a ' Showdown ' Mr. Humphrey said he did not know whether the Soviet Union was prepared to risk a " showdown " over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whatever the West believed to be its legal position in Berlin , the " legal questions will have to be tempered with prudent judgment . " Nonetheless , the interview left the Senator with a feeling of " cautious optimism , " he said , as well as with a realization that " we have a long , hard row to hoe in finding the path to a just and enduring peace . " The optimism seemed to be based on Senator Humphrey 's belief that there was " a good possibility " of an East-West agreement at the Geneva conference to work out a ban on the testing of nuclear weapons . Major Stumbling Block A major stumbling block is the Soviet suspicion of the United States ' desire to continue so-called experimental non-military explosions , Mr. Humphrey said . However , not only did he indicate that Premier Khrushchev was well aware of the progress at the talks but he thought the Premier ' ' is running them . " On the other hand , without giving details , Mr. Humphrey expressed the view that the other East-West Geneva @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was " hopelessly snarled . " The Senator arrived in Moscow last Friday for a week 's efforts to sound out the Russians on the expansion of international cooperation to improve medical care and to prevent and cure disease , He had expressed an interest in meeting Mr. Khrushchev and was summoned to the Kremlin without advance notice yesterday afternoon . He was alone with Mr. Khrushchev and Ole g A. Troyanovsky , the Premier 's interpreter , from 3 P. M. until 9 , when Anastas I. Mikoyan , a First Deputy Premier , was summoned from home to join the talks for two hours . The first four hours were spent at one end of a long conference table in Mr. Khrushchev 's Kremlin office in earnest conversation " but no speechmaking , " Mr. Humphrey said . A.t 7 o'clock the Premier sent for a lavish dinner of caviar and partridge or pheasant , elegantly served at the other end of the table on delicate china . There was no wine or hard liquor and the few toasts were made with mineral water . After Mr. Mikoyan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one jigger of Armenian brandy . Senator Humphrey thought there was no doubt that Mr. Khrushchev wanted primarily to discuss the Berlin situation and , to impress on the Senator the fact that the Soviet Union manent what it said on the issue . Moscow proposed last Thursday that West Berlin become a demilitarized free city and announced that control over the Western access routes to the city as well as over the rest of East Germany would be Burned over to the East German Communist Government inl six months , Notes Carefully Checked Mr. Humphrey said the situation was so delicate that he did not want to reveal the substance of his conversation with ' the Premier before he could report to Washington and obtain ' , some guidance in evaluating his extensive notes . The notes were , checked for accuracy for Mr. , Khrushchev by the interpreter ' at the Senator 's request . But the Senator did say that he had explained the firmness of the Western position at the interview , He said he had " vigorously " supported President Eisenhower 's Berlin policy , In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see to it that West Berlin remained free " not just in theory . " He said it was an " escape hatch and a contrast an island of democracy in the sea of the Soviet bloc . " The issue , he insisted , is not whether it is called a free city but " who , controls access , who can turn out all the lights am- , block the sewers . " Seemingly in a suggestion of how Premier Khrushchev had replied to these questions , Mr. Humphrey said : " Berlin is 100 miles inside thel Soviet bloc and this problem is one of Communist geography as well as of Communist ideology . " Mr. Humphrey 's eight hours with ' ith Mr. Khrushchev was probably the longest time ever given by the Premier to an American visitor to the Kremlin . The Senator said they had discussed Berlin , the Geneva conferences , cooperation in the health , agriculture , religion , Communist and democratic philosophies , capitalism , China and East-West trade . Mr. Khrushchev called for Mr , Mikoyan to provide more expert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Humphrey said he was trying to find out exactly what the Russians had in mind , how they expected to pay and what they wanted to buy and sell . The two ? Soviet leaders arranged further appointments for him with officials at the Foreign Trade Ministry . Mr. Humphrey said the Premier had endorsed his plans for greater exchanges and cooperation in the health field and had indicated that the Soviet Health Ministry would be instructed to help him . The . Senator thought the Democratic victory in last month 's elections might have increased Mr. Khrushchev 's interest in speaking with him . He said the Premier had " subtly indicated " that the Democrats ' new majority gave them great new responsibility for foreign policy and that he hoped the ' party would act accordingly .                     