@@716173

txt The old International Longshoremen 's Association , its back to the wall , called off the Port of New York 's longest and costliest pier strike yesterday . Capt . William V. Bradley , president of the I. L. A. , ordered his men to report for work at 8 o'clock this morning for the first time since March 5 . There seemed to be no reason to doubt they would take his advice . Thomas ( Teddy ) Gleason , general organizer for the union , predicted that 8,000 to 10,000 longshoremen would be on the job today , and 30,000 to 35,000 on Monday , when the rush will begin to move tons of cargo that have piled up on docks . He said he expected work to continue at that pace for two weeks . Word of the strike 's end released a great sigh of relief . Job . hungry longshoremen looked forward to a weekly paycheck . Shipping and longshore-hiring companies hoped to resume normal operation , and to regain lost business . Policemen added to the waterfront detail planned shorter and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burning no more midnight oil . Decision Quickly Approved The announcement of the strike 's cave-in was made late yesterday afternoon after a brief meeting of the union 's top command with the rank-and-file strike committee at the offices of the New York District Council , 107 Washington Street . Before the meeting the waterfront had been alive with rumors that the end was near . Once the decision to end the walkout was made , formal approval did not take long . The meeting was over in fifteen minutes and Captain Bradley  --  pale ' and looking unhappy  --  emerged to issue the following statement : " I have just met with the rankand-file strike committee and ' they have advised me that after meeting with their respective local members and considering the unprecedented and illegal threat by a Government agency to force the I. L. A. off the ballot of a newly ordered election , they recommend that I , as president , order the men to return to their jobs forthwith . " Since I officially endorsed a wildcat strike at the insistence of the rank-and-file members I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and I have done so , and I now order the men to return to work forthwith . " We won one election and we are confident of winning the new election . The A. F. L. has demonstrated their inability to break the wildcat strike with their outof-town strikebreakers , However , we as American citizens resent the efforts of any public official or agency to attempt to intervene on the side of one union organization against the other . " We further resent those sane officials or agencies degrading and debasing the members of one organization by referring to them as thugs and goons because they dare to assert their rights as Americans . We bow to the mandate of our Government and order an immediate return to work . " Captain Bradley then spelled out the allusions in the document , which was prepared by the rankand-file committee and then heavily censored by union lawyers . He said the main factor in bringing about the end of the strike was the threat of the National Labor Relations Board to rule the I. L. A. off the ballot in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terminated " forthwith . " This ultimatum was handed down Thursday by the board in its order voiding the election held last December . No date has been set for a new vote , but one is expected within the next six weeks . Captain Bradley said yesterday he hoped and prayed the N. L. R. B. would order an election " soon . " Other Factors in Peace Despite Captain Bradley 's contention that it was the labor board threat that had broken the back of the strikers ' resistance , most observers were of the opinion that this ultimatum was but the final straw . Other strike-end ing pressures were : " ilEconrmic pressure . Longshoremen had been out of work for twenty-nine days and had piled up debts . ilThe fear of permanent loss of jobs . This fear was highlighted ' on Thursday and again yesterday when the rival American Federation of Labor pier union invaded the Upper West Side domain of Harold Bowers , business agent of " Pistol " Local 824 of the old I. L. A. , and worked Pier 84 , North River @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stoppage were ended at once , dock workers in that borough would return to work , and might even switch loyalties and join the A. F. L. ' 9 The combined weight of an unprecedented legal Crackdown by Federal and state agencies . This coordinated drive  --  planned last week by Governor Dewey and Secretary of Labor James P. Mitchell  --  covered the waterfront with subpoenas and resulted in the issuing of many new injunctions . Yesterday , for example , a ? few hours before the I. L. A. decided to call off the strike the Waterfront Commission of New York Harbor went into State Supreme Court and obtained the most inclusive injunction of all . This order , signed by Justice Thomas J. Brady , enjoined the L L. A. and fifty-one of its locals in the port from " continuing , encouraging or taking part in any strike . " In seeking the order , Lawrence ' E. Walsh , executive ' director of the bi-state agency , charged the defendants had conspired to impede the commission 's duties and powers " by compelling it to rescind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - ? On Thursday the I. L. A. said sixty-five longshoremenihad been affected by such revocations , and offered to end the strike then and there if the - commission would put them all back to work . The agency indignantly refused . The end of the . walkou.t ; left half a dozen legal actions up in the air . Among them was a trial in Federal Court of the old I. L. A. , eight of its locals and three of its officials on charges of contempt in defying a no-strike in , junction issued on March . 4 . Last night Charles T. Douds , regional director of the N. L. R. B. here said : " Our present position - ; Is that the trial for contempt should go forward . " There was no doubt that the combined efforts of the Federal . and State Governments had pushed the I. L. A. into a narrow corner . Court decrees ' had thinned its picket lines to twelve in Manhattan and Newark and to eight in Brooklyn . It faced fines running to more than $1 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its affairs . and there was the possibility of indictments . And on the labor front the A. F. L. union , taking advantage of every opportunity to break the strike and its rival , was gradually increasing the number of its men on the docks . Yesterday , according to the Waterfront Commission , 5,120 men reported in on the wharfs , working . sixtyone ships at thirty-eight piers . It was the first time the labor force had passed 5,000 since the strike began . A normal daily work force is 20,000 . Labor Secretary Mitchell learned of the order ending the strike in Augusta , Me. , where he , was filling a speaking engage-1 ment . He said : " The end of the illegal work stoppage on the New York wa- , terfront six days after the combined resources of the Federal and State Governments had been ) coordinated is heartening evidence of the effectiveness of teamwork . Without making one concession to the irresponsible leadership which paralyzed the Port of New York for twentynine days , the forces of law and order , an important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restoring the port to nearly normal operations . . " It is hoped that in time the port will resume its normal , peaceful activity so that within a reasonable time in the future an election may be held to enable the hard-working men who man the piers to select a responsible union to represent them . " - Rise Spurned Again In voting to return to work , the I. L. A. strike committee spurned once again an offer by the New York Shipping Association for a 10-cent hourly package increase retroactive to Oct. 1 . While the end of the strike was being debated by union officials , representatives of the state , city , New Jersey and Federal Govern , ' m , ents were meeting to arrange for a new N. L. R. B. represents- , tion election . Earlier in the day ' the con ; tempt proceeding in Federal , Court was held up while attorneys for the three union leaders , , Harold Bowers , William Ackalitis and William P. Lynch , and counsel for the labor board conferred with Judge Harold P. Burke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the trial . The Indication was that the L L . A. was attempting to arrange a compromise under which the charges of criminal contempt would be called off in iturri ' for a plea of guilty to lesser charges . This effort fell through and the trial was resumed in the after- , neon . In Trenton , Maj. Gen. Edward C. Rose and Lieut . Gen. George P. Hays , fnembers of the Waterfront Commission , agreed to a request from Gov . Robert B. Meyner of New Jersey for a hearing for the . sixty-five I. L. A. members whose work cards have been suspended .                     