@@714038

txt PARIS , July ** CommuniSt GOVglinierit of Czechoslovakia has apparently unearthed a widespread plot against the security of the state . At least four generals have been arrested or have committed suicide before the security police could pick them up . Full details of the conspiracy are not known and the Prague regime appears to be doing everything possible to hush it up . Nevertheless , the Ministry of War found it necessary to distribute the following confidential admonition to the country 's principal army com-manders : " Until Feb. 19 , 1948 when the Communist coup d'etat ocurred , it was the superior officers of the country 's military commands who opposed the application of Soviet // methods in the organization of our army . " Since these reactionary elements were uncovered , numbers of imperialist agents in the ranks of the army have been fomenting op-. position to these Soviet methods . " Under the camouflage of deelarations that the Soviet army is our great model , they do all they can to prevent this model from effectively inspiring the work which is carried out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War Ministry circular can not be ascertained . However , it is known that approximately ten weeks ago the Soviet Union sent out secret instructions to all its Eastern European satellites to tighten up security and to take more rigid steps to prevent sabotage by " western " agents . Apparently the treason plot that Prague is now attempting to unravel was first discovered last January just as a reorganization of the Czechoslovak armed forces and a reduction in the number of military districts was being pre'pared , according  --  it is believedto instructions issued by Soviet Marshal Ivan S. Konev . During that month Gen. Jindrich Vesely , chief of the Prague security police , was arrested on suspicion of treason . General Vesely , whose real name was Ivanov , is understood to have committed suicide in prison . He was immediately replaced in office by Gen. Josef Pavel . However , last March , at about the same time that former Foreign Minister Vladimir Clementis was arrested when he tried to flee the country , General Pavel was taken into custody with his principal assistant , a man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beginning of a purge that extended into the most confidential and highest quarters of the administration . On March 22 General Zadina , chief of the arms production program and a member of the general staff detached to the planning division , committed suicide when he learned he was about to be arrested . General Dies in Prison At approximately the same time General Klen , head of the military intelligence and counter-espionage services , attempted to kill himself when he learned that he was to be arrested . General Klen , whose real name was Kreisel , was taken to a prison hopsital , where , it is understood , he died a few weeks ago . Since the Prague regime has been doing its utmost to keep secret the details of these arrests it is extremely difficult to ascertain what other officials have been rounded up . It is reported that Generals Zadina , Klen and Vesely joined the party only in 1945 after the end of World War II . General Zadina had a particularly rapid series of promotions after taking this step , rising from the rank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high army officers are ' now suspected of antiregime activities is not known . As recently as May Marshal Konev gave an open warning that Czechoslovakia 's only trustworthy ally was the Soviet Union . Thus , of course it is possible that the conspiracy suspected by the Prague regime consists only of intra-party political differences and factional strife . It should be recalled that in 1949 a small but significant " quiet purge " occurred in the Soviet Union at the time that Nikolai A. Voznesensky disappeared from the Soviet Politburo . It is believed that Col Gen. I. V. Shikin , then chief of the political administration for the U. S. S. R. 's armed forces , was arrested . At any rate he has not been heard of since .                     