@@719391

txt PARIS , Dec. 14 ? Britain agreed today to help sell United States missiles to a reluctant Europe . Prime Minister Harold Macmillan and Secretary of State Dulles reached an , " identity of approach " for Monday 's meeting , of Atlantic alliance leaders , qualified sources reported . Britain , it was added , will make the utmost effort at this meeting and in diplomatic exchanges thereafter to convince other NATO members that installation of intermediate range ballistic missiles and the stockpiling of nuclear weapons on their territories comprise a natural development of established defense procedures . The United States , it was reported , will support British insistence on the importance of countering the Soviet challenge in the Middle East , Africa and Southeast Asia with agreed political and economic measures . The collaboration between the // United States and British Governments does not reflect any intention to " gang up " on other members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , the sources insisted . Nevertheless , it may be Interpreted that way . The British delegation is aware that the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe . The comments of British diplomats lack the jaunty confidence of their American counterparts . The British feel that the Americans do not understand the change in the Continental attitude toward United States power that has taken place since the Soviet Union launched its earth satellites . Mr. Macmillan and Foreign Secretary Selwyn Lloyd are willing to impress upon their European partners in NATO that the pattern of nuclear defense offered by the United States is a logical development of the defense efforts of the last ten years . " What is the difference , " a British delegate asked , " between American and British bombers loaded with hydrogen bombs on British bases and rocket missiles and tactical atomic weapons on Continental bases ? " The missiles and atomic weapons , he insisted , are intended to deter an attack by Soviet forces on Western Europe , and that is exactly the role of the bombers based on Britain . Accord in Principle Is Aim An objection raised by a delegate from one of the smaller NATO powers was that the problem was by no means as simple as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Continental Governments must accept the probability that the installation of I. R. B. M. 's on their territory would open them to the same treatment by the Soviet Union in any war that would be accorded to the British and Americans . However , the British hope that agreement will he reached " in principle " by NATO powers on the installation of I. R. B. M. 's in Europe . Their estimate of altitude of powers concerned is not optimistic but they think it is realistic . It is : Turkey will accept any " hardware " that is offered including both the I. R. B. M. and tactical atomic weapons such as the Honest John , Corporal and Nike . Italy will he willing to " go along " on the I. R. B. M. if there is strong evidence that certainly reject the I. R. B. M. and will be hesitant about tact cal atomic weapons . The German delegation will stall , referring the question of missile bases Lo the Bundestag , or Parlie ?  - -  The Netherlands and Belgium will take an attitude similar to that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France , because of her geographical position , does not enter into the calculations on tactical atomic weapons . Where the I. R. B , M. is concerned , the French Government is expected to seek American agreement to a number of conditions before accepting the stationing of weapons on its territory . Speed Believed Unwise British leaders feel that it would be unwise for the United States to hurry NATO members into acceptance of missiles without the fullest explanation of their place in the general plan of deterrence . They believe that . the deterrent value rather than the operational value of the weapons should he stressed . Europe , they noted , is glad to live under the protection of the United States Strategic Air Command based in 0111N ha . Consequently , it should he prepared to live under the protection of I. R. B. M. 's based on Osnabruck , West Germany , or Orleans , the British asserted . The rather brusque approach to the Continental Governments favored by some American military leaders appears to have softened . The new approach is that it . will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it is natural that their acceptance should be a matter of study and , finally , that the United States is very much aware of the importance to Europe of economic , political and scientific coordination . The resistance , both latent and evident , to the stationing of I. R. B. M. 's in Europe is expected to alter American tactics at the NATO meeting . It is now considered probable that there will be a good deal more time spent in expounding the virtues of coordination in the non-military functions of NATO . and a great deal mere behindthe-scenes activity selling the I. R. B. M.                     