@@713765

txt On March 5 of this year the Foreign Affairs Committee of the House of Representatives reported out favorably a bill to give to India $190,000,000 worth of American grains to relieve an acute food shortage in India . A minority of four of the 23 members of the committee filed a minority report favoring certain changes , principally that India should pay part of the cost of the grain instead of receiving the whole as a grant . On the same day that the bill was reported the chairman of the committee requested a special rule from the Rules Committee to expedite passage of the measure . White House and State Department have both urged fullest speed . Since March 5 the House Rules Committee has done nothing . A A A Behind this story of approval by a large majority of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and subsequent inaction in spite of administration urgings is the old , old question of whether it is better to give aid to a foreign country with or without string 's . In effect , India is being penalized today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quarters , that America made a profound wartime mistake when it gave Lend-Lease aid to Soviet Russia without strings . The contention that conditions attached to wartime aid to Russia could have changed the course of history is one of those theses that can only be argued  --  never proved . At the time the aid was given it was the dominant opinion in Washington that the attachment of conditions to American aid ( a ) would do no good because the Russians would behave after the war as they chose to behave regardless of any wartime agreements , and ( b ) might do harm in that they could establish the basis of mutual distrust instead of possible mutual confidence . The recessive view in Washington at the time was that Russia is reluctant to violate the letter of its bond , although always free to violate the spirit , and that , therefore , if we had pinned the Russians down to specific guarantees of good behavior after the war we might have used our war aid to win for us something less damaging than what we actually have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we played it the no-strings way with Russia during the war , and now find ourselves at odds with Russia around the entire border where the realm of Moscow marches with the realm of the West . Because one condition follows another condition ' does not necessarily prove that the first condition caused the second . This may or may not be a sequitur . But those who wanted strings attached to Russian aid certainly can arguefairly that if we had played the Russian hand the other way the story might be differ-1 ent now . They are perfectly right in thinking that their way might have worked . Therefore , there is a strong inclination in Congress to feel that when aiding India , from whom we would like some concessions , we might be justified in trying the " with-strings " technique this time . A A A There are two things Washington would like to get from India . One would be a firm guarantee to stand with us against Russia if it ever comes to a general test of strength between the two of us . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ embargo on the export from India of all atomic energy raw materials . This embargo prevents the export of India 's monozite sands , which contain thorium , an item of possible value to our atomic energy program . The question is whether famine can be used sucessfully as a device for forcing conditions from a reluctant country . We can try to use famine to gain our ends . But would the Indians respect our " toughness " if we tried it that way , or would they hate us for playing politics with human misery ? If the result of effort to attach strings to food aid would be to cause hatred in India , then the effort would be self-defeating . It remains to be seen which way we play the hand .                     