@@716128

txt it is probably too early to suggest that the tide has turned on the " McCarthy issue " and on the importance of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy ( R ) of Wisconsin as a controversial national figure . But President Eisenhower has spoken out strongly on trie dangers of splitting the Republican Party and endangering its legislative program due to one senator 's desire for personal aggrandizement . And the Senate has heard a Republican member take the Wisconsin junior senator seriously to task for " doing his best to shatter " the GOP , while the Senate Republican Policy Committee has advocated a new set of fair-play rules for investigating committees . These actions , combined with the quick move of the Republican National Committee to obtain network time ahead of Senator McCarthy for replying to the attack by Democratic leader Adlai E. Stevenson , reveal a new firmness by strategically placed Republicans . including the President , in handling Senator McCarthy . Criticism Mounts The Reoublican National Committee has green no evidence , of course , that it is not counting on the Wisconsin senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the critical comment , in and out of Republican ranks , has reached a new peak in the past week , and those so commenting include the President of the United States . Mr. Eisenhower told his press conference March 10 that he agreed substantially with the speech made March 9 by Senator Ralph Flanders ( R ) of Vermont . He said he thought Senator Flanders performed a public service by calling attention to the grave dangers of splitting the Republican Party ? and the perils involved in magnifying questions of procedure and personal aggrandizement to the point of endangering the administration 's program . Speaks With Vigor The President said he had not read the entire Flanders speech and so could not underwrite it completely , Speaking out in more vigor and detail than he had a week ago , the President further dismissed as " nonsense " the assertion by Adlai E. Stevenson that the Republican Party is now one-half McCarthy , one-half Eisenhower , Asked about the decision of the National Broadcasting Company and Columbia Broadcasting System in refusing " reply time " to Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President said he thought the networks had discharged their responsibility very fairly . Posing a hypothetical question , the President asked : Supposing a speaker had mentioned 20 nations critically , would this mean that the networks had to give reply-time to each of the 21 involved ? Positive Approach The ? selection of Vice-President Richard M. Nixon to make the reply to Mr. Stevenson was announced by the GOP national chairman , Leonard W. Hall . The President said he participated in the meeting which selected Mr. Nixon , and concurred heartily in the choice . It is also known that the White House thoroughly approved the national chairman 's idea to ask for reply time for the committee . The President restated his long-standing belief that the Republican approach should be positive  --  that negative considerations do not promote the hap piness of people , and that there should be an end to overemphasis from morning to night on subjects unworthy of national attention . Mr. Eisenhower evidenced much more willingness than usual to speak about the Wisconsin senator . He spoke vigorously and with conviction . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new McCarthy-deflationary trend : 1 . The Senate Armed Services Committee will conduct its own sober hearings on what the Defense Department has done and plans to do about Communists in the armed forces , and will call Defense Secretary Charles E. Wilson and Army Secretary Robert T. Stevens March 18 . This action ; announced by Senator Leverett Saltonstal/ ( R ) of Massachusetts , cuts across the bow of the McCarthy committee 's own investigation of subversives in the armed forces . 2 . A member of the Federal Communications Commission  --  Robert E. Lee , a Wisconsinite and a friend of Senator McCarthy  --  disagreed with the senator 's complaint that he had been unfairly treated by the National Broadcasting Company and Columbia Broadcasting System in being refused equal time to answer Mr. Stevenson 's radio-TV address , Mr. Lee said the networls decision to grant time to the Republican National Committee was " very fair . " Senator to Fight In New York , Senator McCarthy meanwhile had criticized the networks ' refusal to grant hint time as " completely immoral ; " " arrogant , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would press his fight before the Federal Communications Commission and would consult lawyers as to his rights .                     