@@718442

txt The City Council abandoned yesterday its plan to have a special Council committee investigate the private business affairs of every Councilman . For its proposed mandatory inquiry , the city 's legislative body substituted a permissive one by Investigation Commissioner Charles H. Tenney . The special five-man committee that was to have made the sweeping investigation was set up . But its function was curtailed , in effect , to weighing proposed new legislation intended to define more clearly the duties of Councilmen and other city officials in matters in which they might be financially interested . The scope of the projected Council inquiry became limited when the Democratic majority enthusiastically and unexpectedly accepted an amendment to the investigation resolution proposed by Minority Leader Stanley M. Isaacs , Manhattan Republican-Liberal . A Two-Purpose Amendment The original resolution , introduced a week ago by Council President Abe Stark and Majority Leader Joseph T. Sharkey , Brooklyn Democrat , called for both the legislation study and the scrutiny of the personal affairs of all Councilmen . Mr. Isaacs ' amendment directed Commissioner Tenney to conduct inquiries " forthwith concerning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he has , if any , which are inconsistent with his duties and objectives as a member of the City Council . " The Investigation Commissioner also was directed in the amendment to " furnish each member of the City Council with a copy of such report concerning any Councilman , together with a copy of the sworn testimony taken in conjunction therewith . " All Councilmen were exhorted to cooperate with the Commissioner . The Isaacs amendment , as originally typewritten for introduction into the Council , called upon the Investigation Commissioner to look into " each and every " member of the Council . This wording would have made the projected Tenney inquiry as sweeping as the originally proposed investigation by the Council itself . Mr. Isaacs conceded that he had discussed his amendment with members of the Democratic majority before introducing it . But he said he took " full responsibility " for striking out the typewritten " each and eery " and substituting a handwrItten " any . " He declared that the majority 's quick espousal of his amendment had come as a " complete surprise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 25 to 0 , the Council deleted the paragraph of the basic resolution that directed the special committee " to conduct inquiries of each and every member of the City Council as to what interest they have , if any , which is inconsistent with their duties and obligations as members of the City Council . " Many Councilmen contended , both on and off the floor , that the new course of action was as strong as the abandoned one ' would have been . The special committee held a short meeting immediately after ' the Council session . its members are Councilmen Morris J. Stein , Brooklyn Democrat , chairman ; David Ross , Bronx Democrat ; John J. Merli , Manhattan DemoCouncilman . Only when charges are presented to us by Mr. Tenney will we consider any charges . We have full faith in every member of the Council . We know of no reason why any member of this Council should be investigated . " Commissioner Tenney already has scrutinized the affairs of Councilman Hugh Quinn , Queens Democrat , and is looking into the private business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and James J. - Murphy , Richmond Democrat . Mr. Quinn also has appeared before the New York County grand jury . In another action , the council , as required bSf law , followed the recommendation of the New York County Republican ComImittee and appointed the county leader , Thomas J. Curran , as a rommissioner of the Board of Elections . Mr. Stark introduced a resolutoin asking the State Legislature to approve a $50,000,000 bond issue outside the city debt limit for school construction . Camera crews of the National Broadcasting Company and the Columbia Broadcasting System protested last night to Mr. Shar- , key because ' of their exclusion from the council floor when they had sought to film the proceedings . Mr. Sharkey told them the council had voted in executive session 22 to 3 against permitting them to operate while the , council was in session .                     