@@714287

txt The United Nations will demand a guarantee from ' the Communists against reinforcement or rearma ment of the Chinese and North Korean armies . during a cease-fire as one of the conditions for a truce in Korea . This was announced today by Vice Admiral Charles Turner Joy , senior Allied truce negotiator , as armistice talks by a military subcommittee continued at Panmunjom . The Associated Press said , a United Nations spcSicesman had reported that the members of the subcommittee neared a meeting of minds et their session Sunday on a cease-fire line . He said certain proposals on the question had been " formalized " for consideration by the full truce delegations . Seek " Concrete Agreements " The proposed guarantee apparently wilk be the keystone of the United Nations program for the third point of the agreed agenda for the truce talks , dealing with enforcement of the armistice once the shooting had halted . " We require . concrete agreements that will ' prevent a. build-up of military forces beyond the level existing at the time the armistice is placed in effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ilickides a , proviso again i the rehabilitatiihi and refurbishment of existing forces whose combat effectiVenese has ' been significantly reduced as a result of combat . " The terms made public by the head of the Allied delegation obviously were intended to prevent the enemy from using the truce to bring down new armies and supplies from Manchuria after the armistice had halted the United Nations air blockade of the Communists ' lines of communications . It was the first indication that such a requirement would be sought . Vast Re-Equipping Cited After the defeat of the North Korean Army , prior to the Chinese intervention , the Communist troops were reformed and reequipped north of the Yalu River , then moved down into combat again . The United Nations terms would prevent the enemy , from staging a similar maneuver , then ending the armistice with a sudden reinforced onslaught . Issuing his declaration at a time when the subcommittee seemed to be bogged down after seventeen sessions in a dispute over location of an armistice line , Admiral Joy asserted : " We intend to press vigorously for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unacceptable . " " We shall continue to use every weapon at our command , at the conference table , or on the battle- , field , to achieve a complete military armistice at the earliest pos .. Bible time , " he declared . " But we will not compromise our principles . We will not endanger the security of our forces in the field . We will not jeopardize early recovery of our prisoners of war . " The admiral named four points of the United Nations cease-fire program , which he said was " of long standing and is crystal clear . " First , he asserted , the Allied goal was an armistice line and a demilitarized ' zone " that will reflect the military situation as it exists on the day the armistice agreements are signed . " United Nations spokesmen have stated that the Communists apparently were seeking delineation of the final line now , regardless of the results of further combat . Second , Admiral Joy said , the demand was for " complete , adequate security for United Nations command combat forces and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The third condition , Admiral Joy declared , would be a guarantee against a troop build-up . Fourth , he said , " We are especially concerned with quick and , satisfactory arrangements relating , to prisoners of war . Prompt and expeditious recovery of the thousands of United Nations Command men in enemy hands is a primary aim . " The senior Allied ' delegate took a hand in the discussion of the armistice line location , debated up to now only by the subcommittee since the talks ' resumed last month . Pointing out that the , United Nations had entered the renewed conversations in a hopeful attitude , Admiral Joy indicated that the optimism had now waned . " As the resumed subdelegation talks continue , it becames increasingly apparent " what the enemy wants , he said . " He wants all of the advantages of a de facto cease-fire so that he can prolong the armistice negotiations without cost to himself . He wants immediate relief from our inexorable military pressure ? the pressure which would be an ' incentive ' to arrive quickly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Plan The United Nations program for the armistice line , tentatively rejected by the Chinese and North Koreans , was " honest and realistic and in accordance with United Nations Command objectives , " the admiral asserted . The proposal to which Admiral Joy referred was one of two laid before the committee yesterday ? one by each side  --  both of which proved unacceptable . After more than three hours of discussion in a. conference tent at Panmunjom , the unsolved issue between the United Nations and Chinese and North Korean Communists remained the same  --  Whether the demarcation line and demilitarized area between the armies should be established immediately , at least in rough form , or whether it should await final agreement on other terms of a truce . Apparently not basically far apart , each side regarded the other 's program with suspicion . Brig . Gen. William P. Nuckols , Allied , headquarters spokesman told correspondents " they want a demilitarized zone now " and implied that , once the Communists were thus relieved of military pressure they could be expected to delay lengthily on matters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The ' Communists denied this . One hopeful sign of progress appeared after -- the long deadlock over the territory each side should hold by the terms of the armistice agreement . Allied censors in Korea permitted correspondents to state from , information gathered at Panmunjom that it could be " assumed " that the United Nations was , willing now to forego a claim to Kaesong  --  the last large town south'of the old Korean boundary at the Thirty-eighth Parallel still occuflied by the Communists . Kaesong is well behind the line of troop contact that the Allied ' delegates have insisted should be the basis for the armistice , but the United Nations officers proposed it should be neutralized to provide a defense in depth for the South Korean capital of Seoul . I The dispatch from Korea said the belief now was that the area could be surrounded and rendered valueless to the invaders before the armistice terms had been completed . Possession of Kaesong has been one of the principal points at issue for the last week . The two proposals made yesterday followed closely the lines already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showed considerable areas of agreement as well as what the United ' Nations spokesman said was a basic difference over the timing for establishment of the truce zone . The Allied negotiators urged that the military subcommittee recommend to a plenary , session of the truce delegations " establishment of a military demarcatior line located at the actual line of ground contact at the time of the signing of the armistice agree . ment . " The . Communist counter-proposal , according to an Allied headquarters communiqu ? , appeared to " vary in- phraseology only " from the program they introduced at the session of Nov. 7.                     