@@714292

txt Signs multiply that defense expenditures will be the most controversial issue to come before the second session of the ** Congress . which begins next January . A closely related issue , so closely related as to be practically an aspect of the same thing , mill be the weight of federal taxation , particularly as it bears on industry . No one worth considering wants the federal budget balanced at the expense of the national security . But belief is growing , more vigorously among members of Congress than elsewhere . that appropriations and authorizations for rearmament have been made imprudently. not to say recklessly . If they have been , the consequences of such unconsidered haste will weaken the national security instead of fortifying it . Uneasiness in Congress on this point is reflected in the open demand of influential members for a " w atch-clog " committee on military expenditure . Senator O'Mahoney of Wyoming , member of the Administration party , says he has warned the Pentagon to restrain its money demands for the coming fiscal year . Now Washington correspondents report that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coming year some billions below those it made for fiscal 1952 . Whether the top military brass is thus executing a strategic retreat only to placate economy-minded members of Congress until they have brought up some heavier argumentative guns we do not profess to know . One may be permitted to raise the question , considering that General of the Army Bradley , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff . the other day declared that a great and immediate expansion of the planned Air Force is necessary if our might is to measure up to our danger . But if it is true that the Pentagon will substantially moderate its demands , it does not necessarily follow that the military intend any early reduction in the scale of their orders for arms . It may mean only that they will be satisfied to come to June 39. 1953 , with a much smaller carryover of unexpended appropriations and unused contract authorizations than that they are to have at the end of next June . Will such restraint on the Pentagon 's part contribute something toward balancing the budget without a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bad turn of the international situation it could make an important contribution toviard that end some time in the coming fiscal year . The psychological effect on military procurement officers of constant1N having access to much more in appropriated funds than they can use within an appropriation year can not be measured in dollars but is undoubtedly real . A well filled purse does not have to be literally bottomless to breed imprudence in its use . How much Administration support a self-denying ordinance of the Pentagon would command is AR yet guesswork . Doubt is raised by certain statements of Budget Director Lawton . He is quoted by the United Pi ess as having declared in effect that governmental economy is practically impossible this year or next . He apparently sees only two alternatives . either heater taxation or a Treasury deficit rising from a figure between S5 and SS billion to a greater amount a year later . Unquestionably a government 's continued deficit financing is the root source of monetary inflation and the depreciation of the exchange value of its monetary unit . Actually , then . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this : How much bad financing of an always growing arms program will sere the national secur-ity ? A country which accepts the role of world leadership runs more risks than only those which military force can cope with .                     