@@719096

txt MAEBASHI , JapaJl , Aug. 26 ? The opening sessions of the trial of William . S. Girard might have been taking place in a courtroom in the young soldier 's home town of Ottawa , Ill. , so far as judicial decorum and procedure were concerned . There was , of course , a difference in language , although even that , was largely lost through expert translation , phrase by phrase , of Japanese into English . The three black-robed juspces on the bench soon lost their strangeness of appearance , and there were enough American , English and French faces scattered through the press section , observers ' benches and courtroom crowd to leaven the oriental mien of the majority of the participants and spectators . Judge Yuzo Kawachi was stern and judicial , defense and prosecution counsel were vehement toward each other and respectful to the bench , and the thirty-five spectators in the steaming little courtroom who had drawn lots for their places were as quiet as , or more than , a similar American crowd would have been . Specialist 3/c @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disbanded , was indicted on a charge equivalent to manslaughter . The 22-year-old defendant , whose birthday was two weeks ago , was nervous when he first took his seat inside the rail . His prominent Adam 's apple kept moving up and down as he frequently swallowed . But when the Judges , in phrasings and tone such as a father might use toward a son , questioned him as to his reaction to ' the indictment charging him with inflicting bodily injury resulting in death , he visibly quieted . Today 's court sessions were devoted to pleas and motions . Then the trial recessed to Sept. 6 . Under Japanese court procedure , a defendant does not enter a formal plea of guilty or not guilty . But Girard told the judge the indictment charging him with willfully enticing Mme. Naka Sakai toward him and // then firing an empty cartridge shell at her from a grenade launcher on his rifle with intent to hit her was " all wrong . " " I did n't intend to hit anybody , " he said . " I , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nobody . It was an accident as far as I am concerned . " Chief Prosecutor Kakuichi Sugimoto and his assistants painted a different picture during the five hours of the court sessions . In the indictment they said Girard had twice before on Jan. 30 fired empty cartridges at Japanese who were collecting cartridge casings , as was their custom during practice maneuvers of Girard 's unit . The prosecutors said they would produce witnesses to testify that it had become common practice for American soldiers to have sport with Japanese shell collectors . Girard and his companions on that day laughed loudly when a man , fleeing from a threatening gesture , had fallen on his face in the mud , they said . Jurisdiction Challenged The chief defense counsel , Dr. Itsuro Hayashi , one of the leading members of Tokyo criminal bar , indicated his line or argument would be that Girard was acting in " performance of duty " when he fired at Mme. Sakai and the others . If the testimony proved that , he said , the Japanese court should disqualify itself and return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one was indicated . The United States Government has said that Girard was on duty at the time of the shooting but performed an unauthorized act . The Japanese have maintained he was off duty . Dr. Hayashi moved at the morning session that the court rule that Girard 's act was committed in the " performance of duty . " But when the court reconvened in. the afternoon he said he was not asking for an immediate ' ruling but would wait until the testimony was given . Under the announced schedule , that will be late next month . Dr. Hayashi also argued that . when the United States yielded at the insistence of the Japanese that ? they try Girard , it did not by that action waive jurisdiction and might at any time reclaim it . He would insist that it be reclaimed , he indicated , if the testimony bore out his contention . Dr. Hayashi cited the case of an American soldier in a Turkish court where that procedure took place . Turkey and the United States have a status-of-forces agreement of exactly the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he thatThe agreements provide that jurisdiction in offenses committed by soldiers who are off duty will be waived by the United States . At the request of the prosecution , Judge Kawachi indicated he would , issue subpoenas for nine witnesses and would accede to mot of the prosecution 's requests for the entry of documents and other exhibits . The next sessions of the court , on Sept. 6 and 7 , will be held at the scene of the shooting on the Somagahara maneuver grounds near Maebashi . Three of the nine witnesses will be questioned there . During this trial , Girard remains in the custody of the United States Army at Camp Drew , thirty miles from the court . He will be delivered to the custody of the court every morning of the trial and returned to Camp Drew every evening . If convicted , Girard faces a sentence of two to fifteen years in prison .                     