@@717436

txt Special to Vas New York Tines . WASHINGTON , Oct. 22 ? During the last two weeks the Supreme Court has heard arguments in eighteen cases . Four of them were in the category that has come to be known as " civil rights " cases . Arguments are to be heard in four cases the court has agreed to review in which alleged violations of civil rights are at issue . Each of these involves laws or lower court rulings relating to the rights of Communists . At least six appeals are before the court in which civil rights are at issue . Some or all of these may be rejected but the likelihood is that several of them will be heard . This statistical summary of the current situation is not designed to convey the impression that this is a " civil rights court . " The cases in that category are only a fraction of the total that makes up the court's- docket in ( this , or any other , term . However , some who listen often to arguments in the Supreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases the court decides to hear , find it difficult to avoid the conclusion that when an issue involving civil rights is raised the court does not lightly reject it . In recent years it has seemed to many that the court has been especially vigilant over areas of the law in which prosecutors or police officers may have used their powers to trespass upon individual freedoms . Due Process That may have been a reason for hearing one of the cases argued this week . In that case a Californian argued that the results of a blood test taken to determine whether he was intoxicated while driving an automobile could not be used as evidence to convict him without violating his constitutional right to due process of law . He asserted that the blood had been taken forcibly by the police over his repeated protests . Since blood tests are an important part of modern police techniques , officials throughout the country await the high court 's decision . The fact that the court heard the case is Indicative of its manifest interest in cases where methods of police and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court also freed a former soldier of treason charges because of unnecessary delays in bringing him to trial . It upheld a lower court verdict that the Goverment was responsible for the delays . The issue was not the guilt or innocence of the soldier , but whether the legal procedures of the prosecution deprived him of his right to a speedy trial . In two recent court terms the major issue has been racial segregation in public schools . Corollary questions arising from that decision are still before the court . Park Ruling It has been asked to review an Appellate Court ruling that racial begregation in public parks and playgrounds is illegal . Tht Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals said that Baltithore and the State of Maryland ' could not impose segregation at , state or municipally operated public beaches and bath houses . The lower court based its decision on the high court 's ruling that school segregation was unconstitutional . The school ruling is at issue in another appeal . A Federal Appeals Court at New Orleans upheld the right of Atlanta to segregate whites and Negroes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grounds that this conflicts with the school decision . The court also will announce soon whether it will hear this appeal . The civil rights category is broad . Under it , . the question has been raised for the first time of whether the equal protection and due process clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment inhibit the power of a state to dissolve a marriage upon the sole ground of the races off the married . persons . Ham Say Naim , a Chinese seaman , married a White American woman . The marriage was dissolved under Virginia 's " Act to Preserve Racial Integrity . " The constitutionality of the law is chaltlenged in an appeal now before he high court . k This week the " bourt heard arguments as to whether New York City had the right to discharge Harry Slochower , a Brooklyn College teacher , who refused to tell a Senate Judici'ary subcommittee if he had been a Communist back in ' 1940 and 1941 . The validity of a provision of New York City 's charter that made dismissal the automatic penalty for refusal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-incrimination was challenged . Key Case Pends Communist cases highlight the court 's docket for this term . The major one is the appeal of the Communist party from an order of the Subversive Activities Control Board that it be required to register with the Attorney General as a Communist-action organization . This case will afford a test of pertinent provisions of the Subversive Activities Control Act of 1950 , the Internal Security Act of 1950 , the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 and the Communist Control Act of 1954 . Arguments in this case will be among the most important I heard this term and the court 's decision could have far reaching effects upon the Government 's program to protect the country 's internal security from what it regards as the menace of the world-wide Communist conspiracy to overthrow democratic forms of government and substitute proletarian dictator .. ships . One of the newest weapons in the Government 's arsenal is the Immunity Act of 1954 . This permits the grand juries or legislative bodies to compel testimony in exchange for immunity from prosecution . Last November a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ullmann , a former Treasury Department official , who had been linked with espionage . Mr. Ullmann claimed that , although assured immunity from prosecution for espionage , his answers might lead to an unfounded indictment for perjury and thus be self incriminating . Federal Judge Edward Weinfeld directed him to answer . When he refused he was sentenced to six months for contempt . The Supreme Court has agreed to hear Mr. Ullmann 'm appeal , in which the constitutionality of the Immunity Act is challengecf for the first time . Redress of Wrongs The fact that the court has agreed to hear so many appeals by Communists and others claim- , ing violation of constitutional rights could be attributed to the fact that there probably are more Justices on the bench now who regard redress of individual wrongs as an important function of the court . - If it could be attributed to policy , the most likely answer would be a judicial desire to show to Communists here and elsewhere that American justice does not deny them their day in court .       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     