@@716513

txt The special Senate committee considering censure of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy decided today to accept in evidence the controversial Army Intelligence document that he had produced during the Army-McCarthy hearings . Senator Arthur V. Watkins , committee chairman , announced after a. closed session that Attorley General Herbert Brownell Jr . had stated that the document contained security information and could not be declassified . But the committee agreed that it could examine the document without disclosing its contents . The committee agreed with the decision of the Attcrney.General that the paper contained security information . Hayden Takes Stand Other developments in the censure proceeding today were : ilSenator Carl Hayden , Democrat of Arizona , was called as a witness on the status of a Senate Elections subcommittee that investigated Senator McCarthy 's affairs . Several days ago Senator McCarthy challenged the legality of the subcommittee on several grounds . Wefense officials , including Charles E. Wilson , Secretary of Defense , reversed a position previously taken to permit Brig . Gen. Ralph W. Zwicker , former commander of Camp Kilmer , N. J. , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commander of Fort Monmouth , N , J. , to testify more fully than they might have otherwise under Presidential and departmental restrictions . 0Senator Ralph E. Flanders , Vermont Republican , who sponsored the censure resolution on which the present proceeding is based , sought to add a new charge today but the committee declined to accept it . Most of today 's public session was devoted to a close crossexamination of Senator McCarthy , Wisconsin Republican , about the circumstances of his denunciations of General Zwicker , The Senator stood by everything he had said about the soldier , but the committee counsel laid the basis for disputing many of his contentions when the general takes the stand , probably tomorrow . Session Slated Today Chairman Watkins decided on a Saturday session with the hope of completing the public hearings tomorrow , although the schedule is crowded . Senator McCarthy is to be cross-examined on four other categories of charges and the committee plans to question a number of other witnesses besides General Zwicker , including Roy M. Cohn , once chief counsel to Senator McCarthy 's Permanent Investigations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will early next week . After that it will file a report and the Senate will reconvene to vote whether to censure or absolve Mr. McCarthy . Senator McCarthy scored a point and lost another when the committee decided to receive in evidence the secret two and onequarter-page document that stirred up a national dispute and placed Senator McCarthy in conflict with President Eisenhower . Senator McCarthy won his demand that the committee must read the paper in order to do him justice . But in concluding that the document did contain classified information the committee rejected Senator McCarthy 's contention that deletions made from the document had rendered it unclassified . The document is at the heart of two of the five categories of charges filed against Senator McCarthy . The Watkins committee announced in a ten-minute open session in the morning that it would do what the Mundt committee had shunned in the pro . tracted Army-McCarthy hearings . Senator Watkins announced that the six members had decided " at least to inspect the document preliminary to making a final decision , " whether it would be received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Among the charges is one that the document used by Senator McCarthy was " spurious . " Edward Bennett Williams argued yesterday that he could not defend his client unless the committee inspected the paper to decide on its authenticity ' and on his claim that it should not be considered confidential . The paper is the so-called twoand-one-quarter-page document which , according to the evidence in the Army-McCarthy hearings , was obtained by Senator McCarthy from a young army officer . The testimony then showed that while it was in the form of a letter , with a salutation and the typewritten signature of J. Edgar Hoover , Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation , it was really an altered extract of a fifteen-page report without the letter 's beginning and ending . Moreover , according to the evidence , some paragraphs had been copied verbatim , but somebody had added evaluation of " derogatory " or " non-derogatory " of individuals mentioned in connection with alleged Communist infiltration of Fort Monmouth . The Army has disputed Senator McCarthy 's claim that an officer gave it to him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department for action . When Mr. Williams slid the paper across the table to Senator Watkins today , the chairman picked it up with a rather wan smile . He did not venture to look at it , as the press and the big audience in the caucus room of the Senate Office Building watched intently . Instead Mr. Watkins with almost histrionic deliberateness folded the four thin sheets and stuck them into his pocket . Across the top of the document is the label " Personal and Confidential , " the highest classification of the Federal Bureau of Investigation , which prepared the fifteen-page report on which the controversial version was based . When the committee returned from its executive session at 1:35 P. M. the gray-haired chairman solemnly announced that Attorney General Brownell had re-examined his previous decision and still considered the paper confidential . " The committee has decided , ' said Senator Watkins solemnly , " to receive this document in evidence , however , with the understanding that the security protection provision will be enforced with respect to it . " The individual members of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussed it as a committee . No one else except members of the committee has been permitted to enter into the discussion , to read the document or see or hear any ; part of this document . " The committee is convinced ) that the document is a security document , and the information in it should be kept classified . " Mr. Watkins explained that therefore the committee could not make public any testimony or cross-examination concerning its contents . That was the end of the great mystery document for the time being . Mr. Williams in the morning had introduced the subject by having Senator McCarthy testify that he had not given a copy of the paper to Walter Winchell nor had any member of his staff . Mr. Winchell has testified that somebody , he could not remember who , thrust a copy at him while he was standing in a group during a recess of the ArmyMcCarthy hearings . McCarthy Cross-Examined Senator McCarthy , having completed his defense against the charges . was then cross-examined , chiefly by Guy G. De Furia , assistant committee counsel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ testifying , Senator McCarthy had repeated his denunciation of last February that the general was " not fit to wear that uniform . " The essence of the Zwicker issue is this : Senator McCarthy has contended that high Pentagon officers promoted and honorably discharged Maj. Irving Peress , whom the Senator has denounced as a " Fifth Amendment Communist . " The dentist had been in General Zwicker 's command , and Senator McCarthy made his denunciation when the general , so , the Senator contended , refused to tell the truth or was evasive when called to testify about Major Peress last Feb. 18 . General Zwicker insisted that he was prevented by a Presidential directive from giving the classified information as to how Major Peress happened to get promoted and honorably discharged . Senator McCarthy testified that General Zwicker did not rely on a Presidential directive in refusing to testify but on an Army regulation having to do with personnel information rather than security information . Senator McCarthy changed his position on this , however , when Mr. De Furia confronted him with this quotation from the record @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , former administrative assistant to Senator Charles E. Potter , Republican of Michigan : " General , what is your considered opinion of this order here forbidding you to assist this committee in exposing the Communist conspiracy in the Army ? " GENERAL ZWICKER : " Sir , I can not answer that because it is signed by the President . The President says , ' Do n't do it ' and , therefore , I do n't . " When this was brought to light , Senator McCarthy remarked : " I said he did not rely upon the Presidential order . I find here , in answer to Mr. Jones ' question , he did rely upon the Presidential order . I do n't think he relied upon that in answer to any of my questions . " " But General Zwicker replied to another of Mr. Jones ' questions , did he not , Senator , " contInued Mr. De Furia , " ' I wo n't answer that because I will not criticize my Commander in Chief . " ' " He was not ordered to answer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , you say he was the most evasive and arrogant , one of the most evasive and most arrogant witnesses who ever appeared before you ? " Mr. de Furia persisted . There was a sustained exchange between Senator McCarthy and Mr. De Furia , with Senator Watkins making an occasional . contribution , as to whether Senator McCarthy had said a number of times that General Zwicker did not tell the truth in the February hearing . At first Senator McCarthy said he did not think he had said that . At one point Senator McCarthy said : " He misstated the facts . Not telling the truth may mean that you are willfully committing perjury . I do not accuse him of that . I say that he told three contradictory stories . Two of them had to be untrue . " Mr. McCarthy also said he expected to call General Zwicker before his own committee again some day on the Peress case . Senator Hayden asserted that return to his home state for a visit , so he was called out of turn this afternoon in relation to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate or a Senatorial Committee . " The situation on this follows : The Senate Elections subcommittee that investigated Mr. McCarthy 's affairs , including a move to expel him from the Senate , invited him to appear several times and give any information in his own behalf that he desired . Senator McCarthy did not appear . He denounced ? the committee for wasting taxpayers ' money and exceeding its authority . In this proceeding he has contended on several grounds that the committee was not legal . He said the Senate had not . passed the resolution ordering the investigation but referred it to the subcommittee for action . He has also contended that in reducing the membership from five to three Senator Hayden furnished another ground for illegality because on his own motion he had made himself a member when Senator A. S. Mike Monroney , Oklahoma Democrat , resigned . The committee attached some importance to this point , because Senator McCarthy contended that the subcommittee had merely " offered an opportunity " to him to appear but had not " requested " or " demanded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only request came ' after Nov. 21 , 1953 , when Mr. Hayden made the substitution and since he considered this made the subcommittee illegal he did not have to appear . McCarthy Quizzes Hayden At one point of the questioning by Senator McCarthy , who asked by what rule he made the substitution , Mr. Hayden replied , " by the rule of common sense . " Senator Hayden asserted that making himself a member and reducing the membership from five to three were legal . He had a memorandum with information from the Senate Parliamentarian seeking to bear this out . It was ruled , however , that the memorandum was hearsay evidence and it was decided to get direct testimony from Charles ' L. Watkins , the Parliamentarian , or his assistant . General Lawton had been called in Senator McCarthy 's behalf to relate a conversation he had with General Zwicker about the McCarthy committee . Since the talk had been unofficial and unrelated , to policy-making the letter releases him from restraints and he is now expected to testify . Senator Flanders had a very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was told that under Senate instructions the charges could not now , be increased . He was satisfied with the ruling , but indicated that on some other occasion he would disclose his new charge . Originally he obtained the new information only as hearsay but has since got " something tangible , " said Mr. Flanders , adding : " It would have been a valuable contribution to world history , but tkere 's enough as it is. "                     