@@717830

txt Three Israeli soldiers were killed and one was wounded in a four hour battle between Egyptian and Israeli positions in the Kissufim sector of the Gaza strip today , an Israeli military spokesman said here . He said one Arab Palestinian soldier was killed . Called Serious Clash An Israeli patrol was attacked by Egyptian positions northeast of Khan Yunis with automatic and mortar fire , he said . The patrol returned the fire . Israeli artillery later wentl into action to free the Israeli patrol which was pinned down by Egyptian fire , the spokesman said . This was the most serious Egyptian-Israeli clash for some time . Hitherto , both sides have refrained from using artillery . It was the second incident in 48 hours . On Monday , o n e Israeli soldier was killed and another wounded when a patrol was ambushed 5 miles south of the scene of today 's incident . Egyptians Give Version LONDON , April 4 ' Reuters ? A battle took place today in the Gaza strip between Egyptian and Israeli forces , the Egyptian high command said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement said the Israelis had made day long attacks in the border strip between the two countries . It said Israeli units opened fire at 9:45 a. m. and Egyptians immediately returned the fire . ? Other Exchanges Later There were two other exchanges of fire later , the statement said . The second one was an artillery duel . The Egyptian high command said that after the first of these exchanges , " Israeli units carried out a number of military movements " and at 6:15 p. m. opened up with artillery fire on Deir el Balah . " This fire was returned by Egyptian artillery with equal intensity and firing between the two sides increased at 6:40 p. m. , " the statement c o n - eluded . Shooting at Jerusalem AMMAN , Jordan , April 4 UP ) ? Jordanian soldiers shot an Israeli who attempted to cross into the demilitarized zone from Jaffa gate in Jerusalem , an Arab Legion spokesman said today . Other Israelis pulled him back into Israeli territory , the .. spokesman said . 