@@718082

txt When President Eisenhower returns to the White House early next week he will be confronted with an interservice.dispute more , profound than the controversy that engaged his attention in 1May . The New York Times learned that the Joint Chiefs of Staff had planned to see the President at Gettysburg late this week . They were to present the Joint Strategic Objectives Plan , 11960 , a new look three years lahead , comparable to the famous three-year new look of the fall of 1953 . But an effort by Admiral Arthur W. Radford , chairman of the . Joint Chiefs of Staff , to impose a concept involving a cut in the armed forces of approximately 800,000 men by 1960 and withdrawal of the bulk of United States forces overseas caused the chiefs of the Army , Navy and the Air Force to resist . The result was that high Defense Department officials intervened to prevent public disclosure of the dispute , if possible . The trip to Gettysburg was canceled and action on the plan postponed until after Election Day . It was assumed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dispute either when Admiral Radford pays his weekly call or at this week 's Nationtl Security Council meeting . Meanwhile . The Times received assurance from competent Defense Department sources that its acqount of the dispute , published in a Washington dis- patch on Friday , was entirely accurate . The story referred to a memorandum embodying Admiral Radford 's radical concept and some . of his other strategic views . Yesterday Admiral Radford issued a statement stating the dispatch was " a mixture of fact and pure speculation , " but acknowledging that the " introduction of new weapons " utimately might make possible a reduction in military manpower . Defense Department spokesmen have sought to minimize the dispute , telling ' some newsmen in private that the memorandum was really a ' staff paper Prepared at a. low level . However , Admiral Radford ' did not deny the existence of the memorandum , which is ' labeled " top secret " and bears his name , nor did he deny the chiefs of the Army , the Navy and the Air Force had revolted against it . Approval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had ' occurred : The Joint Strategic Objectives Plan normally was to have been completed by June 30 , end of the 1956 fiscal year : Work had started on it about two months ago . In outlining the basic objectives for it . Admiral Radford carried further the concept of main reliance on nuclear air power as a deterrent to war and the Eisenhower Administration trend to push the development of new weapons and reduce military manpower . ' - Admiral Radford informed his three colleagues he had President Eisenhower 's general ? approval for his outline , though the chiefs entertained doubts . Apparently they felt the Admiral had merely a perfunctory goahead rather than approval of ideas , which , even in general form , disturbed them . The service chiefs accordingly planned , and came back within the last ten days with estimates of the forces and funds they would need . There were no disagreements among them , and essentially their plans called for programs fixed around the levels estimated for June 30 , 1957 , with forces totaling 2,865,258 . ( The figure in actuality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was 2,814.632 . ) Admiral Radford received these estimates , expressed his displeasure and told the chiefs to reduce them . He said that ' if they did not he would give them his own views . The ' chiefs waited , and the result was the now celebrated memorandum that reached them last week-end , Only an extremely limited number of copies of the top-secret paper Were sent to the services , and with instructions prohibiting the making of copies . Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor , Chief of Staff of the Army , Admiral Arleigh A. Burke , Chief of Naval Operations , and Gen. Nathan . Fa Twining , Air Force Chief of would be needed to support Staff , protested last Monday . eight divisions , The civilian chiefs of the De- Radford Disapproved Plan fense Department decided , with Admiral Radford , it was said . memories of the open outbreak between the Army and the Air Force in May , that it was too hot to hand at a time when the Presidential campaign was warming up . More Profound in Concept The dispute of May @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all-out nuclear war concept , involved essentially abstract problems and ideas . But the one now posed for President Eisenhower was the shape of national military , and indirectly foreign , policy in the next three years . The question that now has arisen in the minds of some reserves in the United States would be rebuilt with National Guard and Reserve units .. He said such a war might eventually call for the use of thirtyeight or forty divisions . But this is obsolete thinking in the face of an expressed national policy of using small or tactical atomic weapons even in local aggressions . An Army general staff paper that reached The New York Times in May , entitled " United States and Allied Objectives in War , " pleaded for the adoption , except where a general war was unavoidable , of a policy of war for limited objectives only so as to avoid thermonuclear war of mutual destruction . This paper suggested that the policy be based on Pax Britannica , the policy through which Great Britain engaged in small wars and assured comparative peace in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The bringing of mass destruction weapons into the art of war may require a more limited , or circumscribed application of military force in pursuit of national goals . In order to attain an honorable state of peace within the context of equal nuclear weapons capability by all adversaries , the United States and its allies may be required to pursue limited military and political objectives as a primary course of action if for no other reason than that attainment of limited objectives offers a better alternative than mutual destruction . If by the realization that full use of nuclear weapons would fail to satisfy the purposes for which such weapons are used , but instead would bring about utter world devastation , concentration . on the pursuit of limited objectives may become intense by all adversaries in war . " It is therefore conceivable that the ultimate manifestation of war , ' total war , ' may be abandoned in favor of the prosecution of lesser action , such as the peripheral wars or police actions , as , primary courses of action . " disapproved of it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plan in his presentation , But it was said what he really discussed was his own plan suggesting only a small fraction of the proposed fdrces , but with heavy emphasis- on air forces . At the point President Eisenhower was , reported to have cut in and said that was the sort of planning he liked . In the face of this apparent Presidential approval , it was said , neither the service Secretaries nor the military chiefs had enough " gumption " to protest . In the face of this trend to stress technology and reduce manpower , Army leaders see no missing column joint planning of the service chiefs is sometimes slurred over in their presentation by Admiral Radford , despite the safeguards in the unification law against one-man military control . This complaint against the Admiral is vouched for by sources that have proved trustworthy in the past : Within recent months the National Security Council called for an emergency plan for dealing with a peripheral war , if it should occur , in one of . the obvious Far East trouble spots . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approximately eight divisions , which compares to the maximum of seven divisions employed at any one time in Korea , as well as sea and land elements . A standard United States infantry division has 17,500 men , or 139,000 ? men for eight divisions . Paratroop and armored divisions are smaller , however , so that an . eight-division force might total around 100,000 men . A considerable additional number of supply and service troops to 100,000 more men next missing column                     