@@713189

txt President Truman issued a warning to Congress today that he was " much concerned " over the details of the Defense Production Bill on which Congress is working . The bill , already passed by the House , is slated to come before the Senate for a vote Monday . In a letter to Vice President Barkley , who is presiding officer of the Senate , the President complained that the powers for which he asked on July 19 were being " whittled down in certain important respects . " Already , he noted , control of commodity speculation and of credit on existing housing had been eliminated from both the House and Senate versions of the measure . He declared that the " price and wage controls which the Congress proposes to add " might be " so circumscribed by a host of detailed limitations and provisos as to confuse and hamper administration should it become necessary to invoke them . " wa.rninz of " Tragic " Outcome " It would be tragic , " the President asserted , " if the Congress were to reject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which could neither do the current job nor be applied successfully to the contingencies which may arise . " The President said that " our chief problem now is to increase defense production , in an economy already running close to capacity , without bringing on inflation . " Our aim should be to check inflation at its source , " he added . " The production aids and credit controls which I have recommended to the Congress are vital for this purpose . " He warned that " the enactment of inflexible , patchwork price controls would be a dangerous deception " and voiced his " earnest hope that the Senate will reject the numerous special-purpose amendments proposed for the price control provisions of the bill . " He urged strongly " that the Senate approve the full range of powers " he recommended on July 19 . In his message to Congress of July 19 the President asked for controls over commodity speculation and expansion of authority to curb credit . His message included requests for priority and allocations authority and other controls , but did not ask power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ? The Administration bill was amended in both House and Senate to give to the President standby controls over wages and prices . The bill passed the House in that rorm but since its introduction upni the floor of the Senate there lave been many amendments aimed at surrounding the Presidential power over prices and wages with a variety of safe , guards . Proposed as a " rider " to the controls bill is the Mundt-Fergu'son bill for the control of subversives . Senators Karl E. Mundt of South Dakota and Homer Ferguson of Michigan , Republicans , have announced their intention of pressing for the attachment of their bill unless Administration forces in the Senate will guarantee that their bill is brought up separately before the Senate in the very near future . Plan Farm Price Amendment Senator Milton R. Young , Republican of North Dakota , and Senator Richard B. Russell , Democrat of Georgia , announced today that they would head a strong drive to amend the controls bill to insure that Government price supports for cotton , corn , wheat and other basic farm crops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wide bi-partisan support , declared they were sure that their proposal would win approval . At present Government price supports on cotton , wheat , corn , tobacco , rice and peanuts are fixed by Congress at 90 per cent of parity , the same level that existed during the war . The two Senators asserted that if supplies of the commodities were large next year the parity price support would be lowered , under the present law , to only 80 per cent of parity . Failure to tie wage and price controls firmly together was charged by Senator Harry F. Byrd , Democrat of Virginia , when he discussed the Senate measure on the floor today . He said that the bill did not make wage controls mandatory if price controls were invoked . " It would be . a farce " to pass a bill in that form , he added . Under the bill as it stands , he continued , the President would have the option of invoking wage controls in the same industries where price controls were invoked on a selective basis . However , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the economy the President would have no choice but to impose general wage controls . In an attack upon the pricecontrols features of the bill , Senator George W. Malone , Republican of Nevada , warned that he intended to move Monday to have the bill sent back to the Banking and Currency Committee . He said it was inadvisable to put into the hands of the President the right " to fasten on controls at random , or in any other way he may see fit . " The bill , he asserted , was an invitation " to some great man , some great brain , " to take complete control of the economy . Citing the Office of Price Administration , he said the country should remember how difficult it was " to shake 0 . P. A. after the deleted 2 lines                     