@@713014

txt . Refusing to make any new indictments in the Amerasia case , a federal grand jury here has blamed weak espionage laws and loose security regulations in Washington for Mack of prosecution of the 1945 stolen documents case . The grand jury which studied the case with Peyton Ford , assistant to the attorney general , in the courtroom , said it found no evidence that any official acted improperly in handling - the case . It cleared the Department of Justice and the Office of Strategic Services but added : " If laws governing espionage had been different , the grand jury believes that the prosecution produced might have been entirely different . " But in that event , it said it was convinced that production of the documents in the case in court " might have revealed to the enemy information that was essential to withhold . " Inadequate Precautions ' It also said that the case.demonstrated that precautions taken against theft in the State Department had been " entirely inadequate " and questioned whether government loyalty boards today supply " sufficient , protection against infiltration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with former Secretary of Commerce Cornelius Vanderbilt Whitney , it said , that government employees should be judged by the company they keep and the stability of their character . The grand jury said it was in favor of preservation of civil rights but said the right to be hired by the government was not among these rights . Another recommendation in its presentment called courts to disbar all lawyers who refuse to answer questions in courts and before congressional committees on grounds of self-incrimination . Lack of Time Stressed . The special grand jury investigating subsversives has been serving since Dec. 15 , 1950 , under the foremanship of John Gilland Brunini , an editor and executive of the Park Avenue Association 01 New York . It " strongly " recommended that its successor be impaneled immediately to keep an eye an what it called " a concerted attempt on the part of many , both Communists and disloyal Americans aided by ' fellow travelers ' to conceal the truth from the American people . " Admitting that its consideration of the Amerasia case had been limited by lack of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half-truths " about the case that it said have been confusing the American public . It recommended that the Department of Justice issue a public statement giving the details of the handling of the case , with a complete description of all the documents , and the reasons for each step taken .                     