@@717883

txt Now that the Soviets have at long last agreed to a charter for an international atoms-for-peace agency , it would be well to remember that there are limitations and even some dangers implicit in this proposed institution . The original idea  --  President Eisenhower first suggested it two and a half years ago ? was twofold . Such an agency , it was hoped , might become an entering wedge to break the deadlock on nuclear disarmament ; as the nations pooled atomic materials for peaceful purposes they might put less of those materials into weapons . Meantime the agency could bring the benefits of the atom to the world faster . These are laudable objectives , of course . But it would be unrealistic to suppose that this International Atomic Energy Agency could exert any appreciable influence on disarmament any time soon . Significant disarmament measures can safely come only when the tensions which caused the arms race are significantly reduced . In this respect the agency can at best be a kind of symbol  --  a constant reminder of the promise of the atomic future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speeding industrial atomic development throughout the world , this will depend to some extent on how much the agency tries to do in practice . It may function primarily as an information clearing-house , for example , or it may actually operate as a bank to which atomic nations could contribute and from which have-not nations could withdraw . Either way there are risks , from the standpoint of accelerating atomic development . One risk is that a global group like this ? it will be a kind of vague adjunct to the United Nations  --  could be a precursor of international atomic control . That prospect seems unlikely in any near future , and certainly it can be guarded against . A more subtle and more realistic danger lies in the fact that this agency necessarily emphasizes the role of Government in atomic development . If it works at all , it seems inevitable that it will get a number of new nations into the atomic act on the basis of state enterprise . And this , as we know from the experience of our own country , will inhibit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasis on Government will give a lift to those in the United States who advocate continued and greater Government control of atomic industry . It could have the psYchological effect of decreasing the Government 's interest in unshackling the industrial atom . And in that event the cart would really be before the horse . What American industry needs in order to spread atomic knowledge and atomic benefits around the world is not an intergovernmental agency but freedom from the Governmental restrictions which now make it extraordinarily difficult to do atomic business abroad . We trust these dangers will not materialize and that the agency will fulfill the great expectations many seem to have for it . But the dangers should be kept in mind . It would be an unhappy irony if the symbol of a bright atomic future should become the stifler of atomic initiative .                     