@@718241

txt The implication of Mr. Bulganin 's message was that the Soviet Union would support the I United States in its effort to keep In the statute of the agency control powers adequate to guard against diversion of atomic materials to bomb manufacture . India Serves Notice In past months , during preliminary negotiations on the statute , Moscow has supported Washington on this issue . But India served notice Sept. 20 that it would wage a full-scale public battle against the prospective control powers , and there had been some anxiety lest the Soviet Union join India in the fight . On other agency issues , Moscow and New Delhi have cooperated closely . The Indian challenge to American leadership  --  a challenge which , if successful , might well mean defeat of the agency in the United States Senate  --  was flung down by Arthur S. Lall , chief Indian delegate . Mr , Lall said at a press conference that the kind of controls the United States has supported would put peaceful atomic progress into a " strait jacket " which would " stifle , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ India 's precise objection is to a provision of the draft statute which would give the agency 's board of governors power to " specify disposition " of atomic material " recovered or produced as a by-product " of a power reaction . One " disposition " the agency could make would be to " require that such . . . materials be deposited with the agency . " Mr. Lall appeared to be concerned lest the agency lake possession of the materials , though American officials stress this is not at all the American intention . The Indian delegate proposed that controls be applied during and after the reprocessing of byproducts , but not at an earlier stage . Plutonium produced as the byproduct of an atomic reaction must be reprocessed and purified before it can be used in bombs ; but controls which began at this stage would be much too susceptible of evasion in the American view . Charter Drafted The proposed statute , or charter , of the atomic agency was drafted by a 12-nation group in Washington last February and March . India , the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain uranium producers , made up the 12-nation group . The task of the present 81-nation conference is to make a final decision on the wording of the statute , and having done that , to open it for signature . The United States hopes the statute will be signed in an impressive ceremony , with a dedi catory speech by President Eisenhower . shortly after UN day ( Oct. 24 ) , the day the basic UN Charter itself came into effect in 1945 . In order to amend the present draft statute . India would have to muster a two-thirds majority of the present conference . This two-thirds rule is a new procedural device suggested by the United States . Present expectations are that if the United States plays its cards skillfully , the newest Indian revolt  --  the third in as many years  --  will fall far short of obtaining two-thirds support . Extensive lobbying has been done in private by the United States , and the ground has been well laid . The conference is the largest ever held under UN auspices and , some believe , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world history . If at the outset of the industrial revolution in the 18th century the world community had established an international organiiation to guide and control the mining and sale of coal , the design of steam generators , and the uses to which steel could be put , the whole pattern of 19th-and 20th-century history almost certainly would have been fundamentally altered . UN spotlight shines on " Mr. Atom " : Page 9.                     