@@720457

txt HAVANA , May 18 ? United States-owned sugar mills in Cuba will be stripped of their cane plantations under Premier Fidel Castro 's new agrarian reform law , which was approved by the-Cabinet last night and signed by President Manuel Urrutia Lleo . The law specifies that no cane plantation can be operated by a stock company unless every stockholder is a Cuban citizen . It also states that only citizens will be permitted to purchase land and that no foreigner can inherit land here . All the Cuban sugar mills , including those under United States ownership , have large areas of land on which - they cultivate cane in addition to that they buy from near-by planters . Some of the largest land holdings are those of the United Fruit Company in Oriente Province , where the company operates two large sugar mills , at Preston and Boston . The Cuban-American Sugar Company ' also has thousands of acres of land under cultivation for its Delicias and- Chaparra mills in , Oriente . All sugar mills are given ninety days to comply with the requirements of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be expropriated and their sugar quotas canceled ) unless they have met the requirement that all stock be owned by Cuban citizens unconnected with the mills . One thousand acres is set as the maximum amount of land that any person or company may own in Cuba . Land in excess of that amount will be expropriated and divided among the landless . Only cane and rice plantations and cattle ranches belonging to Cuban citizens are exempt from this clause . A large number of American landowners , like Arthur Vining // Davis of Florida , who bought thousands of acres in the southern part of the Isle of Pines , several years ago , face expropriation of their land under these provisions . Compensation for expropriated land will be in government bonds payable in thirty years at 4 per cent interest , the law states . The Valuation will be based on the tax value prior to Oct. 10 , 1958 . Observers note that the value set for most of the land ? in Cuba for tax purposes have long been kept at extremely low levels . Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the government to acquire land at prices far below its actual worth . Company Officials Shocked The new law caused consternation in the Americanowned sugar mills . Company Officials pored over the lengthy text and consulted with their ' lawyers throughout the day . No one had any comment pending " further study , " although one source said he believed the , law was " inoperable . " The loss of plantation land by the United States companies would greatly decrease the I value of their properties in Cuba and leave them without cane supplies under their control . The American sugar mills with the largest land holdings are A- tlantica del Golfo with 500,000 acres , the Rionda group with 500,000 the Cuban-American Sugar Company with 330 , - 000 and United Fruit with 296 , - 000 . The United States sugar mills in Cuba represent an investment of approximately 5275 , - 000,000 . They produce about 40 per cent of Cuba 's total sugar output . One source said that last year 100 acres of cane land was worth $160900 . Since the revolutionary government has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to $7,800 . Families to Get 66 Acres The law gives wide powers to the National Institute of Agrarian Reform , headed by Premier Castro , to decide which lands are to be expropriated and to help finance persons who receive land . Each landless family participating in the distribution program will receive sixty-six acres as well as Government financial help to develop the land . Land now owned by the Government will be the first to be distributed . The next will come from properties of more than 1,000 acres that are now being cultivated by tenants or squatters . These tenants and squatters will receive the area they . till up to sixty-six acres without cost , and may force the ? owner to sell them : additional land up to a total of 147 acres . About 200,000 families will receive land under this program according to Government calculations . This law , approved by the Cabinet at a meeting last night at La , Plata , Oriente Province , now becorhes a part of the fundamental law of the republic , under which Dr. Castro 's Revolutionary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The National Agrarian Reform Institute will advise the Government on taxes and import duties to be imposed as a means to protect domestic production . The Institute will also establish and organize , zones of colonization under the Agrarian reform program and , watch over agriculture associations . The colonization zones will have Government aid stations , whose functions will include renting farm machinery and equipment to farmers . Each zone will also have warehouses ; power plants , experimental farms , schools , recreation centers , hospitals and other facilities . Landowners will wbe given two years to achieve full production on their properties . If the land is not in full production at the end of this period , it will be up to the Agrarian Reform Institute to decide whether the property will be expropriated.                     