@@715762

txt In a strange battle , mainly behind the scenes , France 's European policy , centering in the pending European army treaty , has more than held its own , and the treaty 's advocates predicted tonight that it would be ratified by Parliament probably early next year . It was understood that a majority of the Cabinet , though doubtful about the treaty a fortnight ago , now believed it would pass Parliament . Premier Joseph Laniel in a speech today made the first public reference to the European army treaty that he had made since becoming , head of the Government . He said there was now hope for a satisfactory association of Britain with the army and that when talks on the Saar had ended the " Government will ask Parliament to put ratification of the treaty on its agenda . " The prediction of ratification was based upon the results of a showdown brought about by the enemies of the treaty and the reaction their attacks provoked . Some of the treaty 's supporters sized up the situation by saying it had not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so with accrued momentum . A Dramatic Set of Events The progress of the treaty within-the 1aVfOrtnight is attributable to a dramatic sequence of events , most of which took place in such secrecy that the French public is still unaware of them . The conflict over France 's role in Europe is being fought out by a relatively few men in positions of power or influence , the great debate being , one in which the public has taken no part and of which it has been little informed . But some of the results are ' plainly visible . . First , the instructions given by Foreign Minister Georges Bidault to French delegates to the Rome meeting on a European political authority , closely linked to . the European army plan , were changed to make them far more favorable to the principle of federal powers than they had been . Second , Guy Mollet , secretary general of the Socialist party , made a speech saying his party would vote for the European army ' treaty if there were a political community with real powers and if Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicated she might adopt . This statement was considered to have assured for the treaty sixty or more Socialist votes that had been in doubt . Third , ' speaking for the Foreign Ministry , Maurice Schumann at the United Nations in New York argued that the proposed European community for defense and other purposes was no threat to the Soviet Union and announced that France would be ready to discuss with Moscow additional guarantees of peace . This speech would hardly have been made if M. Bidault had not finally decided  --  as the result Of the great behind-the-scenes debate of the last fortnight  --  that the treaties for a European army and a political community would not after all be torpedoed in France : The background of the drama that began slightly more than a fortnight ago is found in the fact that ' three important , influences were working against the European army treaty : President Vincent Auriol , certain high officials in the Foreign Ministry and the Gaullists who form about one-third of the present Government . The spearhead of the active opposition was in the Foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to follow was to take the supranational powers out of the proposed treaty for a European political community . The Socialists and others had insistec  --  that the projected European army must be placed under a democratic and supranational political authority , so if this authority ? were neither democratic nor supranational it would be hard to get the European army past Parliament . Some consider that what the Foreign Ministry officials under- , took was a wrecking operation against the European army treaty . Such at any rate would have been the effect of its success . But it failed . It failed because the activities ' of high permanent officials of the Foreign Ministry do not always , remain so secret as their authors ' ( would wish . These officials began their attack on the political community by drafting a memorandum proposing a new draft treaty that would have left the community I without the supranational powers it would require to administer the existing Coal and Steel Pool and , the proposed European army . The memorandum also would have deprived the community of its democratic character by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European Assembly . Somebody put this memorandum into the hands of Henri Frenay of the European Federal Union , private organization working for European unity . M. Frenay had it published in a morning newspaper . Thereupon the " Europeans " in the Cabinet , - led . by Pierre-Henri Teitgen , Vice Premier , went into action . They demanded a special Cabinet meeting to ' decide what instructions to give to the delegation to Rome . Meanwhile M. Bidault , who had just retuned from vacation , repudiated the ideas of his Foreign Ministry officials . There ensued a struggle for several days between the " Europeans " and the Gaullists over European union on a federal basis . The result was inconclusive . But the instructions given by M. Bidault were very different from those proposed by his subordinates , and the great issue of France 's European policy had been put squarely before a divided Cabinet . The Cabinet nearly broke up over the instructions , on which it never agreed . It may break up when the time comes to debate the European army treaty in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formed for ratification of the treaty . News of the Cabinet split trickled out and stimulated the discussion of European union in the Council of Europe in Strasbourg , where M. Mollet made the speech that some consider changed the outlook for France 's European policy . Close observers of behind-thescenes politics contend this would not have happened had not the Foreign Ministry officials planned an attack on that policy that quickly backfired . Thus they may have served the policy they set out to defeat . If treaty is ratified it will not be because Parliament or French people like the European army plan  --  they dislike it  --  but because they favor moving toward European unity and see the proposed European army as a necessary step in that direction .                     