@@716768

txt Events swirling around the removal of President Guizado of Panama have only one clear interpretation at the moment . That is , that the National Guard , for a long time the power behind the throne in Panama . has lost none of its king-making authority . The National Assembly ordered the arrest and impeachment of President Guizado Jan. 15 . However , the guard had the President under house arrest before the Assembly acted . The action against the President is said to be based on a confession to the guard by a Panamanian lawyer of the Jan. 2 assassination of President Remon . The lawyer was said to have implicated Senor Guizado , according to the Associated Press . For many years . support of the 3,000-man National Guard has been essential to obtain or retain power in Panama . The late President RemOn had been head of the guard ( then called a police force ) and manipulated the executive power as he saw Arias Sworn In Ricardo Arias Espinosa . Second Vice-President and Foreign Minister . has been sworn in as President . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If the case against the confessed assassin stands up , this is expected to add a pacifying note to the activities of the country . Since the slaying . Panamanians have been uneasy and activities did not get back to normal entirely because of the rumors and apprehensions of further turmoil . But while the civil activities may normalize. the long-range political situation of the country may be in an unsettled state for some time . No man has come forward who can give the strong leadership Senor RemOn provided . A behind-the-scenes struggle for ultimate power is now on . In a special emergency session the national Assembly denied Senor Guizado 's request for a leave of absence pending investigation of the charges against him . Guizado Linked to Plot In what was termed his confession read to the Assembly , lawyer Ruben Miro who admitted personally shooting Senor Remen. charged that the plot  --  was-carried .. out-st , the , inigation and with the knowledge of Senor Guizado and the latter 's business partner , Rodolfo Saint Malo . It said Senor Guizado 's son , Jose Eamon , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Associated Press . The lawyer said no money was involved in the slaying . He said he had been promised a Cabinet job as his reward for the assassination . He admitted carrying out the killing alone and disclosed that the machine gun used in the shooting came from a Panamanian who formerly attended a terhnical school in Guatemala . Senor Miro said he had had several conferences with Senor Guizado in the latter 's office in the Foreign Ministry building prior to the slaying . He said Senor Guizado was aware of the plot but that he did not tell either Senor Guizado or Senor Saint Malo all the details . Other statements read to the Assembly would seem to bear out in some details at least the Miro confession . One by Senor Saint Male denied having discussed the a , ? ca ? cination with Seiior Miro but admitted that Senor Miro had told him in several meetings and conversations that a coup was being planned . Another by Edgardo Tejada admitted he smuggled the weapon into Panama and sold it to Sefior Miro in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , him early in December that the assassination of Senor Renabn was being ? planned . However , he said he did not report this to the authorities because he had no evidence against Seiler Miro , whereas the latter would be able ? to prove that Senor Tejada bad smuggled lir the gun . Earlier , suspicion in the slaying had been focused on former President ArnulfcrArias and his followers . The former President and many of his followers had been arrested and later most of them freed . Senor Arias , as far as is known , is still : under arrest                     