@@713238

txt Control of prices of raw materials by international agreement will be asked by France in coming talks in the United States , Premier Rene Pleven declared today in a speech outlining his Government 's pro . gram . " The price increases which have occurred in France up to the present have been exclusively the result of movements which took place on the raw materials market since the Korean aggressio .. , the Premier said . " This problem is in no way peculiar to France , and to be solved it should be tackled in a spirit of international cooperation . " This will be one of the first questions that the French Minister of Foreign Affairs will ask his colleagues to consider during the conferences to open in the United States in a few days . " M. Pleven was thinking chiefly of the increase in prices of wool , rubber , cotton and certain metals . But he also had in mind other raw materials that the French industry required , which might become scarce if wartime restrictions were expanded . The Premier said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imports and her domestic costs was one of the nation 's major economic problems . He added that although the " defense of our country has become a daily concern " since the Korean war , the workers ' well-being was of no less importance to countries that had suffered in World War II than it was to the underdeveloped areas of the world . Speaking at Saint Briecu in his native Brittany , the Premier held that monetary stability was " as absolutely essential for national defense as the development of war // materiel and effectives . " He regarded the protection of currency as an arm to be used by the Atlantic countries in their common fight against inflation . In a clear allusion to the Communists , M. Pleven said that " a certain propaganda " had been trying to use the rise in prices and the disorders caused in foreign markets by the Korean aggression to promote psychological reasons for the weakness , if not the internal collapse , of the democracies . Warning that the Government had acted and would act again to restrain a fifth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knows that along with fear , the greatest weapons of subversion are misery , injustice and untruth . Such enemies as these can not be fought with police , but rather by a policy of social justice . " Truman Parallel Noted French observers drew a parallel between M. Pleven 's speech and the one made Saturday by President Truman . They noted that the two had defined their economic aims in a struggle common to both countries . But where Mr. Truman had laid down what seemed to be an effective plan of action , M. Pleven was obliged to leave unclear the results he hoped to obtain . The French Premier talked of budget savings by dropping certain investments and cutting railway deficits . He spoke , too , of increasing production and holding down farm prices by importing from abroad . However , he did not conceal that France , to finance rearmament and to hold down her prices , depended to a great extent on " international cooperation " and the " material aid we expect from our allies . " He also warned the country of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pleven emphasized the " constructive propositions of the French Government with a view to organizing the North Atlantic defense under effective conditions and at the least cost . " " We must combat the argument by which certain persons contend that our rearming would attract the lightning instead of warding it off , " he said . " In fact , for the great powers of the world to embark on a war , which would be universal and of long duration , would be such a risky proceeding that it must be doubted if any sane man would think of it . In order to be tempting , an attack would have to be on isolated people , as on Ethiopia or Czechoslovakia , or else it would have to be directed against peoples incapable of Improving the social conditions of their workers . " France 's influence on peace ' will be enhanced by ' the energy and moral strength she shows in preparing her national defense , the Premier declared . On internal questions , . to which the bulk of his speech was devoted , M. Pleven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government majority against the present system of proportional representation in elections . He said that there was no complete accord yet on the system to be adopted , but indicated that whatever compromise was reached would have to be endorsed by the majority . The Premier also announced his intention of asking constitutional reforms dealing with the procedure of investing the Premier , dissolving Parliament and establishing a system of shuttling bills between the two Houses to enhance the effectiveness of the advisory Upper House . A committee is being formed to try to find a solution to the irksome conflict between the secular and religious education systems , he reported . 