@@719821

txt In the education report of the Rockefeller Fund there occurs the following : From time to time one still hears arguments over quantity versus quality education . Behind such arguments is the assumption that society can choose to educate a few people exceedingly well or to educate a great number of people somewhat less well , but that it can not do both . But a modern society can not choose to do one or the other . It has no choice but to do both . The report then continues in this wise : The eighteenth century philosophers who made equality a central term in our political vocabulary never meant to imply that men are equal in all respects . Nor do Americans today take such a view . It is possible to state in fairly simple terms the views concerning equality which would receive most widespread endorsement in our country today . The fundamental view is that in the final matters of human existence all men are equally worthy of our care and concern . Further , we believe that men should be equal in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They should , as the phrase goes , be equal before the law . But men are unequal in their native capacities and their motivations and therefore in their attainments . . Now in applying these thoughts specifically to our present school system the report may not go as far as it ought . In other respects the report accepts too easily the idea that more money , particularly Federal money , is the key to our educational problem , about which there is today so much controversy . Nevertheless , the Rockefeller Fund report has grasped the nettle that has so far frightened far too many people in discussing education . That nettle is the notion that educating Johnny differently from Jimmy is somehow undemocratic and therefore un-American . The notion expresses itself in manythe Nettle ways : Generally speaking it has been taboo to have different sections in grade school based on the self-evident fact that some children are brighter than others . To demand higher standards from the brighter pupils . To suggest not only different curricula for different students in high school but to - ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different students by giving some of them more intensive teaching . The same attitude pervades our thinking on higher education . A college degree is no longer an accolade of merit ; it 's something that ' everyone , regardless of differences in interest 9r capacity , is entitled to lest somebody be made " unequal . " The result is that any levelling must be downward instead of upward . Because the acknowledgement of anything else would promptly show up differences in people , the mediocre becomes the standard . The merit of the Rockefeller report , whatever exceptions one may take to it otherwise , is that it challenges this concept right out loud . It says all people are n't equal in intellect . It says all courses are n't equal in value . It says all teachers are n't equal in what they are worth to the community . It says , in short , that different people ought to be educated in different ways , in different degrees and to different standards . We are not so naive as to suppose that a frank recognition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acknowledged before by individual educators and , here and there , by local public school officials , and yet there is still a debate on how to treat these differences and even on what constitutes excellence in education . But we are quite sure that the prevalent attitude ? that it 's un-democratic to discriminate between Johnny and Jimmy ? is the root cause of the deterioration in our educational system . So it can not be repaired until that attitude is first banished . As a nation we need to be bold enough to grasp the nettle .                     