@@717977

txt Letters to The Times Letters to The Times the writer of the following letter , dramatist , essayist , - former teacher of philosophy and leading French exponent of existentialism , edits the magazine " Les Temps Modernes " in Paris . TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I learn that the American courts are soon to rule on an appeal for parole by Morton Sobell , now in Alcatraz under a thirty-year sentence passed in:May , 1951 , for having been an accomplice of the Rosenbergs in a " conspiracy to commit espionage . " Last May 8 Sobell also asked for a new trial . I em neither an . American nor a jurist . Were I either , it would still not be proper for me to attempt to influence the . decision of Judge Kaufman , who Must rule on these appeals as it was his duty , five years ago , to preside over the first Rosenberg-Sobell trial . But there is nothing in law or in international custom to prevent my communicating with you and informing you of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I am told by many Americans  --  that Sobell is innocent and that it would be a grave injustice to have him continue to be . penalized for a crime which he did not commit and for which proof has never been submitted . Opinion in Europe As you know , the Rosenberg case stirred up considerable feeling ? in Europe , where opinion for the last three years has been ? almost unanimous in regarding as unlikely that the Rosenbergs and Sobell committed the crime of which they were accused . It seems impossible to us that a small group , whatever their opinions and intentions , could have been able to " deliver to Russia the secret of the atomic bomb " and to " change the course of history to the detriment of their country . " It is our opinion that there is no atomic secret , that science develops everywhere in the same rhythm and that production of bombs is a matter of industrial potential . The most recent developments of Soviet science and technique serve only to reinforce that conviction . As an example I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research in the U. S. S. R. , Kourtehatov , published several weeks ago in Pravda , and which has caused some stir in Western scientific circles . Proof which was recently assembled precisely confirms this view . In view of the arguments and the documents that have been offered , it does not seem to me ? arguable , at least in the case of Morton Sobell , ? that the prosecution has had recourse , in order to force a conviction , to false evidence and false testimony and has violated not only American law , but international law as well . Presumption of Guilt Was it not asserted that . Morton Sobell and his family had gone to Mexico without visas , and had been expelled ? Was not this statement , in the absence of corroboration from a single witness produced against Sobell , a presumption of guilt of the first order ? Was there not , formal . proof that Sobell had requested ' and obtained a Mexican visa and that it had been confiscated on Mexican territory by . the American police , in violation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States and Mexico ? Was there not proof that the prosecution was entirely aware of these irregularities ? that major pieces of evidence were deliberately kept from the court and caused false statements to be made by witnesses deposing under oath ? It is always . difficult  --  and we French have learned this by experience  --  to obtain a new trial when the prestige of a nation is involved . But I know that you agree with me in thinking that when justice is at stake , considerations of prestige must not prevail . I do not want to believe that the United States could persist in error and dishonor when on the other side of what is happily less and less of an iron curtain other countries have under way reviews of past trials more dangerous and a good deal more painful for their national selfesteem . JEAN-PAUL SARTRE . Paris , June 10 , 1956. - TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Please permit me to comment on the two articles by Arthur Krock that appeared in The Times of June 7 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor Steven'son 's chances of being elected to the Presidency if nominated by the Democratic convention August next . Before proceeding further I should like to state that I am not a politician , I do not belong to any political party , hence have no personal axe to grind . I cast my vote for the man I deem most worthy of the public office whether of President , Governor , etc . I shall consider here only one aspect of the problem as advanced by Mr. Krock  --  namely , the defeat of Governor Stevenson by President Eisenhower with its causes , at the election in 1952 . It is unwarranted to claim that the defeat of Governor Stevenson in 1952 presents a firm indicium of his inability to arouse the electorate in his favor at the Presidential elections in 1956 . In my firm belief the defeat of the Democratic candidate in 1952 can be traced directly to the warlike policies of Mr. Truman and his adventure and so-called police action in Korea , which cost us the lives of 30,000 young men , plus 100,000 wounded . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accordingly against everything Democratic . The fact that President Eisenhower , in the course of his electioneering , promised to go to Korea to put an end to that war offers some , if not conclusive , proof ' ' Of this my assertion . Governor Stevenson is a man of peace and has repeatedly made his point crystal clear , contrary to the bellicose statements by Governor Harriman , his principal competitor for the nomination . The mental status of the American people , in my considered judgment , is today the same as it was four years ago , and a candidate with an honest peace program will have the best chance to land in the White House . The Republican politicians know this all too well and their deceptive slogans and catchwords during the election campaign will be " peace and prosperity . " Governor Stevenson is the best candidate , with true chances to win not only by reason of his peace philosophy but because of his ex ceptional intellectual ability , unmatched experience , moral honesty and charming personality . ROBERT J. STRATTON . New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europeans Reported Questioning Justice of Conviction who had their residence in its territory and had reached the age of 15 years were bound to obtain and carry the identity cards . These cards have the form of sizable booklets in which numerous personal and other data of the bearer are entered . On page 3 is the bearer 's personal description ( height , shape of face , color of.eyes , color of hair , shape of nose . and special distinguishing marks ) . Under this description there is the bearer 's right thumbprint . Did Comrade Khrushchev intend to claim that all Czechoslovakcitizens . who had to comply with the ? above-mentioned regulations and to submit to the fingerprinting were criminals ? PAVEL KORBEL . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial Recording for the Blind , Inc. , published June 7 , was most interesting to me , as the nature of their work is similar to ) what the Braille Department of the Women 's . Conference of the Society for Ethical Culture has been doing for many years . Our organization has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ binding Braille textbooks , novels and any other reading materials requested by blind students or individuals from the New York Public Library . In September of 1917 we started our soundscribing activities and now have five recording machines with many volunteers recording textbooks for students in colleges throughout this state and country , as well as recording for blind ministers , psychiatrists and any individuals needing our services . I am sure your public would be interested in knowing that a volunteer group , even though their activities are not national in scope in ' the sense that they have Units throughout the country , have been contributing these past many years a most valuable service to the blind entirely without charge .                     