@@718536

txt The Eisenhower - Dulles resolution on the Middle East is going to pass Congress . Almost certainly it is going to pass by a large majority . But its passage is not going to expunge the fact  --  which is low clearly out in the open  --  that a section of the Demo2ratic side has lost confidence . n Secretary of State John Foster Dulles and that things are not going to be as they used to be on Capitol Hill . What has happened congress ? Reason for Break Even in the 1956 presidential election criticisms were not thrown against Mr. Dulles so harsh as those that have come in the week 's Senate hearings . The vehicle for the break between the Democratic group and the administration was the short and relatively simple resolution upholding the so-called Eisenhower Doctrine . The administration goal presenting this was one which has been reached before , notably in the resolution in the Formosa crisis which was overwhelmingly adopted by Congress in a few days . It was designed to show national unity . The White House could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dulles that has come . Ultimate passage of the resolution will show the nation united on certain things , it appears , but it will show a big crack in the previous plate-glass window or congressional harmony on foreign affairs . Precipitated by Suez The Democrats attacking Mr. Dulles are not isolationists but some of the strongest internationalists in Congress , like Senator J. W. Fulbright ( D ) Arkansas , formerly Rhodes Scholar and one time president of the state university , Senator Hubert H. Humphrey ( D ) of Minnesota and others . Backing them in greater or lesser degree is a line of other Democrats , ranging from Majority Leader Lyndon B. Johnson ( D ) of Texas to Senator Richard B. Russell ( D ) of Georgia , chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee . Democratic coolness toward Mr. Dulles has been growing for some time . The Suez crisis precipitated , it though too late for full expression in the election . The questions pumped , at Mr. Dulles by Senator Humphrey Jan. 24 following the initial assault by Senator Fulbright raised even the question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Dulles varied his interpretation of international affairs to suit political exigencies and further that he had treated America 's allies , Britain and France , in a fashion that helped produce the Suez fiasco . Republicans sprang to Mr. Dulles ' defense on his fourth day 's testimony . Dulles ' Alanner Praised They took comfort , too , in the almost universal belief that for the sake of national unity the controversial resolution , in amended form , would pass . Senators George D. Aiken ( R ) of Vermont , and Prescott Bush ( R ) of Connecticut praised Mr. Dulles ' calmness under fierce attack . Senator Aiken accused some Democratic senators of a " con- certed effort to destroy " Mr. Dulles " personally and politically . " But this very defense , in a sense , make the crack in the plate-glass window more conspicuous . A statement by former President Truman largely expressed the Democratic feeling . It was a strong endorsement of quick congressional action to pass the resolution but at the same time a sharp criticism of the alleged lack of administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must go along , Mr. Truman said , if only to " fill the void " created in part by the administration . Congress must pass the resolution , the former President declared , even though it is " shrouded in vagueness ? a vagueness that extends to the geographical , military , economic , and diplomatic aspects of the requested authorization . " What really seems to gall the Democrats . as expressed off-the-record , is the suspicion that the administration is trying to shift responsibility for its own alleged " failure " in foreign policy to Congress . If the current resolution had not been Introduced , it now appears that the Democratic outbreak would have come just the same , though probably not so early . But the Democratic group looks at the resolution as a vote of confidence which the administration requests under patriotic compulsions that can not be resisted although lack of confidence in Mr. Dulles has visibly been growing . Arabs ' Viewpoint As the Arabs see it , the United States , the Soviet Union ; and the UN , by condemning the Israeli-Anglo-French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arab state , and made it almost impossible for Israel to attack the Arabs in the future . Many Arabs are believed to feel that the UN has thrown up a screen of security between the Arabs and Israel , behind which the Arabs can build up their threes for a possible assault upon Israel at some future time . Though realistic Arab leaders may not share this belief , it is a conviction which is catch ing hold at the popular level , and which may prove extremely difficult to shake . A third stumbling block in the way of a Mideast settlement is the right of Israel , as most observers see it , for free passage through the Gulf of Aqaba and the Suez Canal , and for freedom from fear that Gaza once again will become a base for Egyptian commandos . Israeli Ships Barred Since the 1948 Palestine war , Egypt has prevented Israeli ships from using the Suez Canal and from entering the Gulf of Aqaba , leading to Israel 's southern port of Eilat . Over the past year Gaza had become the headquarters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In view of this , Is-rael now refuses to evacuate its victorious troops from Sharm el-Sheikh , a point in southern Sinai commanding the entrance to the Gulf of Aqaba , unless UN soldiers take their place . Israel also claims it will continue to administer the conquered Gaza strip , preferably with UN cooperation . Egypt , backed up by the Soviet Union , the Afro-Asian bloc of nations , and so far by the . United States , demands that Israel unconditionally withdraw from Gaza and Sharm el-Sheikh , in accordance with UN resolutions . Complicating the situation is the second factor mentioned above ; namely , that the Arabs feel little compulsion to give Israel the guarantees of free passage and security which it demands . Deadline Reached This dilemma has reached a deadline , for UN Secretary General Dag Hammarslcjold reported to the General Assembly Jan. 25 that Israel " has not fully complied " with the UN 's demand that Israeli forces evacuate Gaza and Sharm el-Sheikh . President Nasser of Egypt was quoted by the Peking radio Jan. 24 as saying that any effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would lead to trouble . The Egyptian press continues to warn that Suez Canal clearance may be halted unless Israel withdraws immediately and unconditionally . In Damascus on Jan. 24 , Syrian Premier Sabri el-Assali declared his government 's " full determination with sister Arab countries to drive Israeli aggression out of Gaza and Sinai , " the Associated Press said . , Premier Supported ti Assail was seconded by Dr. Maroof Dawaliby , vice-chairman of the Syrian Parliament 's Foreign Affairs Committee , who said Arabs would not allow Middle East oil to reach Europe if Israel did not withdraw behind the 1949 Palestine armistice lines . Dr. Dawaliby referred to the fact that Syria has allowed no repair work to begin on Iraq Petroleum Company pipelines , sabotaged by Syrians after the British-French attack on Egypt . At the UN , Western delegations were striving to frame a resolution broadening the functions of the United Nations Emergency Force in Egypt . This would permit UN soldiers to occupy both Gaza and Sharm el-Sheikh pending Egyptian guarantees to Israel . Impasse Broadens it seemed clear that the Israeli Government would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least minimum Egyptian guarantees , backed by the UN . It was equally clear that Colonel Nasser was in no mood to compromise . Meanwhile , Egyptian newspapers in Cairo reported that Egypt has agreed to exchange 35 million dollars worth of cotton for Soviet steel , agricultural equipment , and some foreign exchange . Egypt has faced an acute foreign exchange shortage since Britain froze more than 280 million dollars of Egypt ' : sterling balances following nationalization of the Suez Cana : Company . The United States has frozen 40 million dollars it Egyptian balances .                     