@@716653

txt In a move which breaks the solid front of the so-called Watkins Committee for the first time , Senator Francis Case ( R ) of South Dakota has shifted his position toward one of the unanimously voted censure recommendations of the six-man committee . Senator Case made his announcement in a letter to the chairman . He said that he no longer would vote for the count against Senator McCarthy in connection with the Brig . Gen. Ralph E. Zwicker incident . He based his change on a letter from Army Secretary Robert T. Stevens to Senator Arthur V. Watkins ( R ) of Utah which was not made public . He presumably would still go along on the other count against Senator McCarthy , that he had improperly assailed the Senate subcommittee investigating the former 's finances . This move undoubtedly will give the pro-McCarthy bloc in the Senate more ammunition in its compromise move , although it is hard for observers here to see how this is possible following Senator Watkins confrontation and given the Wisconsin senator 's adamant stand toward any possible compromise move @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts to " compromise " the Senate censure motion by driving his attack deeper against Senator Watkins . In an action believed to be unprecedented Senator McCarthy , who is still chairman of the Senate permanent investigations subcommittee , summoned before him Senator Watkins , chairman of the six man Senate committee which unanimously voted a censure resolution . The move ostensibly was designed to elicit further information from Senator Watkins about the Peress case , but it seemed to fit into the larger McCarthy strategy of making an all-out , last-ditch defense by appealing over the Senate to the public on the thesis that the Communist Party seeks to destroy him . Senator McCarthy thus succeeded in putting , on the witness stand the spare , white-haired man who gaveled him into silence a few weeks ago in connection with the censure hearings . Compromise Move There were signs that desperate efforts at " compromise " were being made behind the scenes by some Republican senators who believe tile McCarthy hearings threaten to split the party . In an extraordinary dramatic confrontation scene under television lights with Senator McCarthy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairman , and Senator Watkins sitting at the other end as witness , the two went over some of the ground in the Peress case . Senator McCarthy implied that Senator Watkins had been " derelict in his duty " in failing to push the search as to who promoted Army dentist Irving Peress from captain to major although he pleaded the Fifth Amendment . Watkins Hits Back Senator Watkins , who spoke in a cool , judicial voice with overtones of emotion , replied that Senator McCarthy himself had the confidential Army list of 30 persons supplied by Army Secretary Robert T. Stevens as involved in the Peress promotion . Why did n't McCarthy investigate the matter himself , he demanded , Senator McCarthy assailed Senator Watkins for alleged lack of interest in the " secret masters of the military " who promoted Major Peress . Senator Watkins charged that Mr. McCarthy was jumping to conclusions , that actually it appeared that a " mistake " could have been made , and that Senator McCarthy never would be satisfied until he found " somebody who should be shot or hung @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Watkins was trying to make " a laughing matter " over " a secret matter " in the military covering up a conspiracy . Watkin 's Opinion Senator Watkins , who said he was serious and looked it , declared the reporters present and the cameras would show he was not " laughing . " He then counter attacked . Recalling that he is himself a member of the Senate Internal Security subcommittee , a parallel organization to the McCarthy committee , he declared that he would make a motion for the committee to interrogate the 30 men named by Mr. Stevens in the Peress case if Senator McCarthy did n't . Senator John L. McClellan ( D ) of Arkansas gave Senator Watkins moral support by saying he would second the motion . It was the Watkins ' contention that if Senator McCarthy proceeded in an orderly fashion , calling the 30 members into executive session and cooperating with them without preconceived notions , he could " easily " get the story of the Peress promotion . Senator Watkins implied that the promotion was more or less automatic anyway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supporters sought : Page 11.                     