@@713881

txt India finally is going to get some 2,000,000 tons of American grain to meet its famine-threatened conditions . This was assured  --  after months of bickering - ... and delay  --  by a House vote of 293 to 94 on a grain-to-India bill which duplicates the substance of a Senate bill passed a week earlier . There are differences between the House and Senate bills that need to be ironed out in joint conference , but no dispute over the proposal to lend India $190 , - 000,000 to buy 2.000,000 tons of United States grain . Gesture Value Lost This action . however , which two or three months earlier would have been acclaimed in India as a humanitarian measure and a gracious friendly gesture , has been so delayed , so hampered with amendments , and so surrounded with bitter emotional debate that it can not be expected to greatly impress the Indians . It unquestionably will contribute considerably to meeting the threat of famine in India , but it was taken too late and with the accompaniment of so much non-humanitarian oratory that its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largely lost . The principal point of difference between the House and Senate bills points up this bargaining aspect of the transaction . ECA Involved The Senate measure requires India to repay part of the loan with " substantial " amounts of wartime , strategic materiels such as manganese , jute , and art atomic mineral , monazite sand  --  on which India has an embargo . The House bill mentions no specific materials that India is to use to repay the loan , but puts the responsibility on the Economic Cooperation , - Administration , which is to arrange the terms of the loan with India , to do its best to get substantial quantities of strategic materials in return . While House and Senate conferees must , iron out this difference . it is the view of administration leaders in Congress that the House version will more nearly reflect the final wording of the measure . Repayment Key Issue The . House , however , in its bill failed to go along with the Senate which had approved using the interest from the loan to set up a scholarship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is to be a quid pro quo in conference , it is seen as centering on House approval of this Senate amendment and the Senate 's acceptance of the House wording on repayment in raw materials . The surprisingly large margin by which the House passed this grain-to-India measure does not reflect the heat and emotion of the accompanying debate . Opponents of the bill generally feel strongly that India 's actions in the UN , its apparent sympathy for the Communist regime in Peiping , and its failure to provide any soldiers for the UN military action in Korea debar it from getting United States aid .                     