@@714768

txt Held in line by a plea that something better might come out of conference , Fair Dealers in ' the House of Representatives supplied the votes late today to pass a controls bill that had been riddled in earlier voting by a Republican-Southern Democratic coalition . The extension of the Defense Production Act that Was passed 211 to 185 would : 9Wipe out all price controls after Monday on items not rationed or allocated . This would mean that the price of such items as food , fuel and most consumer and business goods would be free . Wages , however , would continue ' to be regulated for the next year . ( Ma all rent control after Sept. 30 , except in critical defense areas or in areas where local governing bodies asked continuance : In these instances , rent regulations would be continued to March 31 , 1953 . The measure would not extend authority to regulate consumer or real estate credit It also contained a request to the President to use the Taft-Hartley Act in the steel strike and a provision , opposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Clip its authority . . Record Vote Promised The ; measure now . goes to a Senate-House , - conference committee to reconcile differences , between it and the " version.passed by the Senate . The conferees will start meeting tomorrow morning . More than a score of Northern Democrats voted for the bill only upon the private assurance of Speaker ' Sam Rayburn that , when the conference report was returned to the House , there would be a record roll-call vote on the compromise measure . The understanding was that , unless the final bill was a substantial improvement over the House version , members who did not like it would be free to vote against it . On final passage today , 130 Democrats , eighty Republicans and one independent voted for the measure . In opposition were 115 Republicans and seventy Democrats . The blow was one of the heaviest handed by Congress to the President , who had sought strengthened controls . With present controls authority expiring at midnight Monday , he will have only a few hours to decide how to act on . the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate and the House . The many differences between the Senate and House bills , the haste with which the . conference must act and the possibility that its compromise might not meet Con. gressional approval added strength to sentiment for a stop-gap extension that would give time for greater deliberation . Senate Orders Fight A bitter struggle in the confer. , ence committee was indicated . when the Senate named conferees . Senator Burnet R. Maybank , Democrat of South Carolina - and chairman of the Senate Banking Committee , offered a motion ; quickly approved , directing Seri= ate representatives in the conference , to " disagree to everything that the House did . " The House bill would continue allocations authority , but With such drastic restrictions that United States participation in the International Materials Confer= ence , through which much scarce , defense-essential materials come to this country , would be impossible . The measure would reconstitute the Wage Stabilization Board so that a majority of its members would be public representatives , subject to Senate confirmation , rind the-board would be stripped of authority to intervene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executives , now under the Salary Stabilization . Board , would be put in the hand of the Bureau.of Internal Revenue , In scores of other less base ways , the House bill would whittle doWn existing authority to cope with inflation and the production needs of the defense effort . The Senate bill , superior from an Administration viewpoint , extends price , wage and rent controls eight months to Feb. 28 , while continuing priorities and allocations authority , production incentives and I the like , for a year to June 30 , 1953 , for a year to June 30 , 1953 . Before the final vote in the House this afternoon , six amend ' ments , all relaxing controls , were put to the test on record votes . Administration forces were defeated in every instance but one . Their one victory was meaningless . The single victory came when the amendment , put through yesterday by Representative Graham A. Barden , Democrat of North Carolina , to end all price-wage controls on July 31 , was defeated by a vote of 150 to 244 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 162 Democrats , eighty-one Republicans and one independent . For it were 114 Republicans and thirty-six Democrats . Before that , however , the House , firmly in the grip of a Republican-Southern Democratic coalition , had taken these actions : flApproved 210 to 182 an amendment by Representative Henry 0 , Talle , Republican of Iowa , providing that only materials that were rationed or allocated should be continued under controls . This amendment was put across by the votes of 154 Republicans and fiftysix Democrats The Government is not rationing anything now , and only a few scarce materials are being allocated . gAccepted , 256 to 138 , the amendment of Representative Wingate H. Lucas , Democrat of Texas , to reconstitute the Wage Board . One hundred seventy-seven Republicans , seventy-eight Democrats and one independent approved this amendment . gOave 228-to-164 approval to the amendment of Representative Howard W. Smith , Democrat of Virginia , to request President Truman to use the Taft-Hartley Act in the steel strike . One hundred forty-five Republicans , eighty-two Democrats and one independent supported the amendment . CApproved , 231 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican of Kansas , to guarantee each wholesaler and retailer his customary percentage mark-up. - It was after this series of set- , backs that Representative Brent ' Spence , Democrat of Kentucky and chairman of the Banking Committee , scored the victory . Even that failed to reverse the tide , for the House subsequently approved by vote of 226 to 169 an amendment by Representative W. M. Wheeler , Democrat of Georgia , to restrict sharply the extension of rent control . Bad as ? they considered many amendments , Administration spokesmen were- worried most about the Talle amendment . Ellis G. Arnall , Price Stabilization Director , in testimony released today , told the House Appropriation Committee that : " The Talle amendment " will confine price-wage control authority to materials under allocation or rationing . " Thus ? * it would end price control on all foods , all other consumer goods , all ' fuel , all building materials , all things farmers buy , and most things most business men buy . " It would leave price control only on steel , copper , aluminum , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of chemicals , and a few other materials . " Debate during the day was limited , for the members , who had been sitting as a Committee of the Whole , went back into usual House session for final record voting . Representative Jesse P. Wolcott of Michigan , ranking Republican member of the Banking Committee , had opportunity at one point , however , to . urge the House membership not to be " frightened " in record voting from taking positions against the continuance of present controls . He said that , If prices did go up , it would be the result of a deliberate effort by the Administration " to put this House and this Congress in the embarrassing position for not having gone along with its price control program . " Administration forces made no attempt to upset the amendment to the bill forcing the United States out of the International Materials Conference . The amendment was approved in the Committee of the Whole last week by a vote of 169 to 102 and the temper of the House was such today that the result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approval to a new Wage Stabilization Board with limited powers , coalition forces struck another blow at the White House because of the way the steel strike situation has been handled . The present Wage Board , called upon to make findings in the steel dispute , obtained ninety-nine days of continued production while it deliberated , then presented recommendations , unacceptable to management , that included the union shop , in addition to a 26-cent wage package . The Lucas amendment provides that the board , upon which labor , management and the public are now equally represented , shall in the future have a majority of public members , all subject to Senate confirmation . It would have no jurisdiction in wage disputes . The . Senate bill , which also would curtail the board 's authority , retains tripartite . composition but makes all members subject to Senate confirmation , It pez'mits the board to act in wage disputes only where labor and management agree .                     