@@713228

txt The United States has lit the fuse of a substantial charge of diplomatic dynamite by disclosing here that a Russian-marked bomber has been shot down by United Nations forces in KOrea . In an official communication to top UN officials , the United States pointed a finger directly at Soviet Russia and for the first time linked its fighting men to the North Korean war effort . It is known that this action would not have been taken if the provocation had not been considered very great . Previously , every effort has been made to tiptoe over the subject  --  lest Russia be provoked into large-scale intervention . Message to UN The American disclosure took the form of a message to Secretary-General Trygve Lie and Sir Gladwyn Jebb , chief British delepate and September president of the United Nations Security Council . The council met Sept. 5 to receive official notification from the United States delegate , Warren R. Austin , and to discuss the incident . Reaction from the chief Soviet delegate , Yakov Malik , was awaited with intense interest . " On Sept. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations naval forces were operating off the west coast of Korea at approximately the 38th parallel " on behalf of the Security Council . " At 1329 o'clock ( 1:29 p.m . ) Korean time ( 12:29 a.m. e.s.t. ) , a twin-engined bomber identified only by bearing a red star passed over a screening ship and continued toward the center of the United Nations formation in a hostile manner . " The bomber opened fire upon a United Nations fighter patrol which returned its fire and shot it down . " Crewman Identified The message added that a UN destroyer picked up " the body of one member of the bomber crew " and that papers found on him identified him as Lt. Mishin Tennadii Vasilebiu " of the armed forces of the U.S.S.R. , serial number 2,504 . " This was all the information given in the American message . The plane was not definitely named as Russian . It was stated only that it bore a red star and included one Russian airman in its crew . There was no mention of any survivors . The short @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sept. 5 shortly after midnight by Ernest R. Gross , Mr. Austin 's deputy on the United States delegation . Mr. Gross was the man who notified Mr. Lie of the outbreak of fighting in Korea on June 25 . Rapid Repercussions Diplomatic repercussions here at Lake Success were immediate . UN diplomats speculated that the United , States must have been deeply concerned over the extent of Russian involvement in Korea or it would not have made the incident public . Other previous incidents , less serious but pointing toward increasing Soviet aid to North Korea , have been discussed privately here . The tone of American diplomacy in the Security Council has stiffened ' noticeably in recent weeks . From a policy of oblique references to " international communism " it has developed to the point of naming Russia as the " influence " which could bring the fighting in Korea to an end if it chose . A report from Gen. Douglas , UN commander , pinpointing evidence of Soviet aid to North Korea has been expected for at least a fortnight . American delegation sources , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring it strongly to the attention of the Security Council on Sept. 5 but would not ask for any specific action by the UN at this time . Resolution Pends A United States resolution already is pending before the council which would call upon " all states " to refrain from assisting or encouraging the North Korean authorities and to " refrain from action which might lead to the spread of the Korean conflict . " Mr. Austin is expected to press for passage of this resolution , citing the newest incident as evidence of its urgency . , Russia thus is expected to find itself in a difficult position . To veto the resolution might be to imply guilt ; but to allow it to pass , would be to commit Russia satellite armies and  --  according to still another portion of the resolution  --  to use it " influence to prevail upon the authorities of North Korea " to " cease " their " defiance " of the United Nations . Mr. Malik 's strategy is expected to be one of attempted postponement , or delay in some form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the United States and South Korea are the aggressors and North Korea the " victim . " Under these assumptions , aid to North Korea would not be blameworthy . His reaction in the Sept. 5 council session was expected to indicate just how far Russia is prepared to go in conflict with the UN majority .                     