@@714551

txt Armistice prospects in Korea have brightened once again with negotiators reaching agreement on the controversial ports-ofentry question . After months of disagreement , the Communists on March 20 accepted the compromise plan put forward by Allied staff officers . Ports of entry  --  places through which each side will bring troops and supplies into Korea under neutral supervision after the armistice is signed ? are Sirfuiju , Sinanju , Manpojin , Chongjin , and Hungnam in North Korea and Pusan , Taegu , Inchon , IN angnung , and Kunsan in South Korea . Three Issues Undecided Agreement on this question leaves three outstanding issues which still must be resolved . These are the Communists ' nomination of Russia as a member of the neutral supervising team , the United Nations insistence that both sides cease building airfields , and the long-debated question of whether war prisoners should be free to decide whether they wish to be repatriated . In the matter of ports of entry , it still remains to be decided how large an area in each case will be open to neutral inspection teams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting . An Allied spokesman said he did not think the question of area will cause much difficulty . To Include Airfields Under the UN plan , each port named will include airfields and docking facilities in an immediate area . Inchon , therefore , would include Kimpo Airfield and railheads in Seoul . According to the plan now adopted , neutral observers would not have access to FTongyang , North Korean capital , as the Communists objected to Chinnampo , Pyongyang 's port , being named . Little process has been reported in discussions about prisonerof-war repatriation which are being held concurrently . At the latest meeting , the Communists continued to insist all their prisoners must be sent back to North Korea whatever their feelings in the matter . Peking Radio Blasts UN Meanwhile , as the Korean front remained relatively quiet , Chinese ? Communitts maintained their furious propaganda campaign , charging that the UN has resorted to germ warfare in Korea . A considerable portion of all recent Peking broadcasts has been given over to such propaganda . Rejecting United States proposals that the International Red Cross @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent Peking broadcast asserted in typical vein that the international relief organization has " become the tool of American imperialism . "                     