@@718785

txt Democratic legislative leaders yesterday endorsed a Republican proposal that the legislative watchdog committee be furnished with a means for loosening the tongue of Harry Lanza . He is a younger brother of Joseph ( Socks ) Lanza . The committee has been thwarted in its efforts to get Harry to disclose the political maneuvering that preceded the dismissal of parole violation charges against Socks by a oraini ? that his answers would incriminate him . Governor Harriman disclosed in Syracuse that Democratic leaders had joined Republicans in proposing that the committee be empowered at a special session of the Legislature to grant Harry immunity from criminal prosecution for his answers , Mr. Harriman said he was considering the proposal but would not make any " snap decision . " Telegram Sent to Governor The Democratic endorsement of the Republican plan for getting Harry to talk was contained in a telegram sent to Mr. Harriman by Senator Joseph Zaretzki of Manhattan and Assemblyman Eugene F. Hannigan. of Brooklyn , the minority leaders of the Legislature . Earlier yesterday the watchdog committee unanimously adopted a resolution instructing Arnold Bauman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harry . As a witness at open hearings the committee has been conducting since Monday , Harry had claimed the privilege against self-incrimination more than 100 times in refusing to answer Mr. Bauman 's questions . The hearings have been taking place in the Bar Association Building , 42 West Forty-fourth Street . At yesterday 's committee sessions , Israel Greenspan , a senior parole officer , testified that the Lanzas seemed to have a pipeline into the State Division of Parole . On one occasion , he recalled , lie remarked to his associates that " this fellow seems  --  to know what we are doing before we do it practically . " De Saplo Is Mentioned It also came to light yesterday that the committee had passed over , apparently deliberately , an opportunity to bring the name of Carmine G. De Sapio , leader of Tammany Hall and Governor Harriman 's Secretary of State , into the open hearings . Abe Simon , a parole officer , had testified at a private session of the committee in Albany last month that Joseph Lanza had referred to Mr. De @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is a vulgarization of the Italian word " compare , " meaning , literally , godfather , but used most frequently'to mean a close family friend . Mr. Simon was not asked about this incident during his testimony , although he was questioned extensively by Mr. Bauman and Republican and Democratic members of the committee about other phases of his private testimony . Asked about Lanza 's use of the phrase yesterday , Mr. De Sapi ' said he knew Lanza only casually as he knew thousands of other people in New . York , He said he had not ' seen Lanza for more than a dozen years ? going back before the time Lanza Was sent to prison for extortion ? and knew nothing about his release until he read it in the newspapers . Apparently the committee took the position that Lanza 's description of Mr. De Sapio , without evidence of some connection between the two , was insufficient to inject his name into the inquiry at this time . In another development Wet . ed to the Lanza case , Arthur L. Reuter , Acting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the identity of some of the persons who had been cryptically referred to by Lanza or his visitors at the Westchester County Jail . This was while Lanza was awaiting a hearing on parole violation charges . Unknown to the principals , these conversations were secretly recorded by electronic devices while the talks were taking place . Three taped recordings of the conversations have since come into the possession of the Division of Parole . Copies have been furnished to the watchdog committee and to Mr. Reuter . Mr. Reuter said some of the persons mentioned were political figures but he refused to disclose their identities . The Commissioner ? has been conducting a parallel inquiry to ascertain if Lanza 's first release as a parole violator was the result of a political fix . Commissioner Reuter said he was convinced that the tapes had been tampered with and that he knew who had altered them . But he declined to give any identification . Several witnesses were questioned by Mr. Reuter yesterday in the hope of learning the whereabouts of a fourth tape , made on Feb. 20 , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other witnesses to his office at 270 , Broadway today . Mr. Greenspan was the principal witness before the watchdog committee yesterday . But his testimony was interrupted to permit the reading into the record of testimony given by Mrs. Ellen Lanza , wife of the former Fulton Fish Market " czar " at an earlier private session . Committee investigators have been unable to locate Mrs. Lanza to subpoena her for the public sessions . During her questioning Mrs. Lanza invoked either the privilege against self-incrimination or the privilege of confidential communication between husband and wife , or both , on thirtyseven separate occasions to refuse answers to questions put to her . Her questioning brought into the record references to several persons who have not figured in the case to date and also references to others whom the committee has been trying to identify . New figures were " Mack " or ' , ' Mac , " " Annette , " " Michaels " " Bernie , " " Lew , " " Sandy " and " Lew Berg . " Others she was questioned about included " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Federal agents as the dean of narcotics smugglers , " T. F. of Buffalo , " " Harry , " Frank Erickson , presumably the gambler , " Frank " and " Jerome . " Mrs. Lanza refused to supply identification for any of them . She conceded that P. Vincent Viggiano , also known as Duke Viggiano , a Tammany leader of the Second Assembly District , was her brother-in-law . In his testimony , Mr. Greenspan corroborated the statements of subordinate parole officers that the procedure followed in the Lanza. case on the date the charges against him were dismissed " unusual . ' The thirteen-page complaint against Lanza was transmitted to the executive offices of the Parole Division a page at a time as it was transcribed by stenographers from dictating machine disks . Mr. Greenspan endorsed the findings on the final page without reading all the pages , although he was generally familiar with their contents . - Normally , he testified , he would submit an analysis of the complaint , with his own comments , on a separate page that would be attached to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The committee showed a lively interest in testimony by Mr. Greenspan that he had been instructed by a ' superior to speed up the complaint and report at 11 A. M. of Feb. 19 . He identified the superior as Joseph Pincus , a supervising parole officer . The report was finally completed about 4:30 P. M. that day .                     