@@716316

txt The still fluid conference at Geneva may lead to a military collapse and forces evacuation of the French troops from Indo-China . It may lead to an extension of the war and the involvement of countries which are not now involved in the hostilities . Apparently the most that is expected , in the event that an agreement is reached , is a partition of the country along some line that has not yet been drawn . Should any such arrangement be worked out , it would be one more example of an act of unnatural partition , accepted as preferable to a continuation or extension of war . Dreamy visionaries during the last war foresaw the coming of a " one world " situation , with " Internationalization under the United Nations " as the political wonder drug for every difficult situation . How grimly different the reality has been . The world is split more sharply than it has ever been in the past by the iron curtain which every Communist state automatically lowers around its frontiers . The Soviet Union itself has become far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passengers at Shanghai ; the beauties of the old Chinese capital , Peiping , are as shut off from foreign view to few handpicked " delegations " of foreign Communists and dupes excepted ) as they were in the days of Marco Polo . Natural Units Vivisected More than that , countries which are natural units have been vivisected . The judgment which King , Solomon pronounced in order to learn which of two claimants of a child was the genuine mother has been executed on one of Europe 's great capitals . Berlin . and on the hist6ric city , sacred to three religions , Jerusalem . It is only a stone 's throw from a free enterprise society in Weat.Berlin to a Communist society in East Berlin . It is almost impossible to pass through the barbedwire barriers which separate New Jerusalem , the capital of the state of Israel . from Old Jerusalem , won by the Arab Legion during the war and held by the state of Jordan . Korea is another example of a country hacked into two parts along an arbitrary line of demarcation created @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are symbols of postwar disputes for which no agreed solution has yet been found . Much the most serious of these surgical operations on the living bodies of peoples Is the division of Germany There is no historic , ethnic , economic or other pistil , - ration for , the present frontier between the Western Zones and the Soviet Zone in Germany It is a demarcation line traced on a map and based on a guess , and an inaccurate guess , as to where the allied and Soviet armies would meet at the end of the war . One of the many Santa Claus acts of the United States government was the withdrawal of American troops to this line of demarcation , in spite of the fact that the Soviet ' government had already clearly violated its promises to assure " free unfettered elections " in Poland . The people in the Soviet Zone of Germany were no more inclined toward Communism before the war than the people in the German Federal Republic . Now , as the spontaneous revolt last June showed , they are probably still more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the squalor , drabness and general poverty of Soviet Communist rule with the booming propperity across the zonal border . However , they are helpless so long as picked Communist special police units are supported by large well equipped Soviet occupation forces . German Deadlock The Berlin conference , held early this year , showed no way out of the deadlock which has existed : or years , with the Western powers insisting on free elections as the basis of German unification and the Soviet government holding out for voting along lines familiar behind the Iron Curtain . An explosive element in the German situation is furnished by some nine million Germans and people of German stock , driven from their homes in the German provinces east of the present German-Polish frontier ; in the Sudetenland area of Czechoslovakia and elsewhere . These refugees have their own political party . They have their newspaper ' , their meetings , their organizations . Some of them by this time have become more or less resigned to living in West Germany . But many look forward eagerly to some miracle that will bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Sudetenland . In Korea , as in Germany , partition was not the result of any separatist feeling on the two sides of the 38th parallel . It was Imposed as a provisional solution after the war . The attempt of the North Koreans , . with Soviet and Chinese support , to conquer the whole country was defeated ; but General 's march to the Yalu. northern boundary of Korea , also ended in defeat . The division of the city of Jerusalem is the most dramatic expression of the failure of all dreams of Jewish-Arab coexistence in Palestine . ' And . as the frequent reports of killings and reprisals show , the whole eastern border of Israel with Jordan and Syria is an inflamed trouble spot . One reason is that hi some cases the border . which is a military demarcation line , cute of Arabs on the Jordan side of the boundary from their former land on the Israel side There has not been enough mutual trust and goodwill to permit a reasonable straightening nut of the pockets in this more or less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partition , of which Indo-China may be the latest example , is justified in terms of morals , politics or economics . All create much hardship and suffering . They have been grudgingly accepted because the alternative , at the present time . seems to be something worse , new outbreaks of war . Their permanence is doubted . This frequent resort to carving up of historic national =Ms is a realistic commentary on the " brave new world " which some shallow optimists imagined as emerging from the late war .                     