@@720530

txt Andrei A. Gromyko xept the foreign ministers ' conference dangling today . Apparently he was still awaiting instructions from Moscow on how to answer the Western powers ' final proposals for a settlement of the Berlin question . The Soviet Foreign Minister sought and received a twentyfour-hour postponement of the restricted session that was to have been held this afternoon at the Russian villa . He indicated that he would be ready tomorrow . His request was made at the outset of a luncheon given for the Russians by Selwyn Lloyd . British Foreign Secretary . It coincided with the arrival of Secretary of State Christian A. Herter 's plane from the United States . Western Delegates Gloomy An American spokesman said " no inference of immediate departure " should be drawn from the plane 's arrival . But the gloom evident among the United States and British delegates indicated that Mr. Gromyko had all but dashed their hopes by his remarks at the luncheon about the Western proposals . British sources said the luncheon " went badly . " After Mr. Lloyd had given an account @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " no change in the current situation . " A betting man could get a wager from almost anyone in the Western delegations that the conference would break lip by Monday at the latest without agreement . Month 's Recess Envisaged But there was some expectation among the Western delegation that Mr. Gromyko would agree to an adjournrent of the conference for possibly a month if the deadlock were not broken soon . French sources said the idea of an adjournment had been mentioned to Mr. Gromyko and he had neither accepted nor rejected it . Communist sources professed amazement at the gloom evident in the Western camp tonight . These Communist sources said the delay in responding indicated that Moscow was giving " serious study " to the Western proposals . However , Mr. Gromyko found nothing pleasant to say about them during his luncheon with // Mr. Lloyd , according to the British sources . The Soviet Minister went through the proposals almost point by point and said he disliked them all , these sources added . When Mr. Gromyko had finished his indictment , Mr. Lloyd asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proposals . The Soviet minister hastened to say that it should not . Mr. Gromyko said he did not think he could be ready with his formal answer for a meeting tomorrow morning , as Mr. Lloyd requested after having his staff telephone Mr. Gromyko 's request for postponement to ' Secretary Herter . But the Soviet Minister agreed to move up the time of tomorrow afternoon 's session by one and a half hours , from 3:30 to 2 P.M. The heart of the proposals is an offer of Western concessions in exchange for a Soviet guarantee of " unrestricted access " to Berlin until Germany 's reunification or until the agreement is modified by common consent of the United States , Britain , France and the Soviet Union . In return for this guarantee the West would undertake the following : 9It would not increase the size of the present 11,000-man garrison in West Berlin and possibly reduce it . gIt would arm the West Berlin garrison only with conventional weapons . tilt would recognize the East German Communists as Soviet agents in the control of all traffic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other activity directed from West Berlin against the Communist camp . Concession Omitted The most important concession does not appear in print at all . The document the Allies have proposed as a four-power declaration to be issued by the conference would make no mention of the West 's rights to maintain forces in West Berlin . This was omitted to meet Soviet objections to underwriting a continued Allied occupation of the city . But despite the , omission , Mr. Gromyko said yesterday that the proposals " still smelled of the Occupation Statute , " according to British sources . In addition to the guarantee on access , the Russians would undertake to state that they do not intend to maintain forces in Berlin ; to reciprocate on a reduction of espionage , propaganda or other activity against the West directed from East Berlin , and to maintain freedom of movement between East and West Berlin . Power to Harass Conceded An authoritative Western source described the formulation in the document presented , to Mr. Gromyko Tuesday night as a " good one , one the Russians should have no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an agreement . " This source recognized that the East Germans , and through them the Russians , would always have it in their power to harass the West 's efforts to maintain its links with West Berlin . The city is surrounded by East German territory and is 100 miles from the West German border . The source conceded that there were differences of opinion between Britain and the United States on the wisdom of going to a meeting of heads of government under existing circumstances . But , he added , agreement among the three Western powers was reached quickly on the Berlin proposals .                     