@@718986

txt With the Senate immobilized by the civil rights issue , Congress has cast aside a sizable part of President Eisenhower 's legisla ? tive program for this session . But the drive for a showdown on the President 's civil rights proposals is playing only an incidental role in determining the fate of Administration bills that will still be pending when Congress adjourns . Most of these bills already were on the casualty list and could have been revived only by extraordinary efforts . While such efforts may have been discour ? aged by the civil rights struggle , it is doubtful that they would have been undertaken in any event . Some of the pending legislation will go over into the second session of the Eighty-Fifth Congress , which convenes next January , with fair-to-good prospects of enactment . Bills held over do not have to stait out afresh in the legislative machinery . If passed by the House of Representatives in the first session , for instance , they do not have to return to the House . Aid to Schools Doubtful Probable casualties of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid to school construction , higher postal rates and United States participation In the Organization for Trade Cooperation . The proposed O.T.C. would be an administrative body for the international General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade . Also probably shelved are bills to broaden coverage of the Federal minimum wage law , provide Federal aid to chronically depressed communities , extend statehood to Hawaii and Alaska , and fix procedure for relieving . a disabled President of his duties . House leaders plan to bring the school construction bill to the floor shortly , despite the probability that it will be voted down . The Senate had not planned to act at this session in any event . Alaska Bill Stalled The postal rate bill is also ready for House action , but it may not get clearance from the Rules Committee , the chief regulator of the calendar of floor business in that body . Hope for Senate action was abandoned some time ago . The Alaska statehood bill likewise awaits House Rules Committee clearance but has faced the prospect of Senate inaction from the start . The bills to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Organization for Trade Cooperation , aid to depressed communities and Presidential disability procedures // are bottled up in legislative committees .. In all of these fields , partisan politics has played a secondary role - to regional , economic and ideological factors . that cut across party lines . Consequently few major campaign issues have been created for the Congressional elections next year . - The Republicans , uniting against a divided Democratic party , are counting on the fight for a " minimum meaningful " civil rights program , win or lose , to give them one of their biggest campaign assets in 1958 and in the 1960 Presidential election as well . But a projected move by moderate Democrats to work out a compromise , if successful , could impair its effectiveness . Since early in the session , the Democrats have been casting about for new partisan issues with some success . They took advantage of opposition throughout the country to the record peacetime budget tliat President Eisenhower submitted in January . They apparently made political capital in a much-publicized " economy " drive that promises to produce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Administration 's " tight money " policy has been subjected to increasing Democratic attack since the abatement in recent weeks of the budget-cutting effort . With a continuing broad financial and monetary investigation by the Senate Finance Committee as the forum , this also promises to pay campaign dividends . Protest on Farm Policy Simultaneously , the Democrats have kept alive the issue of public vs. private power by steering through the Senate a bill for a Federal high darn in Hells Canyon of the Snake River on the Idaho-Oregon border . This is opposed by the Administration . Although the bill faces inaction in the House , the aim of dramatizing the dispute as a party issue has been accomplished . The Democrats also have staged demonstrations against the Administration 's farm policies , notably . in House rejection of its soil bank program . The House subsequently bowed to the Senate 's insistence on keeping the bank in business for another year . Under the soil bank , farmers are paid to remove surpluscrop land from production . The House gesture showed that the once-powerful coalition of Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into warring Democratic and Republican camps . Since regional farmer interests also are at stake , however , it is uncertain which party stands to gain or lose more by ect at Niagara Falls . The House is expected to pass it in the meantime . CA compromise bill by Senator John F. Kennedy , Democrat of Massachusetts , to ease restrictions on the admission of refugees and regular immigrants . 11A bill to curtail access by defendants in criminal cases to confidential records of the Federal Bureau of Investigation . This measure stemmed from recent Supreme Court decisions granting a defendant access to statements taken by the F. B. I. from witnesses in the case . Natural Gas Bill Pending A bill to ease Federal . control of natural gas prices charged by producers is awaiting House action , but is not scheduled for Senate consideration until next year . It is supported by President Eisenhower . The Administration , backed by Republican legislators , is ' fighting to continue its policy of relying primarily on private industry to develop atomic power . Democrats are preparing to renew their challenge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produce results . Senate Still to Act The atomic power bill is among a number of measures that the Senate must dispose of before adjournment , once the civil rights battle has ended . ? Of other bills on the agenda , several may be sandwiched between the current preliminary , and the main round of the civil rights struggle . The rest will be considered . in the adjournment rush after disposal of the civil ' rights issue . The Senate bills include : ( The final version of the Mu- , tual Security authorization . The Senate has passed the bill , but must approve a compromise to be worked out by Senate-House conferees after House action . ( Wive appropriations bills , including those providing funds for the Mutual Security program , Defense Department and Atomic Energy Commission . 11A bill to authorize a license for the New York State Power Authority to build and operate a $600,000,000 hydroelectric proj                     