@@715074

txt CABINET DESIGNEES VOICE TAX CUT HOPE Humphrey Says It Depends on Lower Outlay  --  Weeks Would End Excess Profits Levy By LEO EGAN George M. Humphrey and Sinclair Weeks , . Secretaries-designate of the Treasury and of Commerce , respectively , in the Cabinet of Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower , the President-elect , voiced a hope yesterday that the incoming Administration could make an early reduction in Federal taxes . Mr. Humphrey , a Cleveland industrialist , emphasized on a visit to General Eisenhower 's headquarters in the Commodore Hotel , that any tax cut would depend on reducing Federal expenditures . " I hope we can do both , " he added . Pleading that he needed time to familiarize himself with his new job , Mr. Humphrey declined to go into detail at this time as to what expenditures or taxes could be reduced in his opinion . Weeks ' Views on Taxes Mr. Weeks , an earlier visitor to Eisenhower headquarters yesterday , declared himself in favor of eliminating the excess-profits tax on business enterprises if this were feasible . If the tax could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rates should be reduced . Unless renewed by the incoming Congress , this tax will expire automatically next June 30 . " I am for eliminating the excessprofits tax unless , in developing a comprehensive , over-all tax program , it becomes clear that it is needed ; the rates ought to be dropped in any event , " Mr. Weeks said . He added that removal of the tax would result in creating more jobs and more things to buy and sell by providing business with money " to plow back in experimentation and devolpmerit . " In response to questions , both // men expressed the conviction that business prosperity would continue during the new Administration even if armament expenditures were reduced . Mr. Humphrey said he was " no soothsayer about short-term affairs " but that he was highly optimistic about the future of the country in view of the " sound views " of those picked for the Eisenhower Administration thus far . Mr. Weeks , describing himself as an optimist , said he was confident that prosperity would increase because of general confidence that under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not a hard taskmaster . " New developments in industry , new products and other factors will enable industry to pick up any Slack resulting from any armament cuts , the Secretary of Commerce-designate added . One of his own businesses , the United Carr Fastener Company , he said , could greatly increase its output of civilian products if ' it could get needed materials . It makes fasteners for clothing . ? Both Dropping Business Ties Both prospective Cabinet officers said they were severing all their private business connections preparatory to joining the Eisenhower Administration . Mr. Humphrey left for Labrador , where his main business enterprise , the M. A. Hanna CornIpany of Cleveland , is participating in the development of new iron ore sources . He said he expected to devote a good part of his time before inauguration to winding up his business affairs . Mr. Weeks said he would resign as Republican national committeeman for Maassachusetts as well as sever his business connections . Mr. Weeks declared himself " generally in sympathy " with the Reciprocal Trades Agreement program started under the late President Franklin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ib the last Congressional extension of the law giving the President power to make such agreements . But he added that he wanted another look at it before he decided to recommend a further extension before the act expires next year . Agreements negotiated under the act , he went on , have not had a fair trial because of the disrup tions to world commerce caused by World War II . The prospective Commerce Secretary also declined to take any specific position on continuing the Point Four program started by President Truman to help underdeveloped countries improve living standards . Prefers Private Financing " I would much perfer to see pri-1 vate funds flowing abroad rather than Government funds , " he volunteered . " The Government should ) see they have a fair chance and they should be protected as to prin-1 principal at least . " In a formal statement , Mr. Weeks noted that " obviously I shall make no specific forecast about what we hope to accomplish in detail through the Department of Commerce until I have had opportunity to study the department 's deleted 8 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ; a member of the Eisenhower press staff , announced yesterday afteiinoon that Representatives Hugh D. Scott of Pennsylvania and Clifford P. Case- of New Jersey , Gbv . SherinanAdams of New Hampbhire and bov. . tohn D. Lodge of Connecticut had appointments to : visit General Eisenhower 's residence at- 60 Morningside Drive today . After his visit there , Governor Adams , recently designated as Assistant to the President in the new Administration , might - have an announcement to make , Mr. Leman added .                     