@@719282

txt Mayor Daley and the city 's top redevelopment officials told a United States senate investigation committee yesterday that Chicago will need at least 100 million dollars of federal aid over the next 10 years to continue adequate rograms of slum clearance and community conservation . The mayor also appealed for more federal subsidized public housing projects which , he said , are presently serving a Nprime purpose of " relocating low income families displaced by slum Clearance and public improvements . " Hits Administration In addition , Daley sug ? gested that the federal govern . ment release to the nation 's cities 200 million dollars of slum clearance a n d other " urban renewal " money appropriated by Congress , but up to now not made available . The , latter comment prompted Sen. Douglas D. , Ill. , acting chairman of the senate committee , to lash out at the Eisenhower administration for not giving cities the federal money due them . The comm it t e e , which opened two days of hearings in the United States courthouse , is a subcommittee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigating housing and slum clearance needs prior to the next session of Congress . Funds Undistributed Daley pointed out that 100 million dollars of urban retewal funds remain undistributed from a 1954 appropriation and that the federal government has failed to release an additional 100 million dollars from a total of 350 millions appropriated by Congress earlier this year . " What we find is that the President has in effect yetped the will of Congress by holding up this money , " Douglas said . " Congress should assert itself . The administration must be made to realize that it is the instrument for Sen. Douglas ( center ) , acting chairman of senate housing subcommittee , and committee aids at hearing on slum clearance yesterday . Left to right : Milton Semur , chief counsel ; Jack Carter , staff director ; Douglas , Robert Wallace , staff director , and Donald Rogers , counsel . Clifford Campbell ( left ) , deputy plan commissioner , Alvin Rose . CHA director , at the hearing . vision whereby the city or state must provide $1 for every $2 of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we feel that the federal government should provide 75 per cent of cost , in place of its present twothirds contribution , " Bach said . Phil Doyle , executive secretary of the Chicago land clearance commission , and D. E. Mackelmann , a consultant to the plan commission , suggested that the federal government permit unlimited use by cities of federal money for clearing slums for redevelop- schools are not integrated ment for industrial and commercial uses . At present , only 10 per cent of a city 's slum clearance program may be used in this manner , the bulk  --  or 00 per cent  --  of it being designated for new housing . ? ' Urges New Regulations Clifford Campbell , deputy plan commissioner , said the relocation of families from slum areas " is still a sensitive matter . " However , he said , there has been " much progress , " ? pointing out that today only five or six of the city 's more than 50 high MAYOR TELLS NEED FOR VAST U. S. SLUM AID 10 Year Plan to Call for .100 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Later , , housing experts explained that the withholding of already appropriated urban renewal funds by the administration has becdme a major concern of big cities thruout the country . It was explained that the Eisenhower administration has delayed releasing the 200 million dollars as an economy measure . Cites Specific Needs In his general presentation , Mayor Daley sail he was speaking for all cities in urging " the federal government to continue its aid on a scale large enough to cope with the problem of urban blight so that the aroused interest of municipal governments and of the people will not lessen , but rather grow , as the program of urban improvement goes forward . " - Chicago 's specific needs were outlined by Ira J. Bach , city planning commissioner , who suggested the 100 million dollars  --  at 10 million a year for 10 years  --  as the city 's basic desire of federal aid , With such a program , Bach said a total of 50 million dollars in local public- money would be required for the 10 years under the current prowhile 10 years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executive director of the Chicago housing authority , recommended new federal regulations which would permit the CHA to " write off much of its ** land costs as an outright loss . " Because of high land costs , Rose said the CHA Ui most instances must build elevator type housing projects under present regulations . He said the big need for low income family housing is " an ability to . build row housing . " Appeals for Aid In an appeal for more federal aid for smaller cities , Mayor Nelson Howarth of Springfield put this question to the senate committee : " If . nations can solve the apparent impossible and talk of trips to the moon as pending projects , is it too much to hope that every urban dweller in America can have decent housing ? " Other mayors for downstate Illinois cities testifying were Alvin G. Fields of East St. Louis , Warren C. Yerger of Rock Island , and R. W. Day of Alton . All agreed that small cities are in need of federal aid for urban renewal . 