@@719626

txt Democratic legislative opposition is building up against a pending initiative petition to curb public disability pension abuses , Beacon Hill sources report . This opposition is expected to result in an adverse report on the measure next week from the Legislative Committee on Pensions and Old Age Assistance . However , Senator Philip A. Graham ( R ) of Hamilton and Representative Charles H. Anthony ( 5 ) of Haverhill are confident the measure will be adopted by both branches . Their Beacon Hill View s confidence is primarily based on the fact that under the state constitution both branches must vote on the controversial initiative petition by roll call . Results of that roll call will be included in a pamphlet to be sent by the state to all registered voters if the measure is rejected and it is carried to the state ballot by its sponsors . Action Scheduled Senator William E. Hays ( R ) of Waltham , chairman of the Legislative Committee on Pensions and Old Age Assistance and a strong advocate of the proposed legislation to curb disability pension abuses , said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure . Committee members must sign majority or minority reports under the constitutional provisions . These reports , with names attached , like the later roll calls , will be included in the voter information pamphlet , if a referendum is forced . The issue involved is the initiative petition calling for legislation to require corresponding pension reductions when the total of disability pension and outside earnings exceeds the current salary of the position from which the disability pensioner was retired for total and permanent disability . Last year the Legislature passed a law applying this curb to persons going on public disability pension after Dec. 20 , 1957 . The initiative petition would extend the law to cover pensioners on the disability pension rolls prior to that date . For years Senator Graham and Mr. Anthony have been battling to curb abuses arising from the disability pension system . They have claimed that many pensioners have obtained questionable disability pensions and then taken outside employment as strenuous or more strenuous than that from which they were retired for disability . They had sought legislation to cover all disability pensioners , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Legislature last year adopted the legislation covering only those going on the disability pension rolls after Dec. 20. 1957 . PensiOn committee sources report that a poll of committee members shows the Democratic majority opposed to the initiative petition . However , some advocates of the measure feel some Democratic members may be inclined to chanrte their position when they realize they must sign a committee report showing their position , and that this report will go to the voters if the issue is carried to the referendum stage . The fact that more than 82.000 certified voter signatures were filed on the initiative petition has served notice on legislators that there is statewide interest in the issue . Actually more than 115,000 signatures were collected by the Massachusetts . Citizens Committee but only 82,000 were certified by local registrars of voters . Further Action Pledged Under the state constitution , if the Legislature rejects the initiative petition , its sponsors can force a November statewide referendum . by filing at least 11,699 additional voter signatures . The constitution also provides that both branches shall act by roll call on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proposal is turned down , sponsors must obtain the required additional voter signatures between the second ' Wednesday in lkay and the first Wednesday in July . These signatures must be filed with the Secretary of State not earlier than the first Wednesday in June and not later than the first Wednesday in July to force a statewide referendum . The Massachusetts Citizens Committee is already committed to carrying the issue to the ballot if necessary . This prospect . is being counted on by proponents of the initiative petition to force . favorable action on the proposed curb . It is believed that many legislators will hesitate to vote against the pension curb with the knowledge that they will be standing for reelection at the same time the voters decide the pension issue .                     