@@719367

txt It would be idle to deny that a wave of disappointment swept over this country yesterday at the news of the first Vanguard rocket 's explosion on the ground . In the atmosphere created by the two Soviet satellite launchings this autumn , the Vanguard test had become a symbol of this country 's determination to catch up with and surpass the Soviet Union in the conquest of space . The failure suffered yesterday therefore became a major propaganda defeat for us , a defeat which we may be sure Moscow will exploit intensively in its current drive to convince the world it is now the rocket , and therefore the military , master of this planet . Some of the lessons of this failure deal with the adequacy of our present effort in the rocket field . There has been an undercurrent of criticism for many months among scientists who believe that the . Vanguard was planned on a " shoestring " basis because it and the entire satellite effort were viewed as of importance only to theoretical science . We are now paying heavily for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the propaganda as well as the scientific importance of artificial satellites . It is in the propaganda field , however , that the lessons of this failure are most obvious . The Soviet Union , we may be sure , also has had its rocket failures . There is reason to believe that Moscow wanted to send its first satellite up last Sept. 17 , the birthday of Russian rocket scientist K. E. Tsiolkovsky , rather than , as happened , on Oct. 4 . But the Soviet Union waited before starting its propaganda campaign until it had something to shout about , thus avoiding the loss of prestige we have suffered by talking so much about our satellite plans before we bad some concrete accomplishment to show . e. some extent , of course , the problem here is inherent in the contrast between a democratic and a totalitarian state . The Soviet Government could proceed in secret because it did not have to go to an independent legislature to ask for funds and because it does not have a free press striving always to learn and publish what is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secrecy came during World War II when the Manhattan Project successfully developed the atomic bomb without a word being published about it until after that weapon had been used . successfully . But that was in time of war , when restrictions on the news were more easily imposed and more readily . accepted . Are we therefore doomed to run the risk of propaganda defeats such as the one we have now suffered ? The answer should certainly be no . For months the armed forces have ' tested military rockets at Cape Cana-I viral . Some have been successful and some have failed :  --  the usual pattern of scientific experimentation . But the propaganda loss of the failures has been moderated by the fact that no great hullaballoo was made in advance of the specific tests . Why was a different policy followed in the case of the Vanguard test preparations this week ? ' The press conferences held in advance of the actual firing , the hour-by-hour reports of changes in firing time  --  all these built up enormous tension in the country , tension which boomeranged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charged with the responsibility of our satellite and rocket program will serve their country best if they say as little as possible about their progress until they have concrete achievement to report . An attitude of putting deeds before words is clearly in the best interests of the country . That fact should override all criticism from those who do not understand that the propaganda war is quite as real and quite as important as the shooting war was in the days of the Manhattan Project .                     