@@713676

txt The world has appeared to be a lot safer to congressmen recently , so the ultimate fate of 18-year-old draftees , of universal military training  --  not to mention a quick antiinflation law ? is less certain . Things are going better in Korea , membership in the Communist parties in western Europe is reportedly declining , and Dr. Vannevar Bush , president of the Carnegie Institution of Washington , has just announced that the A-bomb could ruin Russia , and Russia knows it . Besides this , an election is coming . Those are considerations that rise as Senate meets its first test on the drafting of 18-year-olds plunges into the bigger problem of UMT . Whatever the Senate does on 18-year-olds , the draft battle is going to be harder in the House , where the House Armed Services Committee already has recommended against taking youths before 181/2 years . Congress Worried What all this amounts to is really that the bill for putting the United States into a position of strong defense is being presented to Congress . Bill collectors are never popular anywhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young men , just as it is with the huge tax bill which President Truman asked . " What I have to do , " Maj. Gen. Lewis B. Hershey , Director of Selective Service , complained recently , " is to figure out how to raise an armed force of 3,500,000 without taking anybody . " In somewhat different words Secretary of Defense George C. Marshall pointed out that two months ago he was attacked in Congress for failure to insist upon immediate full mobilization while now the aspect of world affairs seems brighter and he is criticized for asking too much . The question no longer is " How much do we need ? " he says , but " Why do we need so much- ? " 3,500,000 Needed Almost two months ago Secretary- Marshall testified in behalf of drafting 18-year-olds . The American problem , he said , is to raise 3,500,000 soldiers by July 1 and keep the armed forces at that level . The present law limits inductions to the ages of 19-26 , with liberal deferments . Even so the total needed can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present inductees serve their terms the pool will dry up . Furthermore , the army wants a pool of 600,000 . It is argued that at 18 years youths have fewest family responsibilities , their education can be best interrupted , and they make the best soldiers . After lengthy hearings in Senate and House committees a bill to draft 18-year-olds is before the Senate while a bill to draft 181/2-yearolds is ready for the House . Each bill provides 26 months ' service . Coupled with this is the Defense Department recommendation of UMT  --  a permanent program of peacetime military training for all men . This would give everybody a four to six month basic training course at 18 . Congressional committees agree that UMT is all right on a standby basis . Whether it is actually applied will depend on just how apprehensive congressmen are when it comes up for debate . Here again the great imponderable is Russia . Military men with gloomy hu-                     