@@715776

txt In the judgment of this newspaper Harold Riegelman is the candidate best qualified and , in fact , the only candidate qualified to be the next Mayor of New York . We endorse him without hesitation , convinced that his election would offer the best promise since the days of La ' Guardia to restore good government to this misgoverned city . The Republican nominee is equipped by character , ability and experience for this office , one of the most important and most difficult in the nation . Educated in the public schools , at Cornell and Columbia Universities , he is trained in the law and a respected member of the bar . His record of public service is long and distinguished . He drafted the first State Housing Law of 1926 and the Multiple Dwelling Law of 1929 , then served as assistant attorney gen-1 eral to defend the constitutionality of the Tenement House Law . He has served as special counsel to the Treasury Department and was chairman of the committee on city affairs in the state 's 1938 constitutional convention . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ veteran of Army service in two wars . We can think of no man who has taken a more active , intelligent or influential part in civic affairs . He was a leading partner in the founding of the Citizens Budget Commission in 1932 and , as counsel of that watchdog agency through the years , has acquired an intimate , detailed knowledge of budgetary and tax problems probably unequaled among laymen outside the city government . He has been a foe of waste , sloth and inefficiency in government through a quarter of a century before he ran for Mayor , and steadily , in season and out . Surveys undertaken and completed with searching thoroughness under his direction have exposed to the light of public opinion incredible weaknesses in administration of major segments of the government . The five-department inquiry made by the Citizens Budget Commission in the late Nineteen Forties , showing the possibility of millions of dollars in economies , led inevitably to the Mayor 's Management Survey of the whole city government , whose sweeping array of suggested reforms now lies begging for the energetic follow-up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be counted on to harvest . With a total city operating budget of $1,529,000,000 , a per capita cost of government approaching $200 for every man , woman and child ; with a net debt of $2,455,000,000 ; with taxes rising steadily year by year while one city administration after another throws up its hands helplessly when economy is suggested and recognizes no rescue , except to impose more taxes and bookkeeping chicanery where they affect votes least ; with city-owned plant , including the schools and the waterfront facilities , which are vital to our wellbeing , suffering from extravagantly wasteful under-maintenance ; with creation of slums outracing slum clearance because of official incompetence in law enforcement on violations ; with traffic congestion costing a billion dollars a year , almost two-thirds of what it costs to run the city government , because of administration timidity and police laxity ; with the streets and parks underpoliced , the docks ridden by terror , graft and crime until the state was forced to step In ; with inertia and political motivation in command at City Hall ? we say it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offers the only prospect for a healthy change . What are the alternatives ? Mayor Impellitteri is , of course , eliminated . He is no change . We have had him . He is tried , tested and found wanting . A future With Mr. Impellitteri is an outlook only more dismal and bereft of hope than the past with him . Robert F. Wagner Jr . is sponsored by Tammany of anglent ill repute . His model of labor statesmanship is apparently Michael J. Quill , to whom he only lately , paid tribute and whose recklessness is well known to the New York public to its sorrow . A Wagner-Quill political kinship could bode no good for the public . Rudolph Halley 's record in office has not only been disappointing , it has been alarming , with its demagoguery and its shocking irresponsibility on buttery and transit matters . His posi on against acceptance of the Transit Authority confirmed a political approach city problems which is already the source of much of the trouble in which the city finds itself today . On issues of public spending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turn of mind . Let us admit that frankly . In our opinion , that is the attitude now required by New York 's critical condition . We have been led down the road to fiscal chaos by the contrary philosophy of not counting the cost . We think Mr. Riegelman may be overoptimistic on the amount of money he could save in running the government . But if anybody can save it , he can . The cause of the civil service employe and , indeed , of the general public is not served in the long run by wasteful operation . Certainly the city employes will hardly boast that they have had , a fair shake under the O'Dwyer and Impellitteri regimes . On the other hand , the glib promises and the evasions in the Wagner-Halley approach to government offer nothing but the pillar-to-post fiscal expediency that brought us down the dusty road to nowhere . Register this week ; and vote for Mr. Riegelman.                     