@@718049

txt The Government today imposed a full state of siege in all Guatemala for thirty days . What amounted to martial law replaced the state of alarm proclaimed early Sunday morning . On that occasion the authorities suspended most constitutional rights for thirty days because of an alleged Communist plot . Communists - were said to have been . holding secret meetings , planning murders mat. could be pinned on Government officials and inciting the public to panic . tt was at least the fourth time the regime of President Carlos Castillo Armas had asserted it faced a Communist menace since the overthrow of the pro-Communist Government of Col. Jacobo Arbenz Guzman two years ago . In Peru , meanwhile , some civil liberties were suspended in the wake of rioting in the Lima area during a general strike . A. few hours after the state of alarm had been proclaimed Sunday , policemen broke up a demonstration of 400 workers and university students ? protesting the curtailment of fundamental rights . Violence occurred and many arrests were made . Last night , in a second demonstration against imposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and eighteen others , including a girl , were wounded when the police attacked to break up the gathering . The Government thereupon issued its state-of-siege edict and ordered complete military control of the country . One hundred and sixty-eight persons were arrested in connection with last night 's demonstration , the National Security , Director , Ismael Ortiz Orellana , said today . He said also that thirty-five others had been taken into custody since Sunday . In addition , the Security Director declared , seventeen persops were exiled to Honduras yesterday " to assure the security of the country . " The exiling of others is " probable , " he asserted . The state - of - siege decree , which was signed by President Castillo and the Cabinet . as required by Guatemalan law , said " well-known subversive elements " had mixed in with the students and fired upon the police . However , student leaders denied the charge , asserting that the police had opened ' fire on the demonstrators while they marched peacefully and without arms . The decree said that Communist agitators were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view of this , there was need for ' immediate repression with the adoption of severe and drastic measures . " Curfew Is Established This morning the army established a curfew from 6 P. M. until 9 A. M. It was also announced.that the houses of persons with Communist affiliations were being searched . Press censorship was ordered last night . Newspapers were notified today that they had to submit to military censors before publication . Among those exiled yesterday were former Minister of Education Mardoquec Garcia , Mario Monteforte Toledo , editor of the opposition newspaper Hoy , ' and three university students . Senor Ortiz , the National Se , curity Director , said part of the " Communist , plot " charged by the Government was for an invasion by Guatemalan exiles from Mexico and El Salvador " for some time late in June . " " We expect any moment notification that there has . been trouble on the El Salvador and Mexico borders , " he added . This capital has been quiet today and the rest of the country was said to be likewise . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state oil alarm . The decree had followed a rally at which leaflets were handed out demanding that Guatemala end its mutual aid pact with the United States and its curbs on Communist activities , The Associated Press said . The students also protested the use of force to disperse the demonstrators Sunday and demanded that the Government abrogate the state , of alarm and free all political prisoners . They threatened a series of gradual strikes if the Government did not comply within twenty-four hours . The students also demanded that the Government withdraw the armed police posted around the Law School forbidding entrance to the building . The Law Students Association has been a bitter opponent of the Castillo regime . The students met again at 7 o'clock last night to read the protest manifesto and , despite warnings not to go out on the streets , headed for Central Park for a public reading of the document .                     