@@712742

txt Britain 's Labor government tonight won its first test vote in the house of commons but at the same time saw its seven seat majority in parliament trimmed to six . Labor defeated a ConservativeLiberal coalition by 14 votes on a vote of confidence demanded by the government on a Conservative motion of censure . The tally was 310 to 296 . The result put off , for the time being , a new parliamentary election which would have been required had the Conservatives unseated the Labor government 4n their effort to delay nationalization of the iron and steel industry until another general election is held . Another Vote Monday Shortly after its parliamentary victory , Labor 's slim majority was reduced when the Conservative candidate won a special election in Manchester . On Monday , the Laborites will face a second vote in commons which may prove even more difficult . It will be on a Conservative motion deploring the Labor party 's record on housing . Observers said the party 's whips might have trouble keeping its supporters in line on this issue . Another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's vote , the biggest since full parliamentary records were started 12 decades ago , was cast by a house packed so full that MP 's practically were sitting on each other 's laps , Why Labor Won by 14 Illness of several Conservative members , the fact that two Irish Unionists do not take their seats in commons , and the traditional custom for the speaker of the house , now a Conservative , not to vote except in a tie provided Labor with its majority of 14 tonight , instead of the seven that might have been anticipated . Prior to the vote , Prime Minister Attlee delivered a fighting speech in which he said the only thing the Feb. 23 election decided was " that the country did not want " Winston Churchill 's Conservatives in power . The Conservatives had contended in the preceding debate that the closeness of the election , in which Labor received a minority of the total ballots , indicated Britain 's voters were opposed to further nationalization of industries . They proposed that steel nationalization , already passed by parliament and scheduled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ postponed to allow the electorate a chance to indicate its wishes .                     