@@713199

txt In San Francisco , Harry Bridges gets out of jail today , but not as a free man . A United States Appeals Court ordered the West Coast longshore leader released on $25,000 bail , finding he had committed no recognizable crime since his perjury-conspiracy conviction earlier this year . His conviction has been appealed . Page 3 . American production has responded to Korean war demands with the mightiest rush of production since the closing months of World War II . Figures from the Federal Reserve Board show industrial output in August hit 204 per cent of the 1935-39 average , the highest rate since July , 1945 . Bay State : Alternate Bus Service Is Planned With the possibility of some 90,000 New Englanders being immediately affected by a nationwide railroad strike , should trainmen and conductors walk out Monday , the Massachusetts Public Utilities Commission was " alerted " to provide alternate bus service , according to Thomas A. Flaherty , chairman of the commission . Page 2 . New England 's quota of the additional call for 47,000 more enlisted Army Reserve members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be about 3,600 , ' Boston Army Base officials estimate . Page 2 . Dollar value of New England department store sales for the week ending Aug. 19 rose 2.4 per cent over those of the same period a year ago , according to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston . In Europe : Superforts Set to ' Attack ' Paris American Superfortresses are poised . to " attack " Paris and other northern European targets in the first day of Western Union air defense maneuvers  --  the most extensive ever staged in Europe . Meanwhile Turkey began its biggest sea and air exercises in the Sea of Marmara , to be linked later with army maneuvers . Joining the Atlantic Pact would be " an extremely risky policy " for Sweden , Prime Minister Tage Erlander declared in Stockholm . Norway 's and Denmark 's joining the Atlantic Pact has made impossible a previously planned Scandinavian pact , he said . bill trained their fire on a provision tightly linking any wage and price controls . They had already succeeded in knocking out of the bill an administration-opposed section which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Commerce Department . Senate Republicans made it clear that the presence of a GOP colleague  --  Senator Henry Cabot Lodge , Jr . ( R ) of Massachusetts ? on the United States delegation to the United Nations will not silence their criticism of administration foreign policies . Chairman Carl Vinson agreed conditionally to call up universal military training legislation in his House Armed Services Committee . He said he will try to get it passed by the House at this session . Warning of possible Communist sabotage in this country . Senator William F. Knowland ( R ) of California urged that Congress vote authority for establishment and arming of home guard units . He said legislation for such units , to act as home front replacements for national guardsmen called up for active duty , should be added to the list of " must " bills on which Congress will act before it goes home . The Defense Department doctors and dentists up men who were trained served . Retail food prices dropped three-tenths of 1 per cent in the first half of August . Sharp seasonal drops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factor . The export of sugar from the United States will be restricted beginning Sept. 1 , the Commerce Department announced . Far East : Two British Regiments Bound for Korea Two crack British regiments sailed from Hong Kong aboard the cruiser Ceylon and the aircraft carrier Unicorn , bound for Korea to join the United Nations ground forces . The 1,500 British infantrymen will be reinforced to , a total of approximately 5,000 at a later date . Violent tremors again shook Assam , northern India , scene of devastating earthquakes for the past week which have left millions homeless . Indian Air Force planes are dropping food to villages leveled by floods and repeated earthquakes . India 's Prime Minister Nehru has accepted an offer of 375 tons of rice from Pakistan for the relief of Assam earthquake victims .                     