@@712664

txt Developments in the long-drawn-out coal dispute had reached the point yesterday where President Truman literally had no choice but to invoke , as he did , the so-called emergency provisions of the Taft-Hartley Act . i ? -o weeiis ago Dr. James Boyd , Director of the Bureau of Mines , who had been studying the effects of the threeday week and the partial strike on the economy , reported to the White House that a crisis was in the making . Dr. Boyd presented the substance of that report before the Senate Labor Committee the following day , declaring that " unless there is an immediate resumption of substantially increased coal production the national economy , health and welfare is now , or soon will be , impaired . " The Administration did not act immediately on the Boyd report . It apparently hoped that its publication might prod Mr. Lewis into getting the 65,000 miners who were then out on a " wildcat " strike hack on the job by the time the new work week began the following Monday . That hope , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Workers had succeeded , instead , in pushing the total of " rebel " strikers well above the 90,000 mark . Presented with this new evidence that the situation was still deteriorating , Mr. Truman apparently decided that further delay would be dangerous . Last Tuesday he suggested to the union and the operators that they agree to a truce of seventy days , during which normal production of coal would be maintained . In the interval a Presidentially appointed fact-finding board was to study the controversy and suggest a general basis for settlement , which each party might accept or reject , as It chose . The operators notified the President on Thursday of their acceptance or this proposal . Mr. Lewis ' reply did not reach the White House until just before the Saturday deadline , and it was a rejection . Only one faint hope was left if resort to firmer government action was to be avoided . That was the possibility that the new week might produce a hack-to-work movement on the part of the striking miners . The answer here again was spectacularly negative . What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about onefourth the membership of Mr. Lewis ' union , had become a general work stoppage yesterday . The only areas where coal was being dug were in the nonunion pits and in the few small mines which had signed contracts with Mr. Lewis on his own terms . As the first step in invoking the emergency provisions of the Taft-Hartley Act , the President has named a hoard of inquiry of three members headed by David L. Cole , who was chairman of the board that arbitrated the coal controversy in 1948 and a member of the voluntary board in last year 's steel dispute . The board is under instructions to study the facts in the case and report back to the White House by next Monday . Once the board reports , the President may direct the Attorney General to petition the Federal Court for an eighty-day injunction against a continuance of the strike . Even though the machinery has at last been set in motion to restore full production in coal , it is obvious , from the forego , . that the process will require ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ten days that can ill be spared in midwinter , when , it seems to be generally agreed , coal stocks are at the lowest level in many years . At the moment , however , it is not possible to say with complete assurance that even this time schedule will be achieved . Doubts have been raised on two scores . One of these is that if the miners return to work it will be merely to go through the motions  --  that , in other words , they may stage a " slowdown . " The other is the belief which prevails in some quarters that the miners are " out of control " and that they would refuse to return to work without a contract even in the face of orders from their chief and from the Federal Court . It will be time to cross these bridges when we come to them . Meanwhile , however , it might be well to bear two considerations in mind . One is that Mr. Lewis ' union is not likely to forget so soon the fines of $700,000 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just such defiance of the courts in 1946 and 1948 . The other is that few persons in their senses  --  including our courts  --  will be easily persuaded that men who have been kept in partial or complete idleness by the bungling of their own leader for seven months would be inclined to regard a contract as more important than a return to a full work week .                     