@@715842

txt The principal argument advanced for holding local elections in national " off years " is that the local voters thereby are given an opportunity to select their state and local officials on state and local issues . When local elections are held along with national elections , the local issues tend to be forgotten in the national issuts . Undoubtedly local issues - played an important part in the local elections which have just gone so heavily to the Democrats in the United States . Undoubtedly Republicans would have made a better showing in a number of places if this had been a national election year . However , the leadership of the Republican Party is much too realistic to use the above facts for more than they are ? worth . To emphasize them in assessing the results would have beeri to try to convert a real factor into an alibi . Leonard W. Hall , Republican National Committee chairman , set the standard for Republican assessment by shunning alibis and facing the facts . His morning-after statement read as follows : A A A " There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are in trouble ' politically , despite an excellent showing in Virginia and in several municipal elections . " Mr. Hall , however , could not stop with that statement . He had to give his followers some basis for hope in 1954 as well as a realistic warning . He provided that basis for hope with the contention that the situation a year from now will be quite different , because by that time President Eisenhower will have provided " an affirmative , forward - looking program . " He offered as an explanation ? that the Republican administration in Washington has spent 1953 " in trying to rehabilitate the basic structure of our government . " It seems unlikely that a preoccupation in Washington with " the basic structure of our government " is the explanation of defeat Of the Republican candidate for the governorship of New Jersey . It took real complacency on the - part of the Republican leadership of that state to be lieve it could win with a candidate tangled in the " Joey " Fay case . After all , the Republicans took Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Paul Troast could hardly qualify for the " hound's-tooth " club no matteL , how unfair the attempts to link him with corruption may have been . However , when all the many qualifications are made which can rightly be made , it would seem to be in order to recognize that the Republican Party today undoubtedly is suffering in general public view from what could be called , in Mr. Hall 's words , " a preoccupation with the basic structure of our government . " A A A An experienced senior statesman of the Republican Party has expressed the opinion that in politics it is never good enough merely to seek to undo what a predecessor has done . That is negative . A negative policy may be necessary as a preliminary to a positive policy , but it remains negative . In politics there always must be a positive sense of direction . In politics , as in war , the possession of - the initiative is vital , and to have the initiative it is necessary to communicate to the public a sense of positive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has failed so far to convey to the public generally a sense of possessing a truly positive sense of direction . It may acquire such a sense of ' direction during the next 12 months . That is the intention and the purpose of White House strategists . They do expect , as Mr. Hall says , to take the party before the voters a year from now with evidence of positive policies . However , with the policy-making job still in process , it is an unavoidable fact that the administration t &; date has ' spent most of its time and effort trying to master the machinery of government . Although already nine months in office , the administration still is conveying the principal purpose of trying to undo much the Democrats did . This may be both worthy , and necessary , but it is still negative . Too much , the members of the administration still talk about the house cleaning they have to do , rather than about the positive things they are going to do themselves . The evidence of the " off-year " elections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satisfied with merely house cleaning in Washington . The voter apparently is losing confidence in a party which still has to indicate what it intends to put into the house after the cleaning is finished . The Republicans had their first warning from Wisconsin . They have had more warnings from several other states . The question now is whether they will adequately heed the warnings .                     