@@716672

txt Governor-elect Averell Harriman disclosed yesterday that he expected . to be ready with concrete proposals , either legislative or administrative , to redeem Democratic campaign promises when he takes office the first of the year . At his direction these proposals are now being formulated by Thomas K. Finletter , who was chairman of the democratic platform committee and chairman of the Harriman Citizens Committee . Mr. Finletter is being assisted by Jonathan B. Bingham , who headed the Democratic research staff during the campaign . In drafting their proposals , they will have the help of experts in the various fields affected . Arthur Levitt of Brooklyn , controller-elect in the new administration , will direct the draft of proposals dealing with education , Mr. Harriman announced , Mr. Levitt is president of the New York City Board of Education and , Mr. Harriman said , a recognized expert in the field of education . Myles Lane , former United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York , has been asked to survey existing state laws and administrative procedures dealing with elimination of Communists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Governor-elect said . The purpose of the survey will be to determine whether present laws fr , nd procedures are adequate to meet the Democratic platform pledge of keeping Communists out of government and , at the same time , ' afford sufficient protection for the rights of individuals . Mr. Lane is regarded as an expert in this field by reason of his prosecution of Communists for violation of the Federal Smith Act while he was United States Attorney . Previously Mr. Harriman had announced the selection of Lieutenant Governor-elect George B. DeLuca of the Bronx to develop a program in. keeping with the Democratic platform for combating juvenile delinquency . Mr. DeLuca. is District Attorney of Bronx County . Besides announcing these assignments at his headquarters in the Marguery Hotel , Mr. Harriman made it plain that he intended to keep alive his interest in national politics , developed during his service in diplomatic and cabinet offices under former Presidents Franklin D. Roosevelt and Harry S. Truman . On Sunday the Governor-elect will entertain Gov . G. Mennen Williams of Michigan at dinner in his country home at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politics , he conceded . Governor Williams was a " favorite son " candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination in 1952 , as was Mr. Harriman . They worked in close harmony at the convention . While at his country home , Mr. Harriman also will confer with William L. Batt Jr. , a lawyer who has been closely identified with the " Toledo . Plan " for mitigating the effects of unemployment . Because of its possible application to areas of New York State affected by unemployment , Mr. Harriman is interested in learning how the plan is working . It involves cooperation ' between labor unions and industry to attract new industry . to Toledo .. During the war , Mr. Harriman and Mr. Batt worked together in London , where the Governor-elect was then the United . States Ambassador . Mr. Batt was concerned at the time with the distribution of American food in Britain . Commenting on . Wednesday 's conference between President Eisenhower and Congressional leaders of both the Republican and Democratic parties on foreign policy , Mr .. Harriman remarked that it was interesting that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed to be getting wider . He was referring to Senator William V. KnowIand 's ' demand for a re-examination of . American foreign policy . A California Republican , Senator . Knowland is the Republican leader of the Senate . Mr. Harriman said that if he interpreted Senator Knowland 's goals properly , they involved the danger of war . " I am violently opposed to them , " he added . The- Governor-elect expressed the opinion that Democratic Senators were willing to cooperate with the Republican Administration but remarked that in any " give and take " involved in. adjusting Democratic and Republican views " the give has got to come . : from the Administration , " ? Mr. Harriman announced that he planned to attend the meeting of the Democratic National Committee in New Orleans on Dec. 3 and 4 at which a new national chairman will be elected . While there he expects to confer with other * Democratic Governors and Governors-elect . Mr. Harriman 's margin over Senator Irving M. Ives , his Republican opponent , . " increased slightly yesterday with the completion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at 12,138 on the basis of official tallies from fifty-eight counties and unofficial tallies from the four remaining . On the same basis , Arthur Levitt 's margin as controllerelect dropped slightly yesterday . It now stands at 24,462 over Frank Del Vecchio , the Republican candidate .                     