@@717568

txt Gov . Frank S. Lausche of Ohio announced today his candidacy as a favorite son for the Democratic nomination for President . The five-term Governor , mentioned as a possible " dark horse " for the nomination , made the anticipated announcement in a letter to Rudy E. Stapleton , Fulton County Democratic chairman , who had asked permission to use Mr. Lausche 's name as first choice " favorite son . " " To enable the selection of the delegates from Ohio and thus qualify them for attendance at the convention , I will allow my name to be used as the favorite son to whom you and others so disposed will be initially pledged , " Governor Lausche wrote . Under Ohio law , candidates for delegates to national conventions must designate first and second choices and have written consent of the choices to use their names . Mr. Lausche has strongly indicated he will not seek delegates in other states and has refused to , make speeches outside of Ohio . The one exception was a recent speech before the Ohio Society of New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In Cincinnati recently , Governor Lausche told newsmen he did not believe he had " a chance " for the nomination . He also said : " I will do nothing to reach the goal Presidential nomination you have set for me . " Trailed Eisenhower in ' 52 The Governor , who is a Roman Catholic , was elected to a fourth term in 1952 by more than 425,000 votes while President Eisenhower won the state by 500,000 . He told newsmen at the Cincinnati , meeting that if he could help , Ohio 's ' fifty-eight votes at next year 's convention would not be used " to obtain spoils and patronage . " He would not say whether he ' would be " available , " but explained " it has n't been my habit to flee from an assignment regardless of the gravity . " Following the Governor 's announcement today , Eugene H. Hanhart , Democratic State Chairman , expressed " delight " over the decision , " The Democratic National Convention and the , people of this country could do no better than to select @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States , " he added . The governor , considered a " middle ' ' - of- the- road Democrat , " may have some opposition for delegates in Ohio . A number of northern Ohio Democratic county chairmen , led by Ray T. Miller of Cuyahoga County , have formed an organization to try to break the Governor 's control of the state party . Some Ohio Democrats have talked of backing delegate candidates pledged to Senator Estes Kefauver of Tennessee , who has not said whether he will come into the Ohio primaries. : Representative Wayne Hays is backing the Kefauver move in this state . Meanwhile , Governor Lausche left unanswered the question of whether he would be a candidate for a sixth term or for United States Senator in opposition to Senator George H. Bender , Republican .                     