@@716164

txt Responsibility for curbing the excesses of current congressional es.tgations ? in seine cases - clear violations of due process of law " ? belongs to the two Houses of Congress , not the President , in the opinion of the dean of the Harvard Law School . Dean Erwin N. Griswold told this to the Phi Beta Kappa chapter at Mount Holyoke College last night at South Hadley , Mass . " An election to the House of Representative or to the Senate does not make a man any sort of magistrate , " he declared . . " Nor does it vest him with any power at all over his fellow citizens , except to cast his vote in the body to which he has been elected . " This power of investigation is a power which is solely attributable to the collective body , the House of Representatives or the Senate . " The Law School dean declared that Congress has not been meeting its responsibility to curb excesses . One reason " is that the House of Representatives and the Senate are regarded by their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the House or Senate has his own standards . And in a great many cases these standards are very high . But , with almost no exception , no member seeks to impose his standards on any other member . . . . This is unfortunate . . . though perhaps natural and understandable . " Codes and standards of action are necessary . Dean Griswold explained , because a " senator or congressman who is conducting an investigation . . . is not acting as an individual . Everything he does directly involves the other members .. . " In protecting ourselves from the threat of communism , we should not adopt methods of oppression here which the Communists themselves would use . After all , the essence of communism is the subordination of the individual to the state . " And the essence of liberty , for which our ancestors fought on both sides of the Atlantic , is the freedom of the individual from the arbitrary power of governmental authorities . Due Process ' " When we see more clearly that our present problem is simply one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficulty in finding a satisfactory solution , which will recognize and preserve the basic rights of individuals while providing ample protection for the state . " To envision the type of reforms needed , public attention Correctives Cited Then the Harvard Law School dean suggested these seven probe correctives : 1 . Eliminate a one-man subcommittee in any proceeding involving involuntary witnesses . 2 . Prevent issuance of a subpoena to compel testimony , unless approved by the committee itself , not the chairman alone or its staff . 3 . Inform the summoned witness in advance of the subject and scope of the inquiry . 4 . Keep testimony taken in executive session from being made public unless the witness consents. 5 . Respect witnesses ' wishes on submission to broadcasting , televising , or newsreel cameras . 6 . Eliminate the probe whose sole purpose is to expose persons or to develop evidence for use in criminal prosecutions . 7 . Let up sanctions to enforce the procedural code . Common Practice Dean Griswold mentioned specifically the " highly improper " common practice of a committee signing a batch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ staff to use against any witness the staff wants . He said that a witness should surely be allowed to explain his answers and to answer charges made against him . He should be entitled to counsel , and the counsel should be entitled to speak on his behalf as well as advise him . Testimony taken in executive session should not be made public in selected portions , summaries , or incomplete versions , he stressed . As to the practice of television hearings he declared " it 's high time that we recognized and accepted the fact that legislative investigations are not a part of show business . " Admitting that enforcing better procedures was not easy , he declared : " The committee should lose its compulsory powers when it does not conduct itself properly . " Excerpts from Dean Griswold 's speech : Page 8.                     