@@719101

txt Letters to The Times S. RALPH HARLOW.NANCY R. YAEGER.ELINORE M. HERRICK.RALPH H. MORSE.ALBERT L. W ... Letters to The ' Times Pupils ' Courage Praised Negro Children 's Facing of Ordeal Called Inseirine To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : You are right to express admiration for the courage and faith of those Negro boys and girls who are enduring what we all sing about , " suffering , pain and loss , " in defense of their just rights as Americans . Some of them had fathers who offered their lives for this nation and for democracy . Their courage has inspired many of us . It will not soon be forgotten , even in Little Rock . Some day Little Rock and Charlotte and other cities will be proud that in their midst was found such courage , not of battle but of the commonplace . Even greater , perhaps , is the faith and courage of those white citizens who will not bow the knee to the false gods the Kaspers and Eastlands ask them to worship ; who stand firm for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor of Arkansas  --  embodied in the Constitution of the United States , the hope of deInocracy . RALPH HARLOW . Oak Bluffs , Mass. , Sept. 7,1957 . Bravery and Endurance To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In the midst of the appalling sound and fury over segregation in Little Rock , Nashville , etc. , one can not remain impassive . Sympathy and compassion , compounded with deepest admiration , are surely the sentiments of many as they read of the trials of the colored children involved . What courage their parents have ! Passing through jeering , spitting , rockthrowing crowds  --  a baptism under the cruelest kind of fire . These were children . Their courage has elevated them to the status of adulthood during their hazardous walk . Wounds have been opened which will never heal , epithets flung that will never be forgotten . This historical chapter now being written into the annals of American history will contain nothing ' of which we can be proud unless it is the stunning bravery and endurance of these colored children . NANCY R .. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1957 . Derision of Crowd To THE EDITOR OF Tile NEW YORK TIMES : The Little Rock story  --  indeed all the stories that show the efforts , against school integration  --  makes me sick in my soul . ' What scars must be inflicted and carried through life by the young Negroes who seek the benefits of education at the white level ! I marvel at their courage in facing the gantlets of National Guardsmen and deriding whites . I am ashamed for the United States . ELINORE M. HERRICK . Orford , N. H. , Sept. 9 , 1957 . Prover Use for National Guard To THE EDITOR OF THE NEw YORK TIMES : If Governor Faubus is such a zealot in preserving law and order , why did he not use the National Guard to escort a handful of colored children into the school rather than to keep them cut ? His deeds speak much louder than his excuses . RALPH H. MORSE . Concord , N. H. , Sept. 9 , 1957 . Cleanliness Instead of Flowers To THE EDITOR OF THE NEw YORK TIMES : It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not go in our attempt to be ridiculous . Now I read about some newfangled " Salute to the Seasons " involving " flowers , lighting and banners " in an attempt to impress visitors , to New York City . Visitors would be much more favorably impressed if the refuse , waste paper , candy wrappers , etc. , to be seen on almost every street in New York were removed . ALBERT L. WECHSLER . New York , Sept. 7 , 1957 , Postscript on Middle. , East To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It would seem that when you published Mr. Peaess ' comment on Nasser and termed it " final word " you were premature  --  Aswan Dam thing leads to another . A. C. Hs . New York , Sept .. 11 , 1957 . Labor Relations Move Explained To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : This letter is an attempt to clear up any misunderstanding that may have resulted from the headline and introductory paragraphs of the interpretive article in The New York Times of Sept. 11 concerning Lemuel R. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position as vice president and member of the Executive Office of the General Electric Company . The headline and flavor of the article may give some readers the impression that General Electric contemplates change in its basic approach to employe relations . Nothing could be farther from the facts . We are convinced that the policies under Mr. Boulware 's leadership are in the ' mutual best interest of General Electric 's employes , share owners , customers , suppliers , dealers , and the public at large . It is understandable that this move , occurring three years before Mr. Boulware 's scheduled retirement , could be misinterpreted . However , for some time it has been company policy to relieve top executives of direct administrative responsibilities well prior to retirement so that continuity of policy may be achieved by permitting their aucceiaors to have the advantage of their counsel first hand . Thus , contrary to the implication ' of The Times article , the purpose of the move is to assure continuity of the policies and approaches pioneered by Mr. Boulware . R. J. CORDINIElt , President , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1957 . Reporting on America Correspondent for London Paper . Gives Views on Presenting News To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES I have been done an injustice by your eminent correspondent James Reston which I should like to put right . On Sept. 8 Mr. Reston wrote an article on your main editorial page on the subject of the portrayal of America by the British press . He devoted four paragraphs to my column in The Daily Express of Sept. 7 . Mr. Reston is often quoted by myself and my colleagues because his accuracy of reporting and fairness of comment on the political scene of his country are exemplary . In the dispatch In question Mr. Reston has misled his readers on a number of points , of which I shall enumerate but three . As his first example of " highlighting the dark corners of American life " he refers to my brief ( six column inches ) report of a debutante ball . It is hard to understand how he can mention such an item of blameless Americana in such a context . One of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , without a hint of the sarcasm Mr. Reston infers , reads : " The fashionable  --  and what art admirable fashion , tool  --  off-season job for debs is social work . " This Mr. Reston fails to mention , presumably to preserve his thesis that my column , in common  --  as his contention is  --  with most of the rest of the British press , is anti-American . Non-Critical Items Mr. Reston selects but three items ; from a column which contained nine altogether . I have the published column before me now , and a brief analysis shows that it contains one political lead item , one on sports , two " human interest " stories , two crime items , one on show business and a humorous item . Not one of these items could possibly be construed as critical of America in itself ; and if Mr. Reston objects to the " detrimental " selection of news items I suggest that he look again at the front page of any of the mass circulation newspapers of his own country or mine . He will find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first nine news items of American origin in The New York Times that same morning Mr. Reston was mixing his vitriol , I find that we have  --  in this order  --  two crime stories ( both front paged ) , three race discrimination reports , one political report , a " human interest " story , a humorous item , and another race discrimination report . I did not mention the lifting of the lawn turf in a prominent " last but not least " position , but as a straightforwardly reported and undeniably interesting fact in the second paragraph of an item which appeared in the middle of my column that morning . I must censure this reordering of my paragraphs by Mr. Reston as a piece of provocation calculated to cause offense to my hosts of that night which I most certainly neither intended nor suggested . Expressions of Appreciation I must record my regret that Mr. Reston has clearly failed to perceive the tone of warmth and appreciation of life in America which I most sincerely try to preserve in my daily column for The Express @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in print by other American journalists . The British press as a whole seems to be held under a steady fire of criticism in America . Much of the objection stems from a misunderstanding of the expectations of the most highly inquisitive national readership in the world , and of the news presentation techniques by which such a readership is held and . I may say , educated , in the case of The Daily Express . I plead for a stop to shallow thinking on the part of Americans about the British press . Tom STACEY . New York , Sept. 9 , 1957.                     