@@715529

txt President Tito proclaimed today " a great victory " against the Corninform with the disclosure that the Soviet Union had requested resumption of normal diplomatic relations with Yugoslavia . Pride was in his manner and resounding cheers came from 60,000 followers here as Marshal Tito announced : " We have beer . victorious in these five years " since the Soviet Union forced Yugoslavia out of the Cominform and threat- , ened to put an end to the present ' regime . " Russia smiled on us. " declared the President . explaining that the Soviet Union had asked for permission to exchange full Ambassadors for the first Ville since the , ; Cominform break of 1918 . Maishal Tito used the word ' " minister . " but Dr. Ales Bebler , ' State Under Secretary for For-1 eign Affairs . disclosed that the So-d viet Union during the last week ? , . nsated " rem era , - snag had requested an exchange of Ambassadors . The President an- , pounced he had agreed . " But they will not blind us with ) their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can never believe 100 per cent in the Soviet Union . I wait for them to show their intentions in practice . I do not believe their words . " , However , the Marshal declared that Yugoslavia needed normal relations . After all , he pointed out , other hostile countries have normal diplomatic representation . At present both sides are served by charges d'afraires , although the Soviet Union recently announced it was replacing its present charg ? with a man of higher personal rank . A high Yugoslav source disclosed here that the new Soviet diplomat assigned as Ambassador to Belgrade would not be Stepan P. Kirsanov , who is the replacement-elect for Georgi P. Snuikov . The fact that Yugoslavia and the Soviet Union will resume full diplomatic relations does not mean that relations are necessarily improved between them , the Marshal emphasized . It is difficult to pardon the Russians for what they did and what they are still doing , he asserted . Charges ' Frontier Incidents ' " Frontier incidents with the satellites are double these days what they were under the Stalin regime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smile on us , they direct their satellites against us . " What has happened now , he continued , is that " thanks to the unity of our people and our party , " Yugoslavia has endured against Soviet pressure . He spoke cautiously of the new diplomatic status with the Soviet Union , obviously aware of feelings in the West , only recently stimulated , that Soviet-Yugoslav relations might again be restored to the basis of what they were before the 1948 break . This , he said , is impossible . To emphasize this point , he accused the Soviet Union of seeking to thwart the Balkan Pact among Greece , Turkey and Yugoslavia . Referring to the recent overtures by the Soviet Union in the direction of improving relations with Turkey , Marshal Tito stressed that Moscow had called the pact aggressive . Nevertheless , he continued , Soviet actions are not entirely a maneuver . He said he believed the Russians desired to correct their policy , but he warned that they would not renounce their aims . ' Having once taken the path of imperialism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . While Yugoslavia %desired " normal " relations with the Soviet Union , Marshal Tito asked the Allies to " put more trust in our people ; we know how to maintain our word and we like to tell the truth . " Emphasizing that Yugoslavia did not want to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , feeling it unnecessary , he pledged the desire to cooperate in defense of peace . Anniversary of Incorporation The Marshal 's speech took place on the anniversary of Yugoslavia 's wartime incorporation of the Istrian Peninsula . The audience , massed on a hillside at the village of Barem , about four miles from here , was composed largely of Slovene and Croat nationalists who had fought against previous Italian rule . The grandstand was erected a few feet from the marble monument to a Croat anti-Italian hero , Vladimir Gortan , who was placed before an Italian firing squad in 1929 , His body , originally buried in Pola , was reburied beneath the monument in ceremonies last night . Although Marshal Tito chose this occasion for his triumphant announcement about Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the dispute with Italy over the Free Territory of Trieste . On this question , he re-emphasized his desire for a bilateral settlement with Italy . He repeated earlier proposals . His first choice , he said , is to establish a condominuim rule over the Free Territory , with the Italians having the Governor for three years , Yugoslavia three years , and the people having a free choice as to the form of government . Failing that and in recognition of Italian demands for a solution along ethnic lines for the mixed Slovene and Italian populated area , he called for concessions of the two districts in the city of Trieste that would give Yugoslavia a corridor to the Gulf of Trieste in return for Italian towns on the coast of the Yugoslav-occupied zone . He flatly rejected again any solution based on the United StatesBritish-French declaration that all of the Free Territory be restored to Italy . He rejected also Italian demands for an ' ethnic solution that would cut off Yugoslavia entirely from the sea ha this area . 