@@715391

txt A government board has branded the United States Communist Party as " a subsidiary and puppet of the Soviet Union " and ordered the party to bale its membership lists and give a financial accounting . The ender is subject to review by the courts . The four present members of the subversive Activities Control Board agreed unanimously that the party " is substantially directed , dominated , and controlled " by Moscow . The party , the board said , " operates primarily to advance the objectives " of a Russian-directed world Communist movement . The board 's order was issued almost 19 months after former Attorney General J. Howard started a registration proceeding against the party . Legality Challenged Indications are that it will be a year or more before the Supreme Court has the final say on constitutionality of the 1950 Internal Security Act under which the board acted . The board was established by that act and authorized to determine whether any organizations were directed from abroad and thus , under the act 's terms , forced to register with the Attorney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' details . Attorneys for the Communist Party ? former Representative Vito Mareantonio , John J. Abt , and Joseph Forer  --  served notice in advance of the decision that they would ? ask the courts to declare the law illegal . They have called it " a Ipwless law , " The board said its " subsidiary and puppet " label applies for the American Party 's entire existence , beginning in 1910 . Committee Findings It declared : " With consummate patience , the party strives for the establishment of a dictatorship of the proletariat in the United States , a goal which would rob the American people of the f'eedoms they have forged . " While using the cloak of the United States Constitution , it struggles unremittingly to synthesize from the complexities of our time a condition in this country which would enable It to shackle our institutions and preside over a Soviet America , under the hegemony of the Soviet Union . " In 1930 the party was faced with adverse legislation , the board said , and since then it " has become increasingly diligent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political party while continuing its subservience to the Soviet Union . "                     