@@719156

txt Attorneys for Arkansas Ciov . Orval Faubus suddenly and dramatically walked out on the injunction hearing against the Governor today after declaring they do not recognize the jurisdiction of the United StateS District Court . Their walkout. came imme diately after United States District Judge Ronald N. Davies rejected their motion to dismiss the government 's petition for injunctions commanding Governor Faubus to stop interfering with the integra tion of Little Rock Central High School . William J. Smith , Governor Faubus ' personal attorney , said " as far as we are concerned we 're through . " With . that . Mr. Smith and the Governor 's other attorneys , Tom Harper and Kay Matthews , left the courtroom and entered an elevator . The hearing continued . Judge Davies called for witnesses to be summoned . Before leaving , Mr. Harper asked to make a statement for the record . He said " since the respondents Ube Governor and National Guard commander do not and can not concede that the Governor may be ques- Little Rock has again taken the national spotlight as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the National Guard troops and Central High School . First off , Federal District Judge Ronald N. Davies overruled a motion to disqualify himself . ? Federal lawyers are on a mission here to correct what Washington considers a contravention of the constitutional rights of citizens , and Arkansas Gov . Orval Faubus is up for a preliminary injunction against him to remove the troops . GOVernor Faubus had asked the judge to step down because of alleged " bias and prejudice . " Judge Davies said that the Faubus motion vas " not legally sufficient . " Government lawyers spoke for a half hour against the motion . The judge 's action clers the way for the presentation of evidence in the story that has had the nation on the edge of its seat for three weeks . Purely Legal Case It is purely a legal case  --  not one of segregation or violence . Integration , as such , is not the issue . Apparently federal attorneys feel the legal groundwork has already been laid by the Negro students themselves . These are nine young Negroes who tried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan drawn up by the Little Rock School Board and approved by the Federal District Court . The nine young Negroes were turned back at the doors of Central High School by the National Guard acting under orders from Governor Faubus . Government 's Case Based on legal explanations , the government 's case appears to boil down simply to this : I. The students are properly qualified , academically and otherwise . 2 . They have been directed to attend Central High School , and , in fact , can , legally attend no other school . : 3 . They were denied entrance by the guard to the school where they are already enrolled . 4 . The order to the National Guard , therefore , was improper , and the Governor and his proper subordinates should be enjoined from using the state militia in such a manner . Governor Faubus has not given any indication whether he personally will be present at the injunction hearing . The Arkansas chief executive refused to obey a subpoena to appear in federal court Sept. 19 in connection with a case attacking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commission , In returning the subpoena to the federal district clerk , Grady Miller , Governor Faubus wrote that " while I have the utmost respect for your court and its valid processes , I must point out that almost from the beginning of our republic it has been uniformly held that the chief executive is not compelled to comply with a subpoena unincc hn ? linnk:nc In run an- " ThreeAtullle . Court The hearing was before a three-judge court , presided over by Circuit Judge Martin D. Van Oosterhout of Sioux City , Iowa . The court granted a stay to the Arkansas Sovereignty Commission for a " reasonable time to obtain an authoritative ruling , construction , and interpretation in the state courts of Arkansas . " The legality of the prosegregation legislation is being attacked by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People . It has no connection with the broader constitutional dispute involving Governor Faubus and his use of the National Guard . Governor Faubus had been subpoenaed as ex-officio chairman of the Arkansas Sovereignty Commission . The other . two judges on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fort Smith , Ark. , and Federal District Judge Ronald N. Davies of Fargo , N.D. Judge Davies is presiding over the injunction hearing and is under attack from Governor Faubus , who alleged that the visiting judge from North Dakota could not conduct a fair hearing . Governor Faubus sums up his criticisms of Judge Davies on the grounds that the federal jurist " has privately conferred with the favored litig , ants , considered extrajudicial statements , indicated a preconceived opinion , and has advised favored litigants as to what courses of action to follow . " The - Governor insists that " Judge Davies has . departed from the rule of impartial arbiter of judicial questions presented to him and has in fact assumed the role of an advocate favoring adverse parties " to the Governor . There is no indication that Judge Davies will disqualify himself . Soeculation Rife There is plenty of speculation in Little Rock over the future course of . Governor Faubus , if Judge Davies should grant the injunction which the Department of Justice seeks . The historic and important value of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attorneys by the Justice Department to help United States District Attorney Osro Cobb . The Arkansas Democrat of Little Rock says it has information that Governor Faubus is " ready to bow out of his role as ' protector of the public peace ' and turn over the responsibility to federal and local governments . " In a copyrighted story , the Arkansas Democrat says that the Governor will take his fight on state versus federal authority  --  a states ' rights issue  --  all the way to the Supreme Court of the United States , if necessary . Course Weighed The . newspaper 's report has had no verification from any other source . Observers familiar with the Governor 's way of thinking have felt , however , that . " he has his neck bowed , " and will perhaps continue on the course he has followed of keeping.the . troops at the school to bar Negroes from entering , while fighting the case to the highest . court . Meanwhile , the classroom assignments of the nine Negro students involved in the dispute have been worked out by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Superintendent Virgil Blossom . No one is disclosing , however , when the students are expected to be admitted to school . If guardsmen are pulled out from the vicinity of Central High School , Mayor Woodrow Wilson Mann of Little Rock is confident city police can handle the situati Subpoenas have been served osn6b on more than 200 persons , all of whom arc commanded to appear in Federal District Court to testify as witnesses . The Governor has demanded the right to study a secret , 400-page report on the Little Rock situation made by the Federal Bureau of Investigation .                     