@@712910

txt United States Secretary of State Dean Acheson has welcomed the French plan for pooling coal and steel resources . He Issued a statement from the American Embassy here saying that the objectives of the plan put forward May 9 by French Foreign Minister Robert Schuman had long been favored by the United States . Mr. Acheson said the plan was " a most important development . " Analysis and final judgment must await fuller details , but meanwhile , he said : " I recognize with sympathy and approval the significance and far-reaching intent of the French initiative . " By William H. Stringer Chief of the London News Bureau of The Christian Science Monitor London French Foreign Minister Robert Schuman 's proposal to pool the steel and coal production of France and Germany under common " high authority " is regarded here as injecting into the western Big Three talks a dramatic ' new formula to assist Germany 's integration into western Europe . The plan is receiving careful and receptive study by top American and British officials , who are rounding off their two-nation talks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eign ministers ' conference May 11 . It is conjectured that the French decided to make this bold gesture when two weeks of western Big Three preparatory talks convinced them that there was no hope of persuading Britain to join the continent in a political union or federation . Would Pull War Teeth If this proposal , by drawing the dragon 's teeth of Germany 's war potential , can establish favorable conditions for a broad French-German understanding , then , it is observed here , western statesmen will have gone a long way toward reducing objections in France and elsewhere to Germany 's reentry into Europe as an equal partner . Of course , since the proposed steel and coal production pool would be open to all Europeans , including Britain , establishment of a western European heavy-industry authority conceivably could furnish an economic foundation on which to build more effective western European or North Atlantic political unity . But obviously this French idea , with its wide economic and political " implications , is not being officially commented on until United States Secretary of State Dean Acheson and Foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cabinet 's plan in detail . It is officially stated that neither the British nor the United States Government was informed of the French plan until Rene Massigli , French Ambassador to ' London , called on Messrs . Bevin and Acheson here May 9 , although Mr. Acheson was given something of the plan 's outline by M. Schuman on May 8 . The French industry - pooling proposal has not become a formal topic on the Acheson-Bevin agenda , but it would be beyond .. human nature if all discussion were reserved until . M. Schuman ? joins the talks  --  and if British officials did not even perhaps ask the Americans if they had " put the French up to " the dramatic suggestion . Reactions Awaited Official comment , when it does come , almost certainly will see the British more reserved than the Americans . In . considering whether Britain itself should join such a steel and coal " high authority , " Britain as usual . will recall its special position as head of the commonwealth producing unit and banker of the sterling bloc . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials are studying the implications of the plan , however , tentative British reaction runs about like this : Britain warmly endorses any . proposal which will bring France and Germany together and end French apprehensions . Britain regards the French plan as bold and imaginative . Britain is giving the plan immediate study . American reactions in turn can be summed up as follows : The United States warmly endorses any proposal to end French-German tension . The United States warmly endorses any proposal leading to western European economic or political integration . The United States hopes the plan will not ? simply establish an all-powerful restrictive cartel . Meanwhile , the British and American foreign ministers , in completing their two days of discussion of topics of common interest , centered a portion of their talks on Britain 's sterling position . Almost certainly the thorny problem of British participation in a European payments union , which the United States ardently desires . was thrashed out . The United States is believed prepared to accept . the British plea for a special position for sterling provided certain minor modifications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Britain must convert sterling . into dollars  --  are included . United Effort Sought In opening the bipartite discussions May 9 , Messrs . Acheson and Bevin first had a 15-minute private talk . Then various teams of advisers joined the discussion as the survey moved from one subject to another . First , it is reported , came a review of the world situation as it has developed since Mr. Bevin and Mr. Acheson met in Paris last November , Mr. Acheson stressed the view that the tension with Russia is likely to increase and that a greater united western effort is necessary to contain the global threat . Thereafter , the talks have been on very specific topics . The Benelux countries  --  Belgium , the Netherlands , and Luxembourg  --  are being . kept generally informed of the progress of the talks .                     