@@716527

txt The Chief of Staff of the Vietnamese Army has agreed to leave Saigon , thereby easing a tense situation between the Vietnamese Army and the Government . Gen. Nguyen Van Hinh was said here to be willing to leave Vietnam within a few days for six months of " study and rest " in France . There was no indication in , diplomatic reports received here whether the general would relinquish his army functions as demanded of him by Le Ngoc Chan , Secretary of State for National Defense . All that is definitely known is that a compromise has been worked out whereby the controversial Chief of Staff will be allowed to leave his country at his leisure rather than obey an ultimatum to leave Saigon today . He originally had been instructed to turn over his office and leave the country Sunday . French Backing Seen This he refused to do and there was every evidence yesterday that he might , with the backing of the army and the officer corps , hold out indefinitely in his refusal . The situation was a source of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There have been numerous indications , according to sources here , that , the Chief of Staff has been receiving his primary strength from the French in Vietnam and that this has attracted the backing of the Vietnamese Army and some political elements .. It has been reasoned that this was true when Ngo Dinh Diem took office in June of this year when , according to sources , he would have did:harged the Chief of Staff but did not have the power to do so . General Nguyen Van ' Hinh . French-trained as an% Air Force administrator and married to a French woman , is known to be deeply sympathetic to French colonial authority . Some of the stronger Vietnamese nationalists have charged the general as well as his father , Nguyen Van Tam , former Premier , with being " traitors " ' to Vietnamese independence . The generates more vigorous critics charge that he has for many ' ? months been plotting a coup and that the Government has had full knowledge of this . ( Other sources describe this as an alarmist view . Air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Air Academy in 1938 as a second lieutenant . He served successively in the- French Sudan , Senegal , Algeria and Tunisia and later in the French occupation forces in Germany . . After his father became Minister of the Interior the then Ma , jor was appointed to Saigon as chief of both the operations and intelligence bureaus of the French ! Far East East Air Command . In March , 1952 , he was inte , grated into the Vietnamese National Army with the rank ofl brigadier general and the duties of t  --  Chief of Staff . His father , who became Premier the following July , resigned in 1953 and was succeeded by ** Loc . Some indication of , the : general 's strength in recent rnoz-ths is seen in the fact that the , Government 's offer of the Chief of Staff post to two of the latter 's subordinates was turned down by each of the two .                     