@@712623

txt PaulHenri Spaak , Belgian statesman , took Britain to task today for what he described as reluctance " to step boldly on the way that leads to European order . " In a 2,300-word address at a meeting sponsored by the University of Pennsylvania 's General Alumni Society in the Irvine Auditorium at the university , M. Spaak , president of the Consultative Assembly of the Council of Europe and former Premier of Belgium and a former president of the United Nations General Assembly , said : " We are confronted here with a well-known British tendency . Great Britain , which for centuries has always been drawn into our quarrels , has always refused , however , to proclaim unreservedly her European character . Her dream , her policy , has always been to be the arbiter of our disputes . " But times have changed and conditions are entirely new . There is no really great power in Europe . A balance-of-power policy has become impossible . Great Britain can no longer be the beam of a balance , the scales of which no longer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ active element in Europe . " If Britain turns away from continental Europe , M. Spaak asserted , " it will be a. great misfortune for the latter , but , in the long am , I am convinced that it will be s. misfortune for Great Britain , : oo . " He expressed the belief that Eu'ope could be re-made without 3ritish help , but that " she would se nothing more than a caricature " aid that Germany would play " too considerable " a part in the new Europe . Turning to the United Nations , M. Spaak warned that the organization " will not survive , in the long run , the absurd rule which grants the right of absolute veto to the five great powers . " The United Nations would work , he asserted , only when that right has been abolished . The Belgian statesman said that abolition of the big power veto would be simple but for the intransigeance of Russia . Terming the U. S. S. R. the greatest obstacle to the effective organization of the United Nations , he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reform and to condemn the United Nations to an almost total impotence . " Better and fairer than the veto , M. Spaak said , would be a system under which each nation would have a number of votes in the General Assembly commensurate with its territorial and economic importance . " Complete equality between all nations is an attractive idea , but not a very realistic one , " he said.1 M. Speak proposed that each power relinquish a portion of its sovereignty and that each United Nations member , large or small , acknowledge without reservation " that above its own will there is an international law . " The ideals set forth in the United Nations Charter meant something vital , to the democracies of America and Europe , he said . M. Speak added , however , in undisguised reference to Russia : " But have we not cheapened , spoiled and tarnished our ideal in pretending to believe that it was also that of countries where one is arrested without warrant , deported without judgment , tried without safety , tortured without mercy , where freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elections are a mockery and where the will of the state is the only law ? " " The world today is divided in two and it probably is going to be so divided for a long time , " M. Spaak said . " No international policy that denies this truth or wants to ignore it shall ever be effective . " No universal organization will be able to function unless the baleful rule that a decision can only be taken unanimously has been abolished . "                     