@@717313

txt Japanese Foreign Minister Mamoru Shigemitsu said today the Japanese must be less dependent upon the United States . They must move ahead to " a complete posture of independence , " , he added . There seemed to be only a slim chance that his talks next week with Secretary of State Dulles and other United States officials would produce any basic changes in Japanese-American relations . The Foreign Minister said at a news conference that he would present to Mr. Dulles a complete blueprint of Japan 's new defense program . He declined to discuss his proposals in advance of next week 's talks . However , there seemed to be little inclination on the part of United States officials to enter into discussions at this time of any fundamental revisions of the Japanese-American security pact under which American forces are stationed on the Japanese home islands . Time Inopportune The United States is understood to feel that the moment is inappropriate for radical changes in the Far Eastern defense setup . It was understood that if Japan had a specific plan for an increase of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States of some responsibility for it , the United States would be willing to consider a balancing reduction in Japan 's contribution to American defense ' costs . But there is some doubt here that Japan is actually desirous at the present time of taking a major step toward rearmament . A move toward the , creation of , a full-scale army , navy and air ' force would run up against the constitutional provisions for disarmament that Japan adopted under the aegis of General of the Army Douglas . This would involve political complications that the present Japanne Government does not desire , it is believed . There is a feeling , in general , that Mr. Shigemitsu 's journey to Washington is inspired more by domestic Japanese political necessities than by the requirements of the international situation . From the United States side there is a desire to move ' slowly in making any ? consequential *changes until the meeting of the foreigm.mini.sters at Geneva has given an indication , of whether the present diminution of tensions between East and West will taper ofd or continue . Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not undertake any radical alteration of trade relations with Communist China or the Soviet Union until Geneva has demonstrated whether a general increase in trade between East and West is possible and desirable . The same factor governs another question that the Japanese are expected to raise , the question of the status of the Bonin and Ryukyu Islands . It is regarded as most unlikely that the United States would undertake any change in the jurisdiction of these islands so long as American security commitments remain at the present level . It was believed , however , that it might be possible to eliminate certain sources of friction within Japan over the presence and activities of United States defense ' forces . ? American authorities are well aware that the long-continued , stay of United States troops onl Japanese soil hat caused irritations . Some of the irritations have become political issues . Some Aggravated Issues Among the more aggravated issues of this type are the use , of Mount Guji as an artillery firing range , the extension of runways at five Unitecy , States air bases to enable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Honest Jphn rockets , capable of carrying atomic warheads . With regard to Japanese war criminals there is great sympathy among United States officials for Japanese sentiments . It is , however , a complex problem . Of 577 Japanese war criminals still held the United States has jurisdiciiion over only 210 , of whom seven are so-called " Class A ? , war criminals , convicted by in- ' ternational tribunals . The cases ) of the Japanese are said to be under constant review and it was believed that a basis for meeting Japanese demands , at least in part , might be found . So far as the Japanese islands are concerned the United States has made plain that it recognizes the ' ' residual sovereignty " of the Japanese in both the Bonins and the Ryukyus . The Japanese have indicated a desire to move back to the Bonins several thousand civilians who were evacuted . Arrangements to this end , it was said , might be worked out . Mr. Shigemitsu left Washington this afternoon for Hot Springs , Va. , where he will spend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his first meeting with Mr. Dulles.                     