@@719292

txt George F. Kennan said tonight that the position of the present regime in the Soviet Union was precarious . The former United States diplomat , Ambassador to Moscow from 1950 to 1952 , declared that Nikita S. Khrushchev " has achieved the pinnacle of power he wanted , but . I suspect he is very isolated up there and the winds around him are becoming increasingly chillly . " One by one , the leader of the Soviet Communist party has offended and estranged " from the central political process " the intelligentsia , the industrial managers and a section of the officers ' corps of the armed services , Mr. Kennan said . " Plainly , this is not a stable situation , " he continued . " I can not believe that it will be of long duration . " Mr. Kennan , who is spending a year teaching at Oxford , was delivering the first of a series of lectures on the British Broadcasting Corporation 's radio system on " Russia , the Atom and the West . " He described the downfall of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister , as the last and most important of Mr. Khrushchev 's successful efforts to divest himself of " cloying " partnerships and to reassert the predominance of the Communist party over all professional elements . This success has been purchased at a heavy cost , Mr. Kennan said . He added that there , was a great deal more talent in the Soviet Union today outside the apparatus of the party than it . He also declared that it was too late to recapture minds that had begun to ask troubled , penetrating questions . He described the pattern " which we are . obliged to discern on the Russian internal scene " as a mixed one . There is economic progress , but it is against a background of deepening crisis on the political front , Mr. Kerman said . This crisis is to be found in the relationship of the senior figures to each other and in their relationship to the people over whom they ruled , he continued . This crisis , he felt , is a slow one , not likely to reach a climax tomorrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not readily resolved by anything short of complete cultural and political freedom . " Speaking of the military problem presented by the Soviet Union , Mr. Kerman said he failed to understand the frame of mind that saw in every evidence of Soviet economic or scientific progress some new deterioration in Western security . " One is moved to wonder , sometimes , how long it will be before people can bring themselves to realize that the ability to wreak terrible destruction on other peoples now rests in a fairly large number of hands , and that the danger is already so great that variations in degree do not have much meaning , " Mr. Kennan said . " Our problem is no longer to prevent people from acquiring the ability to destroy us : it is too late for that . Sees No Reason to Quake " Our problem is to see that they do not have the will or the incentive to do it . For this we have to preserve and cultivate our retaliatory capacity . But that is all . And that does not necessarily imply an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for " greater detachment and reservation of judgment on our part toward internal happenings in Russia . " " Their world is not our world , their fortunes need not always be the diametrical opposite of our own , " he said . " We have reason neither . to quake before the spectacle of Soviet economic progress nor to crow over the fact that the Soviet Government faces political dilemmas . " Mr. Kennan conceded that Soviet economic progress since he resigned from the United States foreign service in 1953 had surpassed anything he had thought possible . He said the launching of the earth satellites had been only a dramatization , " misleading in some respects but revealing in others , " of this impressive economic success . " While conceding to the Soviet leaders and the Soviet people all the respect they deserve for this achievement , we must be careful not - to exaggerate its significance , " he said . He said it was unlikely that the rate of growth of the Soviet economy would be maintained for long at the recent level . " Russia has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the possibilities for rapid growth that attend a relatively early stage of industrialization , " he said . " But her economy is now coming into maturity : she is beginning to run up against problems  --  organizational problems , manpower problems and others  --  which are familiar to all the advanced industrial countries . " Mr. Kennan said there was no evidence that the Soviet Union had better answers " than the rest of us " to these problems of the advanced industrial society .                     