@@718811

txt Secretary of State Dulles suggested today that Alaska , northern Canada and Siberia might be places to start testing any aerial-inspection agreement with the Soviet Union . Mr. Dulles said at his news conference that he did not rule out Europe as a testing area for President Eisenhol.ver 's " open skies " military-inspection plan . He added , however , that it might be easier to begin with sparsely populated areas . This was merely a State Department approach to the problem of aerial inspection , not a Government-approved policy , he said . " We see a good many political pitfalls in trying to start out this experiment in Europe , where you run into , a great many problems such as the reunification of Germany , problems of NATO , the neutralization of some states such as Austria and Switzerland , and so forth . " Reply to Soviet Plan This was the Secretary of State 's personal response to the Soviet proposal of April 30 that the United States and the Soviet Union agree to aerial inspection over wide areas of Europe , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States . Mr. Dulles emphasized these points in a conference devoted primarily to the inspection and armament questions : 91-le is going to make no moves in the armament field involving " the very existence of the United States itself " on the basis of unverifiable promises by the Soviet Union . IlHe is going to act on all questions of disarmament , troop locations and European security arrangements only when there is a reliable inspection system and only in the closest cooperation with Chancellor Konrad Adenauer of the West German Federal Republic and the other Western allies . CHe thinks there is " some evidence " that the Russians are making genuine efforts toward a disarmament and inspection plan in the current London talks of the United Nations Disarmament Subcommittee , but all steps by the United States are going to be " carefully measured , carefully taken and carefully calculated . " , Mr. Dulles deliberately tried to remove any suspicion that the Administration was flirting with any plan that would create a demilitarized zone in a divided Germany . President Eisenhower indicated in his news conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eden plan " for a demilitarized zone in Europe and this created some apprehension in the pre-election atmosphere of West Germany . " We do not accept any arrangement which is based upon the present partition of Gerimany . " Mr. Dulles said today , " and let me add this : that in anything which touched directly or indirectly upon Germany and its prospects for reunification , we would act only in the closest concert with Chancellor Adenauer . " The repeated assurances of support for Chancellor Adenauer were regarded here as significant . The West German election is not to be held until September but the campaign there has started . Moreover , the Russians are showing great interest in the struggle for power in Germany , and Mr. Dulles , a strong supporter of the Chancellor , wants nothing done here that might add to Dr. Adenauer 's political difficulties . This is especially true because reports have been reaching here of the possibility that Moscow will try to help the Social Democrats defeat the present West German Government by offering . late . in the election cam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to accept a neutral status , like Austria , outside the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . Mr. Dulles also took pains to make clear to Congressmen west of the Misssissippi River that he had no intention of agreeing at this time to the Soviet proposal for aerial inspection by the Russians over that part ; of the United States . Indeed , after thirty-five ' minutes of sharp questioning at his news conference , he went to Capitol Hill and ran into some more from Western members of the Senate Republican Policy Committee . They left Mr. Dulles in no doubt that their enthusiasm for having Soviet planes flying over their states was not unlimited . He reassured them that he was not accepting this part of . the Soviet proposal , and in fact that he did not regard Moscow 's offer to let United States planes fly over Siberia as a fair exchange for flying over the Westorn half of the United States . Mr. Dulles said at his news conference that there appeared to be some misunderstanding about the so-called Eden plan for Europe , presented at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ July , 1955 . This , he said , was a plan for reciprocal inspection of militarized areas and " did not involve any demilitarized zone at all , " He must have been alluding to the Eden memorandum of July 22 , 1955 , which did not mention a demilitarized zone . But in a proposal four days earlier at the same conference , Sir Anthony did say : " We should be ready to examine the possibility of a demilitarized area between East and West . " This was put forward , however , on the assumption that the Russians would agree to the reunification of Germany . It appeared today that the Secretary of State was not foreclosing the possibility of wide areas of inspection in Europe or even some more dramatic European security arrangement , provided it included the reunification of Germany . What he was doing was expressing what was not necessarily a Government-wide policy but a personal opinion that the way to start on disarmament and inspection Iva. ; in areas with the least possible political complications . Mr. Dulles also made these points : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is " sympathetically disposed " to a system of mutual aerial inspection of the Canadian and Soviet Arctic area:4 , car the mutual aerial inspection system could he started in these sparsely populated and politically uncomplicated areas , this might lead to a relaxation of fear because some of these areas could be staging areas for attack in an atomic war .                     