@@714600

txt Three epoch-marking projects upon which " the future of Europe bangs " may be achieved this year , a Boston audience was told today by Paul-Henri Spaak , first president of the United Nations Gen &al; Assembly and former Premier of Belgium . Speaking at a luncheon meeting sponsored by the Boston Chamber of Commerce and the United Council on World Affairs at the Hotel Bradford , M. Spaak said the three projects were the Schuman Plan , the European Army , and the convening of an European constitutional convention . A decisive step in the right direction , the Schuman Plan calls for establishment of a single market for both coal and steel for France , Germany , Italy , Belgium , Holland , and Luxembourg , with no more borders , customs , artificial measures of defense , the speaker declared . German'Problems Cited The European Army involves the rearming of Germany , integrating the necessary German forces into the European Army , Spaak said . Raising the question whether the present West German Government truly represents the feelings of the German masses , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large part of German youth is radically hostile to the idea of military service . Compulsory military service would have " a dangerous proportion of conscientious objectors , " M. Speak asserted , adding that voluntary enlistment , too , is not without danger , especially for the young German republic . A double opposition has developed in France against the project of a treaty for the European Army , the speaker noted that of the nationalists who ' deplore the partition of the old and glorious French Army and that of advocates of the new Europe , who feel the project is not audacious enough ? " does not create a supranational authority . " Unified Policy Sought This debate in the French Chamber of Deputies ended by a rather confused voting , M. Speak said , pointing out that " I am not quite convinced that the conference in Lisbon har , removed all misunderstandings . " - Something good arose from all these difficulties , however , in the ministers becoming aware that they were using the wronr . method in wanting to make r European Army before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new Europe , th speaker said . Associated Press Paul-Henri Spaak , first president of the General Assembly of the United Nations , who addressed Chamber of Commerce luncheon in Boston today , posing a draft constitution , the ministers of the six states concerned have decided , M. Spaak stated . " This return to logic seems to me to constitute the great hope of the moment . Maximum effort must be made in order to have the European constitutional convention meet as soon as possible and have it achieve great success . " What is needed is a European team capable of doing what the authors of ' The Federalist ' did for the United States but adapted to our times and our environment . For us , 1952 is what 1788 was for Alexander Hamilton , James Madison , and John Jay , the crucial years when their strength of will brought the peoples to change their destiny . It is in that decisive hour in the history of the United States that Europe must now seek her reasons for hope . " Aid a Little Longer Urged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " the speaker said that " when the United States ' pro-European policy is living tangible results " is not the , ime " that there can be any ques ' ion of forsaking it or even of - codifying it . " " We may well be on the eve of radical change in Europe . In 2ss than 10 years the Europe of , today  --  mutilated , miserable , timid  --  can have regained her economic power , her military strength , and her spiritual radiance . " This would mean " the utter certainty " that " by the addition of our strength to yours , we will be able to contain the aggressive action of communism and insure peace . " 