@@716403

txt GENEVA , July ** Enlai , Communist Chinese Premier , continued to display a conciliatory attitude toward Cambodia and Laos in visits to their delegations today . After these calls officials of the two . countries said the Communist Chinese leader appeared not to have changed the views he suddenly advanced in the Far East conference last month when , in effect , he proposed that Vietminh forces in Cambodia and Laos withdraw and to agree to a settlement separate from arrangements for Vietnam . At that time Mr. Chou seemed also to concede the Allies ' thesis that the warfare in Cambodia and Laos was not a civil war as in Vietnam but the result of an invasion by Vietminh forces . Mr. // Chou 's approach , since adopted as the basis for Loatian and Cam-I bodian peace talks , envisaged a settlement for the two countries involving commitments against new foreign bases or foreign troops on their territories and a limitation , with international supervision , of their military establishments and arms imports . Mr. Chou 's calls on the Cambodians and Laotians were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his return to the Geneva conference Monday . He was renewing a personal contact first established with the delegations shortly before he left for New Delhi , India , and Peiping last month . Mr. Chou had a one-hour discussion with Phouy Sananikone , Laotian Deputy Premier , and other members of the Laotian delegation and talks lasting about the same length of time with Tep Phan , Cambodian Foreign Minister , and other Cambodian officials . He is said to have assured representatives of the two countries of Communist China 's respect for the independence and integrity of the two states but to have emphasized Red China 's opposition Ito foreign bases on their territories . A Cambodian official said Mr. Chou had made a new and surprising concession in stating that any limitation on . Cambodia 's armed forces and on arms imports established in a peace settlement for Cambodia needed to be only temporary . The Chinese Premier was reported to have said the restrictions should apply only for the period of the armistice in Vietnam . Mr. Chou also was reported to have considered Vietminh arguments that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political prerogatives by the Cambodian Government an " interference with national sovereignty . " Meanwhile Tran Van Do , Foreign Minister of the Vietnam , met for the second time in Geneva with Pham Van Dong , Deputy Premier and Foreign Minister of the Vietminh . The talk , about which little precise information was released , is believed to have concerned problems connected with a cease-fire and not to have broached political questions . In a commentary on his meetings with Pham Van Dong , released to the official Vietnamese news agency , Tran Van Do said his talks with the Vietminh , lead er did not mean the Vietnamese Government had renounced its1 essential objectives  --  the inde-I pendence and unity of Vietnam.1 A Vietnam Government spokesman announced here today that Tran Van Chuong , brother of Tran Van Do was going to Washington with ambassadorial status to replace Tran Van Kha , present , Vietnam Ambassador to the United States .                     