@@720536

txt Each year the Soviet Party launches a campaign to boost membership morale and to cast off deadwood . These ideological-educational drives usually tell the West where the Communist shoe pinches . This time the accent is on youth , grass-root initiative , and personal demonstration . A kind of Communist moral rearmament seems to be in the works . Cadres are to be quickened and routine-bound officials imbued with the spirit of creative labor in workshops and factories , building yards and collective farms . Remotely one is reminded of the Peking-inspired drive to turn all party and state officials , including Army officers , for one month each year into manual workers , farmers , privates . Although such a policy would seem to be incompatible within the hierarchic , protocol-ridden So  --  ie : . setup , there is little doubt that certain aspects of the Chinese initiative have been favorably received in Moscow . ' Labor Habit ' Urged Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev himself is believed to be largely in agreement with certain ideas attributed to Communist Chinese Party Chairman Mao Tse-tung and published @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Red Flag ) , the Chinese equivalent of Moscow 's Komnmnist . " To pass over to communism , " wrote Hongqi on Feb. 16 , " it is necessary not only to have a highly developed material and technical base . . . but one must start right away to train a new type of man so as to imbue the gre ' ; t masses with a Communist spit it a spirit of collectivism and diligence . . . and of the noble moral principles of the new society . " " Labor should be turned into a habit and an inner need for mankind , " liongqi continued , quoting Mr. Khrushchev , in line with the staid ways of his associates , he , too , repeatedly has sponsored a new Communist-type man . But in Mr. Khrushchev 's thinking , this new type derives his dynamism not only from a higher degree of " Communist consciousness , " but also from material incentives and.a sound ambition to pioneer and lead through personal example . Urgency Indicated The immediate motivation for the current Soviet drive to - quicken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among the masses " . are believed to be : 1 . A desire to open the door wide for potential leaders among the up-and-coming younger " ad-vance workers , " an initiative launched at the party congress by First Deputy Priemier Frol R. Koziol , . 2 . The fight against " hooliganism " ( criminal rowdyclotn ) and cynical indifference toward the Communist ideal among the younger generation . The urgency of this problem was shown by a decree of the central committee published on March 10 " on the participation of workers in the protection of public order " which led to the formation of groups of volunteers , mainly among the younger workers , so-called druzhini , or auxiliary police guards who arc to help the authorities to get stray sheep back into the fold . 3 . The need to increase ( and at the same time politically to control ) the initiative of the so-called workers ' production conferences on the factory level . which arc the Soviet counterpart to the workers ' councils of Poland and Yugoslavia . This movement , originally launched under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be guided by the party rather than by trade-union officials , who arc to remain in a subordinate position . The long-range objective of the campaign and its shibboleths of " socialist democracy ; higher creative activity of the masses , and political education in the spirit of love of work and collectivism " is " the mobilization of the creative forces of the Soviet people for the successful fulfillment of the Seven-Year Plan . " The extent to which party and government are cracking the whip is shown by a more recent decision of the central committee . published on June 10 and keyed to party pledges from Sverdlovsk in the Urals . according to which the plan is to be fulfilled in six years Or earlier . The - shortcomings " and other negative aspects which the current campaign seeks to eradicate are " expressions of bourgeois ideology and survivals of the past in the consciousness of the people , neglect of social work and discipline , plunder of socialist property , violations of labor discipline and workers ' protective legislation , graft and speculation . " The campaign , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ climax in an unpublished decree of the central committee " on political work on a mass scale among the workers of Stalino Province , its present stand , and measures to improve it " Decree Discussed In province after province . republic after republic , this decree was placed on the Communist agenda : it was discussed on the factory level and in military institutes , in plenary sessions of republican central committees , in research organizations and schools . Most of the realignments . regroupings , and demotions of party officials in the wake of the party congress were carried out in line with the Stalino decree .                     