@@719016

txt The two-month-long drought in southern New England continued unabated today . Crop losses in Massachusetts , Rhode island , and Connecticut have mounted to an estimated $30,000,000 -- with no prospects of rain in the area for at least five days . The drought area extended beyond this hardest-hit section to the Carolinas , to southern New York State , New Jersey , Virginia , and to Maryland . The nation 's weather showed little change , with clear skies and pleasant temperatures in wide areas . Clear , cool , and dry weather prevailed from the Great Lakes region and the Ohio Valley eastward to the Atlantic seaboard . George G. Hyland , - Commissioner of the Boston Public Works Department , today placed restrictions on the use of water in the city , which consumes some 60 per cent of the Metropolitan District supply . Watering of lawns or gardens will be prohibited , as of today . except between the hours of 8 and 10 p.m . Mr. Hyland also requested Bostonians not to use water for any purpose except what was absolutely essential to the health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regulations were issued , he said , in a cooperative effprt to stave off any possible emergency declaration by the State Department of Public Health . Since May 8 , the following cities and towns have been declared as emergency drought areas by the Public Health department : Agawam , Andover , Bedford , Bellingham , Braintree , Dartmouth , Eastham , Fairhaven , Franklin , Hamilton , Holden , Hudson , Leominster , Lexington , Lynnfield , Marion , Marshfield , Medfield , Middle , boro , Millis , Natick , New Bedford , North Reading , Rutland , Scituate , Somerset , Stoughton , Turners Fall ( Montague Forest district ) , Wakefield , Winchester , and Woburn . In these communities water may be shut oft in any instance where householders violate restrictions on its use . Meantime , in Washington , Senator Leverett Saltonstall ( II ) of Massachusetts outlined to Bay State farmers the federal aids available to them , and Representative Edith Nourse Rogers ( R ) of Massachusetts said she is asking the administration to declare Massachusetts a disaster area . So far . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Massachusetts , but has stated that if such a proclamation can be shown to be an aid , he will declare one . Massachusetts Department of Agriculture officials are reported ready to request such a declaration from Governor Furcolo . This would pave the way to federal aid , make state funds available to farmers , and would virtually ban all unnecessary use of water throughout the state . Cl s Awaited Rain-making machine's. leased by the Bay State , have been set up and are ready to go in 10 strategic locations of southeastern Massachusetts . Farm volunteers are standing by and waiting for the necessary moisture-filled clouds . So far , these have failed to put in an appearance . As farm losses mounted , numerous woodland fires increased . and civil defense authorities were formulating new disaster plans to fight the forest blazes . A fire in the Blue Hills section of Quincy , Mass. , burned over an estimated 60 acres before being controlled last night . , However , even as the hot , dry spell of the past two months may have been devastating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operators of resort and tourist areas . All summer resorts in Massachusetts reported an increase in vacation travel business to date this year , according to John T. Burke , Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Commerce . He added that while percentage figures are not available at this time , resort operators of every type indicated that cash registers had been jingling at a faster pace than a year ago . Water Level Sinks At the same time , it was pointed out , accommodations are still available in every resort area from Cape Cod and the islands to the Berkshires . If the fair weather continues , officials believe the summer will be a record-breaker . Reservoir levels generally were reported at all-time lows , although the larger watersheds , such as Quabbin , still have adequate amounts of water . ? Commissioner Charles Greenough of the Metropolitan District Commission yesterday reiterated warning to the 26 cities and towns supplied by the MDC water system that drastic measures will be necessary unless there is a substantial voluntary curtailment in consumption . Chief problem , it was emphasized , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               