@@713503

txt The Senate passed and sent to President Truman for final approval today a bill to set up immediately an integrated Federal-state Civil defense system . The system is designed to protect civilian life and property in the country 's 150 critical target areas against enemy attack by atomic bombs , biological or bacteriological warfare , or anyt other technique . The measure was based on studies made during the last year by the National Security Resources Board , under the chairmanship of W. Stuart Symington , although the completed legislation differed in material respects from the draft sent to the Capitol last September . The Armed Services Committees of both the Senate and the House considered that the original proposal conferred far too sweeping powers on the projected Civil Defense Administration . As finally passed , the bill drew a sharp distinction between the authority of the administrator in the preparatory phase and that he would be permitted to exercise in the event of actual enemy attack . While awaiting the action of Congress in the matter , President Truman established a Civil Defense Administration by executive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Florida , to be its administrator . The legislation passed today authorized the President to transfer the personnel and functions of this organization to the newly created statutory body , along with such personnel of the National Security Resources Board as he deems necessary , The Senate Armed Services Committee has already held hearings on the expected nomination of Mr. Caldwell to be administrator , under the new legislation , on the assumption that President Truman would make the nomination as soon as the bill became law . It was expected that the incoming Senate would raise no objection to his confirmation . The post of administrator of the permanent , independent agency created by the bill would pay $17,500 a year , and the job of deputy administrator would pay $16,000 . Both individuals would be selected from civilian life . The object of the legislation , except for its emergency features , was to define the relationship between the Federal and the state governments in furthering civil defense plans , and to encourage the states in setting up mutual aid compacts between themselves where needed . The administrator would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid pacts , through the State Department , with neighboring countries , such as Canada and Mexico . There was little objection in either House to the authority given to the administrator to prepare plans and organizations , in the way of encouraging the building of common bomb shelters , testing rescue techniques , recommending system ? of training for workers , etc . But the broad emergency powers aroused apprehension in both chambers . McCarran Questions Powers Senator Pat McCarran , Democrat of Nevada , voiced some of this today in the only debate which attended the Senate 's passage of the measure . " If this bill becomes law , " he said , " it will be one of the most drastic and far-reaching laws that has ever been placed on the statute books of our country . It goes ' farther toward curtailing the rights and liberties of the individual than any act Congress has passed , to my knowledge , " The question of what is an emergency , and how long it can last , is a serious proposition . We see emergencies put into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come to an end any more than we know when war will be ended . " The bill , as passed , provided that the emergency powers of the administrator should terminate on June 30 , 1954 , unless previously revoked by a concurrent resolution of Congress . Such a resolution does not require the approval of the President to become effective . Of the material aid to be supplied by the Federal Government to the states and local communities , the most important would be a contribution of 50 per cent toward construction of public bomb shelters . Estimates given to the committees placed the cost of such shelters , to be erected in those areas which an enemy would consider profitable targets of attack , at $2,250,000,000 over the next three years . The total cost of the program ' has been estimated at $3,100,000 ; 000 , but this figure is questioned . Several cities , including New York , indicated a desire to construct multi-purpose structures , such as underground public garages , that could serve in emergency as bomb shelters . Mayor Impellitteri also suggested that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediately to serve as shelters and to be incorporated in the final construction of the line . The bill would prohibit Federal contribution to such self-liquidating projects , but would authorize the Reconstruction Finance Corporation to lend money up to a total of $250,000,000 for their construction provided they would be amortized over fifty years . The administrator would also be authorized to make contributions of , half the money needed to strengthen a garage , for example , to a point where it could also serve as a shelter against atomic bombs . In other fields of - material aid , the Federal Government would share equally with the states and their subdivisions the cost of organization equipment ( as distinguished from personal equipment ) . It would bear the entire cost of regional , stockpiles of medicines , blood plasma and similar supplies , as well as the entire cost of a public air-raid warning system . The states and communities would bear the whole cost of administration of their organizations and of the personal equipment ( badges , protective clothing , etc. ) for their workers . Primary Responsibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and intent of Congress that this responsibility for civil defense shall be vested primarily in the several states and their political subdivisions . " To further this principle , the measure ? provided that interstate compacts for mutual aid in civil defense should come into effect sixty days after their submission to a sitting session of Congress , unless Congress voted otherwise in that time . It also provided that the Federal contributions for shelters should be allocated in the ratio that the population of any single state 's critical target areas should bear to the total population of such areas throughout the country . For training purposes , the administrator would be authorized to set up a single National Civil Defense College and not more than three civil defense technical training schools . He would provide instructors and training aids to such institutions and bear the subsistence costs of instructors and trainees : The bill would authorize the states to set up a United States Civil Defense Corps , composed of individuals and units organized for the purposes of the measure . It provided , however , that members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Federal Government . These and lesser powers were included in the sections of the bill dealing with the preparatory phase . The procedures authorized under the emergency section were much broader and less subject to Governmental red tape . The bill provides that a civil defense emergency could be proclaimed either by the President or by a concurrent resolution of Congress , provided that , in either event , it was based on a finding that " an attack upon the United States has occurred or is anticipated and that the national safety therefor requires an invocation of the provisions of this - title . " After such a proclamation , the administrator would be empowered , under Presidential ' direction , to levy on all agencies of the . Federal Government ( after taking into consideration the needs , of the Na -- tional Defense Department ) for Personnel , materials and facilities to assist the states , to provide emergency shelter for victims , and to clear wreckage , make temporary repairs and provide temporary hospitals , utilities and transportation . He could reimburse the states for the compensation , transportation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disaster relief outside their own borders , and for state materials used in the extension of assistance to neighboring states . He could provide " financial assistance for the temporary relief or aid of any civilian injured or in want as the result of an attack , " and incur obligations on behalf of the United States " to meet the civil defense requirements of an attack or of an anticipated attack . " The administrator could requisition real or personal , property at a figure deemed by him to be " just compensation . " If the owner was unwilling to ' accept ' his valuation , the administrator would immediately pay him 75 per , cent of the proposed figure , and the owner would have the right to seek additional compensation within three years before the court of claims . The bill specified that none of its provisions should be interpreted as modifying the responsibilities of the Atomic . Energy Commission for safeguarding secrets in its field , or the responsibility of the redeye , . ' Bureau of ' investigation for the control of sabotage , espionage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the administrator could classify information and positions in the civil defense organization as having particular security significance . Persons having access to either would be required to undergo a loyalty check by the Civil Service Commission . This consists of searching all Government records for information on an individual . If any derogatory information should be found , that individual would be required to undergo a field check by the F. B. I. If the administrator elected to employ such an individual despite adverse findings in either case , he would be required to record his decision , and the reasons for it , in writing . The measure was rushed for final passage before the adjournment of the Eighty-first Congress today in order that it might be before the forty-four State Legislatures which are scheduled to meet this month , som , of them in their only session for two years .                     