@@715795

txt Lately the Administration 's posis lion on budget balancing in relation to rational security has come into clearer perspective . The policy seems to be to strive for a balanced budget , but only if this involves no sacrifice of valid defense objectives . This clarification , provided by the President 's latest press conference and elsewhere , will doubtless fail to satisfy those who have been clamoring for vast new defense expenditures . For other reasons it does not wholly satisfy us either . What Mr. Eisenhower said nt his press conference was that balancing the budget would always remain a goal of any administration intent on assuring sound money , but that you could n't pick a specific date and declare : " Here all things must give way to a balanced budget . " He declined to promise that the balancing would in fact he accomplished by any specific date such as July 1 , 1953 . At the same time he indicated there is no present plan to increase total defense spending substantially if at all . This seems to us to add @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that budget balancing is not it paramount objective at all times and under all circumstances , in a major war or clear threat of imminent attack . for example , it would be very much subordinated to survival or security . On the other hand , it must he inferred that such circumstances do not presently obtain or else defense spending would he rising precipitately without any regard to the red ink involved . It is to the last point that the more-defense advocates take exception . They argue that national sum ival is at stake right now and that the Administration is subordinating that consideration to its budget-balancing efforts . Ono commentator says in practically so many words that we are doomed unless we forthwith spend many billions  --  S20 billion or more depending on the estimate ? improving the continental defense of the United States . Various Democrats have joined in the clamor , but it is bipartisan as well . Republican Representative Sterling Cole wants the government to spend S10 billion more a year on continental defense ; in a classic expression of the we-aredoomed psychology , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ choose between financial ruination for my country or atomic devastation . " Mr. Cole 's statement raises the in- triguing question whether a financiallyruined country could avoid atomic devastation or retaiiate against it . It also seems to admit that his proposals would lead to financial ruination . But if the sense behind his extreme language is that in the event of a clear threat of atomic attack the U. S. should spend whatever is necessary to defend itself , then there is little room for argument . The burden of proof , however , rests with those who maintain that national survival is now at stake . The only thing that can possibly mean is that the Soviets are not only capable of attacking this country with nuclear weapons but have decided to do so in the near future . But if there is such evidence , these people have not produced a shred of it . They merely say that because the Soviets have the theoretical capability this country must plunge hell-bent toward financial ruination . We would not scoff at Soviet capabilities ; they must obviously be taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Continental defense has been under way for a long time , and increasing amounts of money are being spent on it , even though the experts in the field admit that no amount of money imaginable could provide complete protection . It is it cry long jump , however , from recognition of Soviet capacities to assumptions of Soviet actions . If evidence of the latter existed , the President would be aware of it and as a citizen and a military expert he would be doing something about it . But the other side of this coin is that if no emergency can be said to exist , no good reason remains for failing to balance the budget and for doing it promptly . Perhaps it is too much to expect the President to pledge balance by a given date , but there is some danger also in the idea that it can he put off indefinitely in favor of continued expenditures that seem attractive or , to some , even necessary . The danger , of course , is that the longer it is put off the easier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what has been happening for too many years in Washington , a situation which has contributed to partial financial ruination via inflation . At some point -- again in the absence of war or real emergency ? " all things " pretty much do have to " give way to a balanced budget " nr the budget is n't likely to get balanced . That point . we suggest , is in the immediate , not the indefinite , future .                     