@@717311

txt Secretary of Stale Dulles proposed yesterday a program to end hostilities between Israel and her Arab neighbors . The key point in the program called for an international guarantee of new Israeli-Arab borders . The United States would participate in this guarantee through formal treaty obligations , which would be subject to Senate ratification . The expecte. - ltion is that the guarantee would be sponsored by the United Nations . In. this respect Mr. Dulles also proposed an agreement on permanent boundaries between Israel and its neighbors to be achieved with United States help if desired . He also suggested an international loan , with substantial United States participation , to enable Israel to pay the compensation to 900,000 displaced Arabs and a United States contribution to help create more arable land in the area where these refugees could find a better way of life . Mr. Dulles outlined his program in a major policy speech at a meeting of the Council on Foreign Relations , a non-partisan. private organization , at 58 East Sixty-eighth Street . ' Had President 's Approval The Secretary of State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eisenhower and that he had the President 's consent and permission to make it public at this time . About 150 members of the Council and guests were present to hear the speech . It was recorded for later broadcast over the American , Columbia , Mutual and National radio networks . Following the speech , Mr. Dulles replied to questions from Council members on various aspects of United States foreign policy on condition that all his answers were " off the record " ? that is , not for publication or repetition . All questions dealing with his speech and its proposals were ruled out of order . The explanation was that the speech itself had been carefully thought out and prepared with the idea that it would speak for itself at this time , without elaboration or explanation . No explanation was given of how the border guarantees would be carried out . Mr. Dulles explained that the international guarantee of the borders between Israel and her neighbors was designed to relieve botl1 sides of the fears they now profess for the security and integrity of their territory . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commit decisive // power to the deterring of aggression . " Both Israel and her Arab neighbors could rely on this force - to prevent or thwart any effort by either side to alter the boundaries by force . The Secretary emphasized that an agreement on borders would have to be reached before there could be any guarantee of their integrity . The task of reaching agreement , he conceded , is a difficult one . " In spite of conflicting claims and sentiments , I believe it is possible to find a way of reconciling the vital interests of all the parties , " he added . " The , United States would be willing to help in the search for a solution if the parties to the dispute should desire . " The international loan to Israel to meet claims for indemnification from displaced Arabs appeared designed to facilitate the agreement on borders , and thereby to make the international guarantee of their permanence possible. - Mr. Dulles gave no indication of either the size or the terms " of such a loan , or the extent of possible United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the amount of any possible American contribution for Arab water development projects . He prefaced his proposal on these subjects by explaining that Israel might be financially unable to meet the just claims of these displaced Arabs - at this time . Uprooted fromtheir former homes in what is now . Israel , these refugees are living near the Israeli borders . Any provision that would enable them to resume a life of dignity and selfrespect would help , the Secretary said , in eliminating the problem of recurrent incidents that have plagued and embittered the settlements on both sides of the border . There is great need , he said , fo more arable land where refugees can find permanent homes and gain their own livelihood through their own work . A number of irrigation and water development projects that could meet this need are practicable , he declared . Even if agreement is reached on borders and compensation for refugees a number of other , issues will remain , Mr. Dulles acknowledged . But , he said , if an accord is reached on these basic problems it should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic , that are responsible for the present tension between Israel and her neighbors . The solution , he emphasized , would not require any nation to take action that would be against its own interests , " whether those interests be measured in terms of material strength or in terms of national prestige and honor . " Among those present to hear the Secretary of State- make his speech yesterday were Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. , the United States representative at the United Nations , and Harold E. Stassen , formerly Mutual Security Director and now President Eisenhower 's adviser on disarmament .                     