@@715834

txt Upward of 2,000,000 New Jersey voters-2 , - 668,695 have registered  --  will flock to the polls tomorrow from Cape May to High Point . At stake are the governorship , a seat in the House of Representatives , ten State Senate and sixty Assembly seats , scores of county and municipal posts , a change in Newark 's form of government and two proposed constitutional amendments . The polls will open at 7 A. M. and close at 8 P. M. If the vote for Governor is close the results may not be known for many hours , since more than half of New Jersey 's twenty-one counties still rely on paper ballots . Three of these counties , Atlantic , Monmouth and Morris , all predominantly Republican , have traditionally delayed the release of their returns . However , the race for Governor between Paul L. Troast , Republican , and Robert B. Meyner , Democrat , is expected to be decided in the pivotal counties of Essex , Hudson and Bergen , where voting machines are used . This has been a bitterly contested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slight edge over his opponent . Three other candidates are running , but are not expected to poll more than a handful of votes each . They are Clendenin J. Ryan , independent ; Henry Krajewski , independent , and Albert Ronis , Socialist-Labor . Interest in Congressional Race Drawing far more interest than the Governorship race on the national level is the contest in the Sixth Congressional District , embracing all of Union County . There George F. Hetfield , Republican , and Harrison A. Williams Jr. , Democrat , are contesting for the seat in Congress left vacant by the recent resignation of Clifford P. Case , Republican . Both candidates are lawyers , residents of Plainfield and virtual political unknowns . Mr. Case would have completed his fifth term next January and was extremely popular throughout the county , normally a Republican stronghold . But a number of factors make the outcome of this contest questionable . There has been in the last few months a serious split in Republican ranks in Union . Mr. Hetfield was selected by a county committee dominated by Freeholder Albert J. Benninger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Representative has refused to endorse Mr. Hetfield and , in fact , has been particularly friendly to the candidacy of Mr. Williams . By the same token , The Elizabeth Journal , largest daily newspaper in the county and traditionally Republican , has editorially criticized the Republican nominee over and over again while praising Mr. Williams although not declaring for him . Mr. Williams has been campaigning on the record of Mr. Case , which he openly endorses . Mr. Hetfield has insisted that his election would constitute a vote of confidence in the administration of President Eisenhower . Probably the most significant feature of this campaign is that the Democrats privately concede that Mr. Williams has little chance of winning except in a minor landslide , while the Republicans are deeply concerned over the election and fearful that Mr. Hetfield might lose . Meanwhile , the voters of ten counties will be asked to fill State Senate seats  --  that house is made up of one from each county  --  and an entire new Assembly is to be named . Assemblyman are apportioned to each county on the basis of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senators are being selected in Bergen , Essex , Hudson , Mercer , Hunterdon , Sussex , Morris , Atlantic , Cumberland and Ocean . Also on the ballot this year throughout the state will be two referendums . The only one that has been a campaign issue would call on the 1951 Legislature to legalize bingo and minor games of chance on a local option basis through a constitutional amendment . Mr. Meyner bas urged passage of the measure while Mr. Troast has remained noncommittal . The measure is supported by the Roman Catholic Church , charitable and veterans groups and volunteer fire companies . Opposing it are virtually all Protestant church groups . The second referendum also cells for a constitutional amendment . It is designed to restore to the widows of veterans the tax exam tion they formerly received on estate , before the adoption of the new state constitution in 1947 . Both major political parties favor the measure . Voters of Newark will have an additional referendum on their ballots . It proposes to change the city 's form of government from . the commission type @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five-com , raiz ' sioners the proposal would substitute a mayor and nine councilmen , one from each of the city 's five wards and four at large . Mr. Troast rested at his home in Clifton throughout the day and was scheduled to make a last-minute appeal to voters in a telecast over WCBS from 11 to 11:30 P. M. Mr. Meyner , except for a. few brief breaks , made his final plea . for support by facing the television screen from 1 P. M. - to midnight on WATV.                     