@@716366

txt CHURCHILL URGES PATIENCE IN COPING WITH RED DANGERS Tells Congressional Group It Is ' Better , to Jaw-Jaw Than to War-War ' PARLEY ON TILL MONDAY Extension Held to Indicate No Decisions Are Reached on Southeast Asia By W. II . LAWRENCE Special to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , June 26 ? Sir Winston Churchill said at a White House luncheon today that patience as well as vigilance was necessary to cope with the problems of Communist imperialism . " To jaw-jaw is always better than to war-war , " the British Prime Minister declared . He spoke to a group of forty Republicans and Democrats , including representatives of Congress , the Executive and the Judiciary , at a luncheon sandwiched between long and earnest private talks with President Eisenhower over the best means of bolstering the cause of freedom in Southeast Asia . The Southeast Asian problem occupied the leaders of the two Governments during the greater part of their talks today , and as the last meeting of the day ended at 6:30 P. M. , a White House spokesman said no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the announcement at the same time that the conferences would continue through a Monday morning session . It had been planned to end the conversations tomorrow night . Talk Lasts 90 Minutes James C. Hagerty , the White House press secretary , made this announcement as President Eisenhower , Prime Minister Churchill , Anthony Eden , British Foreign Secretary ; and John Foster Dulles , Secretary of State , came out of the last meeting of the day ? an hour and a half conference in the second floor study of the White House . The two Ambassadors  --  Winthrop W. Aldrich , United States Ambassador to Britain , and Sir Roger Makins ; British Ambassador to the United States , also were present . Mr. Hagerty gave out no details of the talk , but said Southeast Asian problems would continue to be discussed at meetings scheduled for tomorrow . To those in Congress who had contended that the British were getting ready for another " Munich " in the Far East , Sir Winston replied that , despite differences over methods , this country always could count Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ final decisions must be taken . But he warned against impetuous action , declaring that , in the long run , time often solved many problems that appeared difficult at first glance . Differences Held Narrowed Those who heard him said that the Prime Minister , wearing s &; rumpled white linen suit , made a great impression on his Congressional audience , not a few of whom have been outspokenly critical of Britain 's willingness to recognize and deal with Communist China . While tight secrecy was maintained on the actual results of the Eisenhower-Churchill talks , some Congressmen said they had the idea that the British and American points of view on the next steps in Southeast Asia were not too far apart . This view was given support by Richard G. Casey , Australia 's Minister for External Affairs , who said his own country favored an early start toward the formation of a Southeast Asia treaty organization , mobilizing the strength of free nations to prevent further Communist expansion . Mr. Casey said he saw " nothing " to show that Britain was not determined to prodeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Far East similar to that already functioning in Western Europe and the Mediterranean-under the'North Atlantic Treaty Organization . Mr. Casey also discounted the significance of the suggestion for a non-aggression treaty , like the Locarno pact , including Communist powers in the Far East , that was put forward by Mr. // Eden , British Foreign Secretary , ' in a talk to the House of Commons Wednesday . It was Mr. Casey 's view that Mr. Eden had not committed Britain definitely to such a compact , which is opposed by the Eisenhower Administration on the , ground that Communist pledges are worthless without some machinery for self-enforcement . " He Ic'tr . Eden just adumbrated the possibility of putting this idea forward for consideration , " Mr. Casey said . " Consequently Britain is not committed to such a treaty and I am a little surprised that there has been such intense reaction in the United States . " Mr. Casey came here by plane from Geneva for a meeting of the ANZUS Treaty Council , which will convene Wednesday . The treaty links Australia , New Zealand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Casey joined the British-United States conference group at a small White House dinner tonight . The two foreign secretaries , Mr. Eden for the British , and Mrs. Dulles for the United States , led off the conferences this morning for more than two hours at the State Department . They reported progress , but gale no details . Sir Winston slept late , but joined President Eisenhower at his office in the west wing Executive offices just before noon . They talked for more than an hour before the luncheon . There have been reports of personal , as well as policy , differences between Messrs . Eden and Dulles , and some saw significance in Sir Winston 's unusual request that he be given an opportunity to confer alone this afternoon with Mr. Dulles . Subsequently , however , that meeting was put off without explanation but at Sir Winston 's suggestion until noon tomorrow . At 5 P. M. , the big four , Sir Winston , the President and the two foreign secretaries , held their lien formal session of the day . The White House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were concerned with Asian problems , but that a working group , including experts from both the American and British delegations , was discussing European problems in separate meetings . No Retreat by Churchill Congressional sources described Sir Winston 's luncheon speech as conciliatory , but they also said that he did not retreat from the British position where it conflicted with that of the United States . He made it clear that he shared the American impatience at the French delay in the ratification of the European Defense Community treaty , which would bring the armed strength of Western Germany into a common manpower pool with Western Europe . He observed that if worse came to worse and France did not finally ratify the treaty arrangement it still would be necessary to ' provide for the common defense of Europe . Turning to the Far East , the Prime Minister volunteered that he was a strong supporter of " peaceful co-existence " with Red China . " I know , " he said , " that some think this almost heresy . Nevertheless , Eden 's two words are pretty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warwar . " He said there was no reason why there should not be organizations similar to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in other parts of the world , and particularly in Asia . But he had told his audience earlier that time , meaning patience , as well as vigilance , was necessary to deal with the " pernicious , insidious , revolting communism that is grinding away at our vital organs . Some of those who heard him , including Senator William F. Knowland of California , the majority leader of the Senate , have been critical of Britain 's attitude in the Far East . Denouncing communism as the most inhuhian slavery in world history , Sir Winston added that " if at times I say b thine 's that you do n't like to hear , I beg of , you to believe that there is no doubt where I stand . " " There will be none so long as there is life in my body , " he declared . He referred to Mr. Eden , at one point , as his successor " farther @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister exchanged compliments , and Sir Winston noted that they had faced together difficult problems , sometimes involving more than two alternatives , during wartime and the post-war years . He made the point that up to now , at least , in every case the end result had been an accommodation of views . Most Congressmen were impressed with Sir Winston , the man , if some still were skeptical and hesitant to adopt the " gol slow " policy he advocated for ! Southeast Asia . Representative John Taber of upstate New York , chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee , summed up his reaction in this sentence : " I was charmed , but not where my pocketbook is . " A high-ranking Democrat said that it sounded to him . " as if they are advocating a policy of letting the dust settle in Indochina . " The reference , of course , was to the severe Republican criticism directed several years ago at Dean Acheson , former See- ! retary of State , when he urged caution in the midst of the Chinese Civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dust settles . " It was announced that Sir Winston and Mr. Eden would remain at the White House through Sunday night , although they had been scheduled to move to the British Embassy on Sunday . The final session of the weekend conference is now scheduled at 10 o'clock Monday morning at the White House with all the principal participants present . While the major principals talked of the Southeast Asia question , Lewis L. Strauss , chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission , discussed atomic problems with his British opposite numbers at a luncheon . Present , on the British side , were Lord Cherwell , who first headed the British atomic energy program , and his successor , Sir Edwin Plowden . Tonight the President was host at a small White House dinner , honoring Sir Winston and Mr. Eden . Other foreign guests included Mr. Casey ; Muhammad Zafrulla Khan , the Foreign Minister of Pakistan ; Lord Cherwell and Lord Moran , the latter being the Prime Minister 's physician . Mr. Dulles had planned to be among the guests on the American side , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his forty-second wedding anniversary , and he wished to dine and spend the evening with Mrs. Dulles . The Secretary 's place was taken by Capt . Christopher Soames , Sir Winston 's son-in-law and a member of the British party . The United States Government was represented , however , by Arthur E. Summerfield , the Postmaster General ; Senator Walter Bedell Smith , Under Secretary of State ; Admiral Arthur W. Radford , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff ; Mr. Strauss ; Bernard M. Baruch , New York financier and long-time friend ' of Sir Winston ; Milton Eisenhower , brother of the President , and Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. , the United States Ambassador to the United Nations . The luncheon list included twenty-eight members of Congress , ten members of the executive branch , and Earl Warren , the Chief Justice of the United States . When the group came out on the north portico , Sir Winston walked out with the Chief Justice , while the President was accompanied by Senators Knowland and Homer Ferguson , Republican of Michigan . Tomorrow 's schedule begins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House lunch will follow and Vv. guests will include Sir Winston , the two foreign secretaries , Admiral Strauss , and Lord Cherwell and Sir Edwin Plowden . Mr. Dulles , Mr. Eden and their assistants plan to meet at the Secretary of State 's residence in Georgetown at 5 P. M. and at 8:15 o'clock there will be another dinner at the White House for most of the principals in the talks . The White House said tonight that a communiqu ? covering the accomplishments of the talks might be issued on Monday , or it might be delayed until Tuesday .                     