@@718228

txt Two small boys have done what every boy dreams of doing . They have gone up in an airplane alone , and thereby hangs a tale that has this community buzzing with excitement today . The story , according to Brookhaven town police , began yesterday when Eddie Cates , 13 years old , of Titmus Driv 2 and Roy Brosseau , 11 , of Grove Drive , decided to flirt with aviation fame . The boys not only flirted with fame . They also left an indelible mark on this village and found themselves in a peck of trouble with the police , an air charter service and the Civil Aeronautics Administration . According to Eddie , it // started when he told Roy that he knew how to fly a plane . He had taken a ride some time ago with a friend , Ed Kaloski , owner of the Brookhaven Air Service b operatina out of the Mastic Air Strip . He said he had mastered the technique by watching Mr. Kaloski . Roy naturally was incredulous , so Eddie said lie would show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strip and sauntered up to one of Mr. Kaloski 's two-seater Ercoupes . They opened the plastic canopy and climbed into the side-by-side seats . The ignition key was in the lock . Eddie started the engine and Roy said , " Let 's fly . " Lei 's , " Eddie rejoined , and aw0 they we'ls down the strip . . Zoom ! They 're Aloft Eddie opened the throttle and Roy smiled his approval . Then suddenly , zoom , they were in the air . Eddie had learned all there was to know by watching Mr. Kaloski , so they did n't worry . They flew the craft out over Great South Bay , waggled its wings over Center Moriches and Eastport , and buzzed their own homes not far from the airport at treetop height . They also flew the length of Fire Island and performed a bit over Suffolk Air Force Base at Westhampton . After an hour of adventure , Eddie brought the plane down on ' its tricycle gear for a neat landing . Actually , the Ercoupe is one of the easiest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not meant to be taken up by young boys . Its design eliminates the customary foot rudder so that turns are made simply by swinging the conventional control ' wheel right or left . To climb or dive , the pilot pulls back or pushes forward the stick , as on all planes . The Ercoupe also incorporates special anti-spin features . - The boys would have had their adventure without notice had it not been for Brookhaven Police Sgt. Arthur Davis , who is also commander of the Suffolk County Civil Air Patrol , and Thomas Jamer , another C. A. P. pilot . Sergeant Davis explained it this way : " We were walking down the strip when suddenly we saw this plane dive down on the field , zoom up into the sky and turn around and come tin for a perfect landing . Only when it taxied by us did we notice that it seemed no one was in the cockpit . " At first I could n't believe it . We ran over and then we saw two little heads pop out of the canopy . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could n't believe what we saw . " The two boys , who readily told what they had done , were then turned over to Patrolmen David Burkhardt and Roy . Last night they were released in the custody of Eddie said today : " I did n't think I was stealing the plane , just borrowing it from a friend . " Mr. Kaloski said he saw nothing amusing about the flight . Neither , say the police , will the Civil Aeronautics Administration , which has regulations against such things . More than likely , the police said , the two boys will be taken to the Suffolk Children 's Court to face juvenile delinquency charges . But the two . boys are having a grand time telling their adventure to neighborhood companions . After all , it is n't every day that you can buzz through the wild blue yonder at 130 miles an hcur and land a plane with practically no instructions .                     