@@719744

txt Four government agencies snatched silver linings out of dark economic clouds here . Compared to a month ago : Mortgage-guaranteed housing starts are up . Retail sales are up . Farm employment is up . Insured unemployment is down . The trouble with these figures is their short-range character . All four fields show immediate improvement over the figures of a month or so ago . But all four also show that even after improvement , things are not so good as a year ago . On the , theory that a couple of swallows may make a sum- mer , administration officials , who have staked their economic reputation on a " wait-and-see " policy , watched the development with intense interest . New Factor Enters ? There was little silver lining in the figures released only the day before by the Bureau of Labor Statistics , analyzing employment for March ** 15 . This showed that in seasonally adjusted terms , the drop in factory jobs was 267,000 . In absolute terms employment in all nonfarm establishments showed a small rise of 56,000 , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ normally are in the spring ) this was changed into a decline of three times that amount-160,000 . The dominant fact in Washington is the decision of President Eisenhower to hold up massive recovery action pending further developments . He is doing this with the support of past and present high officials of the Treasury Department and of the Federal Reserve board and Commerce Department , but contrary to the advice of past and present officials of the Council of Economic Advisers , and of some business and labor groups . Meanwhile , a new concept is gaining headway here . That is that the eagerly hoped-for flattening out of the recession may not automatically be the end of the matter . The idea that the American economy may shortly stop going down without immediately bouncing back is , finding support . Hardly anybody in Washington seems to feel that the recession will go much further . The idea that the bottom is nearly reached scorns almost universal . But there now is the adde- d thought that process of subsequent recovery may be sluggish and protracted . Debate Shifts This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of the increased labor force from June graduates , that excess factory capacity remains big , that consumers are still finding high prices a deterrent to buying , and that over- ' seas expansion has slowed down . What this all means is that the economic debate between strong vs. mild federal intervention in the economy is shifting to new ground . Short of an abrupt upturn in the econwiy , those advocating massive fax cuts or federal spending are not likely to be silenced even after the so-called " bottom " is reached . Another feature is the reluctance of some in Congress to leave Washington from August to next January without taking strong recovery action . The administration , it is believed , must soon ask for a 5 to 10 billion dollars rise in the debt ceiling . Tax DeciSion Demanded Furthermore , unless Congress takes action the following taxes go down July I : top rate corpo. ' ration tax from 52 per cent to 47 per cent ; auto excise taxes from 10 to 7 per cent ; auto parts excise tax from 8 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and spirits levies decline correspondingly . It takes a month to 6 weeks to write a new tax law . Obviously , therefore , an administration decision on taxes is imminent . This is another reason why each economic index now is being examined under the microscope . Of the four latest reports , housing is the most encouraging . The Federal Housing Administration announced that under its mortgage - guarantee program , nearly 22,000 more new dwelling units were begun in April than March  --  a more than seasonal increase of 33 per cent . Officials thought the jump was due to liberalized federal lending policies , A special anti-recession committee at the Commerce Department 's business advisory council at Hot Springs , Va. , urged a federally supported " freeze " policy of one year on price and wage increases . Mr. Eisenhower has frequently urged labor-management " statesmanship " but has heretofore declined to spell it out , arguing that this would represent federal intervention .                     