@@716626

txt A great national ; struggle for control of the Senate , one of the closest in the history of the United States , remained undecided early today . There were sustained indications of a Democratic trend and 3t appeared that the Democrats were reasonably certain of a net gain of one seat and possibly more . They needed a net of three , however , to win a clear-cut Senate ' victory , although a net of two would give them actual control . This would come about because the Senate 's one Independent , Wayne Morse of Oregon , has indicated he would vote with the Democrats on the issue of which party should command the Senate . The old Senate division was forty-nine Republicans , forty-six Democrats , and Mr. Morse . The position in the most vital of the races this morning was this : The Democrats had made gains in Kentucky , New Jersey and Nevada . Former Vice President Alben W. Barkley defeated the Republican incumbent in Kentucky , John Sherman Cooper . Charles R. Howell was leading in New Jersey over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ernest , S. Brown , But the Republicans unseated the Democratic incumbent in Iowa , Guy M. Gillette . Moreover , John A. Carroll , Democrat , conceded in Colorado to Gordon Allott , Republican . This means a second Democratic loss because that seat has been Democratic . 3 States Crucial Thus this morning the issue had come down most of all to what was going to happen in Massachusetts , in Michigan and in Ohio . In Massachusetts and in Michigan the Republican incumbents , Leverett Saltonstall and Homer Fergusion , were being sorely pressed and leads changed back and forth almost on the quarter hour . In Ohio , the incumbent , Thomas A. Burke , a Democrat , most of the time had been running behind the Republican challenger , George H. Bender . Nevertheless , the disinterested forecasts of realistic politicians gave the ultimate edge to Mr. ' Burke . What all this meant in more general terms was that whatever party won the Senate would hold it in only the most ' tenuous grasp . It was clear also , with the defeat of such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the apparent defeat of Mr. Case , that the Republican right wing would wholly dominate the Republican side of the Senate . West to Tell Story On . the Democratic side , the voters ' verdict had been mixed , as measured in liberal versus conservative terms , Mr , Gillette , a conservative who often voted with the Republicans , went down , Such Democratic liberals as Senators Paul H. Douglas in Illinois and Hubert H. Humphrey in Minnesota fared very well . Mr. Douglas was re-elected ; Mr. Humphrey 's re-election seemed all but certain . Amid all the complicating factors on this tense post-election morning ' one of the most enigmatic was what was going to happen generally in the Mountain West . Former Senator Joseph C. O'Mahoney was runnig a hit ahead in Wyoming  --  whey he would score a Democratic gain if he defeated William Henry Harrison , Republican . This tale , however , clearly remained to be told . Mr. O'Mahoney , though a Roman Catholic , has been under heavy Republican attack toward the end of the campaign on the suggestion that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had Senator James E. Murray , another Roman Catholic and the Democratic incumbent in Montana . Mr. Murray 's ultimate fate was still obscured this morning in the vast spaces of Montana , but on very incomplete return he was ahead , The struggle for the Senate , narrowly divided as it had been in the past , was the most significant in many years . For the better part of the two years of the old Eighty-third Congress , there had been only the most nominal of Republican majorities ; for part of the time not even this thin control could have been maintained but for the fact that Vice President Richard M. Nixon stood ready at any Democratic challenge to break what would have been a resulting tie and keep the Republicans in the majority . For these two years , moreover , the Senate had not been , even on its Republican side , actually proEisenhower . Its principal Republican figures , most of whom are holdovers and will in any case remain in high party places , are " non- , Eisenhower men , " followers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eisenhower 's principal rival for the Presidential nomination . The story of the Senate in the President 's first two years , therefore , actually was a story of coalition . The Senate Republican floor leader , William F. KnowIand of California , has been not so much a Republican leader as a coalition leader , making such ad lib accommodations as he could ' to recruit assistance from the , Democrats on issue after issue , A Double Problem The problem for the Admini's'tration in this election , therefore , Was not simply to return a Republican Senate but to bring about if possible a Republican Senate more sympathetic to the President 's basic views . Long before the polls even opened , it was obvious that this hard task could not be accomplished . At least four of the outstanding Republican challengers for Senate seats  --  Joseph T. Meek in Illinons , Edward L. Mechem in New Mexico , Wesley A. D'Ewart in Montana and George H. Bender in Ohio  --  are Taft men from years back . The Democrats began the active phase of the campaign last September @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roughly twice as ' many really vulnerable seats as the Republicans . The Republicans had to confront the difficult tradition that only once in modern history  --  in 1934 ? had the party in power survived a mid-term election without some loss of strength . 17 Seats were in Doubt As of election morning , this was the basic position : Fifty-eight Senators were not up this year and thus were continuing in office . Of these thirtythree were Republicans , twentyNur were . Democrats , , and then there was Mr. Morse. , Conceded to the Republicans among ' those facing the voters ' choice were seven seats . Conceded to the Democrats among those facing the voters ' choice were fourteen seats . In doubt , in varying degrees , were seventeen seats . President Eisenhower 's prestige was ' particularly thrown behind Republican candidates in five states-Homer Ferguson , incumbent in Michigan ; Clifford P. Case , a challenger for a Republican seat in New Jersey ; Mr. Bender , a challenger for a Democratic seat in Ohio ; Herbert B. Warburton , a challenger for a Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incumbent in Kentucky . The Republican campaign was begun on the central theme that the voters ought to " Back Ike . " It finished , in most areas , on many diverse notes , of which support for the President was not the most striden . Red Theme Raised Accepting field reports that the President 's personal popularity remained strong but that it was not easily transferable to others , the high Republican command at the end was hitting hard at alleged Democratic " softness " toward communism . This theme , though used in nearly all the country , was loudest of all in states where there were Democratic candidates having old associations , with the Roosevelt-Truman New and Fair Deals  --  such men as Senator James E. Murray in Montana and former Senator Joseph C. O'Mahoney , who was attempting to come back in Wyoming . The Democrats depended mainly on the traditional bread-andbutter issues  --  unemployment , a decline in farm income and so on ? on which their left and right wings could easily unite . Eminent conservative Democrats , chief among them the Senate minority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most determined efforts in the critical states to transfer to beleaguered Democratic liberals some of their own acceptability to conservative interests . Many practical politicians agrekl that while the so-called " Red issue " was a vehement ? and an unknowable  --  factor in the last weeks of the campaign , there was in most areas no " McCarthy issue " as such . Senator Joseph R. McCarthy , Republican of Wisconsin , was inactive in the campaign , ' faced instead with a personal crisis . The Senate is to meet in extraordinary session on Nov. 8 to decide whether to adopt the recommendations of a select , bipartisan committee of six that he be censured on two counts for some of his conduct in his Communist investigations . Thus among the tasks performed yesterday by some voters was that of selecting men who would sit on the Senate " jury " when it is ' assembled , In eight of the thirty-seven Senate seats at issue , successors will be chosen for temporary Senators who had been appointed to will vacancies caused by death or resignation . The eight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in judgment on Senator McCarthy . The other new , Senators chosen yesterday will not take their places until the Eighty-Fourth Congress convenes next January .                     