@@715302

txt The question of political succession in Russia has been answered by the Soviet hierarchy with a haste that testifies to its anxiety to present a united front to the outside world and to preclude the possibility of internal conflicts . The mantle of at least titular power in the Soviet world has fallen on a man long considered to be Stalin 's " crown prince " ? Georgi Maximilianovitch Malenkov , who has become the new Premier and thus the head of the new Soviet Government . Together with this appointment , the Kremlin announces a new Governmental set-up in which Marshal Voroshilov has been made the nominal President of the Soviet UnIon , replacing Nikolai Shvernik in a purely decorative position , and Mr. Molotov returns as Foreign Minister , while Mr. Vishinsky , the present Foreign Minister , becomes permanent Soviet representative to the United Nations . But Stalin 's power rested not so much on his Premiership as on his complete control of the Communist party machine , and here again Malenkov appears to have emerged on top . In the new Presidium of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the well-known party stalwarts , and if this means that he is now its chairman he has inherited another position Stalin held . Should he also be confirmed as general secretary of the party 's Central Committee , these two posts together would make him titular master of the Communist party as well , and thus give him the full panoply of the power Stalin wielded . This hasfy reorganization of Government and party can not , however , entirely eliminate the danger of interparty strife that must haunt the Kremlin in view of Stalin 's record . For the one thing that Malenkov can not take over from his mentor and predecessor is the aura of the demigod who had established his authority beyond the possibility of challenge . Indeed , Malenkov is one of the younger party men who now takes precedence over the older Bolsheviks , including some who have long been his rivals . He certainly can not pose as the omniscient and infallible oracle of party dogma  --  a role from which Stalin derived not only much of his power but also his control of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to control the two chief elements of armed power in Soviet Russia  --  the army and above all the dreaded secret police , which remains in the hands of Beria  --  is still to be revealed . In any case , the world has little reason to cheer the change . For the new men who now hold in their hands the final decisions in one of the mightiest empires in history have long demonstrated their hostility to the free world . Malenkov in particular has been Stalin 's right-hand man in tightening the oppression of the Soviet peoples and in extending the subjugation of other nations , and he is also considered to be the instigator of the Kremlin 's anti-Semitic campaign . ' Thus the tyrant is gone but the tyranny remains And the dangers with which the free world has long been confronted may even be increased . For I while in his later days Stalin , the victorious empire builder , could afford to rest on his laurels and play his game with caution , his successor will be driven not only by the dynamism of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but also by the urge to gather laurels of his own to fortify his power and authority . In these circumstances , the only wise course the free world can pursue is to maintain its efforts for self-defense and a political , economic - and military reorganization that wiat assure its sur vival . The events of the past week should give new impetus to these efforts .                     