@@714778

txt Representative Furcolo ( D ) of Massachusetts was appointed State Treasurer by Governor Dever , following resignation of John E. Hurley , xvlio has accepted a life job as clerk of the Boston Municipal Court lor Civil Business . ; Page 14.1 New England delegates to the Republican National Convention  --  almost solidly backing General Eisenhower  --  leave for Chiciuo for what may be one of the hardest fought presidential nomination battles in GOP history . l Page 2 . ; Europe : Ana Panker Shorn of Romania Power Ana Pauker has now lost her role as Foreign Minister , completing her fall from power in Romania , according to an official statement from Bucharest . She was removed from the Romanian Politburo a month ago . American luxury liner United States has turned in a record-breaking log of 696 nautical miles in 20 hours and 24 minutes , an average speed of nearly 40 land miles per hour , in its first full day at sea . Page 51 West Germany accepts the western embargo against sending strategic materials ? to the Communist states , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same time , however , the importance to Germany of legitimate trade with all countries , including Communist . Germ warfare charges are termed a " monstrous attempt of the Communists .. . to split the free world " by the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions , now holding a council meeting in Berlin . Washington : Alien Property Probe Is Ordered An investigation of the Alien Property ' Office , which handles firms seized from the enemy during World War II , has been ordered by Attorney General as the next step in a government cleanup drive . The Revenue Bureau 's special " racket squads " found evidence for S73,176,196 in additional tax claims against " known and suspected criminals " in their first year of operations . The bureau said the racket squads had also obtained 274 indictments and convicted 199 of those brought to trial during the 12 months ended April 30 . Members of Congress would be allowed to exempt the first 53,000 of their Washington living expenses from income taxes under an agreement reached by Senate-House conferees . Senator Humphrey has announced he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into campaign spending by presidential aspirants of both major parties . A Senate Rules subcommittee is keeping mum over its plans to dig deeper into charges Senators McCarthy and Benton have flung at each other . Senator Gillette , chairman , conceded that further staff investigation might prevent a report of findings before the November elections , in which both senators seek reelection . Mideast : Egypt Regime Releases Wafd Leader Egypt 's newly formed government has released a Wafd leader Scrag ' el Din Pasha . who has been held in house arrest for failing to stop the Jan 26 riots in Cairn National : New Parachute Jumping Record Set . A new marathon parachute jumping record was set . when Neal Stewart of Birmingham . Ala. , jumped from a small plane 124 times in 23 hours , 35 minutes , into a plowed field of 100 square yards .                     