@@717993

txt Because they had felt Stalin 's executioners breathing down their own necks , the new Soviet rulers and former associates of Stalin now denounce Stalin as a monster comparable to Ivan the Terrible and seek to prevent the rise of a new Stalin to safeguard their own lives . For that purpose they have established a " collective " dictatorship , which announces a " new look " in Soviet policies aiming at greater liberality at home and peace and " peaceful coexistence " abroad . If that were the real aim of the new Soviet rulers the world could rejoice . But even a cursory scrutiny of the new Soviet policies as expressed in word and deed offers persuasive evidence that the new policies are merely the old policies in a new dress .. For the present denunciations of Stalin show that the new Soviet rulers object only to an application of Stalin 's " brutal and inhuman " methods to themselves and to their Communist followers , not to the methods as such or to the profitable results of them . On the contrary , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Lenin " their right and intention of using like methods to crush opposition against themselves . Nor do they in any degree renounce the conquests Stalin made by his methods at home and abroad . Thus , while releasing and rehabilitating some of Stalin 's Communist victims , the Soviets refuse to release and rehabilitate the nations Stalin subjugated by force and fraud . They continue to hold all Eastern Europe under the iron heel of their armies and refuse to evacuate their troops even where peace treaties obligate them to do so , as in Hungary and Rumania . They profess to deplore Stalin 's mass deportation of whole nations within the Soviet Union , but refuse to restore the populations deported from the conquered Baltic states to Siberia . They talk of easing international tensions , but refuse to settle the problems which cause these very tensions , including the problems of partitioned Germany , Korea and Vietnam . They profess to seek disarmament and even to initiate it unilaterally , but reject all proposals for international verification and control except on the deceptive Korean model , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These actions match their words , which only a misreading of their upside-down language can misinterpret . Thus , at the same party congress before which he denounced Stalin , Mr. Khrushchev also undertook to correct Lenin 's dictum about the inevitability of war between the Communist and the " bourgeois " world , to the effect that neither war nor civil war was inevitable or necessary for the success of communism " in all circumstances . " But he and his associates also pro-. claimed that war could not be excluded where " imperialists " try to resist the " inevitable " advance of communism and that violence may still be necessary where " reactionaries " oppose a Communist seizure of power . The new Soviet rulers have indeed introduced a " new look , " after recognizing that the Stalin policies of force had led them into isolation and that the rearmament of the free world had made war hazardous , Their strategy now is to promote a " united front " between Communists and Socialists , in order to capture parliaments , govern-1 ments and countries by " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same purpose they seek to subvert countries and governments by fanning ancient enmities to set one country against another , and by seeking to undermine all free world defensive alliances . And , as under Stalin , their , course is still strewn with promises broken as soon as they are made . Stalin is dead and doubly buried , but Stalinism continues to guide Soviet policies .                     