@@720316

txt Modern business methods have transformed the city 's once scandal-ridden Bureau of Real Estate , J. Clarence Davies , head of the bureau , said yesterday . - He reported that properties were being restored to the tax assessment rolls at a pace twice ' that of a year ago . Sales , he said , are proceeding at the rate of 2,400 properties a year against 1,250 last year . He set 5,000 sales as the goal for the next year and he said , he expected a pace of 10,0001 annual sales thereafter . Mr. Davies assumed office on Aug. ' 1 , 1958 . He succeeded Percy , Gale Jr. , who had resigned earlier in the year . Mr. Dailies emphasized the importance of speed in the sale of city property to private interests . His department lists about 50,000 parcels with an.assessed valuation of $150,000,000. 206 Parcels to Be Sold ? Two hundred and six of these properties will be offered Wednesday in the ? Biltmore , Hotel . The ' aggregate taxablel value is $918,000 . The . upset prices ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The backlog of real estate in the hands of the bureau has been built up through condemnation proceedings for public improvements and the acquisition of other parcels on which taxes have been in arrears for four years . Mr. Davies said he planned to reduce the backlog by supplementing the bureau 's appraisers with independent appraisers who have made their services available to the city at a fraction of their usual fees . The law , he explained , pro-1 vides that appraisals must be made of properties within fifteen days of their sale . He said that since the bureau had a staff of only nine appraisers , many of whom were involved ' in other city work , it had been difficult to make appraisals in the requisite volume . To solve the problem , Mr. Davies hired twenty independent appraisers who usually command a fee of about $75 an appraisal . Mr. Davies said they , were willing to work for $12.50 an appraisal as a public service. , so long as they were convinced , the bureau was being operated efficiently and honestly . He said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ i in the method of making the The city will reap the full , benefit of the services of these ' appraisers , Mr. Davies said , ' when legislation pending at ' Albany eases the time limit on appraisals . Mr. Davies reported a change property listing of the bureau available to other city depart- ' , ments . Traditionally , other city departments prepared sketches of these properties for distribution among the seventeen departments that might have a potential use for them . That was done to eliminate the extra cost of buying needed sites from private owners . " But , the departments in charge of preparing the sketches were undermanned and burdened with their own work , " Mr. Davies declared . " It was not unusual for a year or eighteen months to pass before the sketches were prepared and replies from other departments received . We have eliminated the sketch procedure and , through a simplified form , get replies from other city departments in three months or less . " The problem of an up-to-date inventory was solved by electronic processing equipment installed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This will make information sought by prospective buyers available for the first time in a convenient card form . Mr. Davies said he could foresee purchasers inspecting the cards and designating in advance the properties in which they would be interested . The resignation of Mr. Gale occurred about a year ago . City Administrator Charles F. Preusse , in a report critical of the bureau , called for sweeping , reforms . James Felt , chairman of the City Planning Commission , was called in by Mayor Wagner to head the bureau temporarily .                     