@@717027

txt The Western Powers have promptly notified the Soviet Government that they welcome ' he possibility of concluding the long-delayed Austrian treaty and will be pleased to participate at the earliest possible moment in a Big Four Foreign Ministers conference for that purpose . But profiting from experience with such conferences , they attach two conditions to their acceptance . One is that the Foreign Ministers meeting should have only one task , and that is to sign the treaty . The other is that the treaty text and any related documents should be properly prepared for signature on the basis of preliminary agreements which would resolve the points left open by the separate accord between the Soviets and Austria . For this preparatory work the Western Powers propose a meeting of the Ambassadors of the four Powers and Austrian representatives in Vienna on May 2 . One purpose of this preliminary meeting would be to rewrite the previous treaty draft to bring it into line with the Soviet-Austrian accord and eliminate provisions which , due to the long delay , have become obsolete . But its principal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Austrian independence and neutrality which the Soviets demand and to which the Austrians have agreed . The Soviets suggest that they want Austria to become a second Switzerland . But whereas Switzerland maintains a traditional neutrality by her own free will and her own power of defense , the Soviets propose to impose such neutrality on Austria and have it guaranteed not only by the Austrians themselves but also by Soviet Russia and the three Western Powers . What is more , the first disclosures of the Soviet idea of such guarantees suggest that what Moscow seeks is not only to prevent a new Austrian Anschluss to Germany and to keep Austria out of the North Atlantic alliance but also a free hand to apply sanctions to the point of war and a Soviet occupation of all Austria on a made-in-Moscow pretext that the guarantees are being violated . It is on these points that the Soviet intentions must be clarified in a preliminary meeting . If agreement is reached , the Foreign Ministers could meet at the " earliest practicable date " to proclaim the independence of Austria . However @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at which they might be confronted with unacceptable Soviet demands involving their own countries and then face the alternative either of accepting these demands or of permitting the Soviets to blame them for further delay . The Soviet response to the Western conditions will be the test of Soviet purposes . If the Soviets meet this test , and if they agree without dangerous reservations to the independence of a neutral Austria , the way will be clear for new negotiations and a new Foreign Ministers conference on Germany , for which Western preparatory discussions will start Wednesday . Such negotiations will be all the more in order because , according to the present timetable , the ratification of the Paris pacts will have been completed by May 5 . This will confront the Soviets with a new situation calling for reassurances both to the Soviets and to European public opinion that the new ' structures created by the pacts are purely defensive , and for a new test of how the Soviets propose to adjust themselves to the new Europe . In any case , the cold war fronts are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least some indications as to what this movement will mean to the world .                     