@@713966

txt Letters to The Times ALFRED R. LINDESMITH.ELISABETH ACHELIS , WILLARD L. DE YOE.LEV E. DOBRIANSKY . Letters to The Times To Control Narcotics Existing Laws , Economic Rewards of Smuggling Considered The writer of the following letter , Associate Professor of Sociology at . Indiana University , is the author of " Opiate Addiction . " TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I am surprised by the fact that ' the failure of our present anti-narcotic laws to prevent the spread of addiction does not suggest to more of the various investigating committees and interested persons that there may be something wrong with the fundamental philosophy on which these laws are based . This philosophy is penal in nature . It views drug addiction and drug peddling as evils to be extirpated by police action alone . Not only , according to present legal interpretations , is it a criminal offense to sell or transport illicit drugs ; it is also a criminal offense to bust them or to have them in one 's possession . This means that every addict is ipso facto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The fact that the American drug addict is automatically made a criminal by existing law nullifies the effectiveness of any institutions or programs which are likely to be set up for therapeutic purposes or for rehabilitation . If the addict is sent to special " hospitals " for coercive ' ' cures " under ' sentence for violation of the criminal law , he will regard these hospitals as prisons and they will tend to become that . Therapeutic efforts within the institution will be negated by the facts that . the addict will also be receiving punishment and that he will leave the institution as an ex-convict . Effects of Penal Program It does not seem to be realized in the discussions of the narcotics problem that the penal program which prevails in the United States and in Canada is the exception among the kVestern nations , and that it is the must backward and inhumane in its effects upon the addict . ln must European countries the addict can not be arrested and imprisoned solely because he is an addict , nor has he ever been consigned to prisons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rule in this country . It appears that the drug user in European countries is able in varying degrees to obtain drugs through medical prescrip-. tion . This simple fact probably explains why the black market in European countries is a negligible matter on the whole , whereas in the United States it is a major source of underworld revenue . There are probably more drug addicts in New York City alone than there are in all of Europe . England , for example , estimates her addicts at less than 500 in number . Pre-war Germany had what was . generally regarded as the biggest problem . The German total was estimated at about 5,000 or 6,000 . These facts suggest that we need to consider the methods of control that are used in European countries with a view to adapting them to our needs , if after discussion and study this proves to be feasible . It appears that no information concerning the practices of European countries has been taken into account in the present discussions . It is difficult to understand how this could he possible unless American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a deliberate effort to prevent such information from being presented or discussed . Prices Abroad The crux of the matter of the illicit traffic is , after all , an economic consideration . Drugs which can be purchased abroad at the usual legitimate price can be sold in this country at several thousand per cent profit . The drug smuggler and the peddler owe their existence to this price differential . Any action which increases this price differential increases the economic rewards of smuggling . Increased risks , in the form of longer and more severe sentences will enhance this differential and increase the profits of the non-addicted kingpins of the underworld who direct the traffic . On the other hand , since most of the persons actually arrested and imprisoned for violations of narcotic laws are addicts or low-echelon peddlers against whom it is relatively simple to obtain evidence , the more severe penalties will not deter the big smuggling mobs . In. creased penalties will thus have the effect of worsening the lot of the addict by increasing the prices he will have to pay and by lengthening his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than to theft or prostitution . On the basis of past experience , if the death penalty is imposed on drug peddlers it will be primarily addicts who will be executed . ALFRED R. LINDESMITH , Bloomington , Inds July 10 , 1951 . Calendar Change Urged To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : This summer we have experienced two mid-week holidays with confusing results . Memorial Day and Independence Day both came on Wednesday . Sandwiched between weekdays , they brought a minimum of satisfaction and a maximum of inconvenience . Split weeks are expensive . Business economists estimate a 1.5 per cent loss yearly , due to starts and stops in the even flow of production and distribution . No wonder there is agitation to place holidays on Mondays , and on their fixed dates , which can be easily accomplished through calendar reform . The underlying trouble is primarily a matter of the irregularities of our calendar . This emphasizes the importance of calendar reform , which the United Nations is seriously considering . Defects in the calendar are historical . They are survivals from ancient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and is practically the same as it was when Julius Caesar installed it , except for slight modifications by Pope Gregory XIII . The World Calendar , the proposed improved system approved by seventeen governments , is a simple and easy formula whereby the defects of the present calendar are remedied without upheaval or inconvenience . Full details of the plan are available in every public library , in standard encyclopedias or in the World Almanac , or will be supplied on request by the information section of the U. N. It is increasingly urgent for American citizens to write their Government , as is their constitutional right , expressing their opinion on this matter . In Washington the State Department has just completed a study of the question , but has ruled that it can not take further action without a Congressional mandate . Obviously , action in the United Nations will be enormously strengthened when the American delegation takes a more positive position . ELISABETH . ACHELIS , President , The World Calendar Assn . New York , July 12 , 1951 . Historic Loyalty Oath To THE EDITOR @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loyalty oaths , which abjures the enemy , was used by the patriots during the American Revolution . Here is a copy of one taken before none other than our own George Washington at historic Valley Forge : " I , De Steuben , Major General and Inspector General , do acknowledge the United Stales of America. , to be free , Independent and Sovereigin states , and declare that the people thereof owe no allegiance or obedience to George the Third , King ' of Great-Britain ; and I renounce , refuse and abjure any allegiance or obedience to him ; and I do swear that I will to the titniost , of my power ; support , maintain and defend the said United States , against the said King George the Third , his heirs and successors and his and their abettors , assistants and adherents apd will serve the slick United Stales in the office of Inspector General which I now hold with fidelity , according to the best of my skill and understanding . Sworn before me , Camp Valley Forge , May 12 , 1778 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those who refuse in these days to take such a loyalty oath are persons who delight in wordy quibbles . These persons now wish to be called " liberals " and " progressives . " Progressing to what goal ? The extreme goal of some progressives is connnunism. - A professor of the Princeton History Department spoke at the recent gettogether meeting of the local Princeton Alumni Association . His address was entitled , " Why the Russians Behave as They 1 ) 0 . " lie is said to be an authority on this subject , by virtue of living ' abroad as well as lung study . In answering questions after his interesting talk , he declared that communism and socialism were about the same . Using the word " progressive " with that end in view has made It a misnomer . Psychologists should agree that the path toward communism is a return to barbarism , barter and the primitive . Or is it progressing toward the sound , safe and non-suicidal goal of the properly regulated political system of capitalism and private enterprise ? We hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's safety and welfare . WILLARD L. DE YOE . Paterson , N. J. , July 12 , 1951 , Limiting Taxes To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Permit me to express my warm appreciation of Edward Collins ' comments on the ceiling-on-taxes proposal in his column , " Economics and Finance , " in THE TIMES of July 9 . I was particularly delighted by his observation that the basic infirmity of the taxceiling proposal is " its extreme naivete , " for in private discussions on the subject I have been saying virtually the same thing . My greatest fear in the area of tax limitations in addition to those so ably voiced by Mr. Collins is that we will be announcing to the world  --  made up , of course , of both our friends and our foes  --  that we will have this much to spend and no more come peace or crisis . And the " this much " will obviously be woefully inadequate for anything requiring scope and sustained effort ; it will mean , further , that the United States must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't occurred , perhaps , to the sponsors of the tax-limitation idea is that it is another and far more potent form of isolation , a disease which we Americans seem unable to cure in ourselves with any degree of permanence . Certainly , there is a great need to grapple with the disturbing problem of taxation ; it would be a boon of immeasurable dimensions if this problem could be solved with equity to both the citizens and their government. , But merely to propose and plump for limitations , per se , is to be guilty of irresponsibility . Tax-limitation proposals are appealing , but dangerously short-sighted , particularly in this day of sudden and unforeseeable developments . Let us have detailed nation-wide discussion of the subject . MARK J. WENDY . Monticello , N. Y. , July 9 , 1951 . Imperialism of Russia Soviet Policies Said to Embody Traditional Traits of Nation The writer of the following letter , President of the Ukrainian Congress Committee of America and Vice President of the Federation of Americans of Central and East European Descent , it a member of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NM YORK neirst Before commenting on the letter signed by twelve Russian emigres criticizing your commendable editorial of June 28 , " Realism About Russia , " I should like to state that the sound contents of that editorial , bearing on Secretary Acheson 's recent significant remarks on traditional Russian imperialism , provide added inspiration to many Americans who have begun to see in the 100 million non-Russians of the Soviet Union , or one-half of its multi-national populace , our certain and dependable allies in this momentous struggle with Soviet Russian imperialism . The salient points of your editorial receive full expression in the pending House Concurrent Resolution 94 , offered by Congressman Kersten of Wisconsin , to assist the demonstrated liberation movements of the Ukrainian , Balt , Georgian , Byelo-Russian and other peoples who have experienced with no sense of substantial difference both Czarist and Soviet imperialism . The arguments raised by the Russian emigre critics are weak and misleading . First , to aver that the acceptance of your judgments as a guide to American policy would mean a " national struggle against Russia and its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is hardly logical , since such a realistic policy as you intimated would unquestionably conduce to the lunge-litinured liberation movements of these enslaved nun-Russian nationals of the Soviet Union . Such a policy would strike at the weakest sector of the mythical Soviet monolith , certainly magnifying one of the main deterrents to Soviet aggression . Record of Imperialism Second , the supposed historical evidence advanced to diminish the significance of Mr. Acheson 's well-grounded observation on 500 years of Russian imperialisin is grossly insubstantial , not to say largely refutable , and scarcely applicable to the past two decades of Soviet politics . Fur example , reference is made to an alleged restraint placed upon Lenin 's regime by " Russian public opinion " regarding aggressive and expansionist intentions , Vet the historical record shows that at the very inception of Bolshevik rule Trutzlq 's Red Russian army was spontaneously dispatched to destroy the independent democratic republics of Ukraine , the Cossack ' ' , Georgia , Turkestan , and even threatened to overwhelm Poland . The fundamental truth is that Bolshevism was christened in traditional Russian imperialism , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Within the Soviet Union " factually reveals , was confirmed in it on May 24 , 1945 , in the open toast given by Stalin himself to the " Great Russians " as the central core of Soviet society . Program of Expansion Third , the frail theoretic distinctions made between Russia and Stalin and ideological communism and " purely Russian purposes , " whatever they are , can not obscure the stubborn and prominent facts that Stalin does depend almost exclusively on the nonresisting Russians for the retention and expansion of his power , that his Russification policy now applied to central Europe , with mass deportations of natives and replacements by Russians , is reducing this area also to a Russian colony , and ' that his vigorous campaign of hatred of the West and master-race superiority complex exceeds the wildest expectations of any Great Russian chauvinist . As many a sincere East and Central European Communist has learned at great cost  --  with the exception of Tito ? international communism constitutes the mere ideological trappings for the imperialist dynamic of the modern Rueelan imperialist builders of the longawaited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my Senate testimony on the . Genocide Convention last year , it is these conspicuous Soviet traits of conquest , domination over foreign peoples , terrorism and national genocide  --  the chief ingredients of traditional Russian imperialism ? that have led countless alert observers to agree with Gen. Walter B. Smith that , " considering Soviet objectives and intentions , communism today is Great Russianism . " In conclusion , it is interesting to note the curious concept of conditioned self-determination entertained by the writers . A true , democratic affirmation of this principle would allow for liberty of responsible choice among various alternatives , including admission into a general European federation which actually most non-Russian East European leaders hope for . But the prejudged framework for the expression of this principle on the part of non-Russians in the Soviet Union la apparently " a peaceful coexistence of all peoples in Russia , " a usage which is ethnically baseless and a vestigial remain of Czarist semantics , ' Mother Russia , " it seems , must be saved at all costs . For as Mr. Abramovitch , one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " they the Bolsheviks are guilty of many crimes against the people save one : they did not dismember Russia . " As Mr. Kerensky , another signer , has said ? " It is better to have a bad dictator than to cut the live body of Russia . " LEV E. , DOBRIANSKY . Washington , July 9 , 1 : - 1-  1 . Further reproduction prohibited without permission .                     