@@714381

txt An unwritten alliance between Britain and the United States will be Winston Churchill 's goal when he steps off the Queen Mary in New York tomorrow , British newspapers reported today . " The smoke screen being laid down by Downing street and the White House can not conceal the fact that in Britain almost everything is pinned on success of the talks , " the Liverpool Post commented . British papers predicted a tremendous welcome for Churchill . A British correspond " nt in Washington reported that Churchill could run for the American presidency on either the Democratic or Republican ticket and win , so high is his popularity and prestige in the United States .. In Washington , the state department said yesterday that Churchill would hold a news conference at the Brooklyn army base before a motorcade escorts him either to Floyd Bennett field or to Pennsylvania station for the trip to Washington . He will fly in President Truman 's plane , The Independence , if the weather is good . Luncheon with the President is scheduled for noon at Blair house . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Big Question Churchill has one big question he wants to ask President Truman : Will Mr. Truman seek reelection and if so what does he think his chances are ? Churchill already has seen Gen. Eisenhower and apparently thinks he knows Eisenhower 's plans . He has said little about Eisenhower , but it is generally assumed here that the general is sitting tight awaiting developments of the next few weeks and if they are favorable he will run . Should the United States get a new President , one of the first callers would be Churchill ? out to make a series of new deals for Britain . Churchill 's tactics in negotiations are simple . He likes to do business orally with the top man and put as little down on paper as possible . He likes to spread the negotiations over several days with as few persons present as possible . He detests crowded rooms and big conferences . Has Good Memory He begins with pleasantries and small talk . Then , in a three or four hour session he likes to go over situations one by one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ causes of the situations , corninitments already made , and best courses to follow . Churchill has a prodigious memory and needs neither notes nor secretary . But after the first long talk he sorts out all that was said by both sides . He lists , either mentally or on paper , the situations which both sides see ' eye to eye . These he then forgets about . In subsequent talks , which may run up to 10 hours each , he likes to take up each situation in which differences of opinion arise . And by going over causes and commitments , he tries to find some common course of action . His usual tactic is not to make demands or speeches but to ask questions . He is one of the world 's most accomplished quiz masters and thru his questioning causes many snore changes than he could by pounding the table or getting tough . Between talks , he meets with his advisers  --  his generals , admirals , civil servants and secretaries . With them he talks about possible changes in British policies arid what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advisers and supporters to be able to give him , almost instantly , complicated lists of figures and details , but once he has examined the figures and details he discards them and only drags them out if , in subsequent talks with his opposite top man , he thinks them necessary to cinch an argument . Churchill does not expect agreement on everything . He thinks1 negotiations are worth while even if no agreements are reached because , in such a case , at least he can anticipate what courses others will follow and so guide his own actions . British Stand Summarized In most of the world 's political and economic situations today the British position is dear . Here is a summary : HANDOUTS  --  Britain Is overspending by about 2 billion dollars a year and expects to go on doing so for the foreseeable future . It expects to be able to pass off some of the deficit to the empire but expects the United States to pay the bulk of it , Churchill does not want a direct loan or gift . He wants some informal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which would wipe off deficits in international trade automatically . He wants the United States to provide Britain I with steel , coal , sulphur , copper , and possibly oil in as large quantities as possible . He wants the United States to buy British supplies for European armies , especially clothes , and thus put slack British factories back onto full time . NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ? Churchill would like to have the affairs of the North Atlantic treaty organization NATO directed by men who are cabinet members in their own governments and thus have considerable power in their own countries . He would like to wofk out a middle east command under an American and thus involve the United States more firmly in affairs in that area . He is opposed to having an American called admiral of the Atlantic altho he expects the United States navy will remain in actual fact boss of the Atlantic . Thinks Korea Worthless KOREAN VAR  --  The fighting should , if possible , be allowed to die down and become a perpetual border patrolling and internal policing action . Churchill thinks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on it . CHINA  --  Britain can not withdraw diplomatic recognition of the communist Chinese government . Churchill thinks the British Socialist government was correct in wanting to recognize the communist Chinese but that it should not have done so unless the United States did likewise . In Churchill 's view , recognition or nonrecognition is not nearly as important as differences between the United States and Britain in final action . MALAYA ? The British war should continue , American support of any kind would be welcome hut is not especially sought . IRAN  --  Churchill is betting that the International bank will get I Iranian oil flowing again at terms favorable to Britain , but he is not giving any odds . Wo n't Surrender Suez EGYPT  --  Things are going to get r worse before they get better . Kidnaping of foreigners , riots , and " privately organized " bat tles against British troops are likely . A formal attack by the Egyptian army is considered unlikely . Should such a fight come about , Churchill would like to know if American troops , ships , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Suez canal . THE SUDAN  --  Britain is flexible . It thinks a plebiscite is not ' practical . Should a war with Egypt come over the Suez canal , Churchill would like to know what : American aid he could anticipate in the Sudan , too . UNITED EUROPE ? Any continental unions outside the iron curtain are welcomed by Churchill . He will work with any unions but put Britain in none . SPAIN  --  The United States can make any deal it wants to with Franco . Churchill would privately welcome American air bases in Spain . But the British public , he thinks , would require that Britain and Franco stay apart . Wants Atomic Partnership ATOMIC BOMBS ? Churchill would like a United States-Britain , 1 partnership in atomic work but thinks this is asking too much . He is willing to give the United States all British accomplishments and take in return whatever America I secs fit to turn over . In the long run , in case of war , he thinks I American a t o m i c developments I will aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view is similar , about other weapons , too . The British army thinks it has the ' world 's best automatic rifle yet Churchill is willing to dump it it in so doing the over-all number of weapons can he Increased . He welcomes American troops and planes in Britain and only blows off about their presence in speeches in Britain for local political reasons .                     