@@712944

txt As much as any person today , Trygve Lie . United Nations Secretary-General , stands as the symbol of mankind 's struggle to halt the drift toward ever-sharper animosity , supicion , and hatred before they lead to warfare in an atomic age . Mr. Lie has just completed a peace mission taking him to Washington , London , Paris , and Moscow and now is planning to revisit the western capitals on his way back to Lake Success . The question observers here are asking is this : Exactly what has Mr. Lie accomplished in a practical way on his one-man peace effort half way around the world ? Few outside of Mr. Lie 's closest colleagues now know the answer to this question in detail . It will be necessary to wait until he returns and gives the world a more complete report before it will be clear exactly to what degree he has succeeded or failed . Definite Results But it is possible at this stage to list certain definite accomplishments and other probable results from his journey . Mr. Lie has pierced the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an accomplishment at a time when few men from the western world are permitted behind that barrier  --  and few , if any , are welcomed cordially when they arrive . It is clear that the secretary-general did receive a warm welcome , both from what he himself has said ? " I have been received in a most friendly way "  --  and from the list of banquets , receptions , and conferences the Kremlin provided him . Apparently no doors were closed in his face . Mr. Lie has changed the world 's perspective on its problems . Prior to his mission , the cold war had blanketed largely news of peace efforts . Now , especially in continental European newspapers , there is new awareness that diplomatic offensives are a means to an end  --  war/prevention . UN Morale Lifted From the point of view of observers at UN headquarters , Mr. Lie has done one other important thing . He has focused the world 's attention on the UN and has shown that it remains a potentially significant peace weapon , Mr. Lie has given UN morale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which can be labeled as definite . In addition , he very probably has chalked up several other gains . Mr. Lie is known to ' have been impressed deeply by warnings from American atomic scientists of the awesome potentialities of hydrogen bomb warfare . It is entirely possible that the secretary-general has made his concern known to President Truman , Prime Minister Clement R. Attlee , Premier Georges Bidault , and Prime Minister Joseph Stalin . High-Level Meeting ? One of Mr. Lie 's primary objectives is understood to have been to persuade these men to renew negotiations on atomic energy control . He believes that such issues , however formidable , can be thrashed out if the nations gather around conference tables and start thrashing . In this connection , it is probable that Mr. Lie has made progress toward arranging a high-level meeting of the United Nations Security Council . It is considered more likely that foreign ministers would attend such a meeting than that Premiers and Presidents would do so in person . The fact that . Mr. Lie now plans to stop off in London , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noted with interest . He originally had planned to return directly . Perhaps he first received answers which amounted to " we will if the others will " and now must return to report on " the others . " China Issue Unsettled It is believed that the deadlock on the Chinese representation issue remains much where it was when Mr. Lie left on his mission , so far as a permanent solution is concerned . Nationalist China is willing to stage a temporary boycott of its own in order to open the way for Russia to attend a special Security Council session on atomic energy . Mr. Lie 's own reports of progress have been very cautious and modest from the start . He has been careful not to raise false hopes , overdramatize his personal role , or depart from his position of scrupulous neutrality as between East and West . Thus , it is believed here , Mr. Lie could not have reported any concrete successes in Moscow without appearing to give the credit largely to Russia . To have come from conversations with Stalin and dramatically announce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary-General to have implied that Russia had opened the way toward peace . Soviet Silence Noted In the eyes of western diplomats , it also might have made him the megaphone for a Russian propaganda blast aimed at the London conferences which have just come to a close . Failure of the Russians to issue such a blast on their own initiative  --  the virtually complete absence of a significant " peace offensive " when the time for one seemed most ripe ? has stirred some speculation here that the Kremlin may wish to avoid antagonizing the West on the eve of renewed East-West negotiation .                     