@@714688

txt The government today issued a price order which it said will mean a boost of one to two cents a can in many stores for most popular canned vegetables , fruits , and juices . The order affects profit margins of wholesale grocers . The office of price stabilization said the action , effective tomorow , was needed because of " markedly lower earnings " being realized by wholesalers . The increased ceilings will apply to corn , green beans , peas , tomatoes , and tomato juice , canned fruit cocktail , pineapple , peaches , and pears . Further Increases Due OPS officials said further increases in a wide range of food items can be expected soon under an order permitting retailers to increase their mar k-ups on many types . These will include concentated coffee , dry cereals , cookies , and many canned meats except tuna and salmon . OPS also announced price controls are being suspended on raw cotton mind virtually all textiles , including those made of wool , cotton , and synthetic fibers . The action is not expected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the items affected have been selling well below ceilings . The textile order is also effee. tive tomorrow , and the OPS said it sets definite price levels of methods under which controls car be put on again if prices rim sharply . The textile suspension is at the manufacturing level . Ellis Arnall , price director , said the suspensions are in line with OPS policy of relaxing controls when items begin selling materially below ceiling prices , and are not expected to reach ceilings in the forseeable future . He said OPS would watch market prices closely for price rises . Work on New Regulations Agency officials said they are working on the retail food ceilings regulation now and it may come before the end ' of the month . OPS said the higher retail ceilings resulting from the adjustments for wholesalers will apply chiefly to independent stores , both large and small , where buying is done thru wholesalers . Generally it is not expected to affect prices in chain stores which usually buy direct from producers and do not deal thru the wholesalers . The agency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , too  --  will be higher , this does no , - necessarily mean that all ceiling prices will be boosted . For some types of canned goods , officials said prices are already about as high as the public is willing to pay . Markups May Be Reviewed OPS said the higher margins for wholesalers represent a temporary action . The new markups will be subject to review when the agency completes tabulation of an extensive nationwide survey of margins and earnllgs of both wholesalers and retailrs . This m v result in further upward price adjustments around July 1 . This will depend on whether the survey shows food dealers are getting fair and equitable returns , as the law requires .                     