@@720574

txt WASHINGTON , July ** appears to be growing here for a visit to the United States by Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev of the Soviet Union . W. Averell Harriman , former Governor of New ' York , backed the idea today ? in talks with top Administration officials . Opposition to the proposal is diminishing both on Capitol Hill land in the State Department . Mr. Harriman visited Washington to report on his recent visit to the Soviet Union and ' on his long talk with Mr. Khrushchev . The wartime Ambassador to Moscow spent forty , ' minutes with Vice President Richard M. Nixon , noire than an hour with Secretary of State Christian A. Herter and other officials and almost an hour and a half with the Senate Foreign Relations Committee . Urges Parley in New York The former Governor repeated , his suggestion that a summit , ( meeting be held in New York with the heads of government ' of the United States , the Soviet Union , Britain and France attending . But he made it clear that he thought Premier Khrushchev @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was a top-level conference . " I think it would be a splendid idea , " Mr. Harriman told newsmen . " He could see the strength and vitality of this country . He thinks the workers here have no influence , and he would see differently . " Mr. Harriman said that although he favored a summit meeting in this country he did not advocate formal negotia-I tions between the United States and the Soviet Union alone . In working out agreements , hei said , the major allies of the United States should be included . Mr. Harriman also said he thought the Soviet leader probably had not received " full and // accurate " reports on the United States from other Soviet visitors or from Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko . He said he thought the Soviet Premier should come here and see things for himself . Asked whether Mr. Khrushetev might not use such a visit for propaganda purposes , the former Governor answered Sharply : . " No Russian is going to come over here and change the views of the American people . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latter 's visit to Moscow , where he is to open the American National Exhibition July 24 . The former Governor said he thought the Vice President 's trip would be of " very great importance " in conveying " the American point of view . " After his talk with the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Mr. Harriman was praised by its members " for his detailed report on Soviet conditions . Senator NV Yulbright , ; Democrat of Arkansas , the chairman , said Mr. Harriman had painted a picture of a strong country that was getting more powerful all the time . Mr. Khrushchev was depicted in the Harriman report as an able man and a confirmed Communist who was convinced the capitalist system was going to collapse and who was " going to do anything he could to push that along , " the Senator said . The former Governor said the Soviet Union was going to do ' everything ? it could to advance the Communist cause in free - countries around the world . He said the United Staets should be prepared to help those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not reach by themselves . He regretted the failure of Congress to . approve Senator Fulbright 's plan to put development aid on a five-year basis , Mr. Harriman said . Earlier , Mr. Harriman had said he thought one reason for inviting Premier Khrushchev hero was to let him see " what a tremendous job " he has undertaken in promising to " catch up " with the United States . . Senator Fulbright said he agreed that Mr. Khrushchev should visit this country . While he hesitated to speak for the full committee , he said most of the Senators he had talked with felt the same way . Senat6r . Theodore Francis 1Green , Democrat of Rhode Island , told reporters he favored a Khrushchev visit . Senator Homer ? E. Capehart , Republican of- Indiana , said he " certainly would.not oppose the idea . " After his morning meeting with the Vice President , Mr. Harriman said Mr. Nixon would be received by Mr. Khrushchev as " possibly the next President of the United States . " The Democ  --  atic former Governor said he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a Democrat . Mr. Harriman was asked whether , if a Democrat were elected , he would be available for the . post as Secretary of State or another post . He replied that he had never sought an appointed office and did not seek-one. now . ? At the State Department Mr. Harriman met with Secretary Herter , Under Secretary Douglas Dillon , Deputy Under Secretary Robert Murphy and others . He then spent a halfhour with Assistant Secretary Livingston T. Merchant and his deputy , Foy D. Kohler . Mr. Herter and a group of aides , including Mr. Merchant , will leave tomorrow for Geneva , where the recessed foreign ministers ' ' talks are to resume Monday . This evening the Secretary of State paid a farewell call on President Eisenhower ,                     