@@714602

txt President Truman stirred new controversy today as he sent to Congress three reorganization plans that would put under Civil Service more than 20,000 postmasters , customs officials and Uniteti States marshals , now politically appointed . The postmasters affected would be those at first , second and third class post offices . Senator Styles Bridges of New Hampshire , Republican leader of the Senate , declared that the President 's move was designed to freeze present Democratic jobholders in office " now that he sees the shadow of a Republican victory in the offing . " Joining in opposition were Senators Walter F. George of Georgia and John L. McClellan of Arkansas , powerful Democratic committee chairmen who led the unsuccessful fight last month to kill the President 's plan to reorganize the Bureau of Internal Revenue . The Internal Revenue plan , now in effect , abolished the offices of politically appointed Collectors of Internal Revenue and replaced them with officials named under Civil Service . Selection Board Named Meanwhile , John B. Dunlap , Commissioner of Internal Revenue , announced creation of a selection board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Civil Service positions be made strictly on the basis of merit . The board will screen candidates for some 100 top posts and prepare a list for consideration of the Commissioner and the Secretary of the Treasury . The Civil Service Commission will investigate the qualifi- , cations of the nominees before any , action is taken . The new plans  --  the second , third and fourth put before the Eightysecond Congress  --  will become law in sixty days unless rejected by a constitutional majority of either the Senate or the House of Representatives . This requires 218 votes in the House or forty-nine in the Senate . Each plan will be put to a Separate vote . Mr. George , chairman of the Senate Finance Committee , declared that the three plans Mr. Truman submitted today would be defeated " if the Senate has any respect for its responsibility in selecting and confirming honest and efficient officials . " Mr. McClellan , chairman of the Senate Committee on Government Operations , said that although he had not seen the plans he thought he would oppose them . His committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I think it 's a mistake , " Senator McClellan said , " to let policymaking officials be selected by the Civil Service Commission without Senate confirmation . " Senator Hubert H. Humphrey , Democrat of Minnesota , announced that he favored the plans . He and two other freshman Senators led the fight to save the Internal Revenue reorganization plan last month . In a message transmitting the plans to Congress , the President said " the primary objective of these three reorganization plans is to make the Executive Branch of the Federal Government more efficient by permitting the Congress and the people to hold it more clearly accountable for the faithful execution of the laws . " He asserted that this objective would be accomplished by having postmasters named by the Postmaster General , customs officials by the Secretary of the Treasury , and United States marshals by the Attorney General . All now are named by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate . This method of selection has put a great burden upon the President and members of the Senate who , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with and responsible for each individual appointed . Mr. Truman stressed that both the President 's Committee on Administrative Management in 1937 and the Hoover Commission on , Organization of the Executive Branch of the Government in 1949 had urged the abandonment of this form of appointment of nonpolicy-making officers . The President said that , besides - tablishing " clear lines of accountability from top to bottom " in these three departments affected , the plans " will gain for us the benefits which will come from filling these offices strictly on the basis of merit under the classified Civil Service . " " Not Result of Hasty Action " Mr. Truman said the new method of selecting the officials would give the President and the Senate more time for the " complex and crushing task " of developing national policy . " Relations between the President and the Congress ought not to be complicated , " he said , " by the need for coming to agreement on the selection of a host of field officials in posts where policy is not made . " He emphasized that the plans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they provide for an immediate separation from government service of the thousands of incumbents now on the job . " He insisted the plans were " not aimed at them as individuals or as groups , " but rather at " modernizing a system which is no longer useful . " Mr. Truman declared that " as a general rule " the changeover to Civil Service status could not occur until present offices became vacant , since the tenure of postmasters was indefinite and that of United States marshals and officials affected in the Bureau of Customs , with certain exceptions , was for a stated number of years . " The complete change-over to the new method of appointment , therefore , " he said , " will require several years . I want it clearly understood that this gradual application of the full merit system to these offices as they become vacant grants no partisan advantage or disadvantage to any political party . " These plans can not , therefore , rightfully be opposed on the ground that they help or harm any political group , " Mr. Truman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plans are the postmasters , who number 21,438 . No more than twenty jobs are involved in the Bureau of the Customs , while the number of marshals affected is ninety-four . In the reorganization , present offices would be . abolished and new ones created . The only instance where the President actually gave a money estimate of savings to be expected was in the plan covering the Bureau of the Customs . Here , he said , it could be expected that " within a few years the annual savings , based upon present enforcement levels , business volume and salary scales , will aggregate at least $300,000 . " The savings in other plans , he indicated , would come in the form of better service .                     