@@713436

txt United Nations forces began withdrawing today from a new defense line thirty miles north of Pyongyang before the imminent peril of thousands of onrushing Chinese Communist troops . A spokesman at United States First Corps headquarters declared : " We are trading space for time . " " We are gradually pulling back south " of the Sukchon-Sunchon line above the former Korean Red capital , he added . The Ninth Corps , on the right flank , also was withdrawing , from the Songchon sector , thirty miles northeast of Pyongyang . United Nations forces were believed to be holding Sukchon .. Perhaps they held or were near Sunchon . The situation at Songchon was obscure . Some service units of the United States Eighth Army at Pyongyang left southward as preparations were begun for evacuating the city if necessary . Junction Made in Northeast By LINDESAY PARROTT Special ru TBa NEvi YORK TIMES . TOKYO , Sunday , Dec. 3 ? The rolling Chinese Communists thrust at United Nations positions on all fronts in Korea yesterday and forced the defenders to give ground . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ driving southward toward the old Communist capital at Pyongyang and eastward on the Allied base at Wonsan , slicing between the two widely separated wings of Gen. Douglas 's forces . In the frozen northeast , troops of the United States Seventh Division cut their way back down the eastern shore of the Changjin Reservoir from Sinhung to Hagaru , at the lake 's southern extremity . There they made a junction with troops of the First Marine Division , holding the town against a continued enemy attack . The Seventeenth Regiment of the Seventh Division fought southwarc from the Yalu River boundary at Hyesanjin to Hagaru , said a United Press dispatch . But a Tenth Corps spokesman said that the Seventh Division had " heavy losses , " both of men and equipment . Three Chinese regiments , it was estimated , were south of them , blocking the winding road through the mountains that is the sole communications line for the isolated troops to bases on the east coast . Some Vehicles Get Through Some vehicles got through , the spokesman said , but they were sneaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the slippery road . For the fourth successive day the Marines and Seventh Division troops were supplied by airdrop . Early yesterday , transports of the Far East Air Forces Combat Command dropped 250,000 pounds of ammunition and supplies to them . Two regiments of the Marine Division , according to reports front Korea , still were eight miles north of Hagaru , attempting to fight thei , r way back through strong Chinese forces to join the Seventh Division troops and Marines holding the town . Meanwhile there were mounting indications that the Chinese were driving to spring a trap around the whole Tenth Corps in northeastern Korea . Increasing pressure was reported against elements of // the United States Third Division lit the neighborhood of Huksu , twenty-five miles northwest of the east coast base at Hamhung . If the enemy , with his big superiority in manpower , could push the Tenth Corps of Maj. Gen. Edward M. Almond , already severed from the Eighth Army of Lieut . Gen. Walton H. Walker in the west and with its advance guards already cut off , might also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Sea of Japan while the other half of General 's forces were penned in the west . Chinese Move In on Hagaru The Chinese , with 80,000 troops in the northeast , were moving in on Hagaru from the northwest and northeast and coming up the road from the south . Koto , where they had established a roadblock behind the Marines and Seventh Division , was quiet yesterday , reports , said . But the Chinese held hills east , west and south of the town . Communists had taken heavy losses also . Marine pilots who flew over Yudam , evacuated by the Marines yesterday morning , said that the ground was littered with enemy dead . But the United Nations defenders remained cut off and under heavy pressure . On the western front the heaviest , fighting was in the sector of the United States First Cavalry Division , fighting a rearguard action approximately ? thirty miles northeast of Pyongyang . A large enemy force drove the troopers from Songchon , reports from Korea said . Then the cavalrymen counter-attacked and drove back again four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communique said that they were " still in contact with the enemy " one mile south of Songchon yesterday afternoon . Meanwhile , the enemy continued to swing wide around the United Nations flank , aided by guerrilla operations of North Korean soldiers who had been cut off earlier by Allied advances . Eighth Army headquarters said that the enemy was concentrating three miles northeast of Yangdok and that yesterday many enemy troops were jamming the roads east of the city , apparently moving against Wonsan . In the Wonsan region , North Korean irregulars , who have been reported to number as high as 40,000 men under Brig . Gen. Kim Chaik , again were active yesterday . Headquarters said that the United States Third Division had cleared " several " roadblocks that the enemy had built up on the highway at Majon , fifteen miles west of Wonsan . Whether the guerrillas and Chinese Communist forces were yet in contact in that area , however , was not reported . Reports from Pyongyang said that the United Nations authorities were preparing to evacuate a selected list of civilians from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denominations and Korean leaders who had worked with the United Nations after the fall of the capital in October as well as prisoners taken by the United Nations forces . An Eighth Army spokesman said last night that troops would not " withdraw from anywhere until forced to do so by enemy action . " But he added that the Army would " destroy things of military value " before pulling out . What this might mean to Pyongyang , not severely damaged when the Communists fled without a serious defense , remained to be seen . Reports from Pyongyang indicated that an enemy fifth column already was busily at work in the former Red capital . Leaflets appeared telling the population of 300,000 that they would soon " be freed from the enemy . " The leaflets urged them to break up rail lines , transport and communications systems and to sabotage supply warehouses . Rigid controls were established at the entrances to and exits from the city lest thousands of refugees clog the roads to the south , over which a further United Nations retreat would have to move @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On the United Nations left , where pressure had been less as the enemy swung around the other flank , the enemy had built road blocks south of Kunu and north and northwest of Sunchon on Friday , headquarters reported . The latter , it was announced , " hampered the withdrawal of friendly units , " although it was not " completely effective . " Headquarters spokesmen said yesterday that the enemy 's inten7 Lions were still obscure and that their attacks since the United Nations withdrawal from the Chongchon River line had been largely in the nature of " probing " operations seeking to find the new United Nations defense positions and to search for a weak spot on which to drive in force . North of Chongjin , according to The Associated Press , the Republican Capital Division was reported moving slowly northeast toward the Siberian frontier , about forty miles away , with . the United States cruiser St. Paul providing close gun support offshore . Demolition On in Pyongyang PYONGYANG , Korea , Sunday , Dec. 3 ( IPJ  --  Demolition charges roared through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from this former capital of North Korea . The noise could have given rise to unconfirmed reports that Communist mortars were shelling the city 's outskirts . Officials here said there was no indication that Red Guerrillas or regulars had opened up with mortars . A lone enemy plane appeared over Pyongyang Saturday night . A light snow fell in Pyongyang today . But ground conditions indicated fairly suitable weather for aerial operations . The important Pyongyang air field still was in operation . Civilian Koreans continued to stream southward out of the city . ?                     