@@716278

txt Unless all the signs are deceptive , the Geneva conference is likely to be remembered in history as a new proof of the futility of trying to negotiate from weakness . Well-meaning sentimentalists may believe that there is some magic in a conference table , which will soothe or charm away all international differences . But this is not thei teaching of experience , especially in dealing with such Cough and relentless adversaries as the Soviet or Chinese Communists . International conferences between representatives of opposing governments are likely to produce positive results only if one of two conditions is fulfilled . Either there must be a process of bargaining , of giveand-text . Or one side must be able to convince the other that a persistence in aggressive courses will bring consequences sufficiently unpleasant to offset the possible gains of aggression . Both these methods had been discounted before the Geneva meeting got under way . Great Britain and France had no bargaining counters of any consequence themselves . The British government had already given Mao Tse-turig 's regime diplomatic recognition and assurances of a desire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinese Reds had heaped on British subjects . there was nothing more to offer . French diplomatic recognition is a minor consideration to Peiping. certainly not an inducjiment to forego the fruits of the heavily increased aid to the Viet Minh Communists . No American Gifts There might have been ( no one can say with certainty whether there would have been ) some bargaining value in American recognition , support for the membership of the Red Chinese regime in the United Nations am. offers of trade and credits . There was some wistful hoping in London and Paris that the United States would bring some such gifts to the Geneva conference table . But this possibility was ruled out from the beginning by the state of American public opinkm . Neither Mr. Dines nor any other Secretary of State could have survived politically a policy which would have been widely denounced as appeasement . Nor is there any strong probability that Red China could have been bought off from its dreams of political and economic expansion Into Southeast Asia . With efforts to placate Red China by American concessions ruled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Geneva . This would have been to impress the Soviet Union and Communist China with a show of Western unity , strength and firmness . Mr. Dulles did his best to achieve results along this line . But up to the present time he has been unable to overcome the hesitations and misgivings in London and Paris . It is not easy to piece together all the exchanges of views that took place between Washington , London and Paris on the eve of the Geneva meeting , when the political crisis of the impending conference was ag- gravated by the military crisis of Dien Bien Phu . But perhaps the decisive blow to any hope of impressing the Communist participants in the conference with fear of united action was Prime Minister Churchill 's statement in the House of Commons on April 27 . : " His Mjesty 's Government are not prepared to give any undertakings about United Kingdom military action in IndoChina in advance of the results of Geneva . " Conununlist Exploitation This very statement probably contributed much to predetermining " the results of Geneva . " With no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action to deter them , there would seem to be no good reason why the rulers of Red China should not exploit a favorable political and military situation and step up aid to the Viet Minh forces to whatever degree may be necessary to insure complete victory .. Some Americans . perplexes by statements from high Administration sources which have not always been completely consistent and irritated by evidences of weak ness and cross-purposes in foreign capitals . may be tempted to ask why we should be concerned about the fate of Indo-China and of Southeast Asia generally . We never had and do not have imperialist interests in that part of the world . But the time for such questioning is past . Maybe it would have been wiser for the United States never to have taken the Philippines and never to have tried to play the role of a big power in Asia . But our involvement in that part of the world was determined beyond turning back when we challenged Japan 's pretensions to hegemony , crushed Japanese military power  --  and found ourselves inheriting some difficult and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China and the increase in , Soviet power in the Far East . We are now bound by treaty to defend many vulnerable spots in Asia which may become targets of Soviet or Chinese Communist imperialism . Among these are South Korea , Japan , the , Philippines , Australia and New Zealand . We have a strong moral obligatioff to support the Chinese Nationalist government in Formosa . The Importance of S. E. Asia Our ability to full111 our defense treaties , and the obligation to protect Formosa , which was assumed by the Truman Administration after the invasion of South Korea . would be very adversely affected if first Indo-China and then other states in Southeast Asia would fall under . hostile Communist rule . Japan 's precarious economic balance might be upset altogether by such a development . That is why President Eisenhower and Secretary Dulles , despite setbacks and disappointments . have little if any alternative to the course which they are following : Trying somewhere to find and stabilize a political and military line that can be held , by joint action , on the mainland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               