@@719030

txt g . Setters to The Times LISTINE WISE POLIER.VICENTE SANCHEZ GAVITO.ROBERT G. MEAD Jr.PETER J. DE LUCA ... 18 Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR or THE NEwYoai. ; TIMES : Citizens of New York are again disturbed and aroused by reports of rising gang warfare and the sudden , even unprovoked , attacks on fellow1 citizens by boys and young men in Ivarious parts of our city . Whether or not the . number is ac1tually greater than last year , the vital issue that faces all New York leitizens is what plan , if any , has been developed by the ; city and state to get at the root causes or find the remedies for this recurrent blight that takes the toll not only of victims injured but in the lives of young , people involved in these hideous incidents . During the past decade all of us have read and heard much about the increase in juvenile delinquency and crimes by adolescent youth . Panaceas reaching from boys ' clubs to the ever-recurring curfew , and from the punishment of parents to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussed and risen or fallen in popularity for short periods of time . Aiding Troubled Families During this same decade , as pointed out in the challenging reports of Justice Epstein to the Mayor , we have failed to provide adequate services to children in trouble or to strengthen the troubled families in which so many of these children grow up . We are now finding , among the youth who have become seriously delinquent , the results of such communal neglect . There is , however , a broader and more basic failure which the city and state must now also face . We have as a community failed to set a goal and a plan through which to achieve it , so that we may more effectively help children and youth brought up in our depressed and overcrowded areas to have a sense of purpose , direction or even hope for their own future . We have failed to provide the incentive for many of them to become useful , and therefore good , citizens , to feel wanted by their community and to feel that they have achievable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is not a matter for charitable , remedial or police effort . It is a matter that demands basic social planning . It must include more adequate police , public welfare , mental health and private voluntary services to individual youth in need , but it must go far beyond such services if it is to meet the basic problems of young people who are becoming both destructive and selfdestructive in our city . Who are the youths , what do they have to do and where do they spend their time ? As the Youth Board has repeatedly pointed out , they have the loosest of home ties , they have found little satisfaction in school , they come from the city 's depressed and ofttimes segregated areas . They spend much time at the corner store or other local hang-out , bored and restless . Providing Wholesome Goals With all too rare exceptions we have failed to plan for such youth , to give them wholesome goals or to include them in the constructive life of the city . We have not developed projects through which they can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give them an honest living , provide a hope of training for future work , create a sense that they have value for the community , and thus provide a sound basis for self-respect , It is impossible that a country which when faced by a major depression in the Thirties could develop a Civilian Conservation Corps and the National Youth Administration can not in this time of , prosperity find ways to harness the energies and create wholesome ambitions for its youth if there is the will to do so . We must becmlne more concerned with the future of our youth than with them as a potential menace to our own safety and security . We need broad vision and real plans that will involve and secure the cooperation not only of people in the public and private service of the city but of industry , labor and our total community . If we fail to do this , experience has shown that all the policemen , charitable efforts and punitive action will not succeed in helping our youth to pull themselves together and so become constructive members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ N. Y. , Aug. 7 , 1957 . Report on Mexico 's Earthquake To ' I:1E EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It is now an established fact that loss of life and property damage of consideration as a result of the recent earthquake were limited to Mexico City , and that the damages there were by no means as extensive as many of us feared at first . Mexico City , for the fourth or fifth time during the last sixty years , weathered the shock because of the physical attributes of the land on which it is built . The soft silt of its subsoil saved it . But it also was responsible for the exaggerated reports on the earthquake that have circulated in certain regions of my country and in the United States . In other words , the number of casualties and of buildings destroyed IS small . Reports at first had a tendency to amplify the extent of the damage because the shock , compared to others that have wrought untold havoc in other parts of the world , was severe . Mexico City 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in at least 400,000 its structures . The latest count of our casualties is fifty-seven . As to the buildings , three were destroyed and sixty more report damages to a greater or lesser degree . It seems probable that eight or ten of these sixty will have to demolished . Moreover , the earthquake did not disrupt , for a single moment , the city 's normal life . Briefly stated , we in Mexico have every reason to be thankful for the fact that the major disaster which at first seemed to have stricken the heart of our country failed to mate= rialize . VICENTE SANCHEZ GAvcro. , Charg ? d'Affaires of Mexico . Washington , Aug. 6 , 1957 . Sailors ' Return Protested Criticism of Denying Asylum to Foes of Franco Regime Voiced To THE EDITOR DETRE NEW YORK TIMES Last month five Spanish sailors deserted from a destroyer in San Diego , declared themselves opposed to the Franco Government and sought asylum in the United States . The Times of Aug. 1 carries a dispatch from Los Angeles stating that the judge in charge of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turned to Spain in accordance with the terms of our 1902 treaty with that country . This decision is a sad commentary on the true meaning of justice for , to judge from recent similar cases in Spain , these men will go back to almost certain imprisonment and possible execution . Yet , as far as we know , their only crime is that they love liberty enough to risk their lives for it . Certainly our 1902 agreement to return Spanish nationals never envisaged the possibility that compliance might well mean death for those we returned . Surely the situation has changed in the last fiftyfive years , and surely the makers of the original treaty never foresaw the possible establishment of a Government of such repression. , terror and vindictiveness in Spain as the present one . Is it not abundantly clear and . highly desirable that changes in the internal Government and the external relations of nations require periodic re-examination of treaties and agreements if the ends of justice are to be consistently served ? Why can not our Government deal with these Spanish sailors in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refugees so recently arrived in our country ? Is it not the American tradition to be humane and merciful in the administration of justice ? ROBERT G. MEAD Jr . Storrs , Conn. , Aug. 1 , 1957 . Contribution of Immigrants TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES Former Admiral William R. Fur11ong 's remarks before a Senate sub1 committee considering changes in 1the Immigration and Nationalization Act , as reported in The New York Times of Aug. 7 , must come as a deep shock to the vast majority of Americans and certainly to our Southern and Eastern ? European friends . The Admiral 's statement that " immigrants from such lands , instead of learning our principles of government , immediately endeavor to change our government to suit itheir ideas " is an unfair and regrettable blanket indictment of people whose forebears , for the large part , founded the very principles of which he speaks . One could write at length about 2,000 years of Greek democratic tradition , Hungarian bloodshedding against unsurmountable odds in order to sample those principles and the parts played by Americans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protecting our ideology . Most of us who oppose material changes in the act base such opposition on reason , not prejudice . Foolhardy statements can be of no help to our legislators in their attempt to give us fair , constitutional laws . PETER J. DE LUCA . New York , Aug. 7 , 1957 . Disposing of Enemy Assets To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK . TIMES With that nice sense of journalistic composition for which The Times is justly famous , you published on Aug. 1 , side by side with the report of the Administration 's broad proposal for the return of Nazi assets , fascinating and fright . ening accounts of ' Nazi proposals for the creation of a Jewish ghetto state in Madagascar to provide hostages for the " future good conduct " of American Jews , of German attempts to use , the Duke of Windsor as their pawn in the subjection of Britain , and of German machinations in this country to work through isolationist groups for their own ends . The substantial means which made these intrigues possible came from some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ return of the Nazi-owned assets , reaping a $160,000,000 windfall from the war they so eagerly financed . A more fitting setting for the Administration 's foolish and fool ? hardy proposal than that given it by your newspaper could hardly , have been provided . HENRY H. STEINER . - Northampton , Mass. , Aug. 2 , 19571                     