@@716345

txt Contrary to earlier expectations the primary election in the Pine Tree State on June 21 does not shape up as a definite test of McCarthyism . When Robert L. Jones , friend and protege of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy ( R ) of Wisconsin , announced his candidacy for the United States Senate from Maine , against Senator Margaret Chase Smith , political experts leaped to the conclusion that this could be a measure of McCarthyism . As the campaign reaches its climax , however , it appears that Mr. Jones will benefit more from the anti-Smith vote than he will from a pro-McCarthy vote . Many who support Senator McCarthy indicate they intend to vote for Mrs. Smith . There never has been much likelihood that Mr. Jones could upset Maine 's strongest GOP vote getter , Senator Smith , a critic of Senator McCarthy 's methods . Several Handicaps Mr. Jones is working under several handicaps . First , Senator McCarthy has not visited Maine to support the Jones candidacy . Several key GOP leaders in the state have warned that " any intrusion from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Army-McCarthy hearings have not lessened the number of McCarthy supporters in Maine , but indications are that the number of persons opposed to Senator McCarthy 's methods has grown . Another serious handicap is that Mr. Jones , a young man , is not well known within the state . He has spent much of his time in Washington where he was assistant to Senator Charles E. Potter ( R ) of Michigan . Mr. Jones says he quit to run for office . Senator Potter says he was fired . Before working for Senator Potter , Mr. Jones was assistant to Senator Owen Brewster ( R ) of Maine who is supporting Mrs. Smith for reelection . Another factor is that although Senator Smith authored the Declaration of Conscience in 1950  --  a criticism of McCarthy methods  --  she does not mention Senator McCarthy by name and thus arouse the senator 's partisans . Mr. Jones started his cam- paign with the usual antiincumbent vote , estimated from 8,000 to 20,000 if 100,000 votes are cast . His only hope for victory is in selling himself as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find in Maine , but many of them are also supporters of Senator Smith . Remarks often heard are that Senator McCarthy " has courage . got results . . blasted the Commies out of government is n't afraid of anyone . These same people will say " I like Margaret she is a credit to the state . she is always on the job , never missed a roll call . . . . I 'll vote for her reelection . . . " Americanism Slogan Republican leaders in Maine forecast that Senator Smith will win the contest handily . They guess the vote will be from three to five to one in her favor . These figures probably show why she is still willing to accept the earlier version that this election will indicate the strength of McCarthyism in her state . In the past month the Jones campaign has been based on a theme " Americanism " and his charge that Mrs. Smith is an " in ternationalist . " He has mentioned Senator McCarthy only when asked about him , and then usually to the extent that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prominent Maine Republicans have come out in support of Mr. Jones nor has he run an expensive campaign . He has used television and radio moderately , but has not shown signs of an unlimited budget as was expected by some political observers . Senator Smith will have a bloc voting against her because of various reasons . Some do n't like women in public office . She also has been criticized by some members of her party as being a " New Deal Republican . " One anti-Smith Republican leader who did not wish to be quoted , said : " Margaret will win , but she will be shocked the day after election by the slim margin of victory . The vote will have nothing to do with McCarthy and it will have nothing to do with Jones . It will be anti-Smith. "                     