@@719766

txt FRANCE CALLS UP RESERVES ; DE GAULLE SPEAKS TODAY ; COMMUNISTS TO HALT WORK REGIME IS BRACED Reds Seek to Exploit Rise of Gaullism Press Is Curbed By ROBERT C. DOTY Special to The New York Times . PARIS , May ** French Government called up new gendarmerie reserves , banned all public assemblies in Paris and began indirect press censorship today as it braced for a Gaullist offensive . These measures were ordered by the Cabinet of Premier Pierre Pflimlin on the eve of a news conference statement by Gen. Charles de Gaulle in Paris tomorrow . The 67-year-old former provisional President was scheduled to define conditions under which he would be willing to " assume the powers of the republic . " The Communist - dominated General Workers Confederation called upon all factory workers in the Seine ( Paris ) Department to stop work at 3 P. M. , the hour of General de Gaulle 's news conference , remain hi the factories and stand ready to take further action in the event of any Right-Wing attempt at a coup . The duration of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order did not constitute a general strike call . ' Popular Front ' a Red Aim The Communists have sought to exploit the resurgence of Gaullism to re-establish a " Popular Front " with the Socialists and other Left-Wing groups against the alleged " Fascist menace . " Other Leftists have ignored appeals at the national level , but at the grass roots the Communists have had some success . Today at Evreux , in the Eure Department  --  home department of former Radical Premier Pierre MendastFrance ? Communists , Socialists and Radicals , with labor unions of all tendencies , joined together in a " Departmental Committee of Republican Defense . " General de Gaulle , on Thursday , struck a hard blow at the shaky parliamentary regime by a short announcement of " availability . " This was dropped into the critical situation fostered two days earlier by a dissident movement among army and European civilian leaders in Algeria . They acted in fear that the Pflimlin Cabinet would take steps toward a negotiated peace with the Moslem rebels that would jeopardize the status of Algeria as part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the general 's former close associates , Deputy Jacques Soustelle , has fled to Algiers to join the dissident movement and Gen. Paul Ely , armed forces chief of staff , has resigned in circumstances suggesting disavowal of the Government . The Pflimlin Cabinet , armed with emergency powers , was apparently standing firm . But it was at the mercy of a movement by the army in France , in which Gaullism has deep roots , or defections within the Government or high in the Administration . Band-wagon psychology would // have an Important part in rallying opportunists if General de Gaulle 's chances of ultimate victory appeared to be improving . One or two declarations for him by important politicians could send a host of lesser figures scurrying to join him . General de Gaulle 's conduct at the news conference was expected to be decisive in this respect . Authoritative political circles said that if , as had been his wont in the past , he failed to conceal his dislike and contempt for the parliamentary regime , if he failed to disengage himself from the dissident movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on his position on such vital matters as the Atlantic Pact and European integration , he would solidify opposition against him . If , on the other hand , he adopts a conciliatory attitude and makes it completely clear that he envisages assumption of power only by legal means , and if he satisfies questioners on his position on major issues , then his still immense prestige could attract new adherents even among the members of Parliament who have stood firm against him thus far . Avenues to Power General de Gaulle could come to power in any one of three ways . He might be swept into office by a coup based on army action , with or without his prior knowledge and consent . This would almost certainly provoke violent reaction from the Left and extreme Left ? Communist - inspired and led general strikes , clashes with the army , civil war . It now appears to be the least likely prospect . Second , the general could come to power by ordinary constitutional processes . If the present Government resigned . President Rend Coty could designate him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to members of Parliament . He could then present a Cabinet and program to the National Assembly just ' as any other nominee and abide by the result of a vote . In such a case , he would be almost certain to demand of the deputies that they authorize him to present a new constitution with powers centralized in the presidency to national referendum and rule by decree in the meantime . He could not legally dissolve the Assembly under present conditions unless that body itself approved a resolution calling for new elections . Pflimlin to Act Tomorrow He could also come to power through election as President of the republic . If President Coty should resign , the National Assembly and advisory Council of the Republic , meeting in joint session at Versailles , could elect any eligible Frenchman , including General de Gaulle , to replace him . M. Coty has given noNsign he intends to resign . The first political reaction to General de Gaulle 's new bid was expected Tuesday when Premier Pflimlin must ask the Assembly for a renewal of the special powers bill for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unless he gets a clear majority , independent of 150 votes controlled by the Communists , he will resign . A new Government crisis now would be a clear-cut invitation to General de Gaulle . Therefore , many observers agreed , the Deputies will be voting Tuesday not on the special powers bill alone but also for or against General de Gaulle . Meanwhile , the French conflict with the Algerian rebels was virtually ignored in the Paris press . Guerrilla activity was said to have diminished . General de Gaulle , at **25;1808;TOOLONG , received a message today from General Ely through one of the latter 's aides , but no information as to its contents was available . A member of his own staff and a messenger from the association of veterans of General de Gaulle 's wartime Free French movement also called on the general during the day at his home , now guarded by thirty gendarmes and half a dozen plainclothes inspectors . For the second time in three days planes of the French Air Force swooped low over General de Gaulle 's country home in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expression of sympathy , at least from that part of the air force flying the planes . Moch Makes Appeal The main responsibility for keeping order in France was in the experienced hands of Jules Moch , Minister of Interior . M. Moch , a Socialist , acquired a reputation as a tough , effective riot-breaker in the same post in 1947-48 when the French Communists unleashed disorders in an attempt to block implementation of the Marshall Plan . Speaking to the nation on the radio tonight , M. Moch called for " unlimited devotion " to the republic and its Government from all Frenchmen . The Interior Ministry renewed the ban on public meetings in the Seine Department in turning down requests that it said had been received from several organizations for permission " to demonstrate publicly against the organization in Paris of a private press conference , " a reference to the de Gaulle conference tomorrow . The Defense Ministry called up " certain categories " of reservists in the National Gendarmerie ? the national police organization under military control  --  to reinforce territorial brigades . Albert Gazier , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ editors and correspondents to describe special press control measures envisaged in the present " serious danger to national unity and the regime . " M. Gazier , a Socialist , said he hoped to avoid direct censorship of the press but that he would expect journalists to be circumspect and careful in their dispatches and to take into account Government guidance . Newspapers that consistently ignored Government warnings would be subjected to prepublication censorship or seizure , he indicated .                     