@@714581

txt National : Plane Sets Eight Houses Afire in N.Y . A plane , believed to be a twin-efigined C-46 cargo plane , crashed into an apartment house in thickly populated Queens Borough , New York , this morning , setting eight houses afire and killing at least one person on the ground . It was reported trying to land at Idlewild Airport in a heavy rain . Fire and rescue units were rushed to the scene . Extent of damage or casualties is not yet clear . One wing hit a police cruising car , killing a police inspector and injuring his chauffeur . The plane was believed to be a nonscheduled cargo plane belonging to United States Airlines . Police said at least seven persons were killed and expected the toll to mount further . Two women of the world , Queen Juliana of the Netherlands and Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt , will spend the week end together at Hyde Park , ' N.Y . They are old friends . The Queen wound up three bustling days in Washington this morning . She and her husband @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mrs. Owen Lattimore testifies before the McCarran subcommittee in Washington today . lumber trade , announced signing of a new contract with the Lumber Handlers ' Union of the AFL International Longshoremen 's Union . It is hoped the contract will bring back some of Boston 's once-big lumber trade which has deserted Hub docks for other ports . Removal of all liquor bars from University of Massachusetts fraternities became effective in Amherst following orders by the school dean . Page 7 . First salvo in the Bay State gubernatorial campaign was delivered by Representative Christian A. Herter ( R ) of Massachusetts , who said the most important matter facing any Goxernor of the state " is the creation . of conditions within the state which will retain existing industries and attract new ones . " Europe : Labor Wins London County Council Vote The Labor Party won control of the London County Council in a local election which gained 27 seats , giving them a total of 92 against only 37 for the Conservatives . Con'tervative majorities in 10 other counties were cut down by Labor gains . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from military courts will have their sentences automatically commuted to life imprisonment under the terms df a " pacification " bill adopted by the Greek Parliament . Far East : Panama to Probe Shipping Charges M. E. Guillen , Panama 's consul in Hong Kong , said he has been ordered to investigate reports that several ships of Panamanian registry have been trading with Communist China .                     