@@713992

txt We must recast our definitions of conservatism and liberalism in American politics . When this corresponaeni came to Washington many years ago , at the middle of the Hoover administration , conservatism meant many things , including what was called " a sound dollar . " During the Roosevelt years inflation by means first of " pump priming " and later " devaluation " became a chosen device of the New Dealers for the dual purpose of managing their debt problems and achieving what can only be called a social revolution in American life . During that same period legislators who regarded them-selves as " conservatives " fought a tenacious , if losing , battle against both " pump priming " and " devaluation . " It was conservative in those days to wish for a restoration of the gold standard . which would mean a halt to the " managed inflation " of the New Dealers . A A A Today we see before us almost a reversal of roles toward inflation and money matters . The Congress has before it a bill for the purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controls on the American economy . It continues to be conservative to resist controls . But resistance to controls is in itself , under present circumstances , an inflation-breeding process . Those members of the Congress who regard themselves as conserva fives are resisting , with probable success at the end of their efforts , the measures which in theory would check the inflation . At the moment of writing . the Congress has outlawed all the price r ollbacks contemplated by the Office of Price Stabilization and supported by the White House . Conceivably , this move may be reconsidered in the final stages of legislation , but the trend is heavily against any price rollback which would have an antiinflationary effect . A A A The political impetus for this ban on rollbacks comes from the conservative wings of the two parties . The same elements in both parties have done a thorough job of emasculating the whole economic controls program . The economic impetus behind this conservative opposition to inflation controls comes from business , industry , and agricultural groups whose viewpoint normally is regarded ? as conservative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost certain to produce more inflation , which in the long run usually has the social effect of speeding social revolution . The first major application of " cheap money " to a modern society was the flow of gold from Spanish colonies to 18th-century Europe . The inflation produced by the arrival of large quantities of this money was a basic cause of the French Revolution . In effect , cheap money did much to destroy the social order dominated by a hereditary aristocracy and ushered in a new and much more fluid social order by came to be dominated by the " new rich " of . busitiess and industry . A A Today 's pattern is not consistent . The present inflation controls program was drafted by Charles E. Wilson . former president of General Electric , and Eric Johnston . former president of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States . By current Washington definitions , both men are conservatives . They are in the old conservative tradition in trying to halt inflation . But in Congress conservative groups are strongly against controls  --  therefore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the political heirs of the New Deal who now are trying to restabilize the dollar . Marriner Eccles , departing member of the Federal Reserve Board , is an interesting case in reverse point . In Roosevelt days , he was regarded as a New Dealer in money matters . Of late days , he has become the " hardest money " man ' on the board and a thorn to John W. Snyder , ex-conservative banker but now the " soft money " Secretary of the Treasury . Also in those dimly distant Hoover days , isolationists gathered on the American political left . Today the isolationists are found mostly on the far right . Old definitions do n't fit today 's patterns .                     