@@720180

txt John Patterson , 37 , was sworn in as governor of Alabama Monday and immediately dedicated his every effort to preserving racial segregation even if it means closing the schools . The governor , son of a slain Phenix City crime fighter , Albert L. Patterson , warned Negroes in these ' words after taking the oath of office : " If you wish to preserve your public education system and educate your children , you should stand up and speak out against the agitators of your own race whose aim is to destroy our school system . " May Not Reopen , Continuing , he warned : , " If you do not do so , and these agitators continue at their present pace ; in a short time you will have no public school system at all . Our public schools once destroyed and closed down may not be reopened in your lifetime and mine . " Our race problems will never be solved by court decrees , injunctions and federal troops . They will be solved only thru mutual understanding and good will between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fourhour inaugural parade from which Negro college and high school bands were excluded on orders of the new governor preceded the swearing in of Patterson and other constitutional officers . Outgoing Gov . James E. Folsom rode with his successor at the head of the parade , but left the stands before Patterson took the oath . Patterson has gone into court on several occasions to get injunctions against what he called excessive spending of the Folsom administration , ' Trial Figures Take Part Two key figures who took , part in the Phenix City vice cleanup which followed the murder of Patterson's- father played prominent roles in the new governor 's inauguration . Circuit Judge Walter B. Jones of Montgomery , who presided over the long succession of vice trials , administered the oath . Circuit Solicitor prosecutor George C. Johnson of Athens , who tried the vice lords as special prosecutor , was master of cereI monies. 175,000 Watch Parade Johnson introduced Patterson as the son of a martyr to law and order who died not in vain . Highway Patrol Chief Joe Smelley ? estimated the crowd at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Three former public officials were indicted for the elder Patterson 's murder in the cleanup which followed his death . The crippled for ticket for attorney general in 1954 on a promise to clean up Phenix City . lie was shot down outside his Phenix City law office June 18 , 1954 , just 17 days after winning the nomination .                     