@@717873

txt Bay State backers of Adlai E. Stevenson are still hopeful he will poll a sizable write-in vote in the April 24 Massachusetts presidential primaries , despite the mushrooming movement to give Representative John W. McCormack ( D ) of Massachusetts , House Majority Leader , heavy write-in support as a Bay State " favorite son . " The Stevenson forces are moving cautiously , anxious to avoid any appearance of opposition to the McCormack write-in movement . originally a Boston Post campaign , now joined by a wide range of Democratic state leaders . Senator Maurice A. Donahue ( D ) of Holyoke , chairman of the Massachusetts Stevenson Committee , confirmed distribution of cards urging a write-in vote for the fonner Illinois Governor . They were sent out under Senator Donahue 's signature . The card includes statements from former Governor Dever and Senator John F. Kennedy ( D ) of Massachusetts , supporting Mr. Stevenson . However , Senator Donahue pointed out the Dever and Kennedy quotations used came directly out of their statements made just prior to the March 13 New Hampshire primaries . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Massachusetts Chapter , Americans for Democratic Action , has been actively soliciting write-in support for Mr. Stevenson . Senator Donahue explained distribution of cards signed by him as a movement by friends of the Illinois Governor , who want him to make a good Massachusetts showing . He said the mailing is not large and in no way constitutes a blanketing of the state . Since the development of the McCormack " favorite son " movement , to which Mr. McCormack has just officially given his own " go ahead " sign , neither Mr. Stevenson nor Senator Kennedy has made any public statement . The effect of the McCormack complimentary movement is to minimize the Massachusetts April 24 results as a direct test between Mr. Stevenson and Senator Estes Kefauver ( D ) of Tennessee . The Tennessee Senator recently called upon his Massachusetts supporters to join the McCormack " favorite son " write-in to boost the complimentary vote for the House Majority Leader . Mr. Stevenson has made no personal bid for write-in support , Spotlight on Democrats Major attention in the April 24 primaries is focused on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unopposed for the GOP presidential nomination , and in only four of the 14 congressional districts are there actual contests for delegate seats at the Republican National Convention . The Democratic primary presents delegate contests in 9 of the 14 districts , in addition to the write-in preference test . At Tuesday 's primaries the voters will name delegates to the national conventions and elect members of their respective party 's state , town and ward committees . In addition they will have an opportunity to write in their preference for President . No provision is made on the Massachusetts presidential-primaries ballots for a vice-presidential write-in . The write-in results are not binding on the delegates chosen . In the Democratic primary 80 national - convention delegates are being elected , each with a half vote at the convention . Twenty-four delegates at large are being named as well as four district delegates from each of the 14 congressional districts . In the Republican primary , 38 delegates are being elected , each with a full vote . The GOP is electing 10 delegates at large and two district delegates from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be chosen by both parties are officially running unpledged . However , the Stevenson forces believe they are assured of support from a substantial majority of the Democratic delegates to be chosen , particularly with former Governor Dever and Senator Kennedy already firmly in the Stevenson camp . On the Republican side , practically all the delegate candidates are solidly for President Eisenhower , although officially unpledged . It appears completely certain every Bay State delegate named will , be 100 per cent behind the President . In the Democratic delegate line-up are many candidates who already have publicly joined the McCormack write-in movement . They do not consider him a serious presidential candidate but believe he deserves a complimentary vote on the first ballot . They feel he might be seriously considered for second spot on the ticket . Any Massachusetts registered voter can vote in the primaries on Tuesday . However , a registered Republican can vote only by Republican ballot and a Democratic registrant by Democratic ballot .                     