@@713538

txt Dr. Paul B. Magnuson tonight said ' he is being ousted a s chief medical director of the veterans administration b ecause he refused to go along with policies he said " are certain to wreck the whole VA medical setup . " Magnuson Magnuson disclosed that he and Veterans Administrator Carl FL Gray Jr . have differed sharply over policy matters for more than two years . Advised of ' Magnuson 's , comments , Gray told a reporter : " There were differences of opinion that apparently could not be reconciled . " Adm . Boone to Take Over Announcement was made today that Magnuson had resigned , effective tomorrow . He will be succeeded by Vice . Adm . Joel T. Boone , retired naval surgeon and long time White , House physician . Magnuson , formerly a Chicago orthopedic surgeon , told a reporter he knew nothing about plans to replace him until Gray called him yesterday and asked for his resignation . He said he refused to give it . Gray then told him , Magnuson said , he would accept a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he has directed his efforts since he became the VA 's chief medical officer in 1948 at keeping veterans ' medical services in charge of medical men . " The administrator and I could n't agree on the policy of . organizing the veterans administration , " he said . Tell of Recent Order VA officials said Magnuson resented a recent- order by Gray setting up a committee , including lay officials , to recommend all appointments to hospital manager posts . Alt ho Magnuson was named a member of this committee , he reportedly felt slighted because he previously had sole power to recommend such appointments . Magnuson gave up his Chicago practice in 1945 at the request of Gen. Omar Bradley , then VA administrator , who asked him to help reorganize the VA medical department . VA officials declined to comment on Magnuson 's version of his reI placement . An aid to Gray said some officials felt Magnuson wanted to dictate policy not only for the medical department but ( also for the entire agency . Ousted by Johnson Boone , 61 , who was White House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was ousted last February by Louis Johnson , then defense secretary , from his post- as chief of the joint plays and action division of the defense department 's office of medical services . Boone 's ouster reportedly resulted from his opposition to an economy order by Johnson closing or cutting 18 military hospitals to save 25 million dollars a year . TAUGHT AT N. 11 . Dr. Paul B. Magnuson , 65 , was professor of surgery and chairman of the department of bone and joint surgery in the Northwestern university medical school when he was appointed director of the education and research division of the VA in October , 1945 . He established a resident training program in veterans ' hospitals , which turned many veterans ' facilities into accredited teaching hospitals affiliated with leading medical schools , and improved the caliber of physicians which the hospitals were able , to attract .                     