@@713996

txt Communist delegates at the first meeting with high ranking United Nations officers in Kaesong yesterday proposed a general settlement in Korea . The Communists suggested the evacuation of " foreign " troops of both sides from the peninsula and the re-establishment of the status quo as of June 25 , 1950 , when the war broke out , the Peiping radio said this morning . The broadcast from the Chinese Communist capital said the terms had been presented by Lieut Gen. Nam II , Chief of Staff of the North Korean Army , to the fiveman United Nations party headed by Vice Admiral Charles Turner Joy . Communists Offer 3 Proposals The Peiping radio , . quoting its correspondent in Pyongyang , North Korean capital , said General Nam Il had laid down these three conditions for a " peaceful " settlement : 1 . All the opposing land , air and , naval forces to cease hostilities . 2 . Troops of both sides to be withdrawn ten kilometers ( 6.21 miles ) from the Thirty-eighth Parallel . 3 . Evacuation of all foreign forces from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on peaceful settlement can be reached , " the radio said General Nam II had told United Nations delegates . Rear Admiral Arleigh A. Burke , one of the allied negotiators , said on his return to Munsan , Korea , early Wednesday after the second day 's talks that the United Nations mission would not discuss the withdrawal of " foreign troops " from Korea during the present conferences , The Associated Press reported . Admiral Burke added that the United Nations delegates also would refuse to discuss the withdrawal of allied forces 10 kilometers south of the Thirtyeighth Parallel . At present United Nations forces hold territory as much as thirty miles north of the parallel at its eastern end . Peiping 's broadcast was monitored here just before the allied negotiators to - If in helicopters for the second ink ting in Kaesong . Reds Propose Early Action According to the Peiping radio : General Nam Il said the withdrawal of foreign troops should be accomplished " in the shortest possible time , " and he proposed that ae.ial reconnaissance and the Navy blockade as well as the bombardment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a " brief speech " with which the broadcast indicated General Nam Il had opened the Icommunist delegation 's part in yesterday 's talks and which United Nations bulletins had failed to mention . The North Korean Army chief was quoted as having reiterated that the peoples of China and Korea " have held and always do that the war in Korea should be ended quickly . " The Peiping broadcast did not exactly make it clear whether the conditions General Nam Il had put forward would be expected to apply before or after an armistice had been fixed but called them " general " policies . The radio stated , however , that the Communist delegation had added at least some detail to the over-all proposals , If both sides withdrew from the parallel , General Nam . Il proposed , a " non-military commission " should supervise the evacuated areas .. Virtually the entire United Nations fighting line is north of The Thirty-eighth Parallil , and it extends at some points more // than twenty miles inside enemy territory . The Communists are south of the parallel only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only a small patch of South Korean territory . The North Korean general also said that prisoners should be exchanged . There was no immediate word either in Tokyo or Seoul , where Gen. Matthew B. Ridgway awaited the outcome of his delegation 's talks , on how the enemy proposals had been received . ' The Army , which barred all reporters from Kaesong yesterday and again today and placed all information in the form of communiqu  --  s , had not mentioned the Communist proposals at yesterday 's session , confining itself to a statement that " progress toward an agenda to discuss an armistice " had been made . Talks Limited to Korea Admiral Joy , however , was said to have informed the Communist negotiators that the allied side , pending a truce , had no authority to discuss political matters . The withdrawal of " foreign " troops and the restoration of the status quo presumably would fall into the political category , with considerably more than military questions involved , observers believed . But Admiral Joy made it clear that the United Nations delegation would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Korea . " This delegation will not discuss political or economic matters of any kind , " Admiral Joy was quoted as having said . " This delegation will not discuss military matters unrelated to Korea . " The sole purpose of the meetings on a command level is to " work out an armistice agreement * * * for the cessation of hostilities in Korea under conditions which will assure against their resumption , " Admiral Joy added . Meanwhile the conference remained strictly an armed services affair , with two photographers of the Army Signal Corps who rode the trucks as the only representatives of the world press anywhere near the scene . All the men in this party had been cautioned not to discuss their experiences . General Ridgeway 's own repeated statement that an agreement on its terms must precede a cease-fire , plus dispatches received here from Washington indicating the conditions to which the United Nations might agree , seemed to show that the present conferences had a long way to go before the shooting in Korea stopped . An exchange of prisoners on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even during the hostilities the Chinese Communists have released United States soldiers on various occasions and have sent them back to the United Nations lines . As for the withdrawal of both sides from the Thirty-eighth Parallel , as suggested by the Communists , it is no secret that the field commanders much prefer an armistice on which they hold their present line  --  much stronger geographically than anything near the old Korean boundary . But it might be difficult to get the Communists to agree to a cease-fire with United Nations forces still holding sections of North Korea more than twenty miles deep . The negotiators also may find it difficult to settle the form of inspection to be arranged to satisfy Admiral Joy 's condillons assuring against a resumption of hostilities . The United Nations High Command has given no indication of what assurances from the Communists would prove satisfactory  --  or what guarantees the United Nations might offer . Report on Enemy Broadcast TOKYO , Wednesday , July 11 ( A ) ? The Peiping radio , as monitored here , outlined these Communist conditions for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mutual agreement , both parties simultaneously order the cessation of hostile military actions of each and every sort ; the army of each party stop its bombardment , blockade and reconnaissance against the other party ; the navy of each party stop its bombardment , blockade and reconnaissance ; and the air force of each party stop its bombing and reconnaissance against the other party . Obviously a cease-fire between the two parties not only can reduce loss of life and property , but is also the first step to put out the flames of war in Korea . T. The Thirty-eighth Parallel alliOuld be fixed as the military deraarcation line from which the armies of both parties should simultaneously be withdrawn ten kilometers . This should be done withal a certain limit of time . The areas evacuated by both parties will be a non-military zone in which neither of the parties should station their troops or engage in any military action . The civil administration of those areas should be restored to the status quo ante ' June 25 , 1950 . " At the same time , talks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war , so that prisoners of war of various countries may return home quickly and join their families . " 3 ? All foreign troops should be withdrawn in the shortest possible ' time . With the withdrawal of foreign troops the ending of the Korean war and the peaceful settlement of the Korean question will be basically assured . " The broadcast also said : ? " The Korean people , the Chinese people , the Soviet people and the peace-loving people throughout the world , including the American and British people , all ardently demand the early termination of the Korean war and the peaceful settlement of the Korean question . " The broadcast concluded with a statement by Gen. Tung . ? lina , one of the Chinese delegates to the armistice conference . He gave strong support to all the points listed earlier , which the unnamed correspondent said were outlined by the North Korean supreme commander , Kim Il Sung , and revived in a brief speech by Gen. Nam Il , chief delegate from the Korean People 's Army . " We consider that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Army constitute the necessary premise and basis for the ending of the Korean war and the peaceful settlement of the Korean question , " General Tung said . " The Chinese people 's volunteers wholeheartedly support these proposals and hold that they should be the starting point of negotiations . Peoples of all countries hate war and ardently wish for peace . We hope that we can successfully accomplish the task of ending the Korean war . "                     