@@718293

txt It is generally agreed that this year 's campaign oratory has traveled a fairly high road . Certainly , compared to some presidential campaigns , the chief campaigners of 1956 have avoided major mud slinging so far , have broken some ground on new ideas , have enlightened the electorate . But , of course , the oratorical content could be richer still . Although Adlai E. Stevenson broached the banning of H-bomb tests against the advice of some political associates , it has been useful to ponder this problem . It has been useful for the nation to consider the intricate matter of fiscal responsibility  --  the safe management of this multibillion - dollar government ? to which President Eisenhower has called attention . There remain , however , a good many issues and sub-issues to which the candidates have made only passing or partial reference . In some the voter is directly interested . In others he should be if he is n't . In the case of still others , some of us had expected that Mr. Stevenson , for instance , would give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaigning . Let 's run through a check list of some of the unresolved points and problems confronting the United States on which campaign oratory could be more specific  --  but is n't likely to be . For example : We hear a lot from the Democrats about saving the family-size farm . Just what size is a family-size farm-100 acres , 500 acres , 1,000 acres ? Is the smaller family-size farm any longer an economic proposition ? Are there , actually too many small farmers in the nation ? Or if it is socially and nationally desirable to preserve the small family-size farm as a going concern and a character-building institution , how specifically . should the ' government go about this preservation ? Again , what about this trend toward bigger business and mergers , and the number of small-busines bankruptcies ? Was the late Justice Brandeis right when he referred to the " curse of bigness , " or is David E. Lilienthal , also a Democrat , right in suggesting that big business is good for the country-r-or what mixture of the two is desirable ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the future , the tremendous implications of this trend toward bigger and bigger enterprises ? Or would his audience lose him te - " AEL Justus , Minneapolis Star The Promised Land before he got halfway through his thesis ? What . essential safeguards need to_the be erected ? How do we preserve the ' climate of opportunity for all business , large or small ? This could be the complex subject of a major policy address . Mr. Stevenson has raised the issue of the draft as a means of maintaining our defense manpower . To some , extent he has sketched in the picture . But to be further.persuasive there is need to spell out the weapons requirements , the precise cost of training various types of military manpower  --  the technicians , the electronic specialists , the foot soldiers . How far are we going down the road of Admiral Radford 's proposal to curtail our military manpower drastically ? The military future of nuclear physics and electronics is a kind of semimystery to most people . Un doubtedly we can not expect a campaign searchlight on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and he could carry it further down the misty road . On the Republican side , it would be useful to hear a further extrapolation of that " Linccilnian doctrine " which has lately become a Republican tenet  --  that the . government should do for the people what they can not do for themselves or what they " ca n't do so well " for themselves . Does the present administration contend that the peacetime development of atomic energy is being carried forward ' sufficiently . by the government ? Or suppose " partnership policies " fail to build sufficient power-generating projects in the remaining western dam sites and in the nation 's river valleys . Should the federal government then step in instead ? * Somewhere along the line of the campaign , each party could spell out what it would do ? and its basic philosophy ? in the realm of foreign aid . Mr. Stevenson spoke eloquently , on this subject a year ago . No one in this campaign nor Secretary of State Dulles ' outside o/ the'campaign ? has managed much eloquence , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only a few of the issues which could stand further exploration . Would the ' Democrats dare to add up all their proposals for farm aid , additional old-age assistance and the like and say whether this would involve deficit spending , or a risk ' of inflation , and whether this concerns them ? Would the Republicans care to spell out the implications of installment. buying and to how large a degree the national economy can rest safely on monthly-payment prosperity ? Campaign oratory has done a better - than - ordinary job this ' year . But with three weeks of campaigning yet to run , there is still much unexplored territory .                     