@@720114

txt Buttressed by the strongly worded conclusions in a 25-page report by the Consumer Council , advisory group to the office of the Attorney General . opponents of the retail milk-pricefixing order again seek court action today to have the order reversed . James C. Gahan , Jr. , attorney for Cumberland Farms Dairy , an independent milk dealer whose low-cost gallon jug store milk operations have caused a furor in the Greater Boston milk market , said he would once again ask the court to force suspension of the milk price order by the Massachusetts Milk Control Commission . In a weekend statement , Mr. Gahan went further to say that the report of the Consumer Council shows that the Milk Control Commission has " outlived its usefulness . " He added that the report " should bring about immediate suspension of the recent price-fixing order followed by the resignation of the members " of the commission . Dilemma Aired In his letter of transmission to the Attorney General , the Rev. Robert J. , chairman of the advisory group , noted the Consumer Council 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their own making ? in which the milk control commissioners and some dealers now find themselves . " For this reason , the decision in this case was emotionally difficult . Intellectually , however , there was little room for doubt and this opinion of your Consumer Council is given to you as their unanimous recommendation . " Action on the advisory body 's report is now in the hands of the Attorney General . The report itself is a plainspoken analysis of the entire milk processing and distribution picture in the Greater Boston area , and upsets the contention of the Milk Commission that an emergency does exist or has existed in the past for milk producers  --  dairy farmers ? in the Bay State , or that any shortage of milk , or danger of such shortage , exists . Special Features Cited The investigation of the advisory group showed that since 1933 " there has been no price competition in the industry of an open , nondiscriminatory character . " Competition for increased volume , " said the report , " was diverted mainly from price into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " These " special features " included hiking butterfat content and lowering bacteria content beyond legal requirements , varying the size of container , more frequent deliveries , more advertising , use of premiums , and even " the personality of the milk driver . " All of these were cost-raising items , the Consumer Council reported . " The consumer was offered quality and service differentials . He was not given the choice of lower prices instead of special features . " Another charge , made mainly by the larger and older milk distributors in the area , that incoming multiquart container milk distributors were selling milk below cost , was firmly refuted by the report . Prices Forced Down ' rhe Consumer Council noted that the multiple-quart dealer : . sold well below the price ( ) I many larger firms , but that they supplied only I per cent of the entire market supply . " It was difficult for this council to be- lies e that this 1 per cent could adversely affect the interests of the other 99 per cent of the market volume , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ below-cost selling , the council said this practice was adhered to by companies supplying the other 99 per cent of the milk , and not necessarily by the multiquart operator . Violation Charged A new element was added by the Consumer Council when it pointed the finger of blame for under-cost selling at pressures put on milk dealers by the supermarkets . " It is now apparent that the supermarkets insisted that their suppliers meet the price of the multiple-quart dealer ; in order to keep these substantial customers , their suppliers lowered their prices to the point where they were actually selling their product at a price below their cost , " the council charged . Testimony before the closed hearings of the Consumer Council brought frank admissions by some milk dealers that they were selling below cost to the supermarkets because they needed these customers in order to survive . Because of this situation , the Consumer Council advised the Attorney General in its report that the Milk Control Commission was remiss in not prosecuting those dealers who sold milk below cost , a practice which is contrary to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yield to the pressure of the supermarkets , or if the Milk Control Commission had prosecuted these dealers for selling below their costs , there would not be the present unrest , " stated the report . It further ? charged that the entire proceeding of a public hearing , which the Milk Commission had to hold before declaring an " emergency " and issuing a price control order , was illegal . Summary of Consumer Council milk price prohe : Page 2. 