@@718647

txt But with this point won , the Egyptian information chief , Abdel Qader Hatem , has issued a statement whose sweet reasonableness is in marked contrast with the way in which the Egyptian press was handling the UNEF earlier in the week . " Full cooperation . " Mr. Hatem said , " marks relations between Egyptian authorities and the UNEF .... And Egypt does what it can to help the UNEF carry out duties placed upon its shoulders by United Nations resolutions . " Mr. Hatem said inhabitants of the Gaza sector look upon the UNEF as a friendly force and cooperate with it for the sake of peace and in order that the mission entrusted to it by the UN may be realized . UN Undersecretary Ralph J. Bunche was in Gaza at the time the Egyptian administrative governor arrived there : but there is no report that either he or the UNEF commander , Maj. Gen. E. L. M. Burns , have met the governor . Difficulties Smoothed Dr. Bunche , who arrived in Cairo at the beginning of the week , has done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ head between the UNEF and Egyptian authorities . The general impression is that he has managed to ensure that there will be no more major hitches before the arrival here early next week o1 UN Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjold . Meanwhile , at the UN in New York , the UN Press and Publications Division issued ' a statement March 14 from Dr. Bunche denying that he had commented favorably in Cairo on Egypt 's appointment of a governor for the Gaza strip , according to the Associated Press . He had been quoted March 13 as saying the UNEF force would cooperate fully with Egyptian administrators in the strip . The press division said that before leaving Cairo for Gaza he released this statement : " Published reports have been noted attributing to Dr. Bunche certain comments on the decision of the Government of Egypt to appoint an administrative governor for Gaza in which such expressions as ' agreed to , ' ' in agreement with , ' ' cooperate with , ' ' welcome , ' etc. , are used . ( " Dr. Bunche wishes it known in order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or authorized to be made none of the comments attributed to him m other than to say that as a ember of the United Nations Secretariat he has no authority to comment one way or another on the action of any member state nor would it be proper for him to do so . " ) In Cairo , President Nasser has received United States Ambassador Raymond Hare for the sec " - and night running . Both meetings were at Mr. Hare 's request and lasted a considerable time . Colonel Nasser has also received Canadian Ambassador Harbert Norman , at the latter 's request . Israel Stand Questioned No information is available about the purpose of these meetings , but they raise hopes here that the situation may be moving toward a phase where constructive diplomacy might begin to try to achieve something . On the UN . side , not only Mr. Hammarskjold is due here within the next few days . His top legal aide , Constantin Stavropoulous , is expected in Cairo March 16 . Mr. Stavropoulos was in Egypt earlier this year and played an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egyptian Government both on the Suez Canal clearance and the status of the UNEF in Egyptian territory . The English-language . newspaper Egyptian Gazette . says it hopes Mr. Hammarskjold will get an answer to the question : " Why does Israel refuse to allow UNEF units to be stationed on its side of the armistice line ? " ? The paper says Egypt has gone on record as welcoming the stationing of UNEF units on both sides of the line . Why , it asks , would the Egyptians do this if they wished to keep tension high ? Why should Israel refuse if it earnestly wished , to reduce tension ? The Egyptian Gazette continues , " We know only too well how effective Zionist propaganda . has been in the West .. in the past two months in ? revers- ing Israel 's role from that of a proven and declared aggressor to an anxious victim . But how can Zionist propaganda answer our question ? "                     