@@714795

txt Illinois Democrats are determined to enter the Democratic convention next week to drive for Gov . Stevenson of Illinois for the Presidential nomination and Sen. Russell of Georgia ' as the Vice Presidential candidate . Altho Stevenson in a brief visit here yesterday continued to disclaim aspiration for the nomination , his supporters in the state are confident he will yield to a draft . Plans were being pushed to have Gov . Schricker of Indiana nominate his gubernatorial neighbor , even tho Stevenson told a news conference at Camp Ripley , Minn. , Sunday that " I guess I 'd shoot myself " if the Democratic convention should name him . Mention Two Leaders Full steam was being built under the Stevenson draft as Democrats were arriving yesterday for the party battle of next week . In general Democrats expressed belief that as of today the leaders in the race are Sen. Russell and Sen. Kefauver Tenn. , the man television put into the running during the senate crime investigations . Sen. Kerr Okla. , the log cabin born millionaire oil and gas man , discounted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the man to beat . " Kerr was in town briefly for a press conference . Predicts a Deadlock He predicted he will win on the fifth or sixth ballot altho he acknowledged Kefauver and Russell are leading the field . He said he has about 150 delegates and expects to pick up more as the leaders deadlock . Sen. Johnson Colo. , campaign manager for Russell , who was also in town , told reporters that the convention will cast about 10 ballots and that the victory will go to Russell . At Kefauver headquarters , Gael Sullivan , who was formerly associated with the late Mayor Edward J. Kelly of Chicago and with the Democratic national committee , is in charge . He expressed himself certain President Truman will not be a candidate , as some Democrats believe . Truman Powerful Whether he consents to run or not , Mr. Truman will be a major factor in the convention . His blessing may go a long way toward putting over one of the field of candidates . Kerr flew back to Washington to sound out the President , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Truman last week . Sen. Sparkman Ala. said Russell 's chances of winning have become stronger now that the Republicans have named Gen. Eisenhower , because Democrats fearful that Eisenhower may appeal to the south will have to recognize Russell 's popularity in that section . Russell 's greatest handicap is that he is not strong in the north . However , his managers believe he would attract many northern conservatives . Harriman Has Support Many believe Truman 's choice will fall on W. Averell Harriman , the Wall street investment banker , who has had a long string of posts ri the New Deal and Fair Deal for almost 20 years . Harriman , who is n o w mutual security adminisReproduced with permission of the copyright owner . Further reproduction prohibited without permission . Prepare to Open Democrats ' Conclave Frank , chairman of Democratic party 's national committee , going over seating arrangements for convention opening Monday with Mrs. Dorothy Vredenburgh , committee secretary , in Conrad Hilton hotel . Mrs. India Edwards ( right ) , women 's division chairman of Democratic party , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Conrad Hilton hotel . ( United Press Pbotoi trator , is campaigning on 100 per cent support of Roosevelt and Truman policies . Stevenson does not sit as Close to the right hand ' of the White House because he is reported to have declared In writing that he will not campaign for " Trumanism . " Stevenson has said that he has no desire to oppose Eisenhower , with whom he sees eye to eye on foreign policy , and that he is content to run for governor of Illinois . Barkley would be an ideal harmony candidate on whom both the north and south could unite . However , he would be 75 years old before he could be inaugurated if he should win the nomination and election . While he is full of predictions that he will live to be 100 , Democrats wonder . Kefauver Wins Primaries The leading vote getter in the Democratic primaries was Sen. Kefauver , who won popllarity as head of the senate crime investigating committee . However , he is anathema to party leaders in the big cities because his exposures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ setbacks in the 1950 campaigns . Speaker Rayburn of Texas has his adherents . In the last two weeks his name has been mentioned more frequently as a compromise candidate . Rayburn is 70 years old , which is considered advanced in years for a first term candidate . Sen. Kerr has been active in pursuit of the nomination in primaries , along with Russell , Kefauver , and Harriman . Ills supporters contend that he would be acceptable to the south and could be supported in the north . Farley Important Factor Former pemocratic Chairman James A. Farley may be an important convention factor . Friends of the man who broke with Roosevelt over the three term issue after putting him in the White House , plan to place his name in nomination . He may attract 20 or more votes , which could be delivered at the psychological time to help put over a candidate . Sen. Conn. has announced himself as a favorite son candidate . lie has been ailing recently and may pull out before the balloting , especially si n c e his movement has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sen. Byrd Wa.1 , who is known for his fights for economy , was being mentioned in Democratic circles . Byrd is supporting Russell . Many Democrats believe Byrd would make a better candidate than his Georgia colleague , because Byrd could hold the north and south and attract many Republicans . However , his selection would be a slap in the face to the President , with whom Byrd has tangled on domestic policies .                     