@@716683

txt Atty . Gen. Brownell today suggested to the Supreme court that racial desegrega tion in public schools be carried out on the local level under t h e direction of the ledera Brownell District courts in the areas . involved . The . plan , advanced in a brief Brownell filed with the court , appeared to be in line with what President Eisenhower suggested yesterday at a news conference . Mr : Eisenhower said the matter ? Of decentralizing desegregation was being explored . Should - Retain Jurisdiction The court ruled out " separate but equal " facilities for white and Negro pupils , in the public schools in a decision early last summer . It now has before it the matter of setting up the actual procedure for ending segregation . The attorney general , in suggesting that the actual procedure be handled in the local districts , rather than by a general Supreme court mandate , emphasized his belief that the Supreme court should retain jurisdiction in the matter " for the purpose of making such further orders , if any , as may become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steps : A Supreme court decree declaring racial segregation is unconstitutional and that all laws requiring or permitting such segregation are invalid . A return of the test cases to lower courts where they were first heard for further action in line with the high court 's decision . These cases- came to the Supreme court from South Carolina , Virginia , Kansas , Delaware , and the District of Columbia . Boards to Tell Plans The entry of orders in the lower courts directing the defendant school boards to submit within 90 days a plan for ending segregation in their districts " as soon as feasible . " Unless a satisfactory desegregation program is submitted to and approved by the lower court , the entry/ of an order by that court directing that nonsegregated schools be operated at the beginning of the next school term . Upon submission of a desegregation plan , the conduct of hearings by the lower court to determine whether it provides for the transition " as expeditiously as the circumstances permit . " Brownell said no ' program should be sanctioned which does not call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abqut desegregation . During the period allowed for transition , he said , the lower court should require the defendants in the Wt. eases to submit detailed periodic reports showing the progress . made toward ending segregation . He proposed also regular reports from the lower courts to the Supreme court detailing the actions taken in the respective districts " in bringing about compliance with the requirements of the Constitution . " The attorney general suggested the Supreme court may want to appoint a special master to review such reports and make appropriate recommendations concerning them to it and to lower courts . Georgia Still Defiant In Atlanta , Gov . Herman Talmadge of Georgia , adamant foe of desegregation , spoke of Brownell 's recommendations as " this reversal of policy on the part of the government . " Talmadge added , " They apparently are beginning to realize that people are going to handle their local problems on the local level . " Georgia 's attorney general , Eugene Cook , commented : " It is immaterial to the people of Georgia what method they use to enforce the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circumvent the decision at all hazards . " Brownell 's proposal that the cases be returned to the lower courts is in line with suggestions made to the Supreme court by the states of Texas , Maryland , Virginia , and Delaware , the school board of Clarendon county , S. C. , and attorneys for Negro , parents who are principals in the original cases . The states asked that the lower courts be given broad discretion . The attorneys for the parents asked that the high court lay down strict limitations against delay in ending segregation .                     