@@714779

txt The Republican Party faces three stern questions today as the curtain rises on its twenty-fifth national convention . First , can it prevent the TaftEisenhower quarrel from splitting its ranks and ruining its chances for success ? Second , can it convince the American public that its leaders really stand for fair play ? Third  --  and of course involved in the other two  --  can it survive as a party , and so keep alive and vigorous the two-party system ? Let us examine these questions one by one . In the first place , it is clear that the bitterness between the Taft and Eisenhower groups is not based on differences in major policy , though such differences do exist ? notably , and despite all efforts to minimize them , in the foreign field . It is based on the partisan action of the National Committee in deciding contests in Georgia , Louisiana , Mississippi and Texas in favor of Taft and in awarding key convention spots to anti-Eisenhower spokesmen . In the second place , it is clear that the horse-and-buggy politicians who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tact= cal advantage , and losing whatever good reputation they still have with some part of the voting public . They revealed their curious ways of thinking last Friday when they offered to compromise the moral issue of the Texas delegates . Politicians do not endear themselves to the public by this sort of trickery . The National Committee must somehow manage to convince the electorate that it really has some ethical standards or the convention must take control away from the members of the present committee . In the third place , it is clear that the Republicans can not win this year with a merely negative policy , and that if they do not win this year they may never again be able to offer a formidable challenge to the Democrats . This tragedy  --  for such it would be ? might not mean the end of the two-party system but it would certainly mean a period of confusion anduncertainty , and probably a decline in the efficiency and honesty of the Federal Government . For no party long in power can retain its good qualities unless it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Republican party , as represented in the National Committee , has seemed during the past week or so to be determined to commit suicide . Today , as appeal is taken from the judgment of the few to the wishes of the many , it has a chance to redeem itself . Yesterday Permanent Chairman Joseph W. Martin Jr . stated on behalf of himself and of National Committee Chairman Guy Gabrielson and Temporary Chairman Walter Hallanan that " everyone will have a fair chance " to be heard . This was taken to mean that the motion offered by the Eisenhower forces not to permit contested delegations to vote on contests would be thrown open for discussion and decision on the floor . The offer is not startling , for all twenty-five Republican Governors support the proposal , but it is a step in the right direction . It so happens that one candidate , General Eisenhower , has become associated with the healthy and vigorous aspect of Republicanism , and that another , Senator Taft , has allowed himself to be linked with its unimaginative and backward-looking side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an encounter between two candi-. dates . It would have to continue even though General Eisenhower were defeated for the nomination . His value in this emergency is not that he is indispensable ? he has never claimed to be that  --  but that he can inspire con " fidence and arouse enthusiasm .                     