@@714067

txt President Truman ordered all Government departments and agencies today to get behind an industrial dispersal policy worked out by the National Security Resources Board , the Office of Defense Mobilization and the Munitions Board . The policy , aimed at protection of vital industrial plants in event of atomic attack , will be directed by Charles E. Wilson , head of the Office of Defense Mobilization . The dispersal program would affect new factories and branch plants of established industries and would not involve moving of present plants . To comply with the policy , it was explained , new plants might be built within ten to twenty miles of present plants , with this radius even less in rugged country . The order drew prompt fire from Capitol Hill . Representative Jo ' - seph W. Martin Jr . of Massachusetts , House minority leader , charged Mr. Truman with flouting the will of Congress and initiating " just another step toward one-man government in this country . " Present Centers Championed Congress recently rejected an amendment to the new Defense Production Act making the need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plants built or financed by the Government . Mr. Martin led the fight in the House against the amendment . He and others have expressed the fear that dispersal would be a blow to existing industrial areas . In his statement today Mr. Martin asserted : " When one man can so flout the will of Congress so flagrantly we are on the way to one-man government . The Congress might as well shut up shop and go home . " You may be sure that Congress will protest vigorously in the light of its previous action in overwhelmingly defeating a similar proposal in both the Senate and the House . " In issuing his order the President declared that the nation 's strength " and in fact our contin // ued existence as a free nation depends largely upon our industrial capacity . " He said that the core of industrial capacity now lay within a relatively few densely built-up centers . The President ordered Government agencies and departments to adhere to the following policies : 1 . To the greatest extent practicable certificates of necessity ( providing for rapid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of critical materials for construction purposes and emergency loans growing out of defense production will be confined to facilities which meet satisfactory standards of dispersal . 2 . Primary consideration to dispersal factors will be given in locating facilities built by the Federal Government . 3 . Defense contracts will be awarded and planning under Defense Department production allocation programs will be conducted in such a manner as to make use of facilities in dispersed areas . Jack 0 . Gorrie , acting chairman of the National Security Resources Board , announced the dispersal plan at a news conference today . He disclosed that his agency had prepared an illustrated booklet entitled " Is Your Plant a Target ? " , based upon a study conducted in Seattle by representatives of industry , labor and the local government there . Risk Is Declared Growing " The risk of an all-out atomic attack on the United States grows greater each day , since we are no longer the sole possessor of the secret of the atomic bomb , " Mr. Gorrie said . " This means that no industrial area in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pamphlet called upon local groups to draw up their own voluntary plans for locating new industry away from present concentrations and held that the distance from such concentrations need not be great  --  as little at ten to twenty miles , and , on rugged terrain , even less . Mr. Gorrie declared that considerable study was being given to the practicability of putting defense plants underground . He stated , however , that the type of plants suitable for underground operation was limited and the production difficulties for such plants is great . The brochure being issued em , phasizes that industry can qualify for Federal incentives by locating new plants within local marketing areas . It contains nothing , however , to discourage the construction of new defense industry in areas remote from larger centers . It outlines this four-point program for accomplishing industrial dispersion : 1 . It is designed to disperse new industry and expanding industry ? not to move established industry . 2 . No region of the country is to be built up at the expense of another . 3 . Industrial dispersion can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marketing area . 4 . State and local governments , in cooperation with private enterprises , are called upon , to take the initiative in this defense project . The Federal Government will provide the encouragement and technical guidance . Mr. Gorrie , in discussing the program , said : " Industrial dispersion is the employment of the simple military measure of using space for defense against attack . Space is employed on the battlefront to protect men and supplies . This creates a multiplicity of targets and thus reduces the vulnerability of any one concentration . " These recommendations are flexible guides for doing an industrial dispersion job . " Other Criticize Order WASHINGTON , Aug. 10 ( /13 ) ? Representative Martin was joined by several other New England members of Congress in criticizing President Truman 's industrial dispersal order . Representative John W. Heselton , Republican of Massachusetts , called the order " outrageous . " The dispersal idea , he added , " was clearly defeated by a bipartisan majority of both chambers . " Senator Theodore Francis Green , Democrat of Rhode Island , said he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It seems to me that the Administration must recognize that concentration of people and industry carry their own protection . It has been natural that defense measures be taken to Notect them . It Is easier to protect compact industrial areas than to provide aid and other defenses for scattered plants , since it is evident the enemy has the air power to reach any part of the country . " He added that it also must be noted that the President 's Council of Economic Advisers had recently suggested that defense materials could be produced faster and cheaper in established industrial areas having plants , manpower and knowledge than to attempt to build new plants in undeveloped areas . Senator Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. , Republican of Massachusetts , said he had not yet read the order but that it was his understanding that it was for dispersal of industries within an area , not scattering them to isolated areas . " If this is the intent , I am for it , " he stated , " because I know from military experience and advice that greater safety can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sadlak , Republican of Connecticut , declared : " The President 's action is in complete disregard of the most recent expression of the will of the Congress . His order is , point by point , the Rains amendment to the Defense Production Act which the House and Senate roundly defeated . " The defeated amendment was sponMored by Representative Albert Rains , Democrat of Alabama .                     