@@714475

txt Western Germany was asked today by Britain , France and the United States to accept speedily the obligation to contribute 11,250,000,000 Deutsche marks ( about $2,700,000,000 ) to Western defense . When , Chancellor Konrad Adenauer said that his Government had only just heard this figure , recommended by the Temporary Council Committee , and could hardly answer until near the end of the forthcoming meeting of the North Atlantic Council in Lisbon , Secretary of State Dean Acheson asked , him please to hurry it up . It was a day of almost continuous meetings for the foreign ministers of the three Western Allies and Germany . Most of it was spent discussing the proposed contractual agreement between Germany and the present occupying powers . The four ministers met at 11 o'clock . The French , British and Americans met again at 3 P. M. , and Dr. Adenauer joined them at 4 o'clock . This meeting continued until 7:30 o'clock , when the ministers broke up . for " a drink " and then reconvened briefly before disbanding for dinner Mr. Acheson , French Foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their " meeting " during dinner . Between the morning and afternoon sessions , Mr. and Mrs. Acheson lunched with Prime Minister Churchill , who received Dr. Adenauer briefly at 3 o'clock . Out of all this came what official spokesmen described as " progress . " In addition to the matter of Germany 's defense contribution , the three occupying powers presented a united front to Germany on the matter of treatment of German war criminals after the occupation ends . This has complicated the legal aspects , but all three agree that Germany soon must take over the imprisoned persons , accept the principles on which the war criminals are to be judged and complete the judicial process according to those principles . It is felt in United States quarters that Germany will accept this . Most of the day was spent in discussing what kind of restrictions on German war production are to replace the present controls exercised by the Allied Military Security Board . On this the three occupying powers did not present a united front . The proposed wording of the possible agreement was given to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alternative wordings of these phrases were discussed to see which he might accept . No final agreement was reached . Issue of Wording Agreement The issue revolves around how to word the agreement so that German production of war materials , which up to now has been absolutely forbidden , will be subordinated to the European Defense Community , of which Germany presumably will be a part . The French want rather formal restrictions in the contractual agreement itself : The United States is willing to settle for German undertaking to abide by the European Defense Community 's decisions and to rely on the dynamics of the situation to be created by the establishment of a European army for keeping German war production within these bounds . The United States relies heavily on the fact that the commissariat of the defense community will have control of the overwhelming bulk of the funds available for war production in Germany or anywhere else in the community . Dr. Adenauer 's chief concern is to be able to state that Germany has achieved " equality " upon joining the defense community . United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " push " any solution . But insofar as the United States is offering to Dr. Adenauer arrangements less objectionable to German opinion than those proposed by the French , opinion in London generally is that the United States is in effect pushing the French toward a compromise on this matter . The ministers did not get to the defense community itself in today 's discussion . It is more and more obvious that final agreement on this vast project will be easy once settlement is reached on issues out-I standing with Germany , and impossible if no such settlement is reached . Mr. Acheson , Mr. Eden and Mr. Schuman plan to fly to Lisbon tomorrow afternoon , but nobody was taking any bets ' on their keeping to that schedule . Mr. Acheson is , known to be prepared to miss the opening meeting of the council Wednesday if necessary to settlei the issues between the three Allies and Germany . For long periods today M. Schuman and Dr. Adenauer spoke directly to each other in German , which M. Schuman , being an Alsatian , knows as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these exchanges nor asked for translations.                     