@@715992

txt Senate victory for President Eisenhower in the first test of strength of his new legislative program seemed brighter today in connection with the St. Lawrence Seaway fight . Passage now seems fairly probable in the upper chamber , with the real battle coming in the House . Typical of topsy-turvy conditions , it was the speech of a New England Democrat in favor of the President 's stand for the seaway which helped persuade observers of ultimate Senate passage , following vigorous attacks on the same Eisenhower measure by Republicans . Strongest factor in the latest chapter of a 50-year battle is the conviction that Canada is big enough and determined enough to dig the seaway itself if the United States does n't join in . Thus the issue seems now to be whether the forthcoming seaway shall be an all-Canada affair , levying tolls on United States vessels , or whether , by participating , the United States will share control . Canadian Bluff ? Opponents of the seaway still argue that Canada is not serious and is putting up a bluff . This idea May @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) of Massachusetts in throwing unexpected support to the measure . His move went beyond his own vote ay fore : casting a possible new trend among politicians . Senator Kennedy emphasized the break Mtn precedent of his vote . He told the Senate he will be the first Bay State senator or representative to back the seaway project in the past 20 years . Till now , senators from most I eastern seaport states have been ' influenced by an anti-seaway coalition of regional port authorities , railroads , shipping interests , and certain trade unions which are fearful of an ladverse effect . Midwest groups , on the other hand , support it . Senator Kennedy said he de : clined to vote against the sea ; way for " sectional " reasons . " I am unable to accept such a narrow view of my functions as 1U.S. senator , " he explained . Effect on Boston ? He added that he thought the seaway was now going to be built anyway , and that investigation had persuaded him that its construction would not have a serious lasting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colleagues and seemed to take the heart out of seaway opponents , who now privately agree that the real battle may have shifted to the House side . Some interest was expressed in the position of the other Bay State senator , Leverett Salton-stall ( R ) , who is up for reelection . He has previously opposed the seaway . Senator Saltonstall is expected to continue his opposition to the seaway on grounds previously set forth : That it would he expensive , that its operation would be seasonal , and that the damage might be substantial . He is inclined to agree that Canada now intends to go ahead with the waterway , but believes that , in any case , rights of the United States are fully protected in the 1909 treaty with Canada . This guarantees equal tolls for either nation . Approvals Mentioned Observers point out that what is happening on this issue may characterize the party mix-up in the new session of Congress , in this instance the Democratic senator supporting the President , the Republican opposing him . " The evidence appears conclusive that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country refuses to participate , " Senator Kennedy said . He declared that for the past 30 years every President , every Secretary of the Army or Defense , every Secretary of Commerce , every National Security Council or similar gritup , including the National Security Resources Board , has approved the project  --  both for national de fense and for economic reasons . While a Democratic senator was thus supporting the Eisenhower stand in the first test of his new program , two Republican senators were attacking the same project . They were the two Maryland senators , and their arguments followed the traditional pattern of opposition to the proposed Great Lakesto-Atlantic route . Filibuster Hinted The senators are John M. Butler and J. Glenn Beall , both Republicans . Senator Bean held the floor so long , with occasional help from , Senator Butler , that there was talk of a filibuster . Legislative conditions do not seem ripe for such a delaying tactic , however . Majority Leader William F. Knowland ( R ) of California pointed out that the subject needs extended debate . He warned that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after a reasonable interval . Senator Beall argued that the seaway would dangerously reduce trade from Baltimore along with other Atlantic ports . Baltimore is now the nation 's largest ore-importing port , he said , with expensive installations for handling the traffic which might be jeopardized . Whereas the St. Lawrence Seaway would be closed in winter months , Baltimore and other seaboard ports are open the year round , he pointed out . Kennedy backing of seaway rapped : Page 17 . By a Stall Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor Washington The battle over the Bricker amendment to the Constitution , restricting the President 's treaty-making powers , is nearing a showdown . The White House has let it be known that the President is prepared to make a nationwide fight against the proposal , because of his conviction that it is a dangerous attack on the Constitution 's treaty-making provisions . Republican leadership in the Senate has announced that the proposal will definitely be brought to the floor , even if no compromise with the White House can be reached . Meanwhile , renewed efforts to find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ split in the Republican Party and prevent a basic rift between the President and Congress . However no compromise that has been offered to date  --  and there have been more than 100'various versions of the amendment examined  --  satisfies both the President or the Brickerites . Matter of Substance The President is willing to accept some changes in treaty-writing procedure and the specific mention of certain unwritten rights of the Congress in treaty-making , But , it can be said authoritatively , he is not willing to make any concessions on a matter of substance . Thus he is willing to accept a clause that says that no provision of a treaty or executive agreement which conflicts with the Constitution shall have force . He is willing to accept a clause requiring treaty-voting be done by roll call , making senators go on record before the public on each treaty . And he is willing to accept a clause declaring specifically that the Senate can tie a reservation to any treaty , making it non-self-executing as domestic law whenever it wants . But he is not willing , as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ don-self-executing  --  that every treaty to have the force of domestic law must have enabling legislation by both Houses of - Congress . Procedural Changes And he is not willing , as the Brickerites insist , that the executive be automatically limited to writing treaties only on subjects on which Congress may legislate . And he is not willing , as the Brickerites insist , that Congress have the recognized power to regulate executive agreements in the international field . The President , thus , is ready to accept three procedural modifications or elaborations of the treaty-making clauses of the Constitution , but he is not willing to accept three substantive modifications or limitations to his treaty-making rights . Thus the issues in the Bricker amendment battle seem to have been joined . The President refuses to have a part in restricting in any way the present constitutional treaty-making powers of the executive . The Brickerites insist that his powers must be delimited and his fields for treaty action restrained . The procedural matters are more or less window-dressing in this struggle . The President will go that far : but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reports as to the outcome of this constitutional battle vary . The Brickerites point to the 63 senators who attached their names last session to the original Bricker resolution , . asserting that , with the Ohio senator , that gives them the necessary two. - thirds to approve the amendment . The President 's supporters point out that those 63 , by signing the original resolution , did not actually approve the substance of the proposal , as some will readily admit , but only the need for an investigation into the subject . The Brickerites say that the country has become aroused over ' the issue and the public tide is swinging in their support . The President 's supporters point to the Gallup Poll of last October , which showed that only 19 per cent of the American people knew what the fight was all about ; and of those 19 per cent , 3 per cent did n't care , and 7 per cent opposed the proposal . That left 9 per cent of the population actually being for Senator Bricker 's plan . To the People @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fight to the people over television ' and radio , the avalanche of disapproving mail will be overwhelming . What the Bricker debate has spotlighted , it would appear , is that therb is a basic issue involved in this matter which is not compromisable : that there is no way for the President to keep his present full powers of treaty-making and at the same time have the fields in which he can act and the procedure to bet followed curtailed .                     