@@716237

txt GENEVA , April 26 ? Hostile nations of the East and the West began their conference today in an effort to restore peace to Asia . A hasty series of face-saving compromises prevented a staleMate over the United States ' refusal to deal with Communist China . The Communist bloc accepted a formula governing the chairmanship and organization of the discussions . As a result the first session was able to start under the chairmanship of Prince Wan Waithayakon , Foreign Minister of Thailand . Anthony Eden , British Foreign Secretary and spokesman for the Western powers , concluded an arrangement with Vyacheslav M. Molotov , Soviet Foreign Minister and also spokesman for Communist China , a nation not diplomatically recognized by most Of the democratic powers . Theoretically , the Geneva talks are to confine their first phase to a discussion of the Korean war and tomorrow 's initial working Session will devote itself to that . But the grave Indo-China crisis With all its overtones of military calamity in the Orient and political implications in the West is uppermost In everyone 's mind . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would like to get the Indo-China discussions started promptly to end the bloodshed there . - Molotov Snubs Bidault Bid He sought a meeting with John Foster Dulles , United States Secretary of State , and Messrs . Eden and Molotov this evening and even allowed his press officials to announce it would take place . But Mr. Molotov never accepted and did not appear . Instead he conferred with the Foreign Ministers of North Korea and Communist China . As a result M. Bidault saw only his English-speaking opposite numbers and discussed Indo-China once more with them , receiving little immediate encouragement . France wants emergency intervention . The United States does not wish to risk this except under the umbrella of a Southeast Asia alliance , which neither Britain nor France desires at this time . M. Bidault will talk with Mr. Molotov tomorrow morning about the possibility of accelerating a review of the Indo-China aspects of the Geneva conference and agreeing on who shall be invited . The United States has agreed to go along with France on the latter question . Communist sources say that if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ho Chi Minh 's ambassador in Moscow has full authority to negotiate and the Vietminh envoy in Prague , Czechoslovakia , could arrive in Geneva within twentyfour hours . While the peripheral and very secret analyses on Indo-China cast a dominant and gloomy shadow over the conference , everyone appeared to be pleased by the way the formal meetings started on time . Mr. Dulles refused to permit any form of recognition here for Communist China , but he accepted the compromise arrangement . This excluded a system for rotating chairmen of the conference that would include Chou En-lai , Red China 's Foreign Minister . It was agreed that Mr. Molotov , representing the Communist nations , and Mr. Eden , representing the democracies , would be in the chair tomorrow and Wednesday respectively . From then on the three chairmen will rotate successively in that order ? at least during the Korean phase of the conference . Parley Details Settled Other details of the conference machinery also were settled . The seating of delegates was arranged alphabetically according to the English spelling of each country 's name . Each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kural of Turkey and Donald B. Eddy of the United States . French , Russian , English , Chinese and Korean were accepted as the official languages for the first phase of the discussions and adequate translation arrangements were made . Tomorrow , under Mr. Molotov 's one-day presidency , Russian will have the linguistic priority . The sessions will last from 3 P. M. to 7 P. M. daily with a break for refreshments and a day off Sunday . The sessions will be Closed to the press and public but each delegation can do what it wants about briefing reporters . The first session lasted twenty minutes . Prince Wan outlined the rules of procedure . He promised to do his utmost in the cause of peace and to observe the guiding rules of the conference as laid down in Berlin at the meeting of the Big Four foreign ministers . He expressed hope that Geneva 's spirit of freedom , humanity and peace would inspire the diplomatic deliberations . Mr. Dulles and Mr. Chou ignored each other during the session . The Secretary of State has referred to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    