@@715490

txt Reorganization of Boston municipal departments has been given the legislative green light  --  and without restrictions which might make reorganization plans unworkable . Characterized by Mayor Hynes as " the most important piece of legislation " filed for the City of Boston this year , the measure is expected to reach Governor Herter for signature early next week , after formal enactment . But the bill cleared its last major hurdle when the House retreated from its previous demands that the legislation require that Civil Service personnel affected by reorganization shall be transferred to similar positions within the municipal government . House Agrees The Senate had insisted  --  at the behest of Mayor Hynes , the New Boston Committee , and the Boston Municipal Research Bureau ? that the transfers should be permissive but not mandatory . Finally , the House agreed with the Senate and ended the last major block in the path of the legislation . Mayor Hynes has plans reducing the number of city partments from 37 to 10 for purpose of greater operating ficiency . While under the City Charter the Mayor and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Boston Law Department has informed the Legislature , the pending legislation is necessary to make clearer some ' points about reorganization . Joseph S. Slavet , executive director of the Boston Municipal Research Bureau , has described the present make-up of Boston 's municipal government structure as a " holdover from the horse and buggy days . " Twenty of the present departments are headed by a single official , while the other 17 have a total of 95 commissioners as operating heads . " Such a cabinet , " Mr. Slavet told a legislative committee , " is much too cumbersome for a Mayor to handle efficiently . " Under the proposed reorganization plan , there would be 10 department heads , with the other units being administered by a division head . No Hire . No Fire ' The controversy over whether the reorganization legislation should provide that Civil Service employees affected by reorganization " may " or " shall " be transferred to similar positions , with no loss of rights , was the major issue throughout its consideration in the House and Senate . Even political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " or " shall " issue . While Mayor Hynes has announced a " no hire , no fire " policy in his administration and has said that no Civil Service employee would lose his job as a result of reorganization , those demanding mandatory transfer provisions argued that the Hynes policy would not be binding on future Mayors who might adopt " ruthless , tactics . " However , proponents of the permissive transfer proviso contended that a mandatory transfer requirement would unduly tie the hands of the Mayor and make the reorganization bill meaningless .                     