@@720224

txt The path to the Presidency of Cuba has been cleared for Fidel Castro , whose rebels overthrew the Batista regime , and for Maj. Ernesto Guevara , his aide , who is an Argentine . A new law reduces the required age of Cuban Presidents from 35 years to 30 . Dr. Castro , who commands the land , sea and air forces of the republic , is 32 years old . His age would have barred him from becoming a Presidential candidate when elections were held within eighteen months or two years , as promised by the revolutionary Government . At the same time , the Fundamental Law has granted Major Guevara , who is a physician , " native-born " status . The law gives such status only to a foreigner who has fought two years with the revolutionary movement with the rank of major . This can apply to only one man  --  Major Guevara , He landed with Dr. Castro in his eightytwo-man expedition Dec. 2 , 1956 , on the south coast of Qriente Province and fought alongside him throughout the two-year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sugar mill workers agreed to suspend demands delaying the harvesting of this year 's crop . They acted in response to an appeal by Dr. Castro . A desire that Dr. Castro seek the Presidency has been voiced by many . However , he has reiterated that he does not wish to be President . The qualifying of Major Guevera , regarded as Left of Center politically , is viewed with some concern by conservative elements of the island . There is- no indication that Major Guevara has political ambitions or that the people would support him . At the same time , since the Constitution of - 1940 on which the Fundamental Law is based and the law itself require that a Cabinet minister must be a Cuban native , it is possible , according to opinion here , that the way is being cleared for Major Guevara to hold a Cabinet post either during the revolutionary period or after the constitutional elections . Terms of the Fundamental Law were disclosed yesterday by Dr. Luis Buch , Secretary of the Presidency . Citizenship for Rebels The Fundamental Law grants citizenship on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Castro rebellion , Dr. Buch said . Major Guevara commands La Cabana Fortress , across the bay from Havana . The 30-yearold guerrilla said recently in a public speech that he favored government ownership of all public utilities and the division of all big estates among the landless . He has denied he is a Communist . His close fliends say he is a Socialist . Dr. Castro made his appeal to the sugar workers before the delegates of all the 161 mills ' in a special meeting of the National Federarbn of Sugar Workers at the Labor Palace ' in Havana . " I do not say that the workers should withdraw their demands . which are very just , " he said . " but all the nation depends on the sugar crop and ; we must all do what is necessary to make it . " H assured the workers they , could depend on careful study of their demands by the Ministry f Labor and said : " We are convinced that the Government must resolve in fa- , vor of the great majority in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Dr. Castro told the workers it was not the time to demand ! four shifts of six hours each in- , stead of the present three shifts ! of eight hours in the mills . At the same time the hotel ' and restaurant workers and the musicians and artists unions an-I nounced they would walk out at 10 A. M. Thursday unless the Government authorized the ' opening of casinos in tourist hotels Several thousand work- ' ers are suffering because of this delay , the unions say . February ordinarily is the height of the tourist season . This year few tourists are seen , and the big hotels are empty . United States Army , Navy and Air Force missions will be withdrawn immediately from Cuba , according to the Ministry of State . The matter was arranged by an exchange of diplomatic notes , a ministry spokesman said . Dr. Castro has emphasized his desire to have the missions withdrawn . He has said they are not needed since his insurgents defeated the armed forces of former President Fulzencio Batista , which were trains ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . a Cuba as soon as arrangements are completed for the withdrawal of the twenty-eight members and their families , according to a spokesman at the United States Embassy . The missions were sent to Cuba in 1950 and 1951 under an agreement with the Government of Carlos Prio Socarras.                     