@@712778

txt It was to be expected that Senator William Benton , in his first speech in the Senate , should return to a theme he has developed before many . other audiences . No American has worked harder and more consistently in the cause of world freedom of information than the new Senator from Connecticut . As Assistant Secretary of State , he reorganized and expanded the Department of Public Affairs  --  too much so for Congress , which cut the proposed appropriation last year , but.not enough to raise the Voice of America above a whisper . As head of the American delegation at the United Nations . Conference on Freedom of the Press at Geneva and at various Unesco conferences , at home and abroad , he argued vigorously that , since the present contest is in essence a struggle for the minds and loyalties of men , the first task of democracy is to launch a worldwide barrage of ideas that will break through and overpass barriers and reach people everywhere . Yesterday Senator Benton pleaded for a Marshall Plan in the field of ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the world that is even more dangerous than the dollar gap because it is through this gap that communism , " which began as propaganda , survived more than half a century as propaganda " and exalts propagandists as its greatest heroes , pours its stream of poison into the minds and emotions of mankind . Backed by ten of his colleagues from both sides of the aisle , Mr. Benton proposed a six-point resolution for a campaign of information on a scale commensurate with the need and the stakes involved . " Fortunately , we have on our side a priceless asset , " he said ; " we have no need to lie . " Increasing pressure for freedom of the press was first on the list , not because there is any chance of this in Soviet-dominated countries , but to rally wavering nations ; for the distressing fact , as the Senator pointed out and as the growth of censorship and state interference with independent newspapers too clearly confirms , is that freedom of the press even this side of the Iron Curtain is more restricted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Benton called upon Congress to take , a constructive role in the making of foreign policy by aiding and counseling the State Department in its efforts to take world leadership . There is much to be said for the view that there is effective work for the Senate in the neglected and crucial area the Senator from Connecticut describes . While it takes two parties to make an agreement , it is true that it takes only one to do something intelligent about lack ? of agreement . Our policy is to produce " strength at points of weakness , " Secretary Acheson declares , and one point of weakness is certainly the failure to counter Soviet propaganda with our own . It is not by accident that our most successful enterprise to date is the Marshall Plan , primarily because it is positive , imaginative , a challenge rather than a reaction , a challenge the Communists can not meet . We have the greatest idea in the world to " sell " to people held in slavery  --  the idea of freedom  --  and the most alluring promise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decent living standard . It is to be hoped that the Senate will turn from some of its minor preoccupations to debate the constructive program Mr. Benton proposes .                     