@@718171

txt Republicans drafting the foreign policy plank of the 1956 platform tonight hailed peace in Korea and averting of the threat of global war as major accomplishments of the Eisenhower administration . Clear cut declarations of accomplishmentl were the Republican answers to the Democratic attacks on the conduct of foreign affairs in the past four years . The longer Democratic platform charged that the United States lacks leadership , has lost friends abroad , and has depended on bluster and bluff in the conduct of foreign relations . Strong Stand on Israel Republicans took a stronger stand on I sr a el than the Democrats . The G. 0 . P. plank said that the party regards the preservation of Israel as an important part of American foreign policy . The Democratic party had said it would assist Israel to build a sound economy to enable her 10 fulfill her humanitarian role of offering a haven to refugees while strengthening national development . The Republicans said the party is determined that the integrity of an independent Jewish state shall be maintained , the Democrats called for what they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ middle east . The platform drafters were reported to be softening the civil rights plank , over the objections of Sen. Dirksen Ill . . The platform will be adopted Tuesday by Republican delegates at the Cow Palace . It will emphasize the record of the Eisenhower administration while largely ignoring t h e Democratic platform adopted in Chicago last week . Views It as Mandate Dirksen , head of the civil rights subcommittee , has insisted that the Republicans confine themselves to a simple and strong statement that the 1954 school desegregation decision of the Supreme court is a mandate to be enforced by all government offipials , executive and legislative . Some committee members , it was learned , were willing to yield to Republicans f r om southern states who protested that Dirksen 's civil rights stand was too strong . Platform drafters indicated that they were adding phrases and sentences ' to mollify the Dixie delegates . Contrast with Dawson Despite the changes , Dirksen told a reporter he has not changed his opinion of yesterday that the Republican plank will be " infinitely better " than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Adlai E. Stevenson 's managers . ! The Democratic plank satisfied neither the southern nor the northern wings of the party . Dirksen has been a leading sponsor of civil rights legislation in the senate . Dirksen 's battle for the strongest possible Republican civil rights plank was contrasted here with the stand taken by Rep. Dawson D. , I11 . , Chicago Negro leader who was a member of the Democratic platform d r a f t I n g subcommittee . Dawson , vice chairman of the Democratic national committee , sat silent during open hearings in Chicago when Negro leaders asked for a civil rights plank that would promise Negroes equal protection of the laws . In a speech to the Democratic convention ; Dawson belittled the importance of the civil rights eonI ro V e rsy . Voted with Southerners At the Democratic convention . as in Congress . Dawson voted on the same side as the southern pro-segregation leaders of the party . Republicans who pleaded for some moderation in the civil rights plank said it would be necessary to help G. 0 . P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They said a statement should be included that southerners should have time to make a gradual adjustment in ending the system of separate schools . Talk of a minority report on civil rights came from a caucus of delegates , from Louisiana , Texas , Arkansas , Mississippi , Georgia , Florida , Virginia , and North Carolina . Seek General Appeal In 1952 , President Eisenhower carried Virginia , Florida , Tennessee , and Texas , and lost Louisiana and Kentucky by close margins . Stevenson carried only nine southern and border states . Republican platform drafters this year hoped to draft a platform that would have general appeal , in the south as well as in other sections . ? Labor Secretary James Mitchell apparently failed to get changes in the labor plank . As a result , it is not expected to ask for repeal of right-to-work laws adopted by by several states . The platform committee , ; which has been in close contact with cabinet secretaries and White House aids , had expected to finish its work last night . The members , a man and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on full debate and as a result the group reconvened this afternoon .                     