@@720849

txt Congressional investigators turned their attention to neve'charges of shady doings in the radio-TV business . Rep. Harris ( D .. Ark. ) , chairman of the special House Commerce subcommittee that exposed chicanery on television quiz programs , disclosed his staff is digging into many other allegations of fraudulent progranfming . These are believed to concern such other purported practices as deceptive advertising , bribing of disc jockeys to plan certain records , paying news-show people to boost somebody or something that would otherwise be ignored . and bribing broadcasting personalities to " plug " a certain interest or permit a publicity-seeker to appear on a show as a " guest . " If the investigators come up with enough evidence by the time the subcommittee reconvenes December 9 , the unit is prepared to hold a new round of hearings . Should such hearings develop and continue into the next session of Congress , they would greatly intensify the pressure for corrective laws . The enactment of such laws , however , depends in part upon the ability of proponents of more Federal regulation to handle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government repression has played a part in thwarting past attempts to regulate broadcasting more stringently . The subcommittee also has letters showing the Federal Communications Commission , which regulates broadcasting , received complaints of - skulduggery " on a quiz show called the Big Payoff as early as 1952 , but did nothing about the charges . Other information before the Congressmen submitted by the American Guild of Authors and Composers , charges " commercial bribery has become a prime factor in determining what music is played on many broadcast programs and what musical records the public is surreptitiously induced to buy. ? This charge prompted an immediate demand for an apology by Murray Kaufman , president of the National Council of Disc Jockeys . Rep. Mack ( D. , m. ) , a subcommittee member , said the group has " all the goods " on a case where an advertising agency was " selling appearances for political candidates on news shows . " He refused to go beyond this description , except to say that the incident occurred in a large eastern city with several television channels . Even if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members believe they have proof that the networks are Unable to police themselves , however willing they are to tackle the job . And the Federal assistance these lawmakers are ready to extend goes beyond instituting criminal penalties for willful deception or fraud . Reps . Moss , Mack and Bennet ( R .. Mich. ) talk generally about the need to license the networks themselves . The networks oppose any such proposal . They contend that present F C C. regulations requiring licensing of network-owned stations acts as a check on the networks themselves . This opposition is frequently met by the contention that F.0 C. review of station licenses when they come up for renewal every three years is " almost a perfunctory matter ? " in Mr. Moss ' words . Other Measures Considered Besides outright licensing , some subcommittee members are pondering measures that would spell out specifically what the F.C.C. could do in reviewing program preparation . Rep. Rogers ( D. , Texas ) has accused the F.C.C. of refusing to use the powers it now has . " They 're just taking the position that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ca n't do anything . " he declared ? ? lf they con- ' Untie to tale that position . certainly . we should spell out what they 're supposed to do " Rep. Mack said licensing of networks %%mild mean " no more censorship " than now exists over licensed stations . - The stations are not completely free : they have to abide by certain regulations ? in fact , many regulations " he declared . The presidents of two of the three major TV networks  --  Robert E Kintner of the National Broadcasting Co. and Dr Frank Stanton of Columbia Broadcasting Systemhave told the subcommittee they fear direct regulation of networks But while Mr. Kintner indicated he felt a criminal statute against show-rigging was all that was needed , Dr. Stanton said it " might also be desirable " to expand or " clarify " the authority of the Federal Trade Commission to move against deceptive advertising . Dr. Stanton appeared Friday as the subcommittee finished hearings on the quiz show part of its investigation . He said he was not aware of quiz show rigging until August . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " It is possible . " he testified " that we have had all along more elbow room for exercising authority than we believed . "                     