@@719875

txt New minimum standards for New Hampshire high schools will become effective Sept. 1 , despite considerable criticism . The new standards are designed to provide broader basic instruction for the 60 per cent of the high school graduates who do not go on for further education , according to State Education Commissioner ? Paul E. Farnum . Page 2 . Lexington , Mass. , residents last night approved a zoning amendment which would bring a " special commercial district " into this residential community for the first time . Page 5 . President Eisenhower has nominated Ephraim Martin to be Postmaster at Boston , succeeding J. P. W. Finn , retired . Mr. Martin has been serving as Acting Postmaster since March 1 . Europe : Secret Trial for Bibo Reported Istvan Bibo , Minister of State in the Hungarian Nagy government of 1956 , is being tried in secret for his activities during the uprising that year , according to reports reaching Vienna . The British Government intends to start soon an Institute of Criminology  --  first of its kind in Britain , London observers said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and teachers in criminal research . Washington : Pentagon Plan Battle Ended Only the President 's signature is needed to put the Pentagon reorganization plan into effect . The battle over defense streamlining ended July 24 when both houses passed a compromise bill by voice vote . Congress continues its battle to complete a farm program bill that endeavors to satisfy various special interests without inviting a presidential veto . The Senate hopes to complete action today on a bill covering cotton , rice , corn , and feed grains , with an amendment extending the Brannan-like wool subsidy program . Mideast : Lebanese Election Delay Looms Lebanese rebel leader Saeb Salem said today the rebels will not permit presidential elections to be held as long as President Chamoun is in power and foreign troops are in Lebanon . " There will not be any election next week , " Mr. Salem said . National : Texas Democrats Vote July 26 Texas Democrats vote tomorrow in a primary election in which most interest centers on the race between Ralph Yarborough and William Blakley for the Senate . Mr. Yarborough 's candidacy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had cast his absentee ballot for him . Spencer T. Olin of Alton , Ill. , was named chairman of the GOP National Finance Committee . Mr. Olin is a prominent Midwest industrialist and veteran Republican fund raiser.                     