@@715639

txt The first shipload of Americans from communist prison stockades starts home tomorrow , depending on the tides at Inchon . Some 325 United States former captives prepared to board the transport Gen. Walker at the western Korean port late today and more were expected from Freedom Village before sailing time . The repatriates , returned to freedom less than a week , have been double checked physically . They are the able bodied . The sick and wounded are being flown to Japan for hospitalization or for air passage to the United States . Return 125 Americans The sixth day of prisoners exchange at this western Korean village rolled along today with the largest group of American POWs thus far returned-125 . They were among 389 prisoners freed by the Reds , including 50 British , 25 Turks , and 189 South Koreans . It brought to 2,374 the number of - American and associated POWs liberated since the armistice was signed , including 550 Americans . The Communists said they would return 400 prisoners tomorrow , including 100 Americans , 250 South Koreans , 25 Turks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not include sick and wounded . Yanks in Good Health The . first American and British prisoners arriving today appeared to be in far better health than the South Koreans , as was the case yesterday . The Americans and Britons were in good spirits . One , peering out from the battered , Russian-built truck , shouted : " Wow , we 're here ! " Another yelled : " Lookit the newsmen ! " Most of the Americans in the first of four groups freed hourly today were Negroes . Most of them jumped nimbly from the tailgate of the communist trucks and walked briskly toward the processing tent . One prisoner carried an enormous fiddle . Another had a guitar . Another prisoner wore earrings fashioned into crosses . Red Photografers Absent Communist correspondents and photografers were conspicuously absent , apparently staying away so as not to record the pitiful condition of the South Korean prisoners . These were weak and emaciated . Many were burdened with crude , dirty casts . The second contingent of prisoners arrived at 9:53 a. in. , the third at 10:50 a. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Britons . A ripple of excitement stirred on the road in front of the reception center when half a dozen North Korean POWs jumped off trucks . Military police from the , convoy and the reception center quickly rounded them up and got them back on the trucks . Charges Reds Hold POWs The North Koreans who remained on the trucks shouted in Korean for them to get back . At least one Korean was cut . It was reported that South Koreans had thrown rocks at them . The first contingent of homeward bound Americans will be loaded aboard ship today , the military armistice commission announced . South Korean Defense Minister Sohn Won Ii charged the Reds with forcibly holding thousands of war prisoners for " malicious and inhumane purposes . " Sohn said the Communists are returning sick and wounded men who should have been repatriated last April . - He said the Reds Friday forcibly removed 200 South Koreans at Kaesong , the North Korean truce base , for further detention and punishment because they expressed support of their own country . South Koreans Emaciated It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food and medical care among their captives where it might serve communist purposes rather than where it was needed . The air force said it had flown 207 disabled repatriates to hospitals in Japan . The men are carried in C124 Globemaster planes staffed by nurses and doctors . An advance party of Indian officials arrived at Munsan yesterday to lay the groundwork for the job of guarding prisoners of war who refuse to go home . The first group of 12 was headed by R. K. Nehru , foreign secretary for India . Thirty Flown to Japan SEOUL , Korea , Aug. 10 Monday ? ( IP ) ? Thirty repatriated war prisoners freed from communist prison camps , including AP Photografer Frank Noel left by plane today for Japan . There were eight litter patients and 22 ambulatory repatriates on the C-54. 