@@719266

txt Letters to The Times DEWITT 0 . MYATT . Alexandria , Va. , Nov. 8 , 1957. team spirit is there . J. FiAIG ... Letters to The Times Industrial Scientists Solving Problem of War The writer of the following letter was formerly managing editor of the American Chemical Society journal " Industrial and Engineering Chemistry " and is now chairman of the , Division of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry of the society , Need for Leadership in Seeking Peace Is Stressed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES ! ' The position of the New York Public Library on C. B. S. television program " The Faces of War " highlights the most tragic aspect of America 's current ideological stagnation  --  the fact that " peace " can be a " controversial " subject . If the obligation for solving the problem of war falls on any one nation , it falls on the United States . For war is ? a problem of human behavior , and of the two nations with the most frightening war capabilities only in the United States can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( and not under a dogma that permits investigation only to confirm already predetermined answers ) . The ultimate solution must be a political reorganization of the world that will not allow war . The obstacles to such a reorganization are colossal , and may even take generations to overcome , but the effort to locate the obstacles and eliminate them must proceed  --  or else mankind is doomed to a premature end . If America has a tacit obligation to solve the problem it also has an obligation to maintain its independence within the world 's present structure . This requires military preparedness . The tragic fallacy is that constructive peace efforts are hamstrung by the mistaken widely held assumption that they are incompatible with military strength . Dual Doctrine If it is true that American public opinion must maintain a posture of belligerence to an enemy because it is incapable of understanding a more complex doctrine that includes both preparedness and efforts for world harmony , then it is also true that America is morally bankrupt . Some of our intellectuals raise an outcry of protest against the growing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What they protest against is only a natural product of a social system that has achieved its objective  --  economic prosperity for all  --  and whose problems , despite the headlines they make , affect directly only isolated groups . The greatest challenge facing America is to maintain its ideological momentum , and ideological momentum can be maintained only when goals are being pursued . If our former goals have been reached we must awake to the discovery of new ones . The abolition of war by application of the science of human behavior is a goal for which the American people by their heritage are uniquely suited . Let us hope that the sputnik awakens us not only to the need for accelerating technological development , but also to the need for broadening our horizons beyond our own immediate sphere of selfinterest so that we can lead the world to permanent peace . ADRIAN B. ETTLINGER . New York , Nov. 11 , 1957 . Football Principles and Politics To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : On several occasions I have watched snatches of American football on television @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or tail of it . The visit of Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip to the ball game at College Park , Md. , howe-er , has stimulated a number of articles in the British press explaining the game  --  and at last some light has dawned . Apparently one of the basic principles of the game is a technique known as " blocking , " whereby certain members of the team block attempts by the opposing team to interfere with their ball carrier . Team progress is made . by means of various carefully organized movements which are also pretty violent affairs . I can now understand the hold that American football has upon its players and followers . As I see it , the " blocking " system must build up a tremendous team spirit . It used to be said that Britain 's battles were won " on the playing fields of Eton . " The battle for world peace could well be won on the playing fields of Maryland , North Carolina , Harvard , Yale , Princeton ( or whatever may be considered the American equivalent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deployed in the political field . " Blockers " and " carriers " are essential elements of Western defense . There must be plenty of good ballgame players in the United States Senate . " All we need now are the correct political moves . - It has been well proved once that the necessary team spirit is there . J. HAIGH . London , Oct. 26 , 1957 . Midtown Traffic Congestion To THE EDITOR Of . THE NEW YORK TIMES : When I saw your editorial of Oct. 31 headed " Midtown Miracles " I expected to read something different . Being thoroughly familiar with the traffic situation and the continually crowded cross streets beginning at the Twenties right up into the Forties it often occurred to me that a really . good fire would be a major disaster . The fact that the Fire Department was able to get into the area of the fire on Thirty-sixth Street was a miracle , but do n't you think that counting on miracles is a hazardous procedure ? The " No Parking " signs are disregarded and trucks and cars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slowing up traffic to a snail 's pace . Why a major disaster or holocaust should have to be the price for a remedy of the situation amazes me . ED BROMBERG . Forest Hills , N. Y. , Nov. 1 , 1957 . Mr. Bromberg has drawn just the conclusion we hoped our ? readers would . Miracles should be appreciated but not relied upon  --  even from our firemen and police . Some day the obstacles may be too great. ? Editor , The Times . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : If this nation 's existing potential for creative basic research is now a matter of high national importance , scientists and engineers now employed industrially should not be overlooked . They , constitute an opportunity to multiply several-fold what we customarily think of as our basic research capacity . The resource existing in the talents and personal interests of industrial scientists is almost completely unused for basic research today . A few large organizations in highly technical industries have found it profitable to budget basic studies in their own laboratories to secure long-range technical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work on such studies , there are hundreds or thousands who are not so employed , with similar interests and equal or greater talents . Tapping Reservoir The utilization of our nation 's research potential will be most incomplete without the development of adequate means to tap this immense reservoir of inaustrial talent . A national policy statement on basic research is an obvious necessity if any substantial advance over our present situation is to be accomplished . The Federal Government must state in unambiguous terms that basic research knowledge is a major resource of our nation , and that the encouragement and support of such research are of prime national importance . Such a declaration , with adequate implementation , would seem essential to secure the vital cooperation from industrial managements . Industrial managements should be willing to cooperate in a properly conceived - program . Their creative scientists will be anxious to participate , and cooperating companies will be better able to attract and hold superior talent than will companies not cooperating . A good job of applied research requires that the scientist will be well acquainted with basic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's laboratories will tend to improve the technical caliber of its work on its applied problems . Such benefits should be substantial enough to offset the reduced time the company 's better scientists are available to work on applied problems . Responsible Role I am extremely gratified to see the great importance of basic research finally recognized by the general public , since it should now be politically feasible for our Government to assume a more responsible role in the cultivation of this great national resource . It is ironical that the ' greatest nation in the world has done so little of a positive character to assure the generation of new basic knowledge . In reality , we have obtained most of it as a subsidy from the byproducts of our industrial and military technology , from the work of a handful of dedicated and underpaid scientists and from the achievements of scientists in other countries . At very moderate cost our creative scientists in industry , government and the universities can be offered inducements that will assure a greatly increased output , of basic science . Many technical people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A national basic science program not only will produce tangible technical results , but will also have great morale value in giving long-overdue official recognition to the basic scientists whose contributions are so profoundly important in a modern society . DEWITT 0 . MYATT . Alexandria , Va. , Nov. 8 , 1957.                     