@@714184

txt Letters to The Times LESTER B. GRANGER.LINDSAY ROGERS.EMMA D. SHEEHY.KNIGHT BIGGERSTAFF , CHRISTOPHE ... pg . 36 Letters to The Times Discrimination Charged Employment Restrictions in Atomic Energy Projects Protested To THE EDITOR or THE NEW YORK TIMES : THE NEW YORK TIMES has rendered a great public service in its series of articles by Ira H. Freeman on the Savannah River Area Atomic Energy Development . Knowing the great tradition of your newspaper in the interest of trustworthy reporting , the National Urban League considers it important to bring to the attention of your readers some data which unfortunately were not mentioned in the last of these articles , in the issue of Oct. 5 . These data were collected through on-the-spot investigations by representatives of the National Urban League and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People . The representatives interviewed A. E. C. officials , du Pont representatives , key labor leaders , responsible local citizens , employes and job applicants themselves . The Savannah River area is perhaps the nation 's most critical defense area . The Urban League , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is actively working in that area to survey the social and economic conditions of Negroes and to provide technical consultation and services in cooperation with the voluntary agencies and Government to the defense-impacted communities and groups . Evidence Compiled Curtis A. Nelson , A. E. C. manager , is reported in THE TIMES article to have said in reply to charges of racial discrimination " that he had not seen any of that . " Your reporter gives no evidence of having checked into these charges . Had he done so he would have found ample documentary evidence compiled over a period of months by representatives of the N. A. A. C. P. and the National Urban League . Negro workers applying for jobs have either been relegated to the more temporary , poorly paid categories or have been shunted aside without having their job qualifications examined . The du Pont Company stated officially that all employment policies will be determined by local project management , with due consideration to prevailing racial customs and practices . The A. E , C. 's attitude in this connection  --  reay be summed up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who said , " When we hired the du Pont Company we hired their employment policies . " Mr. Nelson is reported to have pointed out to your reporter an- antidiscriminatory clause in the A. E. C. contract with du Pont . But he adds , " Old Southern customs were not changed over night . " Pattern Set . The A. E. C. has shown little or no intention of taking steps to implement non-discriminatory practices in hiring of workers . It has held itself aloof from any such responsibility . The commission itself has set the pattern of following local discrimination and segregation practices , and its contractors have followed suit . Mr. Nelson admits that half of the unskilled labor is Negro , and of the 3,000 Negro workers on the project Urban League investigations show that less than 100 Negro workers are outside of the unskilled categories . Furthermore , our investigations confirm your reporter 's observations that no Negroes can be seen in the white-collar jobs , Negro applicants for such jobs are usually given the " run around . " The nine American Federation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be undergrading qualified Negro workers , and thereby making promotions difficult . Only in the construction trades is there an overwhelming number of Negroes being employed , and then in unskilled jobs and on a segregated basis . The National Urban League recently filed a formal protest with the President of the United States against the grossly discriminatory employment policies which are current in the operation of these Atomic Energy projects . These discriminatory policies , the Urban League pointed out , are in violation of the President 's directive on the subject and show a callous disregard for citizen morale as well as for obtaining the maximum utilization of the nation 's manpower to stem the advance of Communist imperialism and slavery . LESTER B. GRANGER . New York , Oct. 6. 1951 . To Stem the Use of Stem To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I have always'thought that you steni the tide or stem the plant by removing its stems , and that in modern meanings the verb had to be transitive. , Recently " stem " or " stemmed , " used intransitively , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the current issue of Foreign Affairs ; twice on the first page of , and elsewhere in , George Kennan 's brilliantly written lectures on " American Diplomacy , 1900-1950 " ; a headline on the first page of Thursday 's TIMES : " Examination Stems from Test Questionnaires . " An intransitive use , now rare , permits one to say that the bleeding stemmed  --  that is , ceased flowing . But " to stem from " is a lazy way of saying something that could be put more precisely . May I hope for a stemming of the misuse of stem and stemming ? LINDSAY ROGERS . New York , Oct. 7 , 1951 . Playground Decision Questioned To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In commenting on the plans set forth for the United Nations Playgrodnd by a group of private citizens , Robert Moses retorts in characteristic fashion to ideas which differ from his ideas . " I 'm not interested in that sort of playground . If they want us to operate it , it 's got to be on our plans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the last sentence , I assume he is thinking of what works so far as supervision from the Park Department is concerned . Unfortunately the usual standard , unimaginative type of playground does not work when it comes to meeting children 's needs . Even the most casual observer is aware of this . I have not seen the suggested plans , but as one who has spent many years in the study of children 's play and playgrounds in various sections of the United States and in other countries I am more than disappointed that New York City is unwilling to do some ex ? perimental work in this field . EMMA D. SHEEHY , Associate Professor of Education , Teachers College . New York , Oct. 8 , 1951 . I. P. R. Activities Praised Aims , Character of Institute of Pacifie Relations Discussed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Tams : During the past few months Tim NEW YORK TIMES has reported the testimony being presented about the Institute of Pacific Relations before the McCarran subcommittee of the United States Senate . Although the hearings appear to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called by the subcommit. tee have nearly all demonstrated bias against the I. P. R. has given the public a distorted picture . For that reason , we upstate New York educators , Far . Eastern specialists long familiar with the activities of the Institute of Pacifie Relations , would like to call attention to some of the pertinent facts about the organization that have not been presented in the hearings . For more than twenty-five years the Institute of Pacific Relations has promoted scholarly research and objective study of the Far East . Its many publications . represent a unique contribution to the factual information on that region ; in fact , a large proportion of the available scholarly reports on contemporary Eastern and Southern Asia are to be found in I. P. R. publications . Without its many years of activity American scholarship on and understanding of the Far East would be infinitely poorer than they are to . day . The Institute of Pacific Relations always has been and remains a strictly nonpartisan organization . It takes no political stand , it advocates no causes . Its membership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ section of differing expert views . The chairmen of the American Council of the Insti ? tute of Pacific Relations since its establishment have been Newton D , Baker , Carl L. Alsberg , Jerome D4 Greene , Robert Gordon Sproul , Ray Lyman Wilbur , Philip C. Jessup and Gerard Swope . The Institute of Pacific Relations , having nothing to hide , has welcomed objective investigation . In fact the F. B. I. went through all its files at I. P. R. request a year before the spec tacular " seizure " last summer for the McCarran subcommittee of the old files stored in Lenox , Mass . What we deplore is the one-sidedness of the present hearings : the subcommittee has appeared to discourage the presentation of - favorable testimony . Unfavorable testimony has been released to the press and inserted in the record without proper checking of its veracity . We have every confidence that if the I. P. R. officers are given an adequate hearing their evidence will refute the unfair charges which have been lodged against the organization . The danger remains , however , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This could result in a very real and serious loss to American scholarship . It is our hope that the press will give as much prominence to the I. P. R. presentation as it has to ? the sensational charges . KNIGHT BIGGERSTAFF , Professor of History , Cornell University ; GEORGE ' B. CRESSEY , Maxwell Professor of Geography , Syracuse ' University ; SHANNON MCCUNE , Professor of Geography , Colgate University ; LAURISTON SHARP , Professor of Anthropology , Cornell- University , Ithaca , N. Y. , Oct. 5 , 1951 , New York the Unknown To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TLMEII " I took a taxi at Fifty-ninth and Fifth Avenue this morning to try to go to the International Airport . It turned out the driver was from Brooklyn . It also turned out that the driver did n't know where the Triborough Bridge was , had never been to La Guardia Airport and had ' hever heard of the International Airport . Is Brooklyn such another world ? ehRISTOPHER JANUS . New York , Oct. 8 , 1951.     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       