@@717954

txt Lenin 's warning to the Communist party against Stalin 's personality was published in part in Moscow yesterday to explain to Soviet youth why the late dictator was being downgraded . The Young Communist newsNor.lsornolskaya Pravda : e ; 1 ) 1 is ! I c , v.-1:1f. it called le to Stalinism " to 1,1 nuzzled Soviet youth just . v:h ! it . vas happening to the Stalin legend and why . It was the harshest denunciation of Stalin yet to appear in the Soviet press . Lenin 's warning wag contained in his " last testament , " a document that has never been published in the Soviet Union and that Stalin suppressed . The newspaper did not identify Lenin 's warning as coming from the " testament . " Nor was there any reference to the testament in a dispatch from a New York Times correspondent in Moscow , apparently because of censorship deletions . Rudeness and Capriciousness Komsomolskaya Pravda 's quotation of the Lenin warning said ; " Lenin , in the last year of his life , pointed out that such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of respect for working comrades , capriziousness , and inclination toward abuse of power could lead to a violation of the rules of collective leadership . " Unfortunately , it happened so . " The Soviet newspaper said it was publishing the " guide " in response to numerous inquiries from young persons wanting to know what was behind the attack on the " cult of the individual . " the official terminology used in the downgrading of Stalin . The essence of the article was that Stalin had made great contributions during the Bolshevik revolution and in the early days of his leadership but that in the later period he displayed all the qualities Lenin warned against and began to rule in an arbitrary , capricious , self-adulatory manner . The Lenin document that liornsomolskaya Pravda paraphrased is one of the most famous in the history of Soviet communism , yet its very existence is still almost unknown to ordinary citizens of the Soviet Union . In the early days Stalin admitted the existence of the Lenin testament and even quoted from it during his struggle with Leon Trotsky . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The " testament " is actually a memorandum , dictated by Lenin in two installments , Dec. 25 , 1922 , and Jan. 4 , 1923 , He had had a paralytic stroke and the document was one of the last that he completed before his physical condition rendered work impossible . It contained a brief characterization of the leading members of the party , Stalin , Trotsky , Gregory Zinoviev , Lev Kamenev , Nikolai Bukharin and Gregory Piatakov . Lenin was concerned about the danger of a possibly fatal split in the party centered upon a conflict between Stalin and Trotsky . The second section of the memorandum , which he added on Jan. 4 , presumably after some personal disputes with Stalin , was devoted entirely to a negative assessment of the late dictator . It concluded with a proposal to remove Stalin from his post as General Secretary and to replace him with another man " more patient , more loyal , more polite , more attentive to comrades , less capricious . etc . " In the intra-party struggle for power that broke out after Lenin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Trotsky , as Lenin had feared ) the testament became a key document . Stalin succeeded in blocking proposals for its immediate publication on the ground that it would be disruptive of party unity . The behind-the-scenes struggle went on and as Stalin g radudally gathered power into his hands the prospects of publication of the testament diminished . The document was made public Oct. 18. 1926. in The New York Times by Max Eastman who had been associated in Moscow with Trotsky in the latter 's fight against Stalin . Its publication caused a sensation in Communist and other left-wing circles and it became A leading theme in the final stages of the Stalin-Trotsky fight . Ma ny Communists charged that it , was a Trotskyite fabrication . However , In the final show . down of t he Trotsky-Stalin struggle . Stalin himself acknowledged that the testament existed . He even permitted a reference to it to be published in Pravda . the official party newspaper , in November , 1927 , in connection with the announcement of the ouster of Trotsky and Zinoviev from the Communist party . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remarks he had made in reply to allegations about the testament . He quoted Lenin 's statement about his rudeness and lack of patience and Lenin 's proposal to replace him with another man . He said he had submitted his resignation as General Secretary , but this had been refused . He acknowledged that he was rude , but said he was rude only " against those who try to split the party                     