@@712862

txt Chancellor of the Exchequer Sir Stafford Cripps ' " standstill " 1950-51 budget . which he has introduced in the House of Commons , is being sharply assailed from both right and left . Froni the right , the Conservative opposition is denouncing the alarming rigidity of economics of the welfare state . In effect , Sir Stafford told the : 0/limns . " We have got a welfare state : we are croing to keep it ; it costs a great deal of money ; there is little chance of tax reluction for a considerable time to some : people will have to put up with having their money spent for them instead of spending it themselves ; that is the cost of full employment , which is the paramount need for a country 's happiness . " Theory Challenged Conservatives are challenging this theory harder than ever . They call it " a life sentence for the taxpayer . " " a dreary lullaby . " The chief Conservative speakers so far in the debate on the budget  --  Richard Butler and Oliver Stanley  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but by different methods . They have rejected emphati- cally the Cripps claim that government expenditures can not be reduced . Mr. Butler in the Commons debate made a pun about it . He said this socialist government sought control of everything . But the one thing it did not control was its own expenditures . The Conservatives have returned to the charge of gross Laborite extravagance in the past 41 ; , years by recalling that , including the American loan , Canadian credits , and Marshall Plan payments , along with the realization of foreign investments such as the sale of the Argentine railroads , the Attlee government has spent ** since 1945 . Savings Decline In Mr. Butler 's view a combination of such extravagant ways together with the rigidity of a welfare state economy would find Britain unable to withstand the economic shocks ahead . These shocks , he said . would come chiefly from the end of Marshall aid in 1952 , from the necessity for having to start repaying the $3 , - 750,000,000 American loan at the end of 1951 , and from keener @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Butler pointed to the fall in savings as one of the most serious signs of the unsoundness of the socialist economy . In the past year the British people have withdrawn a larger amount of private savings than they have invested . The budget debate in the Commons is scheduled to continue till April 24 . Winston Churchill may or may not acid his voice to the opposition criticism . There are some of . Mr. Churchill 's followers who will be relieved if he keeps silent . They think he is liable to run a bit wild on economics  --  even though he was chancellor of the exchequer himself in the Baldwin government from 1924 to 1929 . Strike Balloting Set Outside the Commons , however , left-wing complaints are louder , especially among trade unionists . They claim that not only has Sir Stafford tailed to give enough taxation relief to stem the rising cost of living , but that his ' doubling of the tax on gasoline will have a very reverse effect by increasing the cost of road transport , thus raising passenger fares and the prices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade unionists claim the wage freeze can not be held any longer . If the wage freeze breaks down , it is claimed the basis of the Cripps recovery program is undermined . Already some . 2,500,000 engineering and shipbuilding workers have decided to ballot . on whether or not to strike in support of their claim for an extra ? 1 a week . There are other unions , such as the lowly paid railroad workers , whose claim for increases seems more worthy . A complete eliding of the wage freeze was called for April 19 ? by William Pearson , Communist president of the Scottish ' Trades Union Congress .                     