@@716878

txt Secretary of State John Foster Dulles conferred today with Burmese Premier U Nu . Mr. Dulles said later he had come here neither to woo neutral Burma nor to be wooed . It was the first time a United States Secretary of State had ever visited this country and his reception was studiously . polite . No great crowds lined the road to greet him but there were cordial personal greetings by Burmese leaders . Mr. Dulles reported that his ninety - minute exchange of views with U Nu had been useful and that after each had spoken his mind they were wiser if not better men . Mr. Dulles flew here after the close of the Manila pact powers ' Council meeting in Bangkok . The Secretary of State for part of the time talked to U Nu about what went on at that meeting . Mr. Dulles left Rangoon early Sunday for Vientiane , capital of the Indochina kingdom of Laos , Reuters said . Burma , which has a common border with Communist China , has at least on the surface been hostile to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Only If Desired Mr. Dulles said that in his talk with U Nu he had extended no invitation to Burma to join in the Manila pact . Mr. Dulles made it clear to the Burmese press here and presumably to U Nu that while the United States wanted to help other free nations to , 2emain free such aid would be given only if it were desired . He also gave assurances that the United States was not the bloodthirsty warmonger pictured by the Communists . In answer to the question of a Burmese reporter about use of the atomic , bomb , Mr. Dulles said he hoped that in the event of war it would not be necessary to bomb population centers. 10 ' The Secretary of State said ' that he thought that the use of bombs for the mass destruction of cities was of very dubious strategic value and that he hoped that there would never be occasion for dropping bombs , atomic or otherwise , on population centers . He said that there would not be such a distinction drawn between atomic and conventional weapons and pointed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Which set whole cities afire and burned tens of thousands to death , were certainly as inhumane and as objectionable as any other form . Mr. Dulles said that if a member of the Manila pact powers were invaded the United States would certainly aid that country with air and seapower and that that aid would be substantial . It is said here that while Burma is outwardly hostile to the Manila alliance , she is inwardly grateful because of her proximity to Communist China that the mutual defense organization exists . When questioned about the dumping of United States surplus food products on world markets to the detriment of local economies , Mr. Dulles said that every country was free to protect itself by tariff restrictions and that at any rate the United States did not give food to countries that did not want that food . The basic principle for the United States in these matters was that as long as there were people who were hungry surplus food should not be allowed to rot , or to be thrown into the sea , Mr. Dulles said . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to " woo U Nu " that Mr. Dulles replied that he ' had come here neither to woo nor to be wooed . The two discussed the proposed visit Of U Nu to the United States and Mr. Dulles reported that if mutually acceptable arrangements for the trip could be made the Burmese Premier would visit Washington . Burmese President Visited Mr. Dulles was met at the airport here today , after an early morning take-off from Bangkok , by the Burmese Foreign Minister , Sao Hkun Hkio , several Ambassadors of countries represented here and a small group from the United States Embassy . The post of United States Ambassador is vacant here at present , The Secretary then drove from the airport and paid a courtesy call on the President of Burma , Dr. Ba U. There was a heavy police guard on the road but not many persons waited along the route . This was in marked contrast to the recent visits of President Tito of Yugoslavia and Chou En-lai , Communist China 's Premier and Forleign Minister . Both of these were greeted by thousands who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commu'nist front organizations are said Ito have worked hard to get the ( Chinese populace out on the street and Marshal Tito arrived by ship in the busy downtown ( district during the lunch hour when the streets were crowded . After his meeting with the I Premier Mr. Dulles laid a wreath on the tomb of Aung San , the Burmese patriot who was assassinated in 1947 . There followed a garden party attend ' ed by more than 1,000 on the lawn of the President 's home and then Mr. Dulles was the guest of the President at dinner . Mr. Dulles continues his short tour of the Far East tomorrow when he visits Laos . The following day he will visit Cambodia and Vietnam and on Tuesday will fly to the Philippines . He is accompanied by Mrs. Dulles and a small party from the State Department , including Walter S. Robertson , Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs .                     