@@717822

txt EISENHOWER BANS ARMS FOR ISRAEL IN PRESENT CRISIS Decides to Keep Request on Shelf in Face of Heavy Political Pressure in U. S. ARMAMENT RACE FEARED Dulles Said to Have Hinted Britain or France Could Supply Needed Weapons By DANA ADAMS SCHMIDT Special to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , April 2 ? President Eisenhower has decided to continue keeping on ice Israel 's request to buy arms in the United States . The decision was made at a long conference with Secretary of State . Dulles last Wednesday . . Administration sources said today that this represented the President 's determination not to give in. to the considerable domestic political pressures that have been brought to bear in favor of Israel 's request . About $63,000m0 worth of jet aircraft , light tanks and other weapons are involved . James C. Hagerty , White House Press Secretary , said today , however , that this did not " represent any change in the policy the United States had maintained since Israel made her request last Nov. 16 . The Administration 's decision was communicated to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hints when he called at the State Department Friday , diplomatic sources reported . ? Radar Unita Mentioned One hint was that the State Department was carefully reviewing Israel 's requests to see whether she might not be permitted to buy some entirely defensive electronic radar equipment . Diplomatic sources said the State Department had explained that this did not mean all other types of arms Israel had requested were ruled out . The re . quests may get favorable consideration at some later date , the State Department was said to have added . The other hint was that Israel might be well advised to address her arms requests to the traditional supplier of arms to the Middle East  --  Britain and France . .. The United States is not encouraging Britain and France to ship arms to Israel , but is putting no obstacles in their way , diplomatic sources said . The United States position was understood to be that , while the United States , Britain and France , the three signatories of a 1950 declaration guaranteeing the borders of Israel , were under Obligation to consult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were en // tirely free to reach their own conclusions as to what would maintain the balance of power and what would bring about an arms race . According to these sources , Administration officials feel that since the United States rarely has shipped arms to the Middle East it would ' . be contributing to an arms race if it did so under present conditions in the area . This may not be the case : if Britain or France made the shipments , the sources added . The diplomats said they believed Britain was considering selling arms to Israel as a threat to Premier Gamel Abdel Nasser of Egypt , who has led a campsign against the Baghdad Pact . The pact links Britain , Turkey , Pakistan , Iran and Iraq in a defensive alliance . Diplomatic sources also said France had decided to sell twelve MystCre jet fighters to Israel but , contrary to some reports , had not yet shipped them . Both the French and the British contend privately that the United States positions is hypocritical . By refraining from selling arms to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eyes , they contend . The French believe that such an attempt is doomed to failure because the Arabs realize that a great part of European , arms production is tied up by so-called " offshore purchasing " contracts placed by the United States to fulfill its military aid commitments to the North Atlantic Treaty powers . This was the case in the Mystdre deal , where the United States waived the provisions of its contract so France could make her deal with Israel . Since the Arabs will hold the United States , or the Western powers collectively , responsible for arms deliveries to Israel made by any one of them , it would be wiser for the three Western powers publicly to accept this joint responsibility , the French contend . What the Tsraelis have , been seeking most urgently in the United States are F-86 jet fighter planes to offset the Soviet jet fighters and bombers Egypt is getting from Czechovakia.                     