@@718264

txt Letters to The Times JOHN KENNETH GALBRAITH.WHITNEY NORTH SEYMOUR.EDWARD TABORSKY.DAVID B. JARVIS . Letters to The Times Debate on Draft Favored Change in Defense Requirements Said to Justify Stevenson Stand The writer of the following letter , author and Professor of Economics at Harvard , served as adviser to the National Defense Advisory Commission during 1940-41 . To THE EDITOR or THE NEW YORK TIMES : You expressed editorially on Oct. 8 the hope that President Eisenhower 's recent statement on the draft has taken this issue out of the present campaign . By implication , as more specifically in an earlier editorial , you criticized Adlai Stevenson for having introduced the subject . It does seem to me that Mr. Stevenson has rendered a signal service in bringing this subject into discussion . I , for one , would be very sorry were it not further debated . May I add that , while I am a supporter of Mr. Stevenson and not unaware of the tendency in this season to make one 's views conform to one 's politics , my convictions on this subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hershey 's committee on the provision of technical and trained manpower . The use of the draft to supply military manpower is based on two assumptions , both of which I believe we must agree are now obsolete . The first is that military manpower must be procured cheaply ; to do otherwise will make national defense infinitely expensive . The second is that the physical hazards of military service should be distributed equally among all members of the community and not confined to those who , for economic reasons , are led to seek a livelihood in the armed forces . Era of Mass Defense These assumptions were once above challenge . In the days when defense depended on mass armies and when governments were poor , military manpower had to be procured at low cost . Without the draft the armies of France , Germany or Russia circa World War I would have been economically quite out of the question . And one of the classic scandals of our own Civil War experience was that well-to-do young men were able to get out of the army by buying a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While I support the view that we still need sizable land forces , we are not talking of mass armies . One can not be certain what scale of pay and allowances would attract , say , the present numbers to the armed forces , but the amounts would not be astronomic . What is well within our capacity would have been far beyond the capacity of a European government of fifty years ago . The conditions of service have also changed . We are speaking of peacetime service , which is not more dangerous than ordinary civilian existence . Indeed it is by no means certain now that in the event of war service in the armed forces would involve much more risk of death than residence in Manhattan . In the last war London civilians faced dangers comparable to those of many members of Britain 's armed forces . Cost of Military Service Thus the traditional justifications for compulsory service have disappeared . We could pay what is necessary for voluntary service . Danger is now widely distributed , anyway . As a result the draft survives principally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young men to serve at less than the market rate of pay . We shift the cost of military service from the well-to-do taxpayer , who benefits by lower taxes , to the impecunious young draftee . This is a highly regressive arrangement which we would not tolerate in any other area . Presumably freedom of choice here as elsewhere would be worth paying for . As an important added benefit a shift from compulsion to fully paid service would give us a bettertrained force  --  something that modern weapons make most desirable . We would not , as now , have a force which consists of partly trained men who leave about as soon as their training is complete . One purpose of an election campaign , hopefully , is to get debate on new issues as well as old ones . It seems to me that Mr. Stevenson has performed a service in starting a debate on a subject where attitudes have been largely frozen since World War I. JOHN KENNETH GALBRAITH . Cambridge , Mass. , Oct. 8 , 1956 . Tribute to Talbot Hamlin To THE EDITOR @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Municipal Art Society we wish to express a small measure of how deeply this society feels the tragic loss of Prof. Talbot Hamlin . A Fellow of the American Institute of Architects , Professor Hamlin was for years an outstanding architectural historian devoted to the cause of bringing to this country 's attention all that was worthy in her national heritage . Last year his life of Benjamin Henry Latrobe , architect of our National Capitol , received the Pulitzer Prize ; while over a decade ago his history , " Greek Revival Architecture in America , " brought to light much of the story of the architecture of this city in one of its more important phases . Perhaps , however , Professor Hamlin 's greatest contribution , beyond even his unquestioned scholarship , lay in the love and enthusiasm he brought to his work . Back in 1951 he furnished our society with his list of important structures built before 1850 , which has since formed the basis for the work which the society is doing at this time is designating historic architecture . Neither we , nor the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we owe to him in aiding to preserve . our city 's and our nation 's architectural heritage . WHITNEY NORTH SEYMOUR% President , The Municipal Art Society . EDWARD STEER ! , AGNES ADDISON GILCHRIST , ALAN BURNHAM , WALTER KNIGHT STURGES , Committee on Historic Architecture . New York , Oct. 10 , 1956 . Benes ' Visit to U. S. S. R. Prelude to Denunciation of Czech Is Recalled by Sukarno Reception The writer of the following letter was personal secretary to Presiclztif Benes of Czeohoclovakia . TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIME ! : I have read with keen interest William Jorden 's report of Oct. 1 on the reception given to President Sukarno by the Soviet leaders in Moscow . It brought back to me memories of President Eduard Benes ' visits to Stalin during World War II . Like the Indonesian Presidents Dr. Benes was given a red-carpet treatment unequaled anywhere . A sumptuous villa was given us for our unlimited disposal . Exquisite delicacies were served to us by a selected staff of the Kremlin 's best chefs , and banquets held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than eighteen course ! . In housing , food or entertainment nothing seemed good enough . As in President Sukarno 's case , Dr. Benes was assigned as his Soviet aide a most affable man , Alexander Korneychuk , the noted Ukrainian playwright and author , then Deputy Foreign Minister of the U. S. S. R. Indeed , no better man could have been chosen for that deceiving function . Being around us for about ten days , that smooth , companionable storyteller , who never stopped smiling , did everything in his power to make Benes forget whom he was dealing with . Trends and Deviations The freedom with which this emissary of Stalin broached even the most delicate questions was truly amazing . He spoke with professed contempt of the " old ideology of leftist trends and deviations , which were often abstractly international and had nothing in common with the tradition of the Russian and Ukrainian people . " He pleaded with elated enthusiasm for the brotherly cooperation of the Slavic nations , based , as he stressed repeatedly , on full equality and independence . He admitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of " the old extremist Bolshevistic type , " but the true leaders headed by Stalin himself held the opinions that he was describing . These talks made quite an impression on Dr. Benes , as he himself admits in his memoirs . As it happened , this treatment , so strikingly similar to the one offered now to the Indonesian President , turned out to be only a prelude and a subtle preparation for the subsequent destruction qt Czechoslovakia 's freedom , and was followed by a cynical denunciation of ' Benes as the " lackey of Western capital . ism . " The President of Indonesia will be wise to keep Benes ' sad fate in mind when he weighs the lavish hospitality offered him by his recent Soviet hosts . EDWARD TABORSKY . Austin , Tex. , Oct. 4 , 1956 . Shipping Oil Through Sues To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMER I ' Egypt 's refusal to give us a satisfactory guarantee that the world 's main oil artery will be maintained and expanded for the benefit of all nations is indeed a threat to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations will settle this dispute and that Russia will cooperate . Since 1950 we have done everything possible to deny oil tankers to Russia to prevent the shipment of oil from the Black Sea to the Far East , via Suez . However , it is not generally known or perhaps admits ted that during the past three years Russia has built thirty modern Diesel tankers and that twenty - five of these are presently carrying oil to Vladivostok through the Suez Canal . Incidentally , two are carrying oil to Israel and three to Egypt . Disruption of traffic in the Suez Canal would be more serious for Russia than it would be to the free world . DAVID B. JARVIS . New York , Oct. 8 , 1956.                     