@@720289

txt A leading New York City bank foresees a relatively high level in demand for long-term investment funds in 1959 . This , coupled with an expected tapering in the increase in the flow of such funds into savings institutions . such as insurance companies and savings and loan associations , should limit to about 51 billion the amount of longterm Government securities that can be absorbed out of current savings this year , says Bankers Trust Co. ' s annual Investment Outlook . " For some time ahead . therefore , the Treasury in all probability will need to rely on short-term financing to raise needed funds , " say the bank 's economists . The impact of such heavy Treasury borrowing . combined with an anticipated increase in business demand for bank credit , they con- ' dude . " is creating keen problems of debt management and casts continuing uncertainty over the marketplace . " Roy L. Reierson . Bankers Trust vice president and chief economist , in presenting the report over the weekend , said last Thursday 's half-point increase in the discount rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this problem . The discount rate is the fee central banks charge for loans to member commercial banks . The chief effect of such a step , as well as other credit-tightening moves . Mr. Reierson noted , should be to raise the level of short-term money rates in relation to relatively-high current long-term yields , and so make short-date Government securities more attractive to investors outside the commercial banking system . But if non-bank investors fail to step up their Treasury holdings appreciably , lie warned , the burden will fall on the commercial banks , resulting in a potentially inflationary increase in the money supply . The money supply would be expanded because commercial banks credit the Treasury 's deposits in those banks for the U.S. securities they buy . The Bankers Trust outlook expects the rise in 1959 demand for investment funds will total 532 billion against an estimated gain of 533 billion in 1958 . At the same time , the bank projects the increase in the flow of investment funds this year at $25.4 billion , down from an estimated rise of 523.7 billion in 1958 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase of mortgage debt this year to offset a slower rise in corporate financing . Municipal borrowing is expected to continue at last year 's high level .                     