@@714751

txt William N. Erickson , president of the county board , and two of his assistants were cleared in court yesterday of charges that they conspired to defraud the county by putting political loafers on the public payroll . Judge Wilbert F. Crowley in Criminal court directed a jury to return a verdict of not guilty after the prosecution completed its case . On the state 's motion , the court also dismissed another indictment charging Erickson with failure to fulfill his official yesponsibilities . No Real Evidence , Court Rules The trial ended in its fourth day after defense attorneys moved for a directed verdict . They ' argued the testimony of state 's witnesses established no evidence of an illegal conspiracy. - Judge Crowley told the jury , " There is no evidence which in any manner supports the charge that these men conspired to cheat and defraud the county . " He gave the jurors three not guilty verdicts to sign . After the jurors signed them and disbanded , some of them told reporters that in their opinion " the ' state had shown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Attorneys John Cogan , Edward Finnegan , . and George Potsirilos later said they had presented all the ? evidence they had . They indicated that they had done their best with a hard task set for them by the special grand jury that investigated payroll frauds . At the time the indictments were voted there was reported to be dissension in the jury with several members holding that the evidence to indict was insufficient . The jury took two votes on the true bills before the indictments were returned . On trial with Erickson were Earl Kistner , county personnel director , and Bernard V. Anderson , Erickson 's chauffeur and secretary . - Vindicated , Erickson Says Erickson , evidently expecting the charge would be dismissed , , issued a written statement in which he termed the court 's action a " vindication . " The indictment charged that Erickson , Kistner , and Anderson conspired to put 10 " phantoms " on the payroll who did no work . More than a score of county employes testified they had not seen the " phantoms " working . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they might incriminate themselves . Second Indictment Quashed Richard B. Austin , Erickson 's attorney , argued that the evidence did not show Erickson had knowledge of a conspiracy . The indictment against Erickson charging nonfeasance was called for trial at Austin 's request . The prosecutors admitted they had no evidence other than that presented in ' the conspiracy case . After a conference with State 's Atty . Boyle , they moved to dismiss this charge .                     