@@713776

txt In New York , Senator Herbert R. O'Conor ( D ) of Maryland , a member of the Kefauver committee , said he considered Mr. Sullivan 's reinstatement " of sufficient importance that I plan to bring it formally to the attention of the committee . " Rudolph Halley , the committee 's chief counsel , called the reinstatement " a shocking thing . " ) Governor Warren 's reappointment of Mr. Sullivan , whose badge had been lifted last Oct. 16 on the strength of a stiffly worded Grand Jury indictment and the sheriff 's own testimony before Senator Kefauver , came only a day or two before the State Senate was due to review the suspension . Curb on Gambling Automatically ousted was Thomas J. Kelly , prominent Miami insurance executive , who had acted as sheriff during Mr. Sullivan 's absence . Under the Kelly regime , gambling on the " Gold Coast " was shut down more tightly than it had been in a decade or more . It is being widely questioned here whether the reinstatement action was taken to forestall disclosures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was considered a virtual certainty that the suspension would have been upheld . Most of the senators are anti-Warren , and for that matter so is the majority of public opinion . His office has been under a cloud since early 1949 . Governor Warren has declined consistently to substantiate any of the insinuations he made against the integrity of Col. J. R. Younger , president of the Crime Commission of greater Miami , and its operating director , Daniel P. Sullivan ; ex-FBI man . Both have made embarrassing statements about the governor , Nothing Effective ' Said the Kefauver committee in an interim report last August : " The sheriff of Dade County , with jurisdiction in Miami and Miami Beach , has done nothing effective to enforce the Florida laws against gambling . Several members of his staff testified as to actual financial corruption in his office involving him , but Warren has doggedly stood by Sullivan , who admitted under oath that he accumulated upwards of $70,000 in three years on an annual salary of $12,000 . " A strong bloc of reformist solons may have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aimed at Johnston Three of the measures appear to have been aimed at William H. Johnston , wealthy sportsman and campaign " angel " for Governor Warren . One would restrict the right to ownership or employment in a racing enterprise of any person " who regularly associates with known bookmakers or known criminals . " The Kefauver committee concluded there were such links in Mr. Johnston 's case . A second would prohibit a racing official from making contributions in political campaigns . Mr. Johnston reportedly gave $100,000 to elect the governor in the last gubernatorial race . A third would deny anyone control of more than one race track . Mr. Johnston manages four in the state and a fifth in Illinois , drawing handsome salaries from each.                     