@@717472

txt It would be difficult indeed lot to recognize that the Demo- ! rate gains in Indiana are imiressive , and they appear to be elated to the national picture . While their meaning in terms if the farm community has not yet been fully ascertained , the ; ote in this agricultural state should have run up the flags of warning to ) both parties that the armor will have a stentorian voice in the 1956 election . It is being said here in tones loud enough for other Democrats and Republicans to hear that no aandidate for the presidency has aver reached the White House without carrying the farm belt . But Democratic claims that heir gains in state and local elections in the Midwest marked a trend spurred by farmer dissatisfactions are being challenged by Indiana Republicans as largely unrealistic . Republican Mayor John Scott of South Bend , one of those cnerwhelmed by the Democratic tide that swept through Indiana , says that local issues rather than a national trend resulted in his defeat . He said that the biggest Republican vote in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hardworking Democrats could n't be stopped . Farm Vote Studied The Indiana Democrats ' victory march , spearheaded by Phillip L. Bayt , who won the Indianapolis mayoralty contest over Republican James 0 . Bur , included most Indiana cities as well as many small farm communities . It was a reversal of the 1951 elections , when the Republicans routed the Democrats in the municipal elections in the same manner . The Republicans have been able to keep control of normally Republican Fort Wayne , Lafayette and Elkhart . But they lost in South Bend , Hammond , Evansville Muncie. and Richmond , and retained Gary , East Chicago , Kokomo , and Terre Haute  --  all industrial communities . Latest returns showed the Democrats holding 72 cities , with the Republicans having 30 , with 3 independents and one race a tie . The victories that particularly interested the nation were those that occurred in the small , usually Republican farm communities . How much , the politicians are wondering , did the reported farm dissatisfaction over the decline of farm prices affect this vote ? What does such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Newcastle Cited G. W. Sample . director of information for the Indiana Farm Bureau at Indianapolis , contends that the Democratic gains in Indiana were generally the result of local conditions and issues . As an example , he mentioned the Democratic victory in Newcastle , where the Republican Mayor was charged by labor groups with being tied up with management during the recent strike . He also said that the farmer vote had little to do with the Democratic municipal victories . He contended that merchants who may have felt indirectly the impact of falling farm prices comprised too small a minority to have had substantial effect on the vote . Mr. Sample acknowledged that lowered agricultural income , particularly the fall of hog prices in this area , is hurting the farmers . He added , however , that Indiana farmers are still prosperous . And he reminded that there is ample employment both on the farms and in the towns . Sliding Scale Hit In the opinion of a Republican farmer , John C. Raber , president of the Indiana Farmers Union , the Democratic sweep could be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' ability to buy goods in the smaller communities . The vote , he says , was in part a registering of their resentment against what they believe are unfilled promises of help made to them by the Eisenhower administration . Mr. Reber said the farmers are tired of the publicity being given their large surpluses held by the Commodity Credit Corporation , as though it is the farmers ' fault , when little is said about the stockpiles of metal , etc. , manufacturers maintain for production and defense needs . It ma his belief that farmers are disappointed that Secretary of Agriculture Ezra Taft Benson 's sliding scale did n't bring them more money . He said that many look upon Adlai E. Ste-% enson 's proposal of 90 per cent of parity as too little and too late and would like 100 per cent of parity for family-farm producers .                     