@@719309

txt A new danger to Western solidarity has arisen in the wake of British and American decisions to ship small arms and ammunition to Tunisia . Every effort is being made in Washington and London to contain the danger and even eliminate it . But Paris shows little interest in quieting French alarm ; and Moscow is moving quickly 1 , o cash in on the crisis . French Foreign Minister Christian Pineau has termed the British and American action a threat to " the conceptions of Atlantic solidarity , " and French delegation has walked out of a North Atlantic Treaty Organization meeting in protest . All this does not help preparations for the December meeting of heads of governments of NATO powers in Paris . There is no immediate talk of postponing that major meeting of Western powers ; but if the Western powers should continue at loggerheads on this issue of Tunisia , it could make a NATO parley a failure before it began . 11 th-Hour Move It is no secret that Washington and London moved to aid Tunisia only at the 11th hour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tunisia 's president , Habib Bourguiba , avowedly pro-Western , has made it clear that he must have some arms from somewhere with which to maintain order and security in hiS country . Since early September he has been trying to get them from the West , but he also stated openly that if he could not procure them from Washington , London , or other western capitals , he would have to accept Soviet arms . There have been reports the past few days that Soviet arms were in preparation for shipment to Tunisia ? in fact that some arms from Egypt ( which gets its arms from the Soviet bloc ) were actually on their way . According to French sources here , Paris has not been unwilling to see arms go to Tunisia , even ship them there itself , but only after receiving two watertight guarantees : ( 1 ) that Tunisia would not accept arms from the Soviet bloc , directly or indirectly ; ( 2 ) that there be an absolute guarantee from Tunisia that any arms it receives would not find their way to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announcing the initial shipment of a few small arms to Tunisia ( 500 semiautomatic MI rifles and 50 , - 000 rounds of ammunition ) said they had received assurances from M. Bourguiba on the second point  --  though perhaps not so categorically watertight as the French want . United States officials have not tried to get a promise on the first point from the Tunisians  --  only a gentlemen 's agreement , as it were , since they recognized that Tunisia as an independent state would find it difficult to make such a limitation on its newly acquired sovereignty . First congressional reaction to this threat to Allied unity , and at such a critical point in world affairs , was not too sympathetic to the administration 's action . Senator Theodore Francis Green ( D ) of Rhode Island , chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , commented : " This is not the proper way of treating an ally . I firmly believe that France should have been consulted . " Said Republican Wayne L. Hays ( D ) of Ohio : This decision constitutes a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comment , according to official sources , does not accurately represent the enfoldment of events . Official sources here say that the United States Government has been pressing Paris for weeks to solve this problem directly with Tunisia , has advocated shipment of arms from other Western nations  --  Italy , Spain , Norway . But the French have stood firm on both points and do not today , it is understood , believe the assurances are tight enough to be effective , As this crisis was developing , diplomats were busy around the clock trying , first , to avoid it , then to resolve it . Both the Tunisian and the French ambassadors made hurried calls at the State Department . But when a decision was imperative , and France informed London and Washington that it could not " associate itself " with them in this action , the two powers made the grave decision to act alone .                     