@@717926

txt The new job that has been offered Senator Walter F. George ( D ) of Georgia , the President 's personal representative and special ambassador to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , is big with possibilities , unique in character , and difficult in the extreme . It is to be noted that President Eisenhower gave the esteemed senior senator in Congress a virtual blank-check assignment . To no other ambassador or Cabinet member has the President said publicly and in writing : This is your job " for as long as I may hold my present office . " Of course , the senator is well on in years , the President concei ? a bly could have only another eight months in office , and the blueprint for NATO 's development of the North Atlantic community may be completed in months . But the fact is that the Georgia senator , whose spryness belies his age , has a White House assurance that , for what will more likely be five years , he has an untouchable post as United States envoy to NATO . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say it is not deserved or is improper , Such an unusual appointment would only have been made to a most unusual gentleman and under very unusual circumstances . Personal Representative The actual job , as described by President Eisenhower , is " to act as my personal representative and special ambassador in the development of this new evolutionary step within the North Atlantic community . " The framework of the job is deliberately vague because the current thinking on how to develop a North Atlantic community spirit is presently vague . It was only a fortnight ago that Secretary of State John Foster Dulles expounded his views on developing the ' totality " of NATO . It was only a week ago that the NATO Council in Paris agreed to explore ways of strengthening the North Atlantic community in nonmilitary ways . The " three wise men " committee that was set up ( made , , p of the Foreign Ministers of Canada , Italy , Norway ) has the job . of collecting all the views on this very formidable ? and crucial subject from ' NATO @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appointment , gill be the American representative who will speak for the United States and deal with this committee . And because of Washington 's preeminent position in NATO military operations and direction it can be taken for granted that Washington 's views  --  while only one of 15 ? will carry great weight and influence . - Not a ' Wise Man ' Senator George is not to become a " fourth wise man , " if that means joining the committee of three set up by the recent NATO Council . Nor does he become Washington 's representative on the permanent Council Committee of NATO sitting in Paris . He is rather to be the President 's and Secretary Dulles ' alter ego or amanuensis in charting and blueprinting a closer-knit and broader-based North Atlantic community . But it can be taken for granted that if these three wise men , aided by ? Senator George and , spokesmen for the other NATO countries , do ' create something " to more fully realize NATO 's potentials for peace and human welfare " ( to use the President 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representative on that new body . Senator George 's immediate job would be to find out first what the President and Secretary Dulles have in mind when they talk of developing NATO 's " totality " ? not in vague and broad terms but in specific and detailed ideas . When they speak of greater political cohesion between members of the North Atlantic community do they mean elser ties f sev.r.ign representatives or do they envisage some degree of federation or confederation ? When they talk of developing the economic opportunities of NATO , do they envisage something like the Organization for European Cooperation within NATO ? Senator 's First Task Senator George must first find out just what are the limits and extent of America 's own thinking on this subject before he can go into conference with the - three wise men " and other NATO representatives . Secondly , of course , he must explore just what the Congress and the American people are ready to do in developing NATO 's " totality . " as a member of the Senate for a third of a century , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has an unequalled position from which it should come to asking the Senate 's approval of anything the " three wise men " and the NATO Council could devise , no one would have the senator 's prestige and reputation for that difficult talk .                     