@@716781

txt DULLES WILL MEET U. N. CUIEF TODAY To Get Hammarskjold Report of Talks on Fliers  --  Disputes Knowiand on ' Failure ' By ELIE ABEL . Pecial to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , Jan. 18 ? Dag Hammarskjold , Secretary General of the United Nations , will report to Secretary of State Dulles here tomorrow on his mission to Peiping . Mr. Dulles announced at his news conference this morning that he had invited Mr. Hammarskjold to Washington for a " diteet , first-hand report " on his efforts to negotiate the release of United States airmen imprisoned as spies , among other United Nations personnel held by the Chinese Communists . The Secretary of State made clear his disagreement with Senator William F. Knowland , Republican of California , who said yesterday in Chicago that Mr. Hammarskjold 's mission was a failure . Mr. ICriowland in ; tends to renew his attack on the mission in a Senate speech Friday . In reply to . a question on Senator Knowland 's speech , Mr. Dulles asserted that it was too early to pass final @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stage could be termed neither a success nor a failure . Nor had he been aware , the Secretary added , that there was a propaganda build-up at . the United Nations ? as Senator Knowland also had charged  --  to obscure the failure of that mission : , Asked for his own definiCbritinuednn Rage 3 , Column 6 U. N .. Chief to Tell Dulles Today Of Talks- With Chou on Captives // tion of success in this case , Mr. Dulles replied : ? " The mission ? will be a success when our wrongfully imprisoned fliers are back in the United States . It will not be a success until then . " For the present , Mr. Dulles said , the United States will stand by and let the United Nations do what it can do to bring about the release of the imprisoned airmen . ? ? " Our point of view is quite clear , " Mr. Dulles said . " These men were under United Nations command , fighting a-United Nations war , and it is - up to the United Nations to try to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ca n't get them out , then we will have to deal with the matter ourselves . But as long as there is a reason ' able hope in United Nations action we are going - to give it a chance to do what it can ; and we certainly hope that it will succeed . " The United States is not , however , disposed to leave the matter to the United Nations indefinitely . Mr. Dulles said . He will probably explain to Mr. Hammarskjold in their meeting tomorrow " the problems which we face here in this country in maintaining a position of standing aside to let the United Nations try to work this problem out , " the Secretary said . ? Although he fixed no deadline for concluding that the United Nations had failed , Mr. Dulles remarked : " I do n't think that can go on forever . " He denied that his decision to call Mr. Hammarskjold to Washington implied any doubt about the effectiveness of the United Nations effort so far . The reason for this step , he said , is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the families of the imprisoned men and for his own euidatice . Cease-Fire Idea Broached For the first time Mr. Dulles discussed the possibility of a cease-fire in the Strait of Formosa , with the Nationalists pledged not to attack the Chinese mainland while the Communists foreswore any armed assault on Formosa and the Pescadores . This idea was mentioned by a reporter . The Secretary 's reaction was that such a cease-fire would be in line with the broad policies of the United States and the United Nations to seek peaceful solutions of controversial problems , but that it was easier to discuss such matters in principle than it was to work them out in practice . If the United Nations wanted to attempt such a statusquo solution , Mr. Dulles said , the United States could not object . ' Washington will not , however , initiate a cease-fire move without the concurrence of Nationalist China , he said . A United Nations cease-fire in the troubled Strait of Formosa has beefs proposed in , a memorandum prepared by Benjamin V. Cohen , former counselor of the State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate Foreign Relations Committee . Mr. Cohen 's memorandum also raised critical questions about the recently concluded joint defense treaty with Nationalist China . It argued that the treaty , by recognizing Formosa and the Pescadores as part of the Republic of China , might have the effect in international law of making a Communist attack on Formosa appear as a civil war rather than an act of aggression . Mr. Dulles rejected this contention , saying he felt that if the United States was drawn by its treaty commitment into defending the Nationalist islands , that would clearly be an international conflict : Asked whether the State Department was inclined not to press for ratification of the Formosa treaty while the United Nations was trying to get the fliers released , Mr. Dulles said : " We expect to continue to request the Foreign Relations Committee and the Senate to proceed rapidly to consider , and we hope to consent to , ratification of that treaty . " He added that initial hearings on the treaty would probably be held next week . Meanwhile , he said , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also imprisoned as spies by the Chinese Communists as well as the forty or fifty other Americans detained by Peiping on other ( grounds , and may make inde4 ) endent efforts to get them re'leased . In the matter of the airmen , on the other hand , the United States does not intend to ? " cross up " the United Nations by its own efforts , he continued . Actually , he said , there are fifteen men involved , the eleven convicted by " the Communists as spies and four jet fighter pilots who likewise came under the Korean armistice agreement .                     