@@720816

txt Just about a year from now Mars will be favorably situated for the space scientists  --  Soviet or American or both  --  to try a shot at the red-colored planet similar to this VPACY ; " moon shot . " Top American space scientists believe that the Soviets will indeed make the attempt . If this year 's history should repeat itself , the Soviets will score , and the Americans will not . This will be because the Soviets will have a rocket in reserve , in case the first one malfunctions , and the United States will not . They will have a superb guidance system . They will have a tremendously powerful rocket motor . In all of theSe categm:ies they are better prepared than is the United States space program . The several " firsts " which the Soviets have achieved in the conquest of space  --  the first sputnik , the first heavy payload hoisted aloft , the first shot hitting the moon  --  have pretty well convinced the average American that the Soviets are indeed in the lead in the space @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the frank statement that the United States is not catching up  --  and that , indeed , perhaps it is falling further behind . Moscow has a timetable of space assault . So has the United States . Both are ambitious , imaginative . But the Soviets , from the vantage point of their head start , can call their shots so as to make the United States indeed look " second best . " Undoubtedly they are doing just that . A A A The ' Soviets knew the United States would attempt a shot at the moon . They simply did it better . As Soviet Premier Khrushchev told his Washington press conference , when their first moon rocket developed a malfunction they had a second in reserve . When the Atlas vehicle exploded on the test stand the . United States had no second in reserve . Now comes the Mars shot . If anything goes wrong with the initial vehicle , the United States apparently will . have nothing in reserve . It costs too much money . The West now seems to be engaged in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bloc . We are all delighted that the East-West power struggle seems to be shifting away from war and into industrial and social-economic competi- Jastas . IttianeaPalla Star Wanted : A Good Road Map Lion . But it is most important to perceive that the " space race " ? which some American officials first belittled as a game of " celestial basketball " ? is actually the prime advertisement , the chief touchstone , which declares to world opiniun the superiority of one system over the other . It would be nice to discover that this is n't so . But it is so . Western Europe and Asia were vastly impressed by the Soviet successes in hitting the moon and in flying around its far side . These triumphs seemed to say that the . Soviets had made especially great strides in engineering , in baSic research , in the computing art , in military rocketry . Willy-nilly , these are the hallmarks ' of prestige and prowess in the electronics-space age , Is global prestige the only consideration ? It is reported that one Asian country which was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ switching its orders now to the Soviets , reasoning that they must be ahead in this complex science . Can the United States catch up in this space competition ? The problem is manifold . The United States began its missile and space program later than Moscow did . But the urgently lacking ingredients today are a sense of urgency , sufficient money to finance all phases of the program , and less confusion of command ( shifting of teams and programs back and forth from Army to Air Force to the Advanced Research Projects Agency to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration ) . A A It is frequently said that the United States program could not really move any faster be cause the development of rocket motors , satellite equipment , and space gadgets is a slow business , which can move no more swiftly than research and development ay down the carpet . This is not quite true . With more scientists on the job , with more programs , some would succeed where others failed . In its crash program to develop the atomic bomb , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ separate the precious U-235 from ordinary uranium . Washington is not readying three different horses in the space race . Perhaps the race to the planets is n't important , though at times it seems just about as prestigious as were the great explorations of the New World following 1492 . If it is important , then it should be receiving a more urgent command from the White House , fewer obstacles from the Budget Bureau , and much greater support from the American people .                     