@@720577

txt Admiral Arthur W. Radford , former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , told House investigators today that retired military officers wielded little influence on the Pentagon in obtaining defense contracts . Testifying before a House Armed Services subcommittee , the retired four-star admiral defended the right of defense concerns to hire retired military officers and to attempt to sell the Defense Department on their particular weapons developments . Any sales pressures exerted by ' defense contractors " are properly brought to bear , " he declared . " There is nothing sinister about it . " Hearings Recessed 11 Days Admiral Radford was one of the final witnesses before the subcommittee as it concluded the first phase of its hearings . The panel is seeking to learn whether retired generals and admirals , after being hired by defense contractors , use their former connections to obtain contracts for their companies . The hearings were recessed until July 21 after four days of testimony . Under subcommittee questioning , Admiral Radford disclosed that aside from his retirement pay of $12,000 a year he also receives an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Corporation , one of the 100 largest defense contractors . Admiral Radford retired as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in 1957 . He is presently serving on a temporary basis and without compensation as a special adviser td the Secretary of Defense while Gen. Nathan F. Twining , current chairman of the Joint Chiefs , is recuperating from cancer surgery . The first phase of the " munitions lobby " investigation ended on an inconclusive note . The subcommittee chairman , Representative F. Edward Hebert , Democrat of Louisiana , was somewhat on the defensive in explaining why the investigation had been undertaken in the first place . Cites President 's Comment At one point Mr. Hebert said 1 the investigation had been undertaken because President Eisenhower had " placed the fat in the fire " by talking about a " munitions lobby " at one of his news conferences . Another factor was a desire to head off an amendment to this year 's defense appropriations . bill , narrowly beaten in the House , that would have prevented any retired admiral or general from being hired by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . From comments by Representative Hebert , it was apparent that the subcommittee was fearful that its investigation could create the public impression that defense policy and . ' contracts were being influenced by a powerful " munitions lobby . " Some criticism of the investigation along these lines was expressed by Admiral Radford and by Representative Samuel S : Stratton , Democrat of upstate New York . a member of the parent Armed Services Committee . Notes ' Unfortunate Situation ' After noting that a great deal of " honest effort " goes into making the " difficult " defense decisions , Admiral Radford . declared that it was " unfortunate that the situation has been placed before the American people in the way it has been . " Mr. Stratton told the subcommittee in a formal statement that he was disturbed that the investigation was " suggesting that we in America may gradually be moving back toward the view of a bygone day that might best be expressed by the ' term ' the devil theory of war ' . " Admiral Radford declared : " I would say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military establishment is very small , but I would n't say it does n't exist . " " My experience is that retired officers have much less influence than you think , " he said . " When you are retired , you are really out of the picture . " Noting that honest differences of opinion exist over weapons systems , Admiral Radford said defense contractors should be free to present the advantages of their system and to bring new , ideas to the attention of the Defense Department . He also cautioned against placing too many restrictions upon officers taking industrial jobs on retirement . It could force brighter officers to resign early to take more lucrative civilian jobs , he said .                     