@@714603

txt EISENHOWER TELLS TRUMAN HE WANTS TO QUIT NATO POST Communicated Desire Within the Last Several Days , Two Responsible Sources Agree THE PRESIDENT IS SILENT General Plans to Come Home Probably Within Six Weeks to Confer With 30 Backers By JAMES RESTON Special to Tuz NEW YORE TIMES . WASHINGTON , April 10 ? General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower has told President Truman he wants to resign his position as Supreme Commander of the Allied Powers in Europe . Two responsible persons , one high in the Administration and the other in the Eisenhower-for-President organization , reported the request as a fact tonight . They said the general had communicated his desire to the President either yesterday or the day before . It is understood that this communication also contained a request that no announcement should Jibe made until the general had had a chance to inform the other North Atlantic Treaty nations . President Truman refused to confirm that he had received any communication from General Eisenhower . He was asked at his news conference this morning whether he had had any notice of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself . Truman Stumbles on Reply He stumbled over his first reply and seemed to be starting to say that he had not received any such notice or resignation . Then he changed and said he had no comment on the matter . One reporter asked the President whether he would make the announcement when he received General Eisenhower 's resignation . Mr. Truman replied that the announcement would be made whenever General Eisenhower wanted it made . The announcement may take al few days . When the general was ' nominated as Supreme Commander of the NATO forces , the other Treaty powers signed an agreement placing their forces under him personally . The agreement was necessary in order to meet certain constitutional requirements of several of the countries involved . Accordingly , General Eisenhower , as commander not only of the American forces in Europe but of the forces of other nations as well , was obliged to inform all the Treaty nations before making any announcement . All devices of what is politely called " journalistic enterprise , " were employed here today in an effort to learn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President . At a late hour this evening , however , the Administration 's communications were still secure . Return to Be Delayed The general is not expected to return for some weeks . He is said to be planning a meeting in Paris with representatives of several of the NATO countries , and two Eu1 ropean trips , one to the North and another to the South of the Continent . His talents are also required in the current negotiations to induce the French and the Germans to initial the European Army ! proposal . Once that is done , however , and the London and Paris branches of the NATO are combined under the new permanent NATO Political // Committee in Paris , the Treaty will have ended what is regarded here as its formative stage , and a logical point for switching commanders will have been reached . Every effort is being made by the Eisenhower managers to keep the general 's actions within the letter of his public statement Jan. 7 . At that time he said : " Under no circumstances will I ask for relief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office and I shall not participate in pre-convention activities of others who may have such an intention with respect to me . " He added : " In the absence of a clear-cut call to political duty I shall continue to devote my full attention to and energies to the performance of the vital task to which I am assigned . " Since then , of course , the general has scored what were generally regarded as important political victories in the primary elections of New Hampshire and Minnesota , and also has won considerable delegate strength in Maine and Iowa . These victories are being interpreted by his managers as a " clear-cut call to political duty , " though Senator Robert A. Taft 's managers fail to see any " clear-cut call " for General Eisenhower in the election returns of Illinois , Nebraska or Wisconsin . Nevertheless , the plans for the general 's return are going forward . It is already known that he plans to fly straight to Washington , probably in a month or six weeks , and that he then is scheduled to disappear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with about thirty of his principal backers . Before then , however , are two important primary election tests , in New Jersey next Tuesday and in Oregon May 15 . The Eisenhower managers are running a " scared race " in New Jersey . Rightly or wrongly , they are not as confident this week as they were last . Their complaint is that while Senator Taft pulled out of the New Jersey test , he left behind many influential supporters inside Gov . Alfred E. Driscoll 's machine , who are said to be working with some effect on behalf of the Ohio candidate . Phone Strike a Factor Also , the Eisenhower camp . planned a big telephone campaign to get their supporters out to the ! polls next Tuesday , a strategy that is now somewhat handicapped by the current telephone strike . Efforts are being made to persuade the striking Communication Work- : ers of America , C. I. 0. , that they ought to go back long enough to permit the usual , electioneeringo but if these efforts are not suc- , cessful , General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ballots are in . Mr. Taft is not entered in the Oregon primary , but the general is expected to have strong competition in that contest from Gov . Earl Warren of California . One report circulated here today was that , in his communication to the White House , General Eisenhower urged that serious consideration be given to Gen. Alfred M. Gruenther as his successor in Paris . General Gruenther has been General Eisenhower 's Chief of Staff at NATO headquarters . He , has not only made a. good impression on the representatives of the North Atlantic Treaty nations , but was particularly effective here when he appeared recently to support the Administration 's foreign aid bill . At the Pentagon , however , the favorite candidate to succeed General Eisenhower is the present United States Supreme Commander in the Pacific , Gen. Matthew B. Ridgway.                     