@@712609

txt Secretary of State Dean Acheson stood unbendingly today before his Republican critics in a long closed conference with the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on the Administration 's refusal to help Formosa militarily . He was said also , by responsible Senators who heard him , to have offered no promise of substantial military aid to non-Communist lands anywhere in Southeast Asia . " About the most " that could be expected by such countries as Burma , Thailand , India , Indo- , China , summed up the committee chairman , Senator Tom Connally , Democrat , of Texas , was " some aid under Point Four . " Point Four is the project of President Truman , yet to be approved by Congress , for economic help to the world 's backward areas . " Reportorial , Not Philosophical " Another informant reported that the Secretary " gave a reportorial and not a philosophical " statement , and made no suggestion that a line would be drawn at any particular point in Asia beyond which communism would not be permitted to go . Under orders of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by to help the United States freighter Flying Arrow , shelled off China by Nationalist gunboats . A State Department spokesman said " nobody questions " that the Flying Arrow had been attacked in international waters . In a three-hour appearance before the committee Mr. Acheson defeated a Republican effort to force him to disclose the nature and source of all the military advice used by the Administration in adopting a hands-off policy for Formosa , the island headquarters of the Chinese Nationalist Government . This attempt was particularly ' designed to determine whether ' General of the Army Douglas in Tokyo , who has been represented by some Republicans as favoring the occupation of Formosa , had been consulted . The intention also was to bring out the recommendations that had been made by the Joint Chiefs of Staff . To questions along this line , it was reported later by Senator Connally , Mr. Acheson replied that he was not in position to speak for the military leaders , who could speak for themselves . Refuses to Give Names Finally , Senator Connally disclosed , Secretary Acheson declined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ month , had prepared a memorandum taking the line that Formosa , island headquarters of the Chinese Nationalist Government , was not strategically vital to the United States and must be written off . Mr. Acheson responded simply to the effect that the document , at all events , - was hit own responsibility and that he would assume it fully . Asked whether any of Mr. Acheson 's antagonists had been " sold " by his presentation , Senator Connally replied : " I have n't tried to sell them . You ca n't sell a stubborn fellow who does n't want anything . " Senator Connally strongly indicated also that while United States recognition of Communist China would not be accomplished " in a hurry , " it was on the way . Asked whether Secretary Acheson. in today 's discussion has fulfilled his pledge to consult with the committee before acting on the recognition question , Senator Connally observed : " I think he has fulfilled it now . But very likely he will consult us again before the final action . " An aggressive , and probably a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - William F. Knowland of Califo leader of the pro-China bloc . Mr. Knowland and four other Lonmembers of the Foreign Relations Committee had sat with it as nonparticipating " observers " during its session . As the author of the questions rejected by Secretary Acheson ? questions actually put uy a committee member , Senator H. Alexander Smith , Republican , of New Jersey  --  Senator Knowland announced that he would ask that they be put directly to the Joint Chiefs of Staff and Secretary of Defense Louis Johnson . Accordingly , Mr. Knowland prepared to write a letter to the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee , Senator Millard E. Tydings , Democrat , of Maryland , requesting that the Joint Chiefs and Secretary Johnson be called before that body for interrogation . Rejects Request Within an hour Senator Tydings told reporters : " I wo n't call those officials . This is a foreign policy matter and the place for it is the Foreign Relations Committee . It would be presumptuous in me to trespass upon that committee . " Senator Connally , meanwhile , had said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Joint Chiefs and Secretary Johnson . So far as he was concerned , he said , General definitely would not be called , since he had " already indicated that he does n't want to return to the United States just now . " Reporting on Mr. Acheson 's review of the position , Mr. Connally pointed out that the Secretary had spent some of his time discussing Europe . Then , going forward to the heart of the meeting , the Far East , Senator Connally declared : " He ( Mr. Acheson ) pointed out that the Chinese Communists have got control over all China except for isolated ' areas , one of . which is Formosa . Discussed Southeast Asia " The Secretary did not advocate the arming of Formosa , or intervention in Formosa . ' ale also discussed Southeast Asia , including Burma , India , Siam Thailand , Indo-China , Indonesia . He believed conditions in those areas were better than in the past and about the most we can do is to encourage them and give them some aid under Point Four . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Philippines . It was pointed out that the line **25;415;TOOLONG was our line of defense and that it lay east of Formosa . " It was pointed out that in this line the United States had an impregnable defense in that area . " The initial ' impression was that Secretary Acheson himself had spoken of such an " impregnable " line . But it was learned later that the phraseology had been that cf members of the committee .                     