@@719755

txt Sputa to The New York Times . LONDON , May ** Winston Churchill called today for the establishment of a men 's college at Cambridge University to train an elite corps of scientists and technologists . The college would bear ? his name . Appealing to his countrymen to contribute to the founding of the college , Sir Winston , chairman of the trustees , wrote : " It is our duty to master and conscript all the native ingenuity with which God has blessed and endowed us . We must provide technological education as high as any that exists . " The concept of the college sprouted in Sir Winston 's mind // during his last administration as Prime Minister . He was disquieted by information that the Soviet Union was concentrating a high proportion of its resources on the training of engineers and scientists . The new college , according to a letter from other trustees , is intended to produce " leaders trained at the highest level in science and technology . " Seventy per cent of its members would study scientific and technological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studtnts than in existing colleges : one to every two undergraduates . A. number of visiting fellowships would be created for specialists from abroad and thel college would try to attract post-graduate students from foreign countries and the Commonwealth . The Primary Objective The primary objective of the college , according to Sir Winston 's appeal , is to enable Britain to meet the challenge of the new technological age through the discovery of " new worlds of science and engineering . " Britain 's elder statesman also emphasized the " vast significance " of technological progress to the United States and Britain 's Commonwealth and Empire . " It is a theme on which the , English-speaking peoples can and must work in concert , disregarding national boundaries and seeking unity in the benefits their joint efforts can offer to all men , " Sir Winston declared . The minimum initial enroll-1 ment of 200 to 250 students and thirty to forty fellows is aimed at , with provisions for an event-I ual total of 500 to 600 students and a fellowship of fifty to sixty . The total endowment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is 13,450,000 ( $9,660.0001 . Sir Winston will donate ? 25 , - 000 ( $70,000 ) . A donation of ? 50,000 ( $140,0001 has been offered by the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation of Lisbon , Portugal , as a " willing tribute to the great living Englishman . " The proposals for the Churchill College developed out of discUssions of a small group yvho believed that British higher education must prepare to deal with the increasing number of boys studying science in the schools . There has also been a steady increase in the number . of students entering university science and technological departments . In the view of the trustees it is " essential in the interest of the country " that everything possible should be done to encourage this trend , British industry is expected to contribute generously to the establishment of the college . Carl J. Gilbert , president of the Gillette Company of Bostdn , is considering the raising of a fund among United States corporations with subsidiaries in Britain or the British Commonwealth . The University of Cambridge was chosen as the site of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its scientific departments and engineering school and a tradition of leadership in science . Flourished Since 1209 Cambridge has flourished since 1209 and its chancellor was recognized by King ' and Pope as early as 1226 . The ( college system there and at Oxford apparently grew out of voluntary associations of students and teachers . Political Bishops and Chancellors of medieval England obtained charters from the Crown for the incorporation of these associations of scholars and teachers . In time these became exclusively residences of students attending the university . The university and the colleges developed simultaneously . Every member of the university ' had to attach himself to some college and every person admitted to the college was obliged to matriculate at the ' univerSity . The trustees of Churchill College have been chosen to cover a wide field of British endeavor . In addition to Sir Winston , they include Lord Tedder , Chancellor of the University and President Eisenhower 's Deputy Commander in World War II , and Lord Adrian , Vice Chancellor of Cambridge , who won the Nobel Laureate for Medicine ' in 1932 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , chairman of the Associated Electrical Industries and , as Oliver Lyttelton , Secretary of State for the Colonies in 1951-54 ; Lord Godber , chairman of the Shell Petroleum Company , and Lieut . Gen. Lord Weeks , chairman of Vickers Nuclear Engineering Limited . Among the scientists on the board are Sir John Cockcroft , director of the Atomic Energy Research Establishment , and Sir Alexander Todd , chairman of the Advisory Council on Scientific Policy . Labor is represented by W. J. Carron , president of the Amalgamated Engineering Union .                     