@@714918

txt It was part of the privilege-into which I was born that my home was a religious home . My lather and mother believed that " the fear of God is the beginning of wisdom . " The Bible was a daily and vital , nfluenge , in their lives . They tried their best to instill its truths and its faith into their six sons . In spite-ofothe ' drought and locusts that ruined my father 's business , I never once in later years heard him complain . We simply packed up and moved to start life over again .. And with never a thought of failure . My parents understood their American heritage too well to yield to despair . For those days there was nothing unusual about the way , my father and mother raised their sons and sent them forth into the world . That was the main way American parents had been doing ) in the country clear back to the families at Plymouth and at Jamestown . The history of our country is inseparable from the history of such God-fearing families @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miracle of America . Lincoln Is Cited America as a nation had a continuing purpose . It was clearly stated for us in our founding documents . , Lincoln defined it : He said , it is " that sentiment in the Declaration of Independence which gave liberty not ' alone to the people of this country , . but hope to the world for all future time . " It was that which - gave , Promise that in due time the weights would be lifted from the shoulders of all men . ' You ca n't explain free government in any other terms than- religious . The founding fathers had to refer to the Creator in order to make their revolutionary experiment make sense ; it was because " all men , are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights " that men could dare to be free . They wrote their religious faith into our founding documents , ' stamped their trust in ' God on the face of our coins and currency , ' put it boldly at the base of our institutions , . and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where did they put freedom of worship ? First , in the cornerstone position ! That was no accident . Our forefathers proved that only a people strong in Godliness is a people strong enough to overcome tyranny . and make themselves and others free . Today it is ours to prove that our own faith , , perpetually  --  renewed , is equal to the challenge of- today 's , tyrants . What is our battle against communism if it s s not . a fight between , anti7GOd and a belief - iii thepllinighti ? , Communists ( know this ; mh6r hiwe to eliminate God from their system . When God comes in , communism has to go . During the war I made the most agonizing decision of my life . I had to postpone by at least twentyfour hours the most formidable array of fighting ships and of fighting men that was ever launched across the sea against a hostile ( shore . The consequences of that deIcision at the moment could not have been foreseen by anyone . If there were nothing else in my life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the events of the next twenty-four hours did it . This is what I found out about religion : It gives you courage to make the decisions you must make in a crisis , and then the confidence to leave the result to higher power . Only by trust in one 's self and trust in God can a man carrying responsibility find repose . If each of t is in his own mind would ' dwell upon the simple virtues  --  integrity , courage , self-confidence , an unshakable belief in his Bible  --  would not some of our problems tend to simplify themselves ? Would not we , after having done our best with them , be content to leave the rest with the Almighty ? I think it is possible that a contemplation , a study , a belief in those simple virtues would help us mightily.                     