@@714004

txt BRITISH WARSHIPS RUSHED TO RED SEA 4 Destroyers Going to Area of Egyptian Incident  --  Two Polish Tankers Taken Over Swot ' to Trot New YORK TIMM LONDON , July ** British Government decided today to send ' four destroyers of the Mediterranean Fleet to Aqaba in the Red Sea and Aden in the Gtilf of Aden , presumably to protect British shipping from Egyptian interference . At the same time it was announced that two 7,600-ton tankers nearing completion in British yards for Polish owners had been requisitioned under the defense regulations . It was the first time that civilian ships had been requisi , tinned since the war and the move was believed to be designed to prevent Iron Curtain tanker fleets from growing while the Iranian oil crisis continues . The Polish Ambassador was notified of the Admiralty 's action and told that Britain was prepared to discuss compensation . The Polish Embassy declined to make any statement . The tankers were being built for the Polish Ocean Liner Company . The two tankers , Tatry and Beskidy , were almost ready for delivery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wear and // the Tatry is in drydock at Wallsend . Although Britain gave no reason for the action , it was ' believed that it was intended to deprive the Soviet Union and its satellites of increased tanker tonnage . It has been estimated that the whole Soviet tanker fleet would be ca pable of moving only a fraction of the production of the Iranian oil fields , which the Iranian Government has nationalized . There was no official explanation of the decision to move the four destroyers from Malta to the Red Sea . But it was in that region that an Egyptian corvette overhauled the British freighter Empire Roach July 1 and sub-jected the ship to boarding and ' search . Conservatives Critical The Empire Roach is expected in those waters again soon . As Britain moved to strengthen her hand in the Near East , Conservative newspapers and speakers continued to criticize the Government for what they termed its failure to make a stronger stand for the protection of British interests and rights . Speaking in Scotland , Anthony Eden declared that the danger to the free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This ? menacing crisis would never have been allowed to arise in this sphere of our vital interests if there had been judgment and foresight and if our Government had possessed a coherent Middle Eastern policy , " he said . Persistence of the Iranians in their present course could lead only to the economic collapse of Iran and a consequent gain to the Communists , Mr. Eden declared . He urged the Government to keep British technicians in the oil fields even though it became necessary to protect them with force . He argued that to withdraw the British staff . would be counter to the ruling of the International Court of Justice which ordered that " no measure shall be taken designed to hinder the carrying on of the Anglo-Iranian Company 's operations as they were carried on before May 1 "  --  the date of the Iranian I nationalization act . Younger Defends Policy Kenneth Younger , Minister of1 State , defended Government policy at a Labor rally in Northamptonshire as an attempt to conduct foreign affairs on the basis of international law . " I believe , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parties share this aim though I am bound to say that there seen . to be some Tory backbenchers and newspapers who do not believe in the peaceful settlement of disputes and seem to be urging the Government to resort to armed force whenever difI ferences of opinion arise . That way lies war and we will not follow that road . " Differences of viewpoint on the use of force seem to have arisen I among the Conservative leaders , Winston Churchill supporting the Government 's policy of moderation while Lord Salisbury in the House of Lords has advocated resort to force . Egyptia.i Captain Summoned ALEXANDRIA , Egypt , July 14 ( 17P ) ? The captain of the Egyptian Navy corvette Elnasr , which searched the British supply ship Empire Roach in the Gulf of Aqaba July 1 was called before a board of inquiry at naval command headquarters today .                     