@@720482

txt President Eisenhower refused to say whether he would use the TaftHartley Law to prevent a " steel strike if labor negotiations currently under way do n't produce a settlement before the June 30 deadline . But he again admonished negotiators for both labor and management not to raise wages so much that a steel price rise must follow " I do not want to see . . . this so-called wage-price spiral continue until we get to the point that something drastic has to be done , " the Chief Executive told his news conference . There was nothing in his remarks about the steel situation to justify reports that the Administration is optimistic for a steel contrart settlement without a. strike . Government observers who keep close watch on the steel talks said they had as yet seen no cause for hope that a strike can be avoided . Neither did these officials attach much significance to Mr. Eisenhower 's remarks n ' out using the Taft-Hartley law . Under the emergency section of Taft-Hartley , the President is empowered to halt or prevent a major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this by naming a board of inquiry , and directing the Attorney General to apply for an injunction to halt or prevent a st : : ke The President was asked if he would consider using this emergency power if a steel strike ? appeared to be imminent . " Well . I would have to wait for the time to come before I would make a decision of this kind , " Mr. Eisenhower replied . The reply did not rule nut completely the possibility that the law might he invoked ex en before any strike could get under way Nevertheless . Administiation sources have represented the Pi esident as being reluctant to in- tercede unless a strike lasted so long that it seriously threatened the nation 's health and safety . He permitted the 1956 steel strike to last longer than a month , these sources noted , without invoking the Taft-Hartley provisions . These officials add that there is no reason to believe he is any more eager now to step into the steel situation than he was in 1956 . Mr. Eisenhower also termed " completely untrue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United Mine Workers , that the President is against labor in the steel negotiations , and thus has interfeied before negotiations have really begun . " I have never interfered with anyoue , " the Chief Executive said . " Now , I have , before this body and others . stated that I believe that both sides ' have to exercise self-discipline or this country is in a bad time . I have talked to businessmen urging that their products be priced just as low as they can make them , and if there were places where they could reduce prices I would be delighted . " But he said his interest with the " relatively few " in management or : n what he called the " capitalist class " is " very , very little as compared to what I think about the mass of people that do work with their hands and Minds and at their typewriters and everywhere else to produce this wealth " James Ft Hoffa , president of the Teamsters Union , joined yestei day in Mr. Lewis ' criticism of the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much worse off " if they heeded the Chief Executive 's warnings about wages and prices Mr Eisenhowet 's remarks about the steel situation have been prejudiced in favor of management , the truck union chief declared .                     