@@717763

txt Looking ahead to the new disarmament talks scheduled to begin in London in another fortnight , President Eisenhower has tried again to break the ten-year-old deadlock on this issue of life and death . In a letter to Premier Bulganin , which resumes the correspondence between them on this subject , he calls on the Soviets to join the free world in a new and realistic approach to the problem in order to provide some kind of alarm system that would guard against surprise attack and then to bring under control the threat of atomic war . This new approach was endorsed by the United Nations last December when the General Assembly approved by the overwhelming vote of 56 to 7 a resolution giving priority in future disarmament discussions to President Eisenhower 's " open skies " plan for aerial reconnaissance and exchange of military blueprints , in combination with the Soviet plan for ground-control posts . These two plans , advanced at the Geneva " summit " meeting last year , are intended both to provide a warning system to prevfint the massing of military forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major camps as a necessary preliminary to further steps leading toward disarmament . The President now appeals to the Soviets to make good their words about the desirability of mutual safeguards by dropping their opposition to this combination of their own plan with the American plan and to cooperate in making both proposals effective . This , he declares , is the surest way to an effectively controlled disarmament , to an easing of international tensions and to a durable peace . Furthermore , to meet some of their objections , he assures the Soviets that this warning system would not be limited to the United States and Soviet Russia but would apply to other nations , and , brushing aside the Soviet claim that they no longer have any foreign bases , he agrees in particular to extend this system to the " forces and facilities which we both have outside our borders . " Finally , in keeping with the United Nations resolution , he calls on the Soviets to join other nations in working out suitable and safeguarded arrangements for ending the stockpiling of atomic weapons and making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the projected international " atomsfor-peace " agency . At the same time the President serves notice that until the Soviets do match their words with deeds the United States , and its allies , will continue to maintain their military strength , " not for aggression , nor for narrow national purposes , but as a contribution toward world stability in this transitional period . " That is in line with the balance of power idea on which , it is now generally ' agreed , depends whatever peace we have . ; ; ; Tat to facilitate disarmament Mr. Eisenhower proposes that primary emphasis ' should be put not on the limitation of men , which would be difficult considering the various types of forces , but rather on armaments which , he holds , are more subject to supervision , regulation and control . It must be assumed that this proposal applies to atomic weapons as well . Since it is generally admitted thus far that effective control in this ? field is more than dubious it is possible that the American delegation may make new proposals on this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President 's latest letter , however , is that effective inspection and control are the first essential conditions for any disarmament , and that without these two essentials disarmament would be only a snare and a delusion . The Soviets , meantime , for their own reasons insist on sweeping disarmament agreements before there is effective international inspection and control to compel them to honor such agreements . Accordingly , the President again brushes aside the Soviet proposal of a paper " friendship " pact as a substitute for action , and while promising to study this proposal further he pointedly refers Premier Bulganin to his previous answer on this topic . That answer , too , called for Soviet deeds to match Soviet words . -                     