@@719632

txt WASHINGTON , March 22-1 As the saga of scandal in the Federal Communications Commission continues its spectacular run on Capitol Hill , some public attention is beginning to focus on the broader question : How well are all the great administrative agencies of the Federal Government doing their job ? The agencies are a varied ' lot , with a varied history . The oldest of the big ones is the Interstate Commerce Commission , set up in 1887 . Its powers , as developed over the years , are typical of the administrative body . The I. C. C. regulates interstate land transportation generally . It fixes rates for railroads . It makes safety regulations for all carriers . It decides which truck lines may operate between which cities and with what kind of cargo . It both " legislates " rules for an entire industry and decides " judicially " between . competitors . That is the typical pattern of the administrative body  --  broad powers to deal with a particular kind of economic activity . Thus the Civil Aeronautics Board regulates airlines , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financial houses and exchanges . Early Growth This concentration of government power in one agency to deal with one segment of the ' economy was a vital theme in the development of the adminis- ) strative agency , especially during the great period of growth ! in the early New Deal . Traditionally in this country government power had been divided three ways . The Executive , the Legislative and the Judicial dealt severally with all the problems of society . The philosophers of the administrative process thought the tripartite system inadequate in a modern industrial economy , and , they saw a number of advantages in the administrative agency . First , the continuing relationship of an agency with a particular industry was said to produce an understanding , an " expertise " that was essential to wise regulation and that Congress and the courts could never develop in their sporadic contacts with the industry . Second , it was said that agencies would be more flexible in procedure than the courts , quicker to act , less hidebound in their ideas , less bound by outmoded traditions . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parties to bring them controversies . Finally , the administrative agencies ware supposed to be independent-minded , free of the political pressures that beset ' Role in Government ' Is Criticized Alexander In The Philadelphia Bulletin " Also in orbit . " Congress and the Executive . In recent years fervor for the cause of the administrative process has given way to widespread disillusionment . Lawyers and political scientists have measured the agencies against their founders ' ideals and , increasingly , found them wanting . One criticism made by virtually everyone is that the agencies have become , if anything , more sluggish than the courts . The F. C. C. takes five years and more to decide between competing applicants for a television channel . A Federal Trade Commission case decided in the Supreme Court this term had been in the works for seventeen years . The charge is made that the agencies have in some instances become as frozen in method , as inflexible , as bureaucratized , as committed to the past as any branch of government has ever been . Return to Polities Another criticism  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House subcommittee on legislative oversight ? is that agencies have become just as susceptible to political pressures as the " political branches , " Congress and the Executive departments . Perhaps the gravest charge is that the agencies have become so closely identified with the industries they regulate that they no longer operate against ! the standard of the " public interest , " that they can not see the forest for the trees . " Institutional corruption " is the term coined by some critics for this condition . They say it develops from the very nature of most agencies ' narrow jurisdiction over particular industries . Inevitably , this theory goes , the agency heads worry only about their particular segment of the economy , and consider themselves responsible to it rather than to the public at large . One of the toughest critics of the administrative process ' summed up his views as follows : " In striking for ' expertise ' WC have given up the accountability of Congress and the Execw-1 tive of politics in the best sense of the term , and of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ IVe have the worst of both . " The critics have their own solutions . They are too numerous to describe in any detail , ' but they seem to fall into three ' categories . One set of proposals would , I make the agencies more like ' courts . The Hoover Commission , 1 for example , proposed putting ! many of their adjudicatory1 functions into an administrative court . Others would give the , members of agencies greateiH tenure  --  perhaps even for lifeto make them immune to influ-I ence-peddling . The objection to these ideas is that they would take from the ! process the flexibility and the ! continuous influx of new ideas that the agencies were supposed to bring . ' Frozen Methods A second theory would give up ! the judicial ideal and turn the ' 1regulatory functions back to the ! overtly political processes . Forl ' example , the L C. C. 's powers ' could be put in the Commerce ! Department , subject to the President 's broad political viewpoint and hence less likely to become bound to , say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idea is that it would promote even worse patronage-pushing and politicking with what the administrative theorists thought ' should be a non-partisan duty . Finally , there are those who say the cure is better men . They ! 1say the agencies in recent years have been getting a run of lame ducks and deserving politicians who could n't get their firstchoice plums . The administrative agencies are here to stay , this last group of observers believes , whatever their faults . In the long run , therefore , the only way to improve them is to appoint able , dedicated , tough-minded men to run them .                     