@@715953

txt Japan has suffered her worst crop ? failure in nineteen years . Estimate of this year 's rice production released by the Government today indicated a harvest 17 per cent smaller than last year 's crop . Farm income has slumped alarmingly , and Japan faces the prospect of having to import more food in the year ahead than ever before . The drastic drop in food production is attributed largely to devastating floods in southern Japan and unseasonal frosts in the north . These misfortunes pose a twin problem that has Government economists deeply concerned : the necessity of making huge outlays for farm relief plus importing foods from abroad on a record scale . The crisis in agriculture presents Japanese leaders with an additional complicating factor in their attempts to solve the nation 's already serious economic difficulties . It seriously endangers , if not ? destroys , hopes for a balanced budget in the fiscal year ahead . With pressure from the countryside and from Socialists already mounting , it will probably affect the extent to which Japan will be able to assume an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials have been urging . The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry forecast today that Japan 's farmers would harvest by the end of the year less than 275 , - 000,000 bushels of rice . That compares with almost 339,000,000 bushels last year and is less than any crop since 1934 . The heaviest rainfall in fifty years had a bad but not quite as destructive effect on other major crops . However , rice remains the key to Japan 's agricultural conditions , representing almost threefourths of the nation 's staple food supply . Japan 's farm population has already been affected adversely by the crop failure . Government estimates indicate the farmers ' gross income has been cut an . estimated total or $350,000,000 in terms of current prices . It is expected that the reduction will have a sharp effect on purchases of farm equipment , rural education and local land improvement . Welfare officials noted an alarming increase in the sale by farmers of their children to brokers for service as laborers , servants or prostitutes . Government agents in turn fully expect increased resistance to tax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the problem of distress on the farms , a special session of Parliament last month appropriated 51.000,000.000 yen , ( approximately $141,666,000 ) for farm relief . The pressure for far larger outlays for that purpose will be heavy on Japan 's legislators next month . when they meet to consider the 1954-55 budget . However , the major problem facing the Government will be how to make up for the heavy drop in food production . Even in normal years , Japan must import food . After a series of at least three upward revisions , the Government program now anticipates the importation of 1,763,000 tons of rice next year . That total is about 600,000 tons more than this year , but still would give Japan about 700,000 tons less in her total supply . Planned wheat imports also far exceed those of 1953 . Because wheat and other cereal crops are cheaper and more nutritious than rice , the Government has been attempting to encourage the consumption of those foods in the form of bread , " artificial rice " and mixed with rice itself . The campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confined largely to urban areas . Many Japanese say that , while bread is richer in calories than rice , butter , jelly or other expensive products must be used with it to make it palatable . It is difficult to forecast precisely what Japan will have to spend in the year ahead for food ports , but Government specialists predict that at current international prices the bill will reach a sum estimated at 3640,000,000 or more . The impact on Japan 's economy of an outlay of that magnitude ? about 60 per cent of the value of all of the nation 's imports this year ? can hardly be overestimated . While the year was ruinous for Japan 's rice crop , it produced bumper harvests in the rest of Asia . Meanwhile , good internal production has reduced the demand in countries that normally would be competing with Japan for the available supply .                     