@@720690

txt His Own Country 's Problems Loom Larger Than East-West Issues PARIS , Aug. 22 - Alone among the allies of the United States , France sees President Eisenhower 's circuit-riding around European capitals as overshadowing in importance his subsequent exchange of visits with Premier Nikita Khrushchev . This is apparently because France alone seems to have troubles , involving the United States in one way or another , that tend to obscure the basic primacy of the issue of EastWest relations . These well-publicized distracting issues are President Charles de Gaulle 's unsatisfied demands for enhanced French influence in thE shaping of Western diplomatic , military and nuclear strategy , and the imminent threat of diplomatic setbacks arising from Afro-Asian attacks on the French policy in Algeria and French plans to explode one or more experimental atomic bombs in the Sahara . The prevailing view here is ' that frank discussions between Generals Eisenhower and de Gaulle may , indeed , produce . some meeting of minds on these issues . For the professionals of French foreign policy , relations ; between the Soviet Union ' and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ultimatum on West Berlin from Moscow last Nov. 27 , Time was gained in the ten weeks of foreign ministers ' ; talks at Geneva , they assert .. Somewhat to their pleased surprise , this was accomplished . without the West 's giving away anything vital . Gain of More Time The principal practical result ' to be expected from the EisenhoweraKhrushchev encounters , ! in the French view , is the gain : of still more time . As long as ' the Russians are talking they ; can be expected to refrain from acting on threats to make a uni- ! lateral settlement with the East . Germans on the Berlin issue . According to this French assessment , only a long-term : evolution of internal conditionsl in the Soviet Union in the direction of bourgeois standards -- -i probably at best the work of a generation ? is likely to produce any real revision of the Soviet , goals with which the West could come to terms . The Khrushchev visit to the United States , some French experts believe , might make Some ' small contribution to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's eyes to , some of the realities of mid- ' twentieth century capitalism . Gains for Khrushchev Against this must be measured , the same experts hold , the real danger that Mr. Khrushchev will score a major propaganda success in the United States . The Soviet leader 's bluff , direct manner is calculated to appeal to the United States public image of a peace-loving man with not an aggressive thought in his bald , round head , the view holds . This could have a reassuring , lulling , guard-lowering effect throughout the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , according to some French and foreign observers here . Thus the consensus in French Government circles is that President Eisenhower should talk with Premier Khrushchev about everything under the sun , should try to " educate " the Soviet leader on Western ways and counter-punch in propaganda as effectively as Vice President Richard M. Nixon did in the Soviet Union , and try to lift the lingering aspects of the ultimatum on West Berlin . But he should make no commitments on anything , it is felt . But while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's of this sort , President de Gaulle broods over grand strategy at his vacation retreat 125 miles east of Paris and keeps his own council , Presumably one reflection of , his thinking was Premier Michel Debre 's recent speech evoking the danger for France of being , " crushed " between the two ; super-powers . Another was the ! remark attributed to General de Gaulle in a recent Cabinet . meeting likening President Eisenhower to a lone horseman ' advancing to confer with the ' ! enemy , and thereby loosening . to some extent , the ties of solidarity with his allies . Such statements as these appeared to some observers to represent a " pro forma " reaction in defense-of the Gaulist policy of grandeur rather than serious expressions of suspicion that General Eisenhower was likely to make deals with Russians over the heads of his allies . The policy of grandeur hasj produced few dividends in the last month , in the opinion of . most French and foreign ob- ' servers . Gaullist Objectives In broad outline . Presidents de Gaulle 's objective since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been , on the one hand , to confirm and strengthen French leadership of ( the six-nation continental community system , and , on the ' other , to achieve parity with , Britain and the United States : in a triumvirate for mapping global strategy . The two objectives were interrelated and mutually dependent . To the extent that General de Gaulle was able to speak for Western Europe , his claim to full partnership with Britain and the United States on the ' world scene would be strengthened , Similarly , his acceptance as a member of a Western strategy triumvirate would reinforce his position vis-a-vis his European " clients " and partners . President de Gaulle scored initial success in establishing a close personal relationship with Chancellor Konrad Adenauer of West . Germany , But Dr. Adenauer already enjoyed direct and ' intimate contact with Washington and had no real need of a French intermediary . He cultivated a " Paris-Bonn axis " primarily as the cornerstone of the European unification ideal ' to which he was committed . The other members , Italy , Bel , gium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Premier Debre. thusiasm for the idea of France as their spokesman . These European reservations , plus France 's difficulties in Algeria , embroiling her with much of the African and Asian worlds : made London arid Washington reluctant to accept an arrangement that would , in effect , submit their policies anywhere in the world to a French veto , and vice versa , The United States-Soviet tetea-tete appeared to French eyes ' as a striking-denial of the three- , power principle . As these reticences became obvious , the French decision to use the Sahara as the site for explosions of atomic bombs provoked loud protests from the African states bordering ' on the area . The African states , led by Morocco , have carried the Saharatest issue to the United Nations General Assembly , together with the perennial attack on France 's Algerian policy . Rumble Over Sahara At the same time , the British ; and West German press began a campaign of what appeared , to be concerted sniping at France 's atomic ambitions , her resistance to certain aspects of military integration in NATO @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announcement of the Eisenhower-Khrushchev , encounters . Virtually all of France 's cur- , rent difficulties with her allies stem , directly or indirectly , from her enthronement in the Algerian war for nearly five ' years . It is even possible to trace : to this cause United States Con- : gressional reluctance to share atomic secrets with France . In : general , the war increases French nationalism and de- ! creases the willingness of France 's allies to give satisfactions to that aroused national Meanwhile , as the influential Paris newspaper Le Monde put it editorially : " It would be as grave for the French to close their eyes to the quasi-unanimity of reactions unfavorable to France as for their allies to fail to take into consideration the will to indepcndance that currently animates the policy of Paris . By ROBERT C. DOTY sco , olal to The New York Times .                     