@@716422

txt Even before the Indochina conference could still the guns in the field the United States has moved swiftly to carry out an agreement with other free nations to prevent a new advance of the Iron Curtain into Southeast Asia . For this purpose preparations are under way to call an international conference in August or September to write a collective defense alliance for the protection of Southeast Asia and to devise a SEATO for the East to match NATO in the West . This is the project launched by Secretary Dulles in his call for " united action " last March . It could not be realized in time to affect the outcome at Geneva , but the terms of the Indochina armistice make it more urgent than ever before . For , as Secretary Dulles warned at the time , if the Communists won uncontested control over a substantial part of Indochina , as they have now done , they would surely attempt to apply the same pattern of conquest against other free peoples in the area , and the imposition of the Communist system on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community . This threat has not been diminished by the end of the shooting war . The decision to call the conference in August or September marks both a speed-up in the timetable and a gratifying display of restored Allied unity . It is in line with Prime Minister Churchill 's pledge to press forward with the alliance irrespective of whether Geneva succeeded or failed . It replaces with concrete action a previous plan merely to issue another , declaration of intent to proceed with the project . In this respect it marks a success for Secretary Dulles . Secretary Eden first insisted on Marking time with this project until the results of the Geneva conference were known and then combined the plan for the alliance with a proposal for a Far Eastern " Locarno " of mutual guarantees in which the Communists would join . An approach to the latter idea is contained in the provision in the Indochina armistice agreement pledging the signatories to consult one another on any question which may be referred to them by the international supervisory commission in order to study measures to prevent any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the United States is not a signatory to this , and the provision can in no way replace the need for a defensive alliance . The concern which Britain has shown in this matter for the views of the Asian nations emphasized what has become self-evident  --  namely , that Asia can not be defended without the Asians . President Eisenhower has emphasized the same point with the statement that the participation of the proper Asian nations is the sine qua non of the whole alliance project . For this reason the United States originally proposed an alliance of ten nations  --  the United States , Britain , France , Australia . New Zealand , Thailand , the Philippines and the three Indochinese states of Vietnam , Laos and Cambodia . Whether the latter three will be able to participate under the armistice agreement is still not clear . But the other nations are already pledged to the alliance , which would also , extend protection to Indochina . If the combined efforts of the United States and Britain can induce additional Asian nations to join , or at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace of Southeast Asia could be assured .                     