@@719322

txt about the seriousness of the situation . Americans have only to read the paper to sense it themselves . Every missile has a counter-missile eventually . At the pres ent time the United States apparently has neither missiles to match those of the Soviet Union  --  if two sputniks circling the earth have any meaning  --  nor has it an antimissile missile . Both are considered of urgent importance by military commanders , and the administration has been urged to throw between six billion dollars and seven billion dollars , if necessary , into a three-year crash program for an antimissile missile . That is , a missile which could detect and destroy any long-range nuclear missile before it reached any target in the United States . Nike Zeus Proposed Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor , Army chief of staff , believes that such a weapon should be added to the nation 's arsenal of weapons by 1961 . To accomplish this within that time period would obviously require not only money , but priority in materials and manpower . The Army believes it now has a missile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a counterweapon to the intercontinental ballistic missile . At the same time , the production of missiles already in production must be stepped up to bolster the weakened defenses of American bases overseas . This need is receiving urgent attention in high administration councils . The nation 's first line of defense , in these overseas bases on the perimeter of the Soviet Union , has been seriously undermined by the development of Soviet missiles apparently capable of reaching those bases and either damaging or destroying them in a single blow . It is now indicated that the United States , in a counter move , is planning to rush the intermediate range ballistic missile into prOduction and overseas to the bases as fast as possible . Troop Training Urged In line with the new policy , it is felt that Allied , as well as American troops , should ' be trained to use these nuclear Weapons in case of an emergency . Nuclear warheads at the present time are in the " technical custody " of American forces . Both the Army and the Air Force are working , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interservice rivalries and may put the new Pentagon set-up under Secretary Neil to its first test in the effort to eliminate wasteful duplication of efforts . Meanwhile , Mr. ' opened up another aspect of the defense picture at an informal news conference Nov. 19 at Augusta , Ga. , where ere the President is golfing . Besides disclosing the speeded-up intermediate range missile production , Mr. estimated that defense for the new budget year will cost up to 1.5 billion dollars more than the present 38 billion-dollar budget ending next June . Mr. said Nov. 20 : " I believe we are in good shape " on the missile program , according to the Associated Press . However , in response to questions by reporters , he said any program that size probably " could have been done better . " That was the secretary 's answer to a question as to whether he believes money for missiles has been misusd in the past . Mr. made the statement to reporters after emerging from a closed-door session of the House appropriations defense subcommittee headed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Before the session started , Mr. Mahon accused the administration of withholding money appropriated by Congress for the missiles program . Asked about-that remark ; Mr. -- qzmcq#Elroy-replied : " Mr. Mahon is referring to something I 'm not familiar with . " Mr. Mahon called in Mr. and his special missiles development assistant , William Holaday , for an accounting on that point and the missiles job in general . Submarine Threat Along with the stepped-up development of nuclear missiles , the administration is giving new priority to the adaptation of atomic energy to airplanes . The project has just been put under a central authority in the interest of faster progress in that direction . Atomic submarines and submarines from which atomic weapons could be launched also play a part in the picture and while not a great deal is being said about the Soviet build-up of its submarine force , authorities here feel this development is equally significant and equally as dangerous , in its way , as that of intercontinental ballistic missiles . By the same token , military men believe that this nation 's submarine force should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ build-up such as this is costly and poses serious budget problems for the President . Higher taxes or drastic cuts in domestic programs are seen as the only way in which to provide the money needed for expansion and strengthening the nation 's defensive power . The President 's budget message to the new Congress will disclose what decision the administration has made in this respect , if the tipoff does not come even earlie ? in presidential speeches and the utterances of high.oflicials on his team .                     