@@719553

txt LONDON , Feb. ** since the ball'hy sun of Bermuda banished the post-Suez storm clouds threatening the relations between the United States and the United Kingdom , there has been the comfortable assumption on both sides of the Atlantic that British foreign policy would be increasingly coordinated both in planning and implementation with that of the United States . But when the Government 's policy in the present intricate and delicate international situation was expounded this week it was clear that this coordination is hotly opposed by representatives of at least half the British electorate . There is a good chance that within the next two years , possibly even tilis year , the La- ' bor party will win a general election and form a Government . In last week 's foreignaffairs debate and in this week 's debate on defense the Labor party is demonstrating its opposition to certain fundamentals of British foreign policy , including primarily , the allied approach to the problem of negotiating with the Soviet Union . This opposition is nourished outside the House of Commons by public clamor maintained by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politicians . Last Monday night the largest mass meeting to be held in London since the war applauded attacks on those objectives of British policy which align it with that of the Administration in Washington . British Objectives These Government objectives start with the confessed desire for a summit conference with the Soviet leaders . At such a conference the British Government would seek to break the deadlock in the disarmament talks between East and West . It would be prepared to explore various proposals for military disengagement in Europe which might lessen ' tension in that area . In the Middle East it wants to promote the negotiation of a permanent settlement between the Arab states and Israel in which both sides necessarily would have to concede a compromise . But the Government is strongly opposed to any unilateral action to obtain these objectives or to the slightest modification of Government policy on defense . This rests on the possession by the United Kingdom and the United States of the nuclear deterrent . This deterrent is about to take a new form with the installation in Britain by the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party is pleading for the Government to delay the preparation of these bases until after summit talks . Both the Government 's objectives in foreign policy and its defense policy rest upon the closest cooperation with Britain 's allies , especially the United States . This cooperation , exemplified by methodical consultation with other allies in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , has been and will be under heavy , often violent , political attack . Suez Storm When in November , 1956 , the storm arose over the Government 's Suez adventure it was the Opposition , then as now led by Hugh Gaitskell , which pleaded for consultation among allies and assailed the Cabinet for going it alone . Last week it was the same Mr. Gaitskell who said that consultation should not become paralysis and the Labor party hooted at the Government 's repeated refusal to take independent action because it must confer with its friends in Washington and in the Atlantic Council in Paris . The Labor party is confident that it has a majority of British public opinion behind it in its demand that there should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Labor view is shared by a majority of Conservative politicians . Mass public opinion is focused on the summit talks themselves . This is regarded as the be-all and end-all of international peace . The Government is aware that , psychologically speaking ? this is a grave danger . For a failure at the summit might be a shock worse than failure to meet at all . Popular Appeal This warning might have quieted the critics were it not for their conviction that on one subject of discussion there is a promise of agreement with the Soviet Union at a high-level conference . The subject is military disengagement in Central Europe . Disengagement has a popular appeal . Implemented , it would remove all foreign troops and nuclear weapons from the soil of the two Germanys , East and West , and from Poland , Czechoslovakia and perhaps Hungary as well . The principal argument for it is that it would eliminate the risk of conflict in Central Europe . The most that the Government has promised is to explore disengagement . If British policy-making is tied , as the Cabinet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , this is all that the ministry can do . But the Opposition in and out of Parliament feels that the Government should embrace disengagement rather than nod politely . Socialist Prodding Similarly the Socialists and their supporters are prodding the Government to go a great deal further on disarmament than this Government , or the Government of the United States , is now willing to do . These and the plea for a suspension of preparations for missile bases are the main themes of Socialist criticism of the Government . To date the Government has stood firm , on very shaky political ground , against Labor 's demand for a change . When the clamor for talks with the Soviet Union first arose late last year it was enough for Prime Minister Macmillan and his principal colleagues to pledge their acceptance of the idea of summit talks . The situation has since developed to the point where , to meet Opposition demands , the Cabinet must provide some considered statement of its thinking on such key subjects as disengagement . The Government 's difficulties in presenting ? its case to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prestige where it is needed most ? at the Foreign Office . Selwyn ' Lloyd , who has been Foreign ' Secretary since 1956 , is able and ( hard working . Unfortunately he has not been able to project himself either in public or in the House of Commons . Back-bench Conservatives restive over the party 's unpopularity in the country , as well as the Labor Opposition , ' have called for his replacement at Foreign Office . The general consensus is that although it is likely Mr. Lloyd will be replaced Mr. Macmillan will not move while his Foreign Secretary is under fire .                     