@@716529

txt ADENAUER TO SNUB FRANCE 'S PREMIER ; SHUNS STRASBOURG Chancellor Decides to Avoid European Council Session on Mendes-France 's Visit ADOPTS DULLES ' PATTERN Bonn 's Ascendancy Stressed ? Gesture Revives Conflict of West German Factions By M. S. HANDLER Special to The New York Times . BONN , Germany , Sept. 18 ? Chancellor Konrad Adenauer has decided to avoid attending Zile meeting of the Consultative Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg Monday when French Premier Pierre Mend  --  sFrance explains his views on German rearmament . This decision today was the latest move in the Bonn-Washlington maneuver , begun after the defeat of the European Defense Community treaty by the French National Assembly Aug. 30 , to show displeasure with the French Premier 's role in that defeat . Many have felt that the aim of this campaign is to bring about his downfall . The intention is to raise the specter of isolation and the substitution of West Germany for France as the founda= tion of United States policy in Western Europe . Moves and counter-moves were made today by Bonn politicians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Strasbourg . In the end , the Federal press office said he would not go , and it became clear that the anti-French and pro-French factions in the Government were again in conflict as an aftermath of the visit of Secretary of State John Foster Dulles . Dulles . Pattern Followed The tension between the two factions was resumed when Dr. Heinrich von Brentano , head of the West German delegation to the Council of Europe , announced On his arrival in Strasbourg that the Chancellor would attend the meeting . The announcement was followed by pulling and hauling with Government departments in Bonn , and finally the Federal press office was able to state categorically that Dr. Adenauer would remain in Bonn . The decision to stay away from Strasbourg followed the pattern set by Mr. Dulles in bypassing Paris on his visit to Europe this week . The Secretary arrived in Bonn shortly after British Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden had prevailed upon Dr. Adenauer to accept the British compromise plan as a. substitute for the defunct E. D. C. treaty . Dr. Adenauer accepted the British procedure , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the occupation regime , to enlarge the Brussels pact of 1948 as a vehicle for West German rearmament , and finally to provide Bonn 's membership in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization with safeguards against the rebirth of German militarism . The Brussels pact provided for the military , economic and cultural cooperation of . Britain . France , Belgium , the Netherlands and Luxembourg . By the time Mr. Dulles departed from Bonn Friday , Dr. // Adenauer was no longer so certain that the British proposals were as good as he had thought them while Mr. Eden talked with him . It became clear after this week 's round of conversations in Bonn that the Chancellor would follow Mr. Dulles ' lead and not that of Mr. Eden at a nine-power conference to decide on German rearmament . Mr. Dulles ' statement on his arrival in Germany , the text of the communique issued prior to his departure and his remarks on his return to the United States today were considered to add up to one csonclusion . This was that there was more than just an impression that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe , it was to be done with a West Germany headed by Chancellor Adenauer and not with France so long as she was governed by M. Mendes-France . No Contact Between Leaders The Chancellor shares the same mistrust and dislike for the French Premier . The two leaders had not exchanged oral or written views on the subject that primarily concerns their countries until tonight , when Andre Francois-Poncet , the French High Commissioner , visited the Chancellor on instructions from M. Mendes-France . There was a flurry of excitement in Bonn yesterday when it was learned that the Chancellor had received M , Francois-Poncet last Tuesday . It was thought that perhaps the barrier had been pulled down . But it turned out that M. Francois-Poncet had called to . express his Government 's thanks for the Chancellor 's message of sympathy for the victims of the earthquake in Algeria . The Chancellor did not make a move to discuss the French-German or European problem . Neither did the French High Commissioner . It was considered significant that the remarkable tributes paid to the Chancellor by Secretary Dulles during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the responsible West German press . To the contrary , Mr. Dulles ' visit filled some of the leading newspapers with apprehension . They feared that the isolation of France would force her into the arms of the Soviet . The Sueddeutsche Zeitung of Munich said ; " Germany is not interested in isolating France , nor can the Americans seriously desire it , because the ultimate result could be that our Western neighbor could be forced to lean toward Moscow . There can be no rearmament against the will of our Western neighbor . No American guarantee can protect us from the risks of such an adventure . It is risky enough to rearm against the will of the East . " Die Welt of Hamburg said : " Without France none of the plans can be realized  --  neither the abolition of the occupation statute nor the Brussels Pact , nor Germany 's entry into NATO . Let us beware of optimism . "                     