@@720322

txt Last September the United States drew a thin curtain of radiation around the earth . For a period whose duration is still secret it enveloped almost the ientire inhabited portion of the ! globe . Known as Project Argus , the : feat was regarded by some of its leading participants as the greatest scientific experiment of all time . Thousands of men were involved in the worldgirdling observations . By prearrangement , rockets soared into space from the United States and abroad to monitor the effects . An American satellite  --  Explorer IV ? moved in and out of the growing shell of radiation , its radio signals inscribing the contours of the earth 's magnetic field in near-by space . The radiation , born of one of three atomic-bomb blasts more than 300 miles above the South Atlantic , took less than an hour to embrace the earth . Results Predicted What made the experiment particularly dramatic was that its results had been predicted . The point in space at which the three atomic bombs were detonated had been selected in terms of the theoretical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the effect the project called for the launching of two earth satellites , as well as the firing of a number of rockets . One of the satellites failed to orbit , but the other , Explorer IV , recorded the world-wide spread of the radiation , It is possible that Soviet scientists know of the experiment , for Explorer IV passed within range of Tashkent during this critical period . The Russians have a satellite-monitoring station in or near that central Asian city . Tashkent , in the Uzbek Republic , is 1,800 miles southeast of Moscow . 3 Tests Conducted To insure success , the experiment was conducted three times , with each test including the firing of one atomic bomb . All three shots were apparently successful to varying degrees . It has been said that geophysics is a science " in which the earth is the laboratory and nature conducts the experiments , " In this case the space surrounding this planet was the laboratory , but the experiment was conducted by man . The yield of each bomb was small , but it was enough to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Among these was the generation of artificial auroras at two predicted points some 8,000 // miles apart , one in the North Atlantic and the other not far off the coast of Antarctica . It is said that ships and planes , dispatched to watch for the auroral displays , saw them as planned . Had the atomic explosions been large enough , they might , have prcducecl displays of auroras , or " northern lights , " girdling both polar regions and spanning the Soviet Union . As it was , the intensity of the effect was sufficient to produce auroras only in the magnetic meridian of the explosions , spanning the Atlantic from north to south , Radiation Shell Short-Lived Although the lifetime of the man-made shell of radiation has been kept secret , it is reported to have been limited . Some had suggested that such a nuclear explosion might alter the radiation pattern around the earth in a long-term manner . This apparently did not prove to be the case . The actual rate of the shell 's decay provided the first direct evidence on the lifetime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This should become public knowledge after release of the data collected by Explorer IV and by ground stations throughout the world . These stations observe changes in the earth 's magnetism and in the ionosphere . The stations were operating tinder the auspices of the International Geophysical Year , ? and hence their records must be Made available to all scientists . Under I. G. Y. rules the Explorer IV data must be published by September . The earth 's magnetism is the force that orients the compass needle . Its magnetic field represents the direction of the earth 's pull at any point . The shape of the earth 's magnetic field , in space , is thought to resemble the pattern assumed by iron filings under the influence of a bar magnet . Its axis , analogous to the magnet , lice within the core of the earth , tipped slightly from the rotation axis of this planet . Whereas the magnetic lines generally form loops , linking , the Northern and Southern Hemispheres , those near the poles would reach so far from the earth that they actually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been predicted by Nicholas C. Christofilos of the University of California 's Radiation Laboratory at Livermore , Calif . He had suggested that electrons resulting from a nuclear explosion detonated in space , but within the earth 's magnetic field , would be trapped in that field . They would spiral back and forth at great speed along the lines of magnetic force that arch high out into space between the Northern and Southern Hemispheres , according to the Christofilos theory . This effect , Mr. Christofilos said , would not be limited to the magnetic meridian passing through the explosion point . The spinning electrons would tend to . migrate eastward until the effect had been spread around the world . he theorized. , In scientific literature Mr. , Christofilos has published formulas for determining the speed of this migration and the dura- ' tion of the effect . - Under a given set of circumstances he said encirclement of the earth would take " an hour or so . " Duration Would Vary Likewise , he said , the lifetime of the effect would range from several days to several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at either end of the magnetic arcs . He described a situation in which the lifetime of the trapped electrons would be thirteen days . Mr , Christofilos began work on his theory late in 1957 , after the launching of the first two Soviet earth satellites had turned his attention to space problems . In January , 1958 , he is said to have presented his idea in fairly complete form , but the paper was classified because of its military implica- ' tions . It was the discovery , by the Explorer satellites , of the Van Allen radiation that gave added Weight to his suggestion . Radiation counters carried by Explorer I and Explorer III he came " tongue-tied " at the higher parts : of their orbits , especially near the equator of the earth 's Magnetic field : Van Allen 's Discovery Dr. James A. Van Allen , at the State University of Iowa , ) who Was in charge of the experimeik . correctly surmised , that the : : 4tellites were entering a region Where the radiation was so intense that it swamped the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - 26 , 1958 , counters were included that were capable of recording a far broader range of radiation intensity , and Dr. Van Allen 's suspicions were confirmed . The results indicated that protons or electrons , or both , were trapped in the magnetic field . They constituted , in- effect , a stabilized version of the Christofilos effect . The source of the radiation may be from cosmic-ray impacts nn the atmosphere or from energetic particles ejected by flares on the sun , Dr. Van Allen likened the mechanism to a leaky bucket , fed by electrons or protons of uncertain origin that , after a limited time of entrapment , leaked out again . The shape of the area of . intense radiation , as revealed by Explorer IV , showed two horns pointing toward the circumpolar zones in which auroras are most often seen . The implication was , that the leaking electrons were associated with , the curtains or light known as n-o7- . , E , What did this ir.:ar , . ? 11 PLANNER : Roy W. Johnson , head of Advance Research Projects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proposal of Mr. Christofilos ? Was the volume of the Van Allen radiation so massive that the added amount from a nuclear blast would be insignificant ? Or were the charged particles resulting from such a blast sufficiently numerous , relatively , to produce a world-wide reaction comparable to that of a magnetic storm ? Magnetic storms induce gigantic displays of auroras , radio blackouts , fluctuations in the earth 's magnetic field and great currents of electricity that flow through the earth arid the upper air . The storms seem to be produced by clouds of charged particles ejected when flares erupt on the sun . Would the radiation from a nuclear explosion have a similar effect , and what would be its consequences in disrupting radar defense and communications systems ? These were the questions that scientists hoped Argus would answer . Two high hydrogenbomb blasts over Johnston Island in the Pacific , last Aug. 1 and 12 , showed to a limited extent what might result . These were at altitudes of roughly 100 miles or less , which was deep enough in the atmosphere to impede @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aurora Seen Likewise , being near the magnetic equator , the magnetic spans were flat and short . Nevertheless , an artificial aurora was observed by a New Zealand station in Samoa , 2,100 miles away along the magnetic meridian of Johnston Island . It was accompanied by a local magnetic disturbance . Most commercial communications systems operating across the Pacific on frequencies of 5 to 20 megacycles reported " outages " that lasted as long as several hours at a time , over a period of a day . These were described in a report of the House Select Committee on Astronautics and Space Explora ; tion as similar to those experienced after a. solar flare . Because of the influence of the atmosphere , the- electrons resulting from the Johnston Island shots did not migrate eastward . Instead they apparently " leaked out of the bucket " over Samoa  --  and probably at some - point on the opposite side of Johnston Island . Natural Disturbance Noted The results of Argus are still secret ; but despite the small yield of the bombs , they appear to have been world-wide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natural magnetic disturbance that was the subject . of a special report by the North Atlantic Radio Warning Service of the National Bureau of Standards in Fort Belvoir , Va . This event began at 3:42 A. M. , Eastern standard time , Sept. 3 as a mild magnetic storm , then suddenly became " a far more severe storm than had been anticipated , 7 the report said . " It is difficult to associate this disturbance with any specific solar event . " it added . The storm , which also became severe in the Pacific area , continued through Sept. 6 . Hence , it is said , the world-girdling effects of Argus were difficult to find in the magnetic and ionospheric records unless the observer knew the time of the shots . Mwertheless , they are reported to be evident on ionograms and magnetograms recorded at stations throughout the world as part of the International Geophysical Year . Ionograms are photographic records of radio soundings of the ionosphere  --  the layered , ' electrified region extending several , hundred miles above the stratosphere . During the I. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throughout the world made ionograms at short intervals on a-routine basis . Magnetograms are similar records of changes in the earth 's magnetism , and were similarly made in most of- the sixty-six nations that took part in the I. G. Y. The shell of radiation pro- , duced by Argus constituted no hazard to life on earth , because it remained in space . It was limited to a single layer of the many-layered magnetic field of the earth , and the opportunity to follow it in detail has made it possible to delineate the shape of that field in a manner that was heretofore impossible . The experiment has thus been likened to the classic study carried out by Dr. Enrico Fermi at the University of Chicago in the early Nineteen Forties . In this study Dr. Fermi recorded in detail the growth and decay of an atomic pile that resulted when he pulled out and shoved in the control rods . In Project Argus the " rifle " was the magnetic field of the earth . From the scientific point of view , further tests along the lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and determining the boundaries of the " cones of escape " over the two poles . These cones constitute the circumpolar regions in which the lines of magnettc force vanlish into space instead of arching ' back to earth . It is in the " cones of escape ' . ' that trapped electrons are thought to be absent , providing a safe departure route for space itravelers . ' Some physicists would like to see a " ladder " of nuclear explosions , ' climbing into space in a manner that would disclose the patterns of magnetism and other phenomena in the entire region lying within 15,000 miles of the earth . In view of the present stalemate on suspension of nuclear weapons tests , further explo-. sions in space would raise political problems . Some scientists , feel that in any agreed-test ban ' there should be a provision for ! such experiments , if only by the unanimous consent of all con-I cerned . The detection of explosions space as part of the policing of a test ban raises new problems , in view of the Argus . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be detected if they were within the closed , portion of the earth 's magnetic field . Over the polar " cones " it , might be necessary to make use of earth satellites or photo. , electric devices as part of the monitoring system . As with the detection of un4 derground blasts , one of the ( questions in proving the effec. , tiveness of a technique is the difficulty of persuading all con. cerned , in particular the Russians , that further explosion for this purpose are justified .                     