@@719880

txt President Eisenhower twice today seized diplomatic occasions to reinforce the United States position that the United Nations was the proper place for a summit discussion on the Middle East . The first occasion was a reply to a. letter from President Juscelino Kubitschek of Brazil . The second was a joint statement by the President and Prime Minister Kwame Nkrumah of Ghana at the conclusion of a three-day Visit by the leader of the young African nation .. President Kubitschek had written to President Eisenhower Wednesday , the day after the President had proposed to Soviet Premier Nikita S. Khruslichev that a summit meeting be kept within the framework of the United Nations . Role in Talks Asked The Brazilian President said the favored a meeting within the Security Council particularly because Latin America had a representative there , President Kubitschek declared that " this substantial part of our continent must be freed from the featureless rearguard position which it has held heretofore in the international scene . " President Eisenhower replied that he was particularly pleased at this support of the United States principle . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two Governments were agreed that Middle East problems must be solved within the United Nations framework " in a manner which will preserve the independence and territorial integrity of all member nations , whether large or small . " Move Called Antidote It was evident that the Administration hoped the endorsement of the United States position by Prime Minister Nkrumah would counteract Soviet propaganda in the neutralist nations of Asia and Africa . Moscow had sedulously represented the American and British intercession in . Lebanon and Jordan as a last-ditch effort to shore up a crumbling imperialism . Senator Alexander . Wiley of Wisconsin , senior Republican on the Foreign Relations Committee , said that " t5iis declaration should antidote any thought tirt we are engaged in the imperialistic designs of the Kremlin . " Another Republican member of the committee , ' Senator George D. Aiken of Vermont , said that " if one of the smallest and newest of these independent nations goes along with us , that should certainly have an effect on the others . " ' Observers with first-hand experience of the force of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endorsement Would carry much weight in Arab countries . Meanwhile , a number of Senators in both parties disclosed some apprehension over the prospective summit meeting on two grounds . First , they feared that it might turn into a propaganda battle , with Mr. Khrushchev seeking to arraign the United States and Britain as aggressors and the Western leaders reading the record of Communist aggression and subversion against small countries . Second , several Senators seemed to feel that the Administration was entering the conference in a negative frame of mind and without any firm policies to deal with Arab nationalism and the Soviet Union 's determination to stake out am interest in the Middle East . Thus , Senator Mike Mansfield , Democrat of Montana , said : " I would hope that if the meeting is held , much of it would be in private , away from the glare of publicity and in an atmosphere in which there could be some realistic give and take . " Senator J. William Fulbright , Democrat of Arkansas , who has been increasingly critical of the Administration 's policies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " Unless we enter it with the spirit and the desire to do something , and the feeling that we can , it would turn out to be useless . " And Senator John Sherman Cooper , Republican of Kentucky , who has been a strong advocate of the power of econominic assistance to underdeveloped nations , said that " we should go there with proposals and seize the opportunity of pressing them . " Senator Jacob K. Javits , Republican of New York , said that the hasty unconditional withdrawal of British , French and Israeli forces from Egypt in 1956 had swelled the prestige of President Gamal Abdel Nasser of the United Arab Republic . " We must not repeat the Suez mistakes again , " Senator Javits said . There was much speculation here today about the outcome of Secretary Dulles ' talks in London with Prime Minister Harold Macmillan and the Premiers of three other countries of the Baghdad Pact  --  Turkey , Iran and Pakistan . Among the questions that are bound to come up , it was believed here , are the recognition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new alliance to replace the Baghdad Pact atter the expected formal withdrawal of.Iraq . Recognition of the Iraqi rebels , who killed King Faisal , cousin of Jordan 's King Hussein , presents a ticklish problem for Britain , which is trying to bolster the Hussein regime . It is believed that Turkey also will hesitate to recognize the new Iraqi Government . There are rumors here that Secretary Dulles would like a new Middle East alliance , tighter and stronger than the Baghdad Pact , and Mkt the United States might be willing to join such an alliance . There are alsO reports that the Administration is thinking in terms of a neutralized Middle East . To some observers , these two concepts seem contradictory                     