@@720444

txt Justice George Tilzer of the State Supreme Court invoked a week-end cooling-off period in the hospital strike yesterday . He postponed until Tuesday his decision on applications by five hospitals for injunctions against the union that struck them a week ago . He said he still hoped that labor and the hospitals would agree to his proposal for a thirty-day truce during which the higher courts would settle the issue of whether a strike could be called against a voluntary hospital . The six struck hospitals are voluntary , or nonprofit , private institutions . But the Tilzer truce envisions the immediate end of picketing by Local 1199 of the Retail Drug Employes Union and a return of the workers to their jobs ? an arrangement that the union rejects on the ground that the strike would lose momentum . Joseph Tauber , lawyer for the union , said that he had told Justice Tilzer that the union was determined to continue the strike until it won recognition as the bargaining agent for nonprofessional workers in the struck hospitals . Lawyers for the five struck hospitals in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ week-end by not pushing for contempt proceedings against the union . But the sixth hospital , Brooklyn Jewish , has already started contempt action . Leon J. Davis , president of the union , who has been missing since last Wednesday , two other union officials and two pickets are named in the action . They have been directed to show cause today in Supreme Court in Brooklyn why they should not be held in contempt for defying an antistrike injunction granted Monday by Justice Miles F. . The five other hospitals are Lenox Hill , Mount Sinai , ' Beth David , Beth Israel and Bronx . Employes on strike are nurses ' aides , orderlies , porters , elevator operators , kitchen help and other housekeeping employes . Justice Tilzer not only postponed decision on the applications of the five hospitals for injunctions but also refused to hear argument for similar applications by Polyclinic and Knickerbocker Hospitals , which are threatened with a strike . Justice Tilzer 's efforts achieved one result  --  the postponement of punitive action against the union , which , some observers fear , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explosive when the hospitals were accused of racial exploitation by Harry Van Arsdale Jr. , president of the New York City Central Labor Council . A large majority of the strikers-80 to 85 per cent  --  are Negroes and Puerto Ricans . There was no sign of an early settlement as the strike entered its second week . However , Justice Tilzer called both sides to meet in his chambers at 2 P. M. Monday to " continue efforts for a truce and settlement . " Hospital authorities said that there has been no impairment of essential services . Mr. Van Arsdale announced yesterday that an emergency meeting of officers , delegates and representatives of unions affiliated with the Central Labor Council would be held al 10 A. M. tomorrow . The meeting will be held in Roosevelt Auditorium , Fourth Avenue at Seventeenth Street . Mr. Van Arsdale described the meeting as the first of its kind . He said it would plan further support for the striking hospital workers . The Amalgamated Laundry Workers Union was upheld yesterday in its refusal to cross picket lines at the hospitals . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @           