@@720492

txt ALGIERS , June 6 ? The F. z.ach have strengthened their rn:litary and political position in Algeria . Their generals and civilian officials believe that the nationalist Moslem rebels are in great difficulty . But the French have learned , from bitter experience , not to make premature victory claims . Nobody now talks about the " last quarter of an hour of the rebellion "  --  a phrase that in the past enjoyed a short-lived popularity at various junctures of the war without ending the conflict or bringing promotion to its authors . The most that is being said is that several of the obstacles that made a settlement seem impossible some months ago have been removed . The army reports that the nationalist forces no longer operate in large units . They have broken up their companies into small bands , according to the French . The number of rebel prisoners is higher than at any time since beginning of rebellion . French statistics show . French intelligence officers ascribe this Lo flagging morale among the Algerian fighters and to bloody purges conducted by rebel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the rebels have a leadership problem , since several of the most effective , battle-hardened commanders have been killed or purged . A Rise in Terror However , terrorist attacks by nationalists have increased , not lessened . More than In the past they have been aimed at political figures . Several municipal councilmen , all of them Moslems , have been killed in the interior . Others resigned rather than risk a similar fate . As for politics the situation is this : A year ago , immediately upon returning to power , Gen. Charles de Gaulle promised Algeria a political solution in two installments . First , Algerians . Moslems as well as Europeans , were going to elect their own " valid " representatives . After that , he said in effect , he would sit down with these representatives and determine the future status of Algeria in consultation with them . The first part of this program was completed last week , when the last of Algeria 's elected representatives took their place . Thirty - two Senators ; twenty Moslems and twelve Europeans were elected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France in the upper chamber at Paris . This Wes the third election within seven months . In November Lhe Algerians elected sixty-seven Deputies to the French National Assembly . among them forty-six Moslems . And last April they named 14 , - 000 municipal councilmen , including 11,500 Moslems . A Changed Climate Between the first election and the latest , the political climate has changed drastically . The Assembly election was a family affair of the men who had staged the European uprising here on May 13 , 1958 . The slogan of these men was " integration , " meaning the territorial incorporation of Algeria in France as a province . This election was put down by most observers at the time as a " setback " for General de Gaulle . The general had hoped he would get men representing a wide range of public opinion , including moderate nationalists , as partners for consultation about Algeria 's future . Instead , with a few variations , he got only one type of Deputy . The story was different in the municipal election . That was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boycott was no longer effective . Moslem candidates were available in a sufficient number to elect 11,500 councilmen . Some of them had been known for moderately nationalistic views in the past . The European extremists suffered their first setback in several areas , Finally , in the senatorial election , the " integrationists " of May 13 suffered outright defeat . How profoundly the political mood of the country had changed became evident when candidates , at beginning of the campaign , announced the labels under which they proposed to run . Hardly any of these election programs as much as mentioned the word " integration . " Where a candidate was calling for integration , he did so obliquely . Candidates Assailed Four of the five former Senators who entered the race won re-election in contests against " integrationists . " All four had been bitterly attacked during the May 13 uprising as exponents of the " rotten regime of political parties . " ' One of them , Senator Cherif Ben Abyles. a Moslem elected in the east Algerian city of Constantine . came out after his victory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He called for negotiation with Ferhat Abbas , Premier of the rebel , government . It would obviously be wrong ' to term all the new senators from Algeria " liberals " bent on leading Algeria into some kind , of autonomous status . Many or them are elderly persons of great wealth acquired by their families in the shipping , winegrowing or publishing business , whose interests are basically the same as those of the extremist settlers who staged the May uprising . Put they generally are men who would be willing to go along with any political solution short of independence that President de Gaulle might choose . Since the President has ruled out independence , they have no qualms in deferring to his judgment . Time has also mitigated the ' fervor of some of the " integra.il tionist " Deputies elected seven months ago . Pierre Lagaillarde , a Deputy from Algiers , who led a mob assault on a government building in the uprising , promised after his election last fall that he would resign if the Government failed to proclaim Algeria 's integration in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Other Algerian Deputies planned three months ago to force the Government 's hand by submitting to the National Assembly a bill for " integration " and insisting on a showdown vote . After they had been invited to private talks by Premier Michel Debi* they gave up their project . Instead , they merely submitted a " report " containing their argument . Debate on this report started last Thursday . Latitude for de Gaulle The upshot of this political evolution , observers here believe , is that President de Gaulle now has a virtually free hand to carry out his own policy . His own plans for the future relationship between France and Algeria have never been spelled out beyond the promise that Algeria will have a " choice position " and that her particular " personality " will be respected . The President refuses to close the door to any solution short of independence . Meanwhile , his Government has carried out a series of practical measures that strengthen the central government 's administrative control over Algeria without prejudice to the question of principle .    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        