@@713216

txt British exports to the Soviet Union will never be allowed to " damage essential defense needs , " Prime Minister Attlee said tonight in a party broadcast in which he coupled a defense of Labor Government policies with a sharp personal attack on Winston Churchilli leader of the Opposition . Mr. Attlee said that eighteen months ago the Government had acted to prevent the export of all tools and equipment " regarded as of key importance for strategic purposes , " except for contracts signed before Feb. 19 , 1949 . The shipment of machine tools to the Soviet Union of which Mr. Churchill complained in his speech a week ago tonight , came under this latter category , Mr. Attlee declared . In supplying them , Britain was merely carrying out her part of an honest bargain that the Soviet Union had fulfilled , Mr. Attlee asserted . He referred to the trade agreement of ? 1947 , under which the Soviet Union supplied grain and timber in exchange for machinery and raw materials to be delivered later . " It has never been our policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eastern countries of Europe in trading matters , " Mr. Attlee said . On the face of it the Prime Minister 's speech may be a little disappointing to those in Washington hoping for a tightening of the British control system . What he said , in effect , was that Britain would not export to the Soviet Union anything she needed for defense . That is not quite the same thing as promising not to export anything the Soviet Union needs for military purposes . Mr. Attlee said that steps had been taken to keep Soviet inspectors , assigned to British factories , from seeing things that did not concern them . 1 Mr. Churchill had asserted that some factories making machinery for the Soviet Union were engaged also on secret orders for the British forces . . Stung by Mr. Churchill 's criticisms of his government on the ground of hesitant , vacillating indecision , he retorted by depicting the wartime leader as a man whose judgment had been dulled by " blind partisanship " and the confirmed belief that the British people could accomplish nothing save under his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his insistence that Parliament must be recalled before Sept. 12 . Mr. Attlee explained that the reason for the delay was that measures for the strengthening of the armed forces and for the building up of a collective defense system in the West were in progress . It was his judgment , he said , that had led him to the belief that Parliament should be called together when it could " take action " rather than merely engage in another general debate . Mr. Attlee denied that the Government had hesitated and bungled the sending of troops to Korea . Those responsible for the operations there  --  presumably Gen. Douglas  --  had indicated that a balanced force , such as Britain planned to send later was preferred to the infantry available at Hong Kong , he said . However , Mr. Attlee declared that when the call did come for immediate reinforcements , they were moved quickly from Hong Kong . To Mr. Churchill 's complaint that Government policy kept undergoing revision , Mr. Attlee said that of course it did . It had to keep pace with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope of cooperation with the Soviet Union , he added , but the Russians had wrecked that . At first , while there was still hope of an international settlement Britain had placed economic recovery above defense , Mr. Attlee declared . But now , as Britain approached the turning point in her economic affairs , the international situation made it imperative that a larger ' part of her resources be devoted to defense , he said The situation in Korea had spotlighted the danger , he continued , but otherwise the situation was not very different from that which prevailed during the last election campaign when , he pointed out , Mr. Churchill , with all his claims to prevision had failed to warn the voters of the new burdens to come but promised lower taxes and more Government spending . While Mr. Churchill was " making speeches " Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin was " acting to build ' collective forces for the maintenance of peace . " That the West was now engaged in rearming was not of its own choice , Mr. Attlee noted . It was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " he said . If the Soviet leaders had the will , he said , they could join the rest of the world . to use the discoveries of science for the common good of mankind . " They know quite well that we are prepared at any time to discuss with them fully all differences , " he continued . " It is not a question of method , or of place , or of persons . All that is required is the will . " For British politics , Mr. Attlee 's chiding of Mr. Churchill was unusually personal and pointed . He described him as " a prima donna " who seldom honored Parliament with his presence except when he , himself , was speaking . Mr. Churchill , he said , criticized the Government for waste of manpower in the services but he hardly ever was in the House when the de- Fense appropriations were dis- ' cussed and debated . To Mr. Churchill 's charge that socialism was dividing the nation , Mr. Attlee retorted that the Opposition leader was " more party-minded than anyone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a chance to run down the achievements of the British people under socialism to the detriment of Brit-1 ish prestige abroad . The Prime Minister accused Mr.1 Churchill of behaving mischievously in Parliament and of forcing constant attendance of government supporters by ' repeated votes on trivial issues . He said that Mr. Churchill even " embarrasses " his own friends , As one example of Mr. Churchill 's lack of judgment , " Mr. Attlee cited an earlier attack on the Government for not joining the talks on the Schuman plan for the integration of European heavy industry and the subsequent realization within the Conservative party that some surrender of sovereignty was essential .                     