@@719905

txt The Federal Reserve Board , in a major switch in policy , authorized an increase today in the discount rate at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco . It was changed from 1% to 2 per cent . According to experience , the other eleven Reserve banks , including New York , will soon follow San Francisco in going to the higher rate . However , it may take a little longer than usual for the whole system to reach the new level . The switch was a direct signal that the Federal Reserve considered recovery from the recession to be solidly under way and that renewed inflationary pressure was now the threat . Never before has the system moved toward higher interest rates so early in the recovery period , particularly with 5,000 , - , 000 people still unemployed . Bank Borrowings Low The e , scount rate is the interest rate charged member banks who borrow from the Federal Reserve . These borrowings h- ve been extremely low in recent months . Thus the main effect of the move may be psychological . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Government policy . Ironically , today 's move coincided with a reduction in Britain of the discount rate , which is called the bank rate there . A mild recession is just getting under way across'the Atlantic , and the authorities in Britain are interested in spurring activity . The British rate was reduced from 5 to 4% per cent . Reserve Board officials , as usual , discussed their move cautiously . They took note of the , recent improvement in the business statistics and a surge of inflationary sentiment that has struck the financial markets , This sentiment has produced a sharp rise in the stock market and a sharp fall in the market for Government bonds . Follows the Market They also pointed out that money conditions had already tightened somewhat , producing a rise in sensitive short-term interest rates , such as the rate on ninety-one-day Treasury bills . To that extent , today 's move followed rather than led the market . Behind the move today was one other major factor . Top authorities in the Federal Reserve are convinced , and have said so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the recovery from the 1953-54 recession . They feel that the subsequent inflation might have been less if monetary restraint had been applied sooner . It has long been evident that they had no intention of letting the same thing happen again if they could prevent it . Hence the quick restraining move , even though the degree of restraint is very mild . The increase , effective tomorrow , was requested by the San Francisco Bank . Significance Discounted The fact that the first increase came on the West Coast was not regarded here as of major significance . The recession has always been less severe there than elsewhere , and the San Francisco Hank was behind the others when the discount rate was moving down . It was considered a natural innovator in a move toward higher rates . But the main point was that the board here in Washington approved any increase in the rate . The discount rate reached its post-war peak last August just as the boom was about to turn into a recession . At that time it was fixed at 31 , E per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Federal Reserve felt that recession had begun , the rate was reduced from 3 ' , to 3 per cent . It fell in stages between November , and April down to the level of 11% per cent that had prevailed until today . The Federal Reserve affects day-to-day conditions in the ' money market by its buying and selling of Government securities . The degree to which it intends to tighten money will be reflected in these transactions and their effect on the lendable funds of the banking system . Figures issued tonight indicated a mild tightening in this respect as well . However , the basic condition of money is still " easy " ? meaning that banks have plenty to lend . Wall Street Surprised Although rumors or an impending rise in the discount rate circulated yesterday throughout Wall Street , news of the action was received with disbelief . A consensus was that the Federal Reserve Board , in approving the quarter point rise in the San Francisco District , was paying more attention to its fears of an inflationary rise in stock prices than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were highly critical of the move . They noted that less than a month ago the Federal Reserv- had been forced to step into the Government securities market to " correct disorderly conditions . " The new move , they said , was certain to touch off new selling of Governments and might force the board again to intervent to correct disorder . One view was that the change of the discount rate , although the first rise since the institution of " easy money " last November , was merely in keeping with the sharp rise in other short-term money rates . The auction rate on Treasury ninety-one-day bills jumped from 1.165 per cent the previous week to 1.524 per cent on Monday , the highest level since March . Yesterday , bills were quoted at 1.63 per cent bid . Observers note that the Federal Reserve seldom permits the bill rate , regarded as the key short-term interest rate , to exceed the discount rate .                     