@@714785

txt A 6,000-word platform for 1952 , leveling a drumfire of bitter accusations against long Democratic rule and pledging a general clean-up in ' domestic and foreign affairs , was adopted without a. dissenting vote by the Republican National Convention today . The text of the Republican platform is printed on Page 8 . The expected battle over the controversial civil rights plank , threatened earlier by Negro delegates who attacked it as . being " too weak , " did not develop . Instead , Harold C. Burton of New York announced to the convention that he and his formerly protesting fellow delegates had concluded that the plank could be construed as calling for a compulsory fair employment practices act , and seconded the move for the platform 's immediate adoption . While the mass of delegates appeared to be trying to determine whether they had heard Mr. Burton right  --  this was the first time such a public argument for the plank had been made  --  Representative Joseph W. Martin Jr. , minority leader of the House of Representatives and the convention 's permanent chairman , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went up . After a few more speeches the delegates turned their attention to the nominating addresses that got under way early this evening . The civil rights plank contends that discriminations in employment because of race , color , religion or national origin primarily are matters for the individual states to handle . It adds that state law in this field should not be duplicated by Federal statute , or interference in administration , but suggests that Congress enact supplementary legislation . This plank had drawn quick fire from such organizations as Americans for Democratic Action and the American Council on Human Rights , which had seen no compulsion in it . The change of position by the Burton group appeared to be premised on a situation that went far beyond the civil rights plank and into the Presidential nomination ( race itself . While the Burton group , made up of delegates from five states besides New York , sought to offer as a substitute the civil rights plank of the Republican platform of 1918 , viewed widely for four years as " compulsory , " at least two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Gov . Alfred E. Driscoll of New Jersey , saw danger in such a move . A fight Oyez the civil rights ' plank , Senator Ives and Governor Driscoll were said to have told Mr. Benton , might start a floor battle that would join Southern delegates wanting the nomination of Senator Robert A. Taft in a coalition with Northern delegates backing General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower . Floor Fight Dropped Such a coalition , it was figured , might hurt General Eisenhower vitally . Mr. Burton was said to have talked this piece of dynamite over with his colleagues , with the result that the planned floor fight was abandoned . The reading of the platform by Senator Eugene D. Millikin of Colorado , resolutions committee chairman , consumed an hour . Much of this hour was spent by delegates milling in the aisles and intrastate discussions and wrangles . The delegates were called to order twice , and once the reading was stopped for a period sufficient in get them back into their seats . From the acclamation that burst at the conclusion of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Millikin word had been heard and absorbed . The platform thus took its official place in the campaign . Draftsmen , including not only those who actually penned the original versions asj planks were turned in by eleveh subcommittees , but those who fought for or agreed with revisions , pridefully called it " a fighting platform . " It started out in its preamble with such charges as these : That the party in power had deprived the citizenry of precious liberties , had disrupted internal tranquility by fostering class strife , choked progress by unnecessary and crushing taxation , debauched the dollar , weakened selfgovernment , shielded traitors and created enemies abroad , That it had turned loose " a swarm of arrogant bureaucrats " ? ' and their agents  --  who " meddle intolerably in the lives and occupations of our citizens . " Corruption Discussed " We charge , " it added , " that there has been corruption in high places , and that examples of dishonesty and dishonor have shamed the moral standards of the American people . " Much of the content of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in textual form , days ago . It calls for " utmost speed " in developing a military power that would be able to " deter sudden attack or promptly and decisively defeat it . " This was the Republican platform 's approach to a program of giving great emphasis to air power , as against what had been known in Congress previosuly as " a balanced force . " The platform holds , in effect , that the " balance " to date has meant an equal division , or nearly an equal division , of defense funds between the Army , the Navy and the Air Force . The " balance " meant by the platform is a distribution of strength designed to meet attack from the only potential enemy now on the horizon , Russia . This balance , it is maintained , calls for air supremacy first of all . The platform had twenty-four planks in all , the product of the eleven subcommittees . As to foreign policy , the platform rejected isolation , pledged the party to collective security and mutual aid , but put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and economic stability of the United States . It promised to stop Communist infiltration of Government departments and agencies . It gave a pledge , in effect , that once again the postman would ring twice , that the mail would be delivered more than once a day . Under the pledges made , the controversial loyalty and security programs , under which the platform said the Administration had cried " red herring " and blocked investigations , would be overhauled . The party also promised to overhaul the " crushing " taxation system , " the senseless use of controls , " the " false " and " bureaucratic " farm programs . Balanced Budget Pledged A balanced budget , a reduced national debt , a cut in taxes , an effective war on inflation , a death knell to the Brannan farm plan and a scotching of the proposed compulsory health insurance program were pledged . In the field of labor the platform backed up the Taft-Hartley LaborManagement Act of the Republican Eightieth Congress , which the Truman Administration has tried unsuccessfully to repeal . The instrument , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time and experience show to be desirable , and which further protect the rights of labor , management and the public . " We condemn , " the platform added , " the President 's seizure of plants and industries to force the ' settlement of labor disputes by claims of inherent Constitutional powers . " Dealing with what it called " the present Administration 's sordid record of corruption , " the platform contended that the American people had been " shocked and sickened " by it , and promised : " The Republican party pledges to put an end to corruption , to oust the crooks and grafters , to administer tax laws fairly and impartially and to restore honest government to the people . "                     