@@713064

txt Expenditure of $14,000,000 to develop a section of the South Boston waterfront owned by the New York , New Haven &; Hartford Railroad has been advocated by the Port of Boston Authority . The authority is already engaged in building or planning new piers in a 520,000.000 harbor development program using property purchased from the Boston &; : Maine Railroad in Charlestown and from the Boston &; Albany Railroad in East Boston . An application for funds has been made to the Legislature to prepare detailed plans for a passenger and cargo terminal and industrial center on Northern Avenue . It was filed by Judge James R. Nolen , chairman of the Port of Boston Authority . Scope of Plan This proposed ctevetopmem would take in the old piers and adjoining land extending from Fort Point Channel to Commonwealth Pier number five in South Boston . In announcing the projected development for this section of the waterfront , an area which has been allowed to " go to seed " during the past decade , John M. Bresnahan , acting port director , says that construction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep pace with the waterfront development programs now under way in all major United States ports . " Industrial Center It is especially important . he points out , that Boston have modern passenger ship piers and a central waterfront area for industrial firms with maritime interests . The South Boston project calls for construction of a three-story building to be used as an industrial center , a combination passenger and cargo terminal and two freight clocks . " Resurgence of passenger trade in the Port of Boston , " Mr. Bresnahan asserts , " demands . construction of a modern passenger facility . " Also under consideration by the port authority , he added , is the possibility of a foreign trade zone in the South Boston area , plus an International House for reception of foreign visitors and the exhibitions of New England products similar to one in New Orleans , La.                     