@@714905

txt The British Government intends to ask for high-level trade and financial discussions with the new United States Administration at an early date in 1953 . These discussions would not be merely one more in the series of talks relating to specific United States - British difficulties over American aid , military programs , stockpiling and other current problems but rather a thorough re-examination of the bases of Western commercial , monetary and financial policy . The British hope that the discussions can be entered Into on the assumption that neither policies nor institutions , such as the International Monetary Fund , that have been the vehicle of international economic cooperation since World War be considered exempt from criticism . " Everything must be thrown into the hopper and shaken up to see what it looks like in.the light of experience , " is the way one authoritative British source put the problbm today . United States sources in London familiar with British plans in this respect are very glad that the British are thinking in such terms but are also very anxious that , if the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ level they go well prepared in advance and with clear ideas of what both they and other members ? of the Commonwealth want - and are able to do . Two Visits Are Indicated There has been a tendency on the part of British Chancellors of the . Exchequer of recent years , on whom the burden of handling the British end of such negotiations falls , to go to Washington without anything very definite in mind , according . to United States officials with experience in such matters . Things are too serious now for that , the Americans feel . It is quite likely that R. A. Butler , Chancellor of the Exchequer in the Conservative Government , will pay two visits to Washingtqn after the new Administration is installed . He is known to be sincerely sorry to have had to jniss the Mexico City mehting of the International Monetary Fund and the governors of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the opportunities for friendly contacts with the heads of those institutions that such gatherings . afford . He may , therefore , pay a sort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new United States Secretary of the Treasury early in. the year . The second trip , however , would bring the Chancellor of the Exchequer as head of a full-strength delegation of officials , and possibly other ministers , prepared to cover the whole range of Western economic policy in discussions with a shnilarly , powerful delegation from the - interested departments in Washington . This , probably , could not take place before the spring , it is felt here . These plans , which are mot generally known in London as yet , explain some of the mystery that has surrounded , or at least been con structed around , the fact that Mr. Butler , alone of the leading finance ministers of the world , did not attend the Mexico ' City gathering of the Fund and the Bank governors . On the Continent , and , apparently also in Canada ; his failure to attend has been regarded as some sort of obscure British slap at the Fund and the Bank . According to British sources that certainly should know , it was nothing of the kind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Government 's consideration prior to the meeting of the Commonwealth Finance and Prime Ministers in November . The first phase of these meet= ings begins next week with the arrival of top Treasury officials from Australia . New Zealand , Canada , South Africa , India and Pakistan : Mr. Butler could not leave this preparation to civil servants because issues requiring Cabinet consideration are involved , including , among other things , determining how far the British should go in urging other Commonwealth members to readjust their tariffs to meet Japanese competition and to favor British exports over the products of non-British countries . But the Commonwealth talks themselves are only " stage one " in the British terminology , which is itself preparatory to two further stages in a thoroughgoing reassessment of the world economic situation . Stage two is to involve an effort to straighten out Britain 's lines with her European partners in the Organization for European Economic Cooperation so that when stage three  --  the talks with the United States  --  arrives Britain can , in a sense , be spokesman for both the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered proposals for changes in institutions and policies that will represent a true " Western " view . This ambitious program still is in its early stages . It would be quite impossible for anyone involved on the British side to say now just what the British position will turn out to be on many issues . Bits and . pieces of a policy , such as a higher price for gold to improve Britain 's reserve position , restrictions on the free movement of capital between Britain and the overseas sterling area as a curb to ' the misdirection of investment , more tariff discrimination against United States products , and an international agreement on a longterm stockpiling program for raw materials , are being actively discussed here but it can not be assumed that any of them will remain in the final result .                     