@@719685

txt The Administration is backing legislation that would put the currently-suspended import tax back ori copper now , rather than wait until June 30 , when the law suspending the duty expires . But the Government gave no indication of its attitude toward bills now before Congress for a four-cent a pound import tax at a price below 30 cents a pound and no duty at 30 cents a pound or above . These bills have the support of the domestic copper mining industry . The Administration 's position was disclosed in a report by Secretary of the Interior Seaton to the Senate Finance Committee endorsing the so-called Watkins Bill to revoke the present sus- , pension . A spokesman - for the Interior Department stressed that the Secretary 's support was for the Watkins Bill and did not cover other legislation . The present suspension is effective as long as the price of copper is 24 cents a pound or more . ' U. S. prices currently range from 25 cents to 231/2 cents a pound . If the price should drop below 24 cents a pound for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the tax would by two cents a pound . Once in effect again , the tax would be two cents a pound whenever copper 's price was below 24 cents a pound , and 1.8 cents a pound at or above 24 cents . After June 30 , it would be 1.7 cents a pound at the 24-cent price , or higher . Both the weather and labor difficulties last week gave some aid to the ailing copper industry by cutting output , helping to bring excess supply into closer balance with reduced demand . Voluntary cutbacks made so far by world producers have failed to accomplish this purpose . Braden 's Output Trimmed Kennecott Copper Corp . announced that winter conditions at its Braden mine in Chile will lower April output by 4,000 tons to 13,000 tons , or 2314% below recent monthly output of 17,000 tons . The lower monthly production , a seasonal occurrence , generally is in effect for six months , the company said . Chile 's seasons are the opposite of those in the U.S. The output cut at Braden results from a decrease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hydro-electric power plants in the cold months . This limits power and therefore both mine and plant operations . The same conditions prompted cutbacks by roughly the same tonnages at Braden in 1957 . The strike that has closed Anaconda Co. ' s big Chuquicamata copper mine in Chile now has lasted for about half a month . It has caused the loss to date of about 11,000 tons . The property has been producing around 22.000 tons of copper a month . Efforts to settle the dispute over a new wage contract continue , but have failed so far to reach an agreement . The mine was struck April 1 , when the old cdntract expired . Clyde E. Weed , Anaconda president , said in Chicago that " the price of copper is expected to increase in Europe because of the decline in supplies due to the Chuquicamata strike . " The Anaconda executive said , however , " no rise in the price of domestic copper is foreseen unless - general business picks up . " He added that any general increase in the demand for copper would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but I do n't think there will be any increase in production until the present stocks are worked down to a manageable leveL " Labor Trouble in Rhodesia Labor and management were at odds in the Northern Rhodesia , Africa , copper mining belt . This is the third largest source of world copper supply ; in 1957 , it turned out an estimated 448:000 short tons of copper , or about 37,300 tons a month . Negotiations between the big copper mining companies there and the European Workers Union on company proposals to reduce coats by eliminating certain inefficient and uneco- , nomical work practices ended last week in failure , and the matter was declared in dispute . The companies promptly notified the union that on May 1 , they will start putting into effect the elimination of thesa  --  praatices . The union can petition the Northern Rhodesian government to place the proposals in arbitration . There was no indication , however , as to what the union would do , although advices from Rhodesia said it was not believed a strike would be called in protest prior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , particularly in view of the depressed and unsettled state of world copper markets . Demand for copper , lead and zinc in the U.S. last week continued slow , with no signs of immediate improvement . Copper 's price in some U.S. and European markets were marked down , while price tags on special grade zinc were lowered . The centa-pound cut in lead 's price'to 12 cents a pound the week before failed to arouse any consumer buying . In the U.S. , custom smelters cut their copper price a halt-cent a pound to 23Y2 cents . cancelling a half-cent rise of March 24 , that had followed a similar 5i-cent advance to 23 , cents March 20 . Large producers kept their price unchanged at 25 cents , but reported demand as slow . The drop in the custom smelter price reflected a considerable slackening in demand for the metal after their price hit 24 cents a pound , as well as the reappearance of dealer cbpper at price concessions . The big Belgian Congo producer , Union Miniere du Haut Katanga , at mid-week cut its price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York , The action reflected previous price declines in the London metal market . The cut by Katanga was the first since February 27 , 1958 , when it was lowered by 0.45-cent to 20.425 cents a pound . a 10-year low . During March , the Belgian price was raised six consecutive , times to a high of 22 675 cents . The volatile market for copper on the London Metal Exchange ranged in price from a low of 21.43 cents a pound bid , up to 2134 cents and ended at 21.59 bid , off nearly Ni-cent from the week before . While failing for the most part to reflect the strike in Chile , there were reports late last week from London that spot deliveries of Chilean copper were becoming . scarce and some consumers who needed electrolytic wire bars were paying premiums of up to 114 cents a pound over the Metal Exchange price to get it .                     