@@714599

txt Soviet Russia , in its reply to the Big Three western powers , has rejected the idea of a United Nations commission to investigate the possibility of free German elections and has ' proposed instead establishment of a Big Four commission . The Soviet answer , made public by the French Foreign Office , " reaffirms the Soviet point of view as set forth in its original March 10 note calling for a unified Germany and Big Four talks for a German peace treaty . The March 10 note proposed an immediate BiBg Four conference to write a peace treaty for all of Germany . The Russians promised to agree to a German army , navy , and police force but ruled out any contribution of German military might to the European Army or the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . West to Consult On March 25 , the western Big Three replied with a demand that Moscow allow free elections in all Germany before any four-power treaty could be discussed . The West insisted that the UN commission should be allowed to investigate the possibilities for such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a united Germany from entering into " associations with other countries . " United States Secretary of State Dean Acheson reportedly has ordered full consultation with Britain and France before any American response is made to new Soviet proposals for unifying Germany . The State Department laid down a temporary ban on any information about the note pending its expected early publication by Moscow . Firm on Boundary The preliminary reaction of informed officials was that the Soviet note was not in any sense conclusive on the whole complicated German issue and that further exchanges would be necessary . Detailed consultations will be held among the British , French , and American governments before any official reply is made . Russia , in its reply delivered in Moscow April 9 , also stood firm inits insistence that the OderNeisse line is Germany 's permanent eastern boundary . In proposing that Germany be allowed to have national army , air , and naval , forces , Russia reversed its postwar policy . Referring to this about-face in its latest note , Moscow said that since Japan has been given the right to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refused to approve  --  there was no point in restricting the Germans .                     