@@718849

txt A special subcommittee of the Joint Congressional Committee on Atomic Energy will set out tomorrow in scientific search for an answer to one of the most vital questions of the atomic age . The question is whether man is imperiling himself and future generations by continued testing of atomic weapons . The hearings by the subcommittee may produce no positive answer to a question that is troubling scientists and worrying the public . And like scientists and statesmen before them , the subcommittee members are likely to find there are too many scientific unknowns and philosophical imponderables for any man to make a decisive judgment about the dangers of testing atomic weapons . No Prior Judgments The hearings , however , should provide the most definitive study yet made on how much radiation is created in the atomic testings and what effect it is having on man . During the hearings some , of the confusion surrounding the weapons testing should be stripped away , and some basic facts and agreements on radiation established . Meanwhile , Lewis L. Strauss , chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuclear tests did not present a radiation hazard . Unlike most Congressional hearings , the subcommittee study s starting out in an air of scientific impartiality with no precon:eived judgments or objectives . lepresentative Chet Holifield , Democrat of California , as chairman of the subcommittee , has laid down the ground rule that this is to be a scientific investigation and not a political one . Witnesses are being cautioned to stick to presenting facts and not to leap ahead to judgments . Some forty prominent scientists have been scheduled to testify on atomic radiation , from its creation in an atomic explosion to its fall-out from the atmosphere and stratosphere and to its final absorption by plant , animal and human life . The hearings come at a time when public concern over atomic radiation is mushrooming like an atomic cloud and the debate among scientists is swirling with all the confusion left by an atomic explosion . The debate has reached such proportions that it is having an impact on the international policies of the three atomic powers  --  the United States , Britain and the Soviet Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a psychological disadvantage . With their atomic tests just beginning , the two countries are sensitive about suggestions that weapons testing should be halted . With it tests apparently concluded , the Soviet Union is in a position to renew its proposal for halting the atomic tests  --  a proposal that the United States and Britain say they can not accept for the sake of the free world 's defenses until a safeguarded system of atomic disarmament has been established . At the core of the international concern and scientific debate is the radioactive material produced in the explosion of an atomic weapon . This material can vary in amount from tons to a few pounds depending upon the explosion . If the weapon is set off near the ground , tons of dust and dirt are sucked up into the fireball and made radioactive . If the weapon is set off high in the air , the amount of radioactive material produced is small . Theri it is about two pounds for a nuclear bomb with force of 20,000 tons of TNT , such as dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force of 1,000,000 tons of TNT . On these points the scientists agree . Their differences arise over how soon and how much of the radioactive material returns to earth and what effect it has on man . The fall-out from an atomic explosion varies according to many factors  --  the size of the explosion , Whether the fireball touches the surface , and wind and atmospheric conditions . In a large explosion near the surface , about 50 per cent of the heavy radioactive material sucked up into the fireball falls out quickli  --  within the first 200 to 300 miles . This is known as local fall-out . Since the average radioactive life of the material is about one month , local fallout poses a danger to the area near an explosion . In an air burst the radioactive material is much smaller and it falls out much more gradually as it drifts around the earth . As a rough rule , weapons whose force is measured in kilotons  --  or thousands of tons of TNT  --  blast the radioactive material only into the atmosphere and the material falls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the general latitude of the explosion . Weapons with a megaton  --  or a million tons of force -- drive much of the material into the stratosphere , where it can remain for years , gradually falling down over the surface of the world . It is the world-wide fall-out that is the source of most international concern . It also is this fall-out about which scientists know the least . The present official estimate is that the radioactive material - driven into the stratosphere returns to earth at the rate of about 10 per cent per year . This estimate , however , is being subjected to renewed in vestigation by the Defense Department . If the material remains in the air for a month or more , it loses much of its radioactivity . There are , however , some materials with a long radioactive life that present a long-term threat . These include Cesium-137 , which emits penetrating gamma rays , and the much publicized Strontium-90 , which is chemically similar to calcium . Strontium-90 can cause bone cancer ' or leukemia after passing through the food chain , which consists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water or air and eventually becoming a component of human food . Man can be subjected to radiation from fall-out both externally and internally  --  externally by the increased radioactivity in his environment and internally by radioactive material absorbed in the food chain . May Cause Mutations The effect of the radiation on man can be immedaite or stretch over generations . The radiation can cause physiological damage to the present generation , with such effects as leukemia , bone cancer , or shortened life span . The radiation also can affect future generations by causing genetic mutations or changes in the hereditary pattern . Just how much radiation is necessary to cause physical damage to the present generation or genetic mutations in future generatfons ? Scientists differ sharply on this point . In effect , the two sides part company at the so-called " threshold " of radiation effects on man . It is generally agreed that the fall-out radiation from the present rate of weapons testing is small in comparison to the radiation to which man is subjected by nature from- the earth and air and from medical treatment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if weapons tests were continued at the rate of the last five years , the external radiation from fallout would amount to about a tenth of a roentgen over a thirtyyear period . A roentgen ? is a technical measurement of radiation . In comparison , the thirty-year dose from natural radiation would amount to an average of 3.1 roentgens , according to the academy 's latest estimates , and 4.6 roentgens from medical sources . The relatively small dose of radiation from fall-out that man receives is repeatedly emphasized by officials who give assurances about the safety of weapons testing . These officials contend that the radiation from fall-out is too small to pose any threat to the present or future generations . Their underlying assumption is that a greater amount of radiation is necessary before the " threshold " is reached at which fall-out radiation will begin to have detectable harmful It is basically this " Mr= assumption that is challenged lrA scientists who warn of the dens ger of continued weapons testa ing . They assume that any o.401 ditional radiation , however small ' will have some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a good example of how the two schools diverge because of their different basil assumptions . Dr. Willard Ir . Libby , the scientist member of the Atomic Energy Commission , ' estimates that the present aver. age level of Strontium-90 in the general population is less than 1 per cent of the maximum per ? miscible concentration . That con. eentration also is far short of the level necessary to cause deft . nitely detectable effects , Da , Libby believes . The opposing scientific group , however , contends that even the present low level of Strontium. 90 is causing bone cancer , leu ? kemia and genetic mutations in a small proportion of the popula , tion . Which assumption is correct is not dasy to prove and prob . ably can not be determined defi ? nitely for several generations . Scientists can not experiment with radiation on human beings to determine its physiological and genetic effects . In the years ahead it will be difficult to determine whether cases of bone cancer or genetic changes were induced by radiation fall-out or , resulted from natural causes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            