@@716286

txt There still are more questions than answers to what the free world Intends to do in Southeast Asia , but perhaps the following background will dispel at least some of the current shadows and confusion : Plans are in motion to start five-power military talks here on what to do about security in Southeast Asia . Participating powers would be the United States , Britain , France , Australia , and New Zealand . These talks could be outside the Geneva conference and separate from American efforts to start forming a Southeast Asian security group Their purpose would be to see what the ANZUS pact powers , plus Britain and France . are ready to do to guarantee a truce if one is reached at the Geneva conference , or to stop a disintegration of Indochina if the Communist military successes continue . These talks were tentatively arranged while Secretary of State John Foster Dulles was at Geneva and now are at the point of being carried out . Eisenhower Position The United States is still anxious , President Eisenhower made clear at his weekly press conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security pact which he called for more than a year ago Contrary to some press reports , he has not written Britain out of any such defense arrangement ? only emphasized that he wants to get on with the talks , and if Britain for domestic and diplomatic reasons does not want to participate in such talks for the moment , that should not hold up initial efforts by the United States . It is to be noted that President Eisenhower did not take a position on whether Britain would or would not join a Southeast Asian pact , because he said he did n't know . Then , when pressed to say whether such a pact could be built without British cooperation , the President declared as an indispensable point that at least the proper Asiatic nations , plus Australia and New Zealand , should be members . It was obvious from the hesitation with which he took up this issue that he was more thinking aloud  --  or talking off the cuff , to put it another way ? than announcing fixed American policy . His comment that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satisfactory also pointed up a hope that the British would participate  --  but his unwillingness to call them indispensable . Britain Reassured After Mr. Eisenhower had said it , however , it was obvious that he had opened himself to charges of brushing off British cooperation . In consequence , is lot of diplomatic telephones were busy , perhaps futilely , trying to make clear that the President was not deliberately cold-shouldering Britain or purposely straining Anglo-American relations . After all , it was explained , it has been obvious for days that London and Washington differed fundamentally on the proper timing of collective talks on a Southeast Asian pact . Britain holds that it is unwise to start them now  --  that they could upset delicate negotiations at Geneva , The United States argues that only if they ate started now and the Communists are given some sign that the free world means business in Southeast Asia will the latter negotiate seriously at Geneva , Also , it is well understood in administration circles that London has both left-wing Labor leader Aneurin Bevan and Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be well understood in London that President Eisenhower has Senators William F. Knowland and Joseph R. McCarthy to deal with on foreign-policy issues . The United States position is that talks now will not hurt and could help Geneva ; and that anyway the process of building a regional defense arrangement Is involved and inevitably long drawn out , so there should be no time wasted . Bilateral Talks Continue It needs also to be remembered that bilateral talks are still going on between France and the United States as to just what the United States is prepared to do to buttress the French should things really begin collapsing in Indochina . There are the five-power military talks about to open here ; the American efforts to get security pact talks started with any nation that will talk ; the French interest in pinning down the United States to specific comntitments . As it is somewhat confusing to the diplomats themselves , At is no wonder it is more cloudy to the man in the street . It may be an oversimplification , but the ' United States is curreirtly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stage for a situation in which it could feel justified to make a larger contribution to the struggle in Indochina . The Geneva conference provides a classic illustration of w hat Mr. Chou meant . In three days the Far Eastern conference will be exactly one month old . During this period spokesmen of the Communist world have met delegates of the West at formal plenary sessions , at informal restricted sessions , and in private tete-a-tetes , discussing by ruins Korea and Indochina . The box score to date as far as any real progress toward agreement goes is exactly rem . Top diplomats at the Geneva conference held a series of private talks May 20 which may determine the fate of the deadlocked Indochina parley , the Associated Press reports . The United States was reported ready to w rite off the negotiations as a failure unless the Communists drastically changed their line On Korea the case rests Though probably one restricted meeting and poi haps one plenary meeting will be held to wind it up , there is what amounts to a tacit understanding to leave matters as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On the more urgent problem of Indochina , three consecutive restricted meetings have disclosed no basis for agreement other than virtually turning over the entire area to the Communists who at no level have indicated anything but complete intransigeance on matters of substance . Even when some preposterous proposal of theirs appears to have been successfully disposed of , they presently drag it out again , as with their renewed insistence on inclusion in the conference of the paper regimes of Khmer and Pathet Lao , which were improvised for the occasion , This has blocked all progress at these meetings . To be sure , there are certain distinctions and divisions of roles . Whereas the Vietminh delegate is uniformly adamant and aggressive , on some days Soviet Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov appears more affable than on others and                     