@@714310

txt After an interval of only two months the North Atlantic Council meets again , this time in Rome , to consider the political , economic and military difficulties that have arisen in the Western defense Program . Many of these difficultieshad been anticipated and need cause no surprise . They are inherent both in the scope of the project and in the fact that its success rests on agreement among no fewer than fifteen nations , each of which has its own views , its own special interests and its own special problems . But there is no denying that the sum total of these difficulties has proved to be greater than was originally foreseen , and that the problem has been aggravated by the Korean war and the continued weakness of the European economies . For these reasons the North Atlantic Council now brings together the Foreign , Defense and Economic Ministers of its twelve member nations to search for ways and means of doping with the situation . The problems that face the Council et ust not , of course , obscure either the necessity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That progt6ss has already changed the atmosphere in Europe and the military realities throughout the world , as compared with the panicky days following the outbreak of the Korean war . Since that time the North Atlantic Treaty nations have increased the strength of their land armies from 1,800,000 men to more than 3,100,000 , and their air and naval forces have grown at least as much . They have further added to their strength by associating with themselves the fighting forces of Greece and Turkey , providing aid to Communist but dissident Yugoslavia , and embarking on the organization of the Middle Eactern Command . They have put into Western Germany an organized fighting force which within a few weeks will reach fourteen divisions comprising 400,000 men , including six American divisions , as a nucleus for General Eisenhower 's command . Finally , they are perfecting plans for a European army to comprise some twelve German divisions , for which the way has been paved by the agreement on a general " peace contract " reached in Paris yesterday between the American , . British and French Foreign Ministers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remaining difficulties are not insuperable . In fact , the military problems that must still be solved seem to lend themselves to prompt solution . At least the military leaders of the Atlantic Treaty nations have been able to reach agreement on all the issues they will present to the Council . That agreement calls for a speeding up in the organization and equipment of immediately available forces , expected to comprise between thirty and forty divisions in 1952 , without abandoning longerterms aims for at least sixty divisions by 1954 . This will involve , first of all , greater speed in the shipment of American equipment , which is also behind schedule . But the attainment of both the short-range and the long-range goals will chiefly depend on Europe 's own efforts , and this fact poses the main problems which the Council will have to tackle . The nlilitary program has been shaped in the expectation that it will meet with the approval of the special committee ( headed by Mr. Harriman ) which for the last two months has been surveying the economic scene . Whether that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result , the Council itself will be able to agree upon this program , remains to be seen . But there can be litt doubt that the time has come to fay frankly both the military and the ee nomic realities , and to reconcile the , two factors in a manner which wi safeguard Western security . One 1 , va of doing this is to heed the advi ( offered by a group of thirty-three pron Meat Americans , headed by Genet Marshall , calling for a streamlining i the North Atlantic Treaty Organizatic itself in order to give unity and coh ( sion to its efforts .                     