@@716555

txt John Foster Dulles , United States Secretary of State , will meet privately tomorrow with Pierre Mentles France , French Premier and Foreign Minister , in an effort to improve United States - French relations . The aim will be to facilitate progress toward European unity M the nine-power conference opening here Tuesday . Conscious of what he termed the " imperative " need for good results from the conference , Mr. Dulles took the initiative and arranged the meeting soon after his arrival from Washington today . As he landed at the London airport , Mr. Dulles sighted Rena Massigli , French Ambassador to Britain , who was waiting for M. Mendas-France . Mr. Dulles asked the envoy to arrange a meeting for him with the French Premier tomorrow . Tonight Mr. Dulles and Anthony Eden , British Foreign Secretary , conferred for three hours at the home of Winthrop W. Aldrich , United States Ambassador to Britain . There will be other meetings of leaders of various delegations tomorrow in preparation for the start of the conference . Represented at the conference will be Britain , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany , Italy , Belgium , the Netherlands and Luxembourg . Sovereignty to Be Pushed Contrary to expectation , the first day of the meeting is likely to produce solid progress toward one of the two main purposes of the conference : the granting of sovereignty to . West Germany . The British delegation will propose Tuesday morning that a working party of the United States , French , German and British diplomats start immediately to draft a declaration liquidating the Allies ' occupation of West Germany . Another augury for progress at the conference is a report from authoritative British sources that Britain will be willing to negotiate some agreement with European powers fixing the duration of the British military commitments on the Continent . The British Cabinet Is understood to be willing to discuss with France and other interested powers a guarantee that at least two British divisions will remain in any European defense force for a fixed , term of years . Support for a deeper and more extensive British commitment in any continental organization to take form this week came from The Times of London . Stronger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain , calls in an editorial in tomorrow 's edition for a declaration by Mr. Eden that Britain is ready ' ' to play her full part in a European Defense , Community , not contrived as a hashed-up makeshift because nothing better is possible , but born in a new determination that the centuries-old hammering out of European unity shall be given a new impetus . " These words are the high point of an editorial two columns long . Diplomatic observers in London regard it as the strongest lead the most influential British newspaper has given to the Government in recent years . The atmosphere has noticeably brightened as a result of the day 's events . The scheduled meet . ing between M. Mendes-France and Mr. Dulles , Britain 's willingness to promise more in support of a European alliance than had been expected and the goading by The Times have raised hopes that // the British , French and West German proposals on the Federal Republic 's armament and sovereignty can be reconciled . British insistence on early action to end the Allies ' occupation of Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diplomats believe governs the usefulness of any decisions reached by this conference . This issue is the position to be adopted on German unity . During the negotiation of the European Defense Community treaty and the Bonn peace contract with the Western Allies , German unity w , as treated as a future rather than a present problem . These negotiations took place more than two years ago . The position in Germany has changed so much in the interval that even members of West Germany 's delegation concede that unity must be kept in mind by every foreign minister at the con. ! ference here . This is especially true of Mr. Dulles , Mr. Eden and M. Mendes-France , who will discuss German sovereignty with Dr. Konrad Adenauer , West German Chancellor . But since the reunification of Germany would recreate the strongest nation in Europe , unity and its effect on Europe also must be considered . Mr. Dulles and M. MendesFrance both arrived late in the afternoon . The appearance of Mr. Dulles produced only quiet curiosity from the usual Sunday afternoon sight-seers at the airport . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there were cheers and cries of " Vine la France ! " The . Secretary of State emphasized that the United States had no prearranged plan for the conference and believed the initiative should be taken " primarily by the European countries themselves . " One of the key personal factors in a solution of the German equation this week is M. MendesFrance 's admiration of Britain and his identity with that country in the darkest days of World War II . This was evident at the airport today . " I think that no man who was in this country during the war can ever forget the splendid example which was given by your country " during this period , " he said . " We had fought during this period for high ideals which are still the same for us today . This being . so ; I am quite sure that we will have very good and useful work during the conference . " Five of the visiting foreign ministers have now arrived , Dr. Gaetano Martino of Italy also landed at the London airport today . Lester @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Joseph Bech , Premier and Foreign Minister of Luxembourg , are in London . Dr. Adenauer of Germany , Paul-Henri Spaak , Foreign Minister of Belgium , and Johan W. Beyen , Foreign Minister of the Netherlands , are due tomorrow .                     