@@714640

txt National prison problems posed by the sensational riots in New Jersey and Michigan institutions involve overcrowding , inadequate custodial personnel , and morale-sapping influences from both without and within prison walls . Leading penal and correctional authorities here made these points in discussing the basic issues underlying such headlines as have come from the prisons in Trenton and Rahway , N.J. , and Jackson , Mich. , during the past few weeks . Roberts J. Wright , asistant secretary of the century-old American Prison Association , plated overcrowding and mass treatment of inmates as a fundamental cause . Will C. Turnbladh , executive director of the National Probation and Parole Association , chose the same situation as a prime contributing factor to prison unrest . His recommendation was smaller institutions with programs shaped to meet individual inmate needs . Idleness Held Factor . Away from his headquarters at the Osborne Association , Austin H. MacCormick , national authority on criminology , has commented from the University of California , where he is a professor , that " idleness " is a large fattor in prisoner restlessness . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1939 state and federal penal institutions hit an all-time high with 182,000 inmates . In 1944-45 this had dipped to 135,000 . Mr. Wright estimates that the total now has reached the 170 , - 000 mark , exceeding the 167,000 recorded in such institutions in 1950 . Mr. Turnbladh noted that in " large congregate institutions the best warden in the world can not develop an individualized program . " It is in such large prisons with tensions built up by the artificiality of the daily routine that a " molehill becomes a mountain " and explosions occur at the " snap of a finger , " Mr. Wright pointed Out . 1p considering the national prison situation and the overcrowded institutions- the part played by juries and judges must not be overlooked or underestimated . From his years of experience with the probation and parole problems in every state of the union , Mr. Turnbladh has concluded : Too many lawbreakers  --  espe- cially first offenders  --  receive jail sentences . " I have talked with lots of wardens . Their general opinion is that up to 40 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they could be dealt with better in the community on nrobation . " Overcrowding stems from the initial ' sentencing by the criminal courts . Some crimes are committed by different persons with diverse motives . The only hope of the proper administration of justice is to sentence so as to prevent recurrence . To do this the judge must know all the surrounding factors of each case . Other conclusions of penal experts are : ' Many courts have no probation staff or facilities to determine these , while crowded court calendars call for quick judicial action . It is noteworthy that on a national basis , 80 per cent of all offenders plead guilty . Thus there is no trial of the case and the sentencing by the judge becomes all the more critical . Political Debts Paid With this increasing number of offenders being sent to prison , the problem of the custodial staff becomes proportionally important . Wide variance in pay in different states fluctuates the caliber of guards and attendants at the institutions . In addition to this , changes in state governments where political debts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ importance , without regard to the professional competence of the appointees , raises havoc with worth-while established programs . Such developments are important in the entire problem of prisoner morale , as well . Morale can be disrupted by such obvious factors as poor food , lack of recreation or occupation , brutality of guards , absence of sanitary facilities , inadequate clinical care , and suspicion of the parole system . Prison populations are most sensitive to the presence of what they consider a " square deal . " Morale rises in direct proportion to the conviction of the inmates that honest grievances are listened to sympathetically , and that the parole system is operated " on.the level . " What happens in the " outside " world also plays an important role in building up or pulling down the morale inside prison walls . Such trials at that of Frank Costello ( named as leader of a New York-Miami crime syndicate in an interim Senate Crime Investigating Crime Committee report ) resulting in legal delays and only a slight jail sentencing are watched avidly .     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       