@@712938

txt Supporters of a permanent Fair Employment Practice Commission tonight privately conceded defeat tomorrow in the first test of the latest struggle over civil rights legislation in the Senate . The situation , after nine days of sporadic debate over whether the F. , E. P. C. bill should be subjected to a Southern Democratic filibuster , was one that appeared to call for blunt and practical talk . Senator Scott W. Lucas of Illinois , the majority leader , gave it . Mr. Lucas said that if tomorrow 's atteinpt to shut off debate failed he would keep the issue before the Senate and would try again , perhaps next week . Speech Frankest in Years In as frank a speech as the Senate has heard in years from a Majority Leader faced with a tough problem , Senator Lucas predicted flatly that measures such as F. E. P. C. never could be enacted unless filibusters were prevented by votes to limit debate . Senate rules , he contended , were on the side of those minorities that continue to have the privilege of unlimited debate . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be whipped into defeat through physical exhaustion . Filibusters , which repeatedly have blocked civil rights bills in the past , are waged through an ' exercise of the Senate privilege of unlimited debate . They can be curbed only by invoking a closure rule . Under new Senate rules the votes of sixty-four Senators , twothirds of the whole membership , are required to limit debate . On both Administration and Re- publican sides , polls of members indicated that no more than fiftytwo votes at most for closure could be mustered . There were prospects that there would be at least twelve absentees when the test is scheduled to be made at 1 P. M. tomorrow . Renomination campaigns , illness and a death in one family accounted for the absences from the Capitol . It appeared as noses were counted that the Administration , with the F. E. P. C. a principal item on President Truman 's legislative list of " musts , " could count on no more than nineteen or twenty out of the fifty-four Democratic Senators to vote for closure . Administration forces had counted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the issue concerned only a motion to let the F. E. P. C. measure be considered . On the Republican side the prospect was for thirty-one or thirtytwo votes for closure from among the forty-two Senators of that party . Against this background , Senator Lucas took the floor this afternoon to say that those participating in tomorrow 's test would " go on record before the American people " on whether they " firmly believe in the principle of fair employment practices in America " to a point of " positive action . " Sees No Aid in Marathon " Positive action , " Mr. Lucas contended , meant promotion or breaking of filibusters by closure votes . He conceded that an effort to halt a filibuster by means of day-andnight continuous sessions seeking to exhaust the physical endurance of filibustering orators " will avail us very little . " " Should we be successful in such an effort and ultimately bring up the bill , " he said , " there would follow another filibuster on the bill itself . " Under the Senate rules it would be virtually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knows , the only possible way of breaking a filibuster is by forcing the opponents of a measure to exhaust their speaking privileges . This would be impractical in the case of filibuster on the F. E. P. C. bill itself . " Senate Rule 19 limits each speaker to no more than two speeches on any one question during the same legislative day . Every amendment that might be offered is considered another question on which each Senator may speak twice . If no more than ten amendments were introduced to the F. E. P. C. bill , each filibustering Senator , under the Senate rules , would be privileged to speak a total of twenty-two times . " Southern Fight Conceded About a score of Southern Senators , it was conceded , would make the most of this amendment provision . In one Administration quarter it was suggested that the foes of F. E. P. C. were prepared to introduce many more than ten amendments . Senator Lucas said that if to- morrow 's vote brought defeat to F. E. P. C. advocates , " we shall try again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a hope that even members who may oppose this bill will at least permit the bill to come before the Senate . " Cloakroom planning indicated that another attempt would be initiated next week when presently absent members probably would be back to strengthen a closure vote . Replying to arguments that the F. E. P. C. program was unconstitutional , Senator Lucas contended that Congress had received " broad authority " in matters concerning interstate commerce and that many experts had found the F. E. P. C. measure constitutional . However , he held , Congress should act and let the United States Supreme Court decide whether it had overstepped its bounds . The proposed act is designated to combat discrimination in employment on grounds of race , color , creed or national origin . Senator John C. Stennis , Democrat of Mississippi , had this to say : " The theme song of proponents of this legislation seems to be that the great weak point in our position before the nations of the world is what they call an inadequate civil rights program . It seems to me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people of the world and before our own people is the selling of our people down the river by bartering away our Constitution , bit by bit , to various pressure groups at political conventions . " Rather than " slugging it out " with Russia " on facts , " he said , American foreign policy makers " come running back here with tears in their eyes making speeches , washing soiled linen in public , and declaring , ' we ought to pass a law ' . " Mr. Stennis also filed exhibits , previously entered by Southern colleagues , designed to prove that the Communist party , in its 1928 platform , had provided " the fountainspring " for the present bill . President Truman , at his news conference today , declined to answer a question on this phase of the Senate debate . He said he did not believe it deserved comment . 