@@719008

txt Before the Taft-Hartley Act a collective bargain between an employer and a labor union was only binding in practical . effect on one aide . The Norris-LaGuardia Mt had " insulated labor unions ? in the field of injunctions against liability for breach of contract . " The terms of the collective contract bound the employer . They did not bind the union . As the law then stood it was said : " There are no Federal laws giving the employer or even the Government itself any right of action against a union for any breach of contract . Thus there is no substantive right to enforce in order to make a union suable as such in the Federal courts . " Section 301 of the Taft-Hartley Act sought to remedy this condition . In introducing this amendment to the National Labor Relations Act Senator Taft said : " ... All we provide in the amendment is that voluntary associa- ? tions shall in effect be suable as it they were corporations , and suable in the Federal courts if the contract involves interstate commerce and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result of Section 301 toward achieving equality of enforcement on each side of a collective bargain with a labor union ? The Supreme Court of the United Slates has put this in great doubt . In Employes v. Westinghouse Corp. , Justice Frankfurter says : " The aim was to open the Federal courts to suits on agreements solely because they were between labor organizations and employers without providing Federal law for such suits . " Smacking of Unreality Also he says : " From this conclusion inevitably emerge questions regarding the constitutionality of a grant of jurisdiction to Federal courts over a contract governed entirely by state substantive law , a jurisdiction not based on diversity of citizenship yet one . in which a Federal court would , as in diversity cases , administer the law of the state in which it sits . . ? To turn Section 301 into an agency for working out a viable theory of the nature of a collective bargaining agreement smacks of unreality . Nor does it seem reasonable to view that section as a delivery int* the . discretionary hands of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an important , complicated and subtle field . " Justices Burton and Minton concurred in these views . Justice Reed said : " Since Congress has legislative power over labor matters affecting interstate commerce , it may grant jurisdiction to the Federal courts to try incidents of that activity that raise legal issues , and dictate what law should he applied . " Chief Justice Warren and Justice Clark expressed no opinion on the questions raised by Justice Frankfurter ; Justices Douglas and Black , concurring , would give effect to the section as a whole . Justice Harlan did not sit . Where does this leave us ? Whether and how far the employer can sue to enforce the collective agreement is at least involved in grave doubt . Two serious questions of constitutionality are raised by three members of the court , challenged by one in part , and answered in the negative by two . No opinion is expressed by two . There is obviously no assurance what view will ultimately prevail . For practical purposes the situation remains what it was before the enactment of Section 301 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Severe Penalty Taking the situation as it was without Section 301 of the National Labor Manage . ment Act , it has been held that violation of a " no strike " clause in a collective bargain agreement did not justify discharge of those who broke it because discharge is a severe penalty and the violation should he very serious to allow imposition . We are told that " the punishment should fit the crime , " as if a statute defining a crime was being construed instead of a term of a contract ; as if a rule imposed on the striker against his will would be enforceable instead of a proposition to which he had agreed in a collective bargain in which his part was at least on an equality with that of the employer . A collective bargaining agreement specifically provided that there should be nostrikes , stoppages . or lock-outs during the term of the agreement . Notwithstanding , the workers seeking reopening . which it was found they were not entitled to , stayed away from their work for some three weeks . It was found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for the act of the employes , and that their cessation of employment was in derogation of the terms of the collective agreement . It was held that the best interest of all parties would be served if the question of damages for the three weeks ' stoppage was eliminated , " . to avoid the regeneration of antagonisms that finally have been dissipated . " ? In other words , the union can violate the contract with impunity in order that antagonisms in the future may be avoided ! In another case of breach " where there were mitigating circumstances . " the arbitrator awarded that the union should contribute $300 to the community chest as reimbursement for the harm done by stoppage of the service of a street railway . Contracts are not much when enforcement against one side depends on the awards of the arbitrators capable of such decisions . Vested Right It must be remembered in this connection that employes are regarded as having a vested right in the job after striking . The National Labor Relations Board has a large discretion as to 0/tering reinstatement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrested for throwing stqpes at the automobiles of nonstrikers attempting to enter a plant . The Board ordered that they be reinstated along with the other strikers , This was held not an abuse of the Board 's discretion . But , some tell us , there ought not to be equality as between employers and labor unions . The law should keep its hands off and leave all question as to labor relations to administrative determination ; they should not be legal questions at all . No other group of persons claims to have its rights and duties defined by the discretion of an administrative authority set up for its benefit . The National Labor Relations Act makes it an unfair labor practice for an employer to refuse to bargain in - good faith with his employes . The Board construes this to mean that where an employer refuses a union 's request for increased wages , claiming financial inability to grant it , good faith bargaining requires that he furnish the union at its request the financial data on which his claim of inability rests . It seems to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the burden is upon the employer to show that he can not afford to pay them . Too Much In National Labor Relations Board v. Truitt Mfg . Co. the employes asked for an increase of 30 cents an hour . The company answered that it could not afford to pay so much . It was undercapitalized , had never paid dividends , and an increase of wages of more than cents an hour would put it out of business . The union asked to have a certified public accountant examine the books , records and financial data of the company so that it substantiate its claim that it could not pay the demanded increase . The Board ordered full and complete information as to the company 's financial status in order to substantiate its claim . The Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit , at that time one of the strongest appellate courts of the country , denied enforcement of the order . This was reversed by the Supreme Court of the United States on the ground that refusal of the union 's demand was a refusal to bargain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harlan dissented , remarking that the Board had made a rule of law beyond its powers and considered that the case should be sent hack to the Board " to apply the relevant standard for determining good faith . " What is said in this case by the dissenting justices speaks for itself . This is the second of sereral articles based on Roscoe Pound 's booklet . " Legal Immunities of Labor Unions , - published the American Enterprise Association . Inc .. Washington , D. C. The first article appeared July 22.                     