@@717454

txt Premier Edgar Faure , with the decisive support of eighty Com ? munist votes , won parliamentary approval early this morning for his plan to hold new elections in December . ' The division on a vote of con ? fidence in the National Assembly was 311 to 211 . The vote was on the Government 's proposal to hold elections next month instead of in June , 1956 . Premier Faure 's margin of victory was clearly due to the unusual and unexpected Communist support that was explicitly given to his election proposal rather than to the Right-Center Government he heads . Had the Communists continued in their traditional opposition role both the Cabinet and its electoral project would have been defeated and a new Government crisis would have resulted . The election proposal now goes to the Council of the Republic , the advisory second house of France 's Parliament , for approval . There , opponents of the proposal to end the present legislature six months before the end of its term , and of the electoral law under which new elections are to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delay , amend or defeat the measure . Most parliamentary observers saw very little chance that they would succeed in any of these objectives . Timetable For Ballot Premier Faure 's timetable calls for the election of 544 Deputies by voters in Metropolitan France probably not later than Dec , 18 . Voters in overseas Departments will elect ninetytwo others under conditions not yet prescribed to bring the total membership of the Assembly to 636 . Balloting in France will be carried out under the 1951 electoral law that was drafted in favor of the Center and moderate Right-Wing parties at the expense of the Communists and Gaullists . In his final appeal for support shortly after midnight , Premier Faure replied to critics of the existing electoral law . He acknowledged its imperfections and inequities but pointed out that in four days of debate the Deputies had rejected fourteen proposals to amend the law . The Assembly still had time to change the law , he added . He repeated his contention that the present Assembly , in the waning months of its mandate , could not give the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needed to meet the foreign and domestic problems facing it next year . To those who accused him of rushing into elections to avoid ren- dering his accounts to the country , the Premier replied : " I have answered all the questions put to me since the beginning of October . But do not ask a Single Government to present the balance sheet for the whole period of this Parliament . " " We- believe it is necessary to reduce the electoral period to a minimum , to have soon a new Assembly and a stable Government capable of building the Structures on which depends the success or failure of France . " As the debate opened last night Premier Faure faced sharp attack from two former Premiers , both members of his own Radical party . They were Pierre Mendes-France , M. Faure 's predecessor and archrival for power , and Edouard Daladier , pre-World War II Premier and last living , signatory of the Munich agreement with the Axis powers in 1938 . With his speech , M. MendesFrance moved into the open parliamentary arena the campaign against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corridors and the columns of the Paris newspaper that supports him . Speaking before a packed and restive Assembly M. MendesFrance announced that he would vote against the Government in protest against the plan to hold precipitate elections under an " unjust , immoral and obscure " electoral law . He referred to the system , tacitly approved by the RightWing and Center parties supporting the Government , whereby alliances among minority parties permit them to win Assembly seats from unallied parties having greater total votes . M. Mendes-France based his attack on three points : First , he said , the law of electoral alliances could be turned to the profit of the Communists if , in certain areas , the Socialists agreed to ally themselves with the Communists . Second , a new Assembly elected under the same law that produced the present one would contain the same divisions and would be no more able to act decisively in the next five years than the present Chamber has done on ' the last four and a half years . Third , M. Faure 's proposal for hasty elections lacked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was claimed for it by some of its defenders . Parliamentary dissolution in Britain occurred only when the Government and the Parliament were at odds over a limited number of specific points of policy . In that case , new elections gave the voters a chance to act as arbiters . The Faure proposal , on the contrary , sought to obscure the issues and force hasty elections to avoid or shorten the essential debate on the Government 's record , New elections , held at the proper time and under an equitable electoral law , he said , would offer kpriceless opportunity for " a cleansing of political life and the rejuvenation of the Administration to grapple with difficult problems and find courageous solutions . " M. Daladier took a similar line , criticizing the proposed election procedure and supporting the pre-war system of Contests between individual candidates in single constituencies . Both speakers declared that the existing system of party alliances waAunpopular with the voters . Thin view seemed to be supported by the course of debate on the issue since Sunday .       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     