@@715290

txt Grani ville Hicks , author , scholar and ( former Communist turned active foe of communism , testified today that Congressional investigating committees were encouraging " an irrational apprehension " among people over infiltration by Reds into the educational system . The emphasis , Mr. Hicks told the House  - -  Committee on UnAmerican Activities , has been a matter of " how much " infiltration , whereas it could have been " how little . " " The fear in this country , " Mr. Hicks said , " is in part a real and , / understandable fear of the Soviet ! Union its agents . Above it , I think there is * * * an irrational apprehension that is not real . I feel that this has been encouraged by Congressional committees . " At immediate issue was a Communist group . at Harvard University in the late Nineteen Thirties . Yesterday Prof. Robert G. Davis , now of Smith College , admitted he had been a member . He named others . Today Mr. Hicks and Prof. Daniel J. Boorstin of the University of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A third witness , who former Harvard faculty colleagues said had been a member of the cell , refused on constitutional grounds to " testify against myself " by lanswering certain questions .. He was Wendell H. Furry , Associate Professor of Physics at Harvard . ' Later he issued a statement that he was ' not now a member - of the Communist party . He said nothing of the past affiliation with which . he had been ' charged . Those who testified freely agreed tnat the Communist cell at Harvard , between 1937 and 1939 , contained from eight to about a dozen professors and instructors and students . The witnesses said that , with few exceptions , they did not know whether the cell members were still Communists and whether the cell continued or had disbanded . According to the testimony , the Russo-German pact of 1939 convinced , to the point of breaking with the party , at least half a dozen members of the Harvard Red group that they had been drawn into a Soviet conspiracy that collaborated with nazism , which they hated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He said that he had joined the Communist party in 1934 after having been " a close fellow-traveler "  - -  so close , he emphasized , that he had become editor , at no pay , of The New Masses , a Communist publication . Witnesses Disagree When he returned to Harvard for the 1938-1939 academic year , he said , it was known that he was a Communist , as he had been active in addressing Red groups and writing along the party line . However , Mr. Hicks added , he had since given his full effort to fighting communism . Professor Boorstin , who joined Marxist study groups at Oxford University in England as a Rhodes Scholar in 1936 and later accompanied two roommates into the Harvard " cell , " also testified that since 1939 he had written , spoken and worked steadily against the Communists . Today 's witnesses disagreed on whether a member of the Communist party should be allowed to teach in schools and colleges . Professor Boorstin said that if he were a college president he " would not hire such a person . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intellectually free , " while membership in the Communist party was evidence that such a teacher would not be free . Mr. Hicks said he agreed with Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio , the Majority Leader of the Senate , who recently stated his views on the controversy over inquiry into Red infiltration into schools . " I think , " Mr. Hicks said , " that it would be better to let a Communist keep his teaching job than to upset the whole fabric of academic freedom . This is assuming that this hypothetical Communist is not advocating in his classrooms the overthrow of the American Government by force or violence . If he does that , of course , he should be fired . " Takes a Middle Ground Professor Furry took a middle ground between these disagreements . An isolated case of communism on a faculty , he contended , should not be treated as a general Communist threat to education . Testimony developed that anAssociated Press Wirephoto Prof. Wendell H. Furry other of the Harvard cell in the late Nineteen Thirties was alleged to be Professor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israel Halperin , who had held an instructor 's post . Mr. Halperin became involved in the Canadian spy trials of 1946 . Professor Furry said he had raised funds to help his family . As the case turned out , further inquiry brought out Mr. Halperin was freed , after the crown 's case had been presented and the presiding judge in Canada had asserted that he was ready to deliver a verdict of acquittal . As the committee ' counsel , Frank Tavenner Jr. , sought to go further into the " Canadian case . Representative Bernard W. Kearney , Republican of upstate New York , who was acting chairman in the absence of Representative Harold H. Velde , Republican of Illinois , broke in . " What difference does it make ? " he asked . " The defendant was found not guilty . "                     