@@713249

txt Today in the Philippines , Communist-led bands swoop out of the hills and swamplands , murder , rob , and propagandize , then melt back into their hideouts before government forces can intervene , leaving the rural populace terrorized and cowed . In the cities , Communists , infiltrating labor , press , and education , use the very freedoms they aim to destroy in trumpeting the success of their underworld tactics , in planting fear and dissension among less vulnerable urban citizens . At this writing they still are making progress , posing a growing security threat to the fouryear-old republic . How has this come about so swiftly and stealthily ? What is being done about it ? The government of the Philippines Republic , thrown on its own administrative resources after three devastating war years and almost before the smell of gunpowder had cleared , was too distracted by political demands of winning and holding individual influence in the newly sovereign state to do much to head off conditions under which Communists now flourish . None dared to alienate possible votes . None dared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people gleefully spending some $2,000,000,000 that the United States had brought to the war-ravaged land in the form of local wages , war-damage payments , veteran benefits , reconstruction expenditures , and the like  --  people intent on replacing their lost homes , wardrobes , and waistlines . U.S. Viewpoint Changes In Washington , where the Philippines had moved to the unfamiliar aegis of the State Department from the friendly arms of the Department of the Interior , it was felt that the United States had honored its commitments , would complete its rehabilitation projects , would finally withdraw completely ? save for a friendly interest  --  leaving a snug little democracy in the Pacific of no particular significance in the world scheme of things . In this view the Pentagon concurred . A change in Washington 's viewpoint came in mid-1949 when President Truman , disquieted by reports from America 's former ward , carefully briefed the new ambassador-designate to Manila . Ambassador Cowen made a spot appraisal of the developing crisis , then conferred swiftly with the Supreme Command , Allied Powers , and naval chiefs in the Pacific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Philippines ' political and military significance as a Communist-coveted prize and a revision of Philippines policy which is felt to have influenced America 's entire Asian view . Since then , many of Washington 's official family have come to Manila to see for themselves . Treasury Secretary John W. Snyder , Amb- .. ssador Philip C. Jessup , and Far East ? expert . W. Walton Buttersworth , Assistant Secretary of State , are among the better known . There were a Senate subcommittee on appropriations and a House insular affairscommittee , plus numerous others important to United States policy making . Only a few days before the Korean flareup Manila welcomed Defense Secretary Louis Johnson and Gen. Omar N. Bradley . These visits served a twofold purpose . In Washington the beleaguered Philippines Republic was recognized belatedly as Asia 's pilot model of the American global effort to contain Communist imperialism , and the Philippines took its logical place in the " Acheson line " demarking America 's Pacific defense perimeter . In Manila political leaders winced under the pitiless spotlight of publicity , woke to the peril @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be gaining momentum . American efforts to buttress weak Philippine defenses against the Communists are being carried out along broad economic , military , and educational fronts , but are slowed somewhat by the sensitive nationalism that goes with new independence . Buttressed on Economic Front On the economic front , newly voted veterans ' benefits and possible new war damage allotments promise to help replenish meager dollar stores , while improved import and exchange measures strive to control the outflow . An economic mission of top-level experts borrowed from the United States Government and private industry is currently fine-combing Philippine fiscal problems and economic potential , their objective a stabilization and development plan significantly premised on raising living standards at minimum levels , the area in which communism makes swiftest gains . Success here , however , will depend upon the receptivity and earnest effort of Philippine officialdom . Nor is it all one way . At and near Manila are based America 's cultural transmission lines to the Asian eye and ear , including printing and distributing facilities for United States Information Service publications in the many languages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knife deep into the Asian mainland with standard as well as short-wave broadcasts of America 's message to the Far East . It is in the realm of ideas , however , that the fight for freedom is felt here to be weakest . Academic discussions of materialist dialectic and . descriptions of quaint Americana have little meaning at comprehension levels where the danger is greatest , the illiterate and simple mind of the impoverished peasant . Certainly they are no match for the grim handbook of subversion prepared by the professors of the Politburo for the use of their ruthless agents . Until Communist deceptions can be exposed in terms of elementary mass interests , the fight for freedom will be carried on against the resistance of the very elements it seeks to save In the Philippines the free world 's material might is beginning to make itself felt , but it will take its intellectual might as well to stop communism .                     