@@717345

txt For more years than anyone now living can recollect the New York-New Jersey waterfront has been the scene of pilferage on a large scaleand racketeering , thuggery and murder . Not only the ranks but in many cases the leadership of the organized dock workers have been a haven for criminals . In many cases the employers have more or less willingly connived in this situation . About two years and a half ago there was an investigation which brought into the newspaper headlines the abuses which were already known . to anyone who wished to inform himself and the law enforcement authorities stirred themselves . By joint action the states of . New York and New Jersey created a Waterfront Commission which was given the job of establishing law and order . Among other things it was given supervision over hiring practices which the union heads had ? used to milk the men who unloaded and loaded the ships . Now the International Longshoremen 's Association , a union with a record which caused its expulsion from The American Federation of Labor , is on strike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York but it has called out the longshoremen at ports along the whole eastern coast and the Gulf of Mexico . There is no dispute as to wages or working conditions . Those were settled in'a way satisfactory to the union in a contract signed several months ago . The union is striking with the avowed aim of destroying or at least hamstringing the Waterfront Commission . In brief it is demanding that the law be repealed , mitigated or at least not , enforced against it . What has happened here is quite obvious . For years the law enforcement agencies of state , Federal Government and City proved inadequate ? unable or unwilling to enforce the laws on the waterfront . The laws which applied to other people were not applied on the docks . By default the docks became an exempt area . If that had not happened , if the law enforcement agencies had applied the ample police laws on the statute books , it would never have been necessary to create a special agency such as the Waterfront Commission . Over the years thi dock workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to believe that in some way'they had a vested interest in being able to flout the laws . When the ordinary rules of conduct were applied to them they readily concluded that in some way their rights were being infringed . And so we have the spectacle of a group of labor leaders demanding that the governors , the legislatures or someone in Washington tell the Waterfront Commission that it must not apply the law . If that is not done these leaders ' will tie ? up all the ports on the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts . Well , it is not so amazing after all . Any man or any group of men long exempted from the rules that govern others will almost surely regard themselves as the injured party when the exemption ends . The simplest analogy is the spoiled child to whom discipline is suddenly applied . The very candor with which the longshoremen 's leaders voice their demand that the law be less than adequately enforced is an indication of their state of mind . They really think that they are the aggrieved ones . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was on the New York waterfront . But in a lesser degree there are many situations where labor unions escape the legal penalties for actions which would send the ordinary citizen before a court of law , If you go into the street and overturn a man 's automobile and then beat him , the penalty will be swift . Those things are often done , on a , picket line and very seldom is the perpetrator punished . If you make a contract to perform services and then fail to perform them , you will be subject to legal action . Many strikes take place in violation of contracts . Labor unions are exempt from the antitrust laws . If you hire a painter or a plasterer the unions can tell him what materials and tools he may use and if you object , you will not get your painting and plastering done . Very well , but after all these things have been going on for some time and we do manage to get things built and sold . The situation on the New York waterfront went on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very life of New York as a port ; other cities were getting the cargoes . The guns that were used by thugs came from pilfered shipments . The drugs that made zombies of grown men and children came through the waterfront . So finally something had to be done . The various governments are trying to do it . It remains a question whether they will be strong enough ; whether those long exempted from the law are not now stronger than the community itself . 