@@719091

txt I Foreign minister blames Syria 's troubles with U. S. on Eisenhower doctrine for middle east . President and Dulles confer . Stories on page 2 . I Claris ? Tribune i'reu fiervitel Washington , Aug. 19 ? Rob , ert C. Strong , top American diplomat now in Syria , where Communists won control of the army yesterday , has been under investigation for months by the senate internal security subcommittee , it was learned tonight . The state depiwtment was notified six weeks ago that Strong was wanted for questioning about testimony that he furnished erroneous repolls " helpful to Communists " while stationed in Formosa in 1999 . Robert Morris , subcommit-1 tee counsel , said the state department promised at that time to make Strong available for questioning about Sept. 15 when he was scheduled to return to the United States , Source of Information As charge d'affaires in ( he American embassy at Damas ? cats , Strong is now the main source of information for the state department on the power seizure by pro-Russian officers ' which threatens a new crisis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Strong on Aug. 12 ofl the expulsion of three Amen ' ican embassy officials , accused of plotting to overthrow the Syrian regime . The American ambassador , James S. Moose Jr. , had left Syria on June 30 . The United States retaliated by expelling the Syrian ambassador to the United States and an aid . Ambassador Moose was ordered not to return to Syria . Carrying on Probe The internal security subcommittee , headed by Sen. Eastland D. , Miss. began ani investigation early this year into the past connections of American diplomats now stationed in the middle east . Sen. Jenner rank-1 ing 0 . P. member of the internal security subcommittee , told the senate last March 1 that Strong was one of several American foreign service officers now serving in the middle east whose past reo ords cast doubt on the reports they are now giving the ed States , " Strong was consul general in Taiwan in the critical year 1949 , " Jenner said , " and was responsible for a mess of erroneous intelligence reports out of Formosa , unfriendly to Nationalist China @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Adm . Charles M. Cooke , retired war time chief of staff to Adm. , King in the Pacific , knew some of the intelligence reports were wrong . lle ! checked the information and found it was incorrect but the erroneous reports continued ' to be sent out .. This story is told in ? detail in testimony given under oath by Adm . Cooke . " Jenner asked the senate whether President Eisenhower Was relying upon the reports of such officers as Strong in formulating a middle east policy . " We can be sure that the termites are hard at work today as they were In the 1940s , " ' he eed.                     