@@714626

txt Indications multiplied today that the air force is backing down on its policy of toughness toward flying officers who refuse to fly . This policy brought a two year prison sentence by a court Finletter martial f or a stay-down flyer at Briggs air force base , El Paso , Tex. , and has resulted in court martial orders for six reluctant airmen at Randolph base , San Antonio , Tex. , and six others at Mather base , Sacramento , Cal . Forty more cases are under investigation and 225 officers reportedly have asked transfer from flying status . Air Force Secretary Finletter said here he will issue a statement early next week covering the situation and authorized an announcement that men against whom charges have been preferred will not come to trial until the policy statement is issued . Ifalt Discipfirtary Action Meanwhile , Capt . Jack Rose , ? information officer at Mather base , disclosed orders ' have been received to stop disciplinary action in the cases of the six officers against whom charges are pending there . Rose said all he knows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made of them . " High air force officials hinted here that the new policy will be to let reserve pilots who do not want to fly out of the service immediately or transfer them to another combat branch  --  perhaps the infantry . The New York News said it has learned that Gen. Hoyt S. Vandenberg , air force chief of staff , has sent a memorandum to all commanders in the country which said in part : " Voluntary suspension from flying status will be approved only in the most unusual cases . An officer who professes or otherwise exhibits an incapacitating fear of flying will be examined by a medical officer . If found due to psychoneurosis , he will be grounded a n d given proper medical treatment . " Should Be Separated " " An individual declared professionally and physically qualified and who avoids hazardous duty indicates that he has failed to live up to the standards of the air force officer and he should be separated from the service . " The switch from toughness to softness has reportedly been made in the interest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pentagon conference on the problem reportedly commented that " no air force is worth a damn unless the flying is voluntary . " Whether the new policy will mean revision of the two year sentence meted out Wednesday to Lt. Verne Goodwin , 29 , at Briggs air force base has not been indicated . Abolition June 1 of the point system for overseas service it has been using in part to determine whether flyers should be assigned to foreign duty was announced today by the air force . It will be replaced by a system based on an individual 's date df return from his most recent foreign assignment , it was said . An air force spokesman said the projected change has been in preparation for months and is not connected with the current wave of refusals by some officers to fly 9 MONTHS MORE SERVICE Washington , April 19 GI ? A nine-month extension of the enlistments of many military force volunteers whose regular terms were to expire in  --  the year startReproduced with permission of the copyright owner . Further reproduction prohibited without permission . ing July @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that approximately 125,000 are affected . The extension applies to volunteers in the army , air force , navy , and marines , not to draftees , and It does not cover selective service registrants who enlisted for 24 months instead of waiting for induction . Nor does it cover personnel whose enlistments had been extended previously . The department said the extension was provided in an executive order which President Truman signed'two dais ago . It said in a statement that the step was taken reluctantly and " that not all ( affected men would be required to serve the full period Of extension and that no man would be kept on duty any longer than absolutely necessary . " Estimate of Numbers The defense department gave this estimate of hose affected : army , 60,500 ; air force , 25,000 ; navy , 35,000 , and marines , 4,500 . The extension applies to all components of the military services , including the reserves and the national , guard , whether or not the men are on active duty . The extension does not change the authorized active @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and there is no change in the existing programs for separating reservists and guardsmen from service . For example : A guardsman on active . duty and due to be released late this year will be released . But if his enlistment as a member of the guard was also due to expire sometime during the year , it will be extended for nine months altho he will not be on active duty . The President has authority under the law to . extend regular enlistments for 12 months or less , but no volunteer enlistment may be so extended more than once . Executive orders ' n 1950 and 1951 provided for the full 12-month extension of enlistments in the years starting July 1 in each of those years . Explains 3 Month Cut " Reduction of the extension period from 12 to nine months is possible because the armed forces have reached the leveling-off stage requiring an over-all increase in strength of only 100,000 from June 30 , 1952 , to June 30 , 1953 , " the department said . Men who are drafted and those who enlist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by law be held in service for extra time in the absence of a declaration of war or the declaration of an emergency by action of congress . As for the extension announced today , the department said : " The extension was invoked with reluctance and only because it was absolutely necessary in the light of the serious international situation , and then only for nine months rather than the 12 authorized . " It said the step was taken largely because . " it would be unfair " to deprive men now entering the armed forces for the first time of the training which they can receive only from experienced men now in service .                     