@@717245

txt WASHINGTON , Aug. 2 ? Joseph M. Dodge , special assistant to President Eisenhower , disclosed today that as Budget Bureau direc , or he had made the policy decision that gave rise to the Dixon-Yates private power contract . He denied that the policy had been influenced by private power and financial interests . It was wholly a budgetary decision of an Administration pledged to reduce Federal spending and balance the budget , he told a special Senate subcommittee . Earlier the subcommittee referred to the Justice Department the testimony of Edgar H. Dixon on negotiations leading to the contract for a determination whether he was open to a perjury charge . Mr. Dixon 's  --  Middle South utilities and the Southern Company , headed by Eugene A. Yates , joined in contracting to build a plant that would have supplied power to the Tennessee Valley Authority to replace power the T. V. A. supplied to the Atomic Energy Commission . President Eisenhower recently ordered the contract canceled . Eisenhower , Hoover Saw Report The testimony of Mr. Dodge ' disclosed that President Eisen- , hower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Budget Bureau report , prepared by Adolphe H. Wenzell , , former vice president of the , First Boston Corporation of New York . First Boston was finan- , cial agent for Dixon-Yates with- , out fee . His report recommended that T. V. A. 's power facilities be put into a new corporation that eventually would be sold to the public . It also suggested that private power facilities be constructed on the periphery of T. V. A. to feed power into the public authority . The report paralleled a recommendation of a task force of the Commission on Organization of the Executive Branch of the Government . The commission was headed by Mr. Hoover . The task force suggested that T. V. A. eventually be sold to private utilities . Mr. Wenzell prepared the report when he served as an unpaid consultant to the Budget Bureau under Mr. Dodge . The report was made public earlier this month by the Senate Judiciary subcommittee headed by Senator Estes Kefauver , Democrat of Tennessee , after the Budget Bureau had refused to disclose it . Democrats charged that Mr. Wenzell 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raised ques // tions on violation of the conflict-of-interest law . This question was posed again today by an opinion from the Controller General 's office . The opinion by Frank H. Weitzel , Assistant Controller General , held that the Government would escape liability in cancellation of the contract only if it proved any wrongdoing . Mr. Dodge testified that he had given a copy of Mr. Wenzell 's report to President Eisenhower . It was returned by the White House without comment , he said . He said he did not discuss it with the President nor with anyone else . Mr. Hoover returned the report , he said , " in a couple of days " with the comment that " he thought the factual material in it was a good work . " This was soon after Mr. Wenzell made the report in September of 1953 . The Dixon-Yates negotiations with the A. E. C. to supply power to T. V. A. were conducted throughout 1954 . Mr. Dodge said that on March 9 , 1954 , he discussed the possibility of " conflict of interest " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should wind up his services if there was any likelihood " that First Boston might become an agent in any power Contracts , Mr. Dodge said . Mr. Wenzel ! left the Budget Bureau early in April , 1954 . Mr. Dixon , who today described Mr. Wenzell as a " courier , nothing more " in contacts with First Boston , said he also had talked with Mr. Wenzel ! about a conflict of interest . He placed the time as February , 1954 , after he had talked with his lawyer . He said he had suggested to Mr. Wenzell that he see his superiors . But , he insisted , ' ' I did n't think then and I do n't think now there was a conflict of interest . " Senator William Langer , Republican of North Dakota , moved that Mr. Dixon 's testimony be referred to the Justice Department for " appropriate action . " Senator Kefauver charged there were " glaring conflicts in the testimony by Mr. Dixon and Mr. Wenzell . " This was denied by Daniel James , counsel for Mr. Dixon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Securities and Exchange Commission , protested in a letter to the subcommittee against " inferences " that Sherman Adams , the assistant to President Eisenhower , had " coached " him on his testimony before the group . " Such inferences are entirely unwarranted and unfair not only to me , but to Governor Adams , the Attorney General and the ' special counsel to the President , " he wrote . " Nobody coached me at any time with respect to my testimony * * * " Mr. Armstrong testified about the request of Mr. Adams that an S. E. C hearing last month on Dixon-Yates financial plans be postponed to give Government lawyers an opportunity to determine whether they would intervene in the case .                     