@@720467

txt Progress toward a four power summit meeting of chiefs of state appeared to be all but impossible after Tuesday 's meeting of the four foreign ministers . The east and west again held fast to their rejection " of each other 's plans for achievement of European peace and solution of the German problem . Just where the foreign ministers ' conference will head now is anybody 's guess . Swiss See Demise The Swish press reported that the conference is at the point of death . While this summation appeared t o o strong , it was evident that the negotiations are at the brink of failure unless some disposition is shown toward relaxation of the rigid stands now held by east and west . There was an indication that unless the west yields to the east , Russia is determined to see that the conference fails if it takes all summer . The Russians have extended their communication con ? tracts , providing for message service between Geneva and Moscow , from June 8 to July 8 The resounding clash between the irresistible force of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations // Russia Also Firm In a 31/2 hour session , Britain , France , and West Germa n y supported American condemnation of the Russian plan for- the conclusion of a separate peace with communist and noncommunist Germany and for four power withdrLwal from West Berlin . Russia was no less firm in continuing opposition to the western package plan for a solution of the Berlin problem under a program working toward a free election , which would constitute a pilot plan for reunification of all Germany by free elections . A peace treaty would be concluded with the reunited nation . The United States , which cattle here without high expectations of reaching agreement that would lead toward a summit meeting , has seen nothing develop to change America 's pessimistic views on progress . Britons Reconciled Britain is reconciled toward the American view that progrds must be shown , altho Britain would like to see chiefs of state gather late this summer whether progress is made here or not . Western spokesmen acknowledged that the conference may yet have to concentrate on an interim settlement of the Berlin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The western powers have lenied there will be any untying of the package plan , but it was conceded that if Russia refuses to talk about anything but Berlin , the west will talk about Berlin . Secretary of State Christian Herter last week bluntly informed Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko of Russia that the United States will not be threatened into going to the summit ' by any Russian declaration of a date of withdrawal from Berlin . ? Deadline Will Pass Indications are the Russian deadlin3 date of May 27 will pass before the foreign ministers ' meeting ends . Gromyko said that he does not intend to mention the Russian deadline date of May 27 , which was picked by Premier Nikita Khrushchev of Russia in his note on Berlin early this year . Khrushchev has since said that the date is not rigid and can be extended weeks , months , or even for two years . Gromyko said he will not mention any deadline until the end of the conference , indicating he will threaten a Berlin cut off only if the conference fails : Decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision on the summit here . That decision , ' he has indicated , is President Eisenhower 's and will be made by him alone . The President and h i s secretary of state have made it clear there will be very little chance of a summit meeting , if Russia gets outof its sector in-West Berlin and turns over access to the west-1 ' ern sectors to East Germany . France , which expects little from a summit meeting , has informed the United States that President Charles de Gaulle will not go to a sum= mit meeting in the United States . The French president feels any summit meeting should be on neutral ground , that the European problem should be discussed in Europe at Geneva or possibly Vienna , and . that he does not look for- , ward to Khrushchev 's making , propaganda capital in the ' United States . Bar Separate Treaties While Russia has expressed willingness to take disarmament and nonaggression features out of the western package plan , for discussion , the west is not ready to accept any features of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a separate treaty with the two Germanys and they regard the Russian proposals on West Berlin as fuzzy and unrealistic . The west continued to stand by the position that German reunification thru elections is the key to European peace and must come eventually . They made it clear they have no intention of abandoning this principle . Relations between the western powers continue good , with France firmer against Russia than Britain or even perhaps the United States , but all united in determination to hold by the package plan . France Assails Russia Fr ench Foreign Minister Maurice Couve de Murville assailed Russia 's position in a tough , realistic and caustic statement . He branded Russia 's condemnation of the western pa c k a g e plan as " complete , categorical and unequivocal . " He said Gromyko 's " brutal frankness " induced France to reply in kind . In 3,000 words he ripped the Russian plan , insisting that it would do nothing to solve the pr o b l e m . The French foreign minister insisted the proposed Russian peace treaty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powers seal on the division of Germany " and would preclude reunion for ever which fact " could have no other result than to drive the German people to de . spair . " British Foreign Minister Selwyn Lloyd voiced a more Moderate but no less forceful objection to the proposed Russian peace treaty . He presented a legal analysis of western objections to the Russian plan , detailing why Britain considers them " undefense of the western proposals . Wilhelm Grewe , West German ambassador to the United States and spokesman of the West German delegation , issued a statement rejecting the Russian plan and supporting the western plan , insisting the latter is the prerequisite for the conclusion of a peace treaty with a united Germany . In a 36 minute speech , Gromyko answered western attacks on the Russian plan begun Monday by Herter and rounded out Tuesday by Couve de Murville , Grewe , and Lloyd . Gromyko continue d his blunt and sarcastic denunciation of the western plan and upheld the Russian plan as the only logical solution . He termed the western plan an " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a retrograde movement " and " completely unacceptable . " Gromyko challenged the ' western powers to come up with the draft of a German peace treaty but insisted that any treaty must be negotiated separately with the two Germanys . The session opened at 3:30 p. m. with Herter in the chair . In the American delegation were John Hay Whitney , ambassador to London , and Amory Houghton , ambassador to France , who came here for practical . and wrong " and a consultations . 