@@719895

txt " Hypocrites . Vice Lords . Degenerates . " These are only a few of the milder epithets being used to describe Americana by Cairo Radio , the most potent propaganda tool now operating in the Middle East . President Eisenhower yesterday put the spotlight on the Egyptian station in his address before the United Nations . He did n't call it by name  --  but none listening to him doubted what he was talking about when he declared inflammatory " radio broadcasts directed across national rrontiers in the troubled Near East " were a form of " indirect aggression . " A few weeks ago Cairo Radio 's strident voice called for uprisings in Iraq and Lebanon . Today it cries for a revolution in Jordan . " Kill the dwarf King Hussein " ? that is the theme of program after program beamed to the troubled Kingdom of Jordan . The assassin would be a ' hero acclaimed by the entire Arab world , station announcers declare with fervor . Factor in Troubles And from its powerful Czech-built transmitters in the Nile delta this station @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 23 languages to most of the world . Diplomats and gbvernment officials in the Middle East rate Its virulent stream of abuse as a prime factor in recent disturbances in this area . Nationalist Arabs in a dozen countries listen to its voice for cues to new action . Cairo Radio 's 600,000 to one millionkilowatt capacity transmitters override every other station in the area . America 's " Voice of America " broadcasting its Congressmuted weak signal from a penny-pinched ship anchored in Rhodes harbor is drowned out by the din of Cairo Radio and its " Voice of the Arabs " programs . And the station presents America to the Arab world as a venal nation of colonialists Mogammad Sahaf , commentator on a recent afternoon broadcast , said , " Since the end of World War II the policy of the American government turned against all liberation movements in all parts of the world , fighting against the free leaders of oppressed nations and killing those who showed a tendency of being a headache to the plans of American imperialism " Mohammad Abdel Kader described the U.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the world molded together into a solid mass of crime and graft and corruption " He described U S Middle Eastern policy as " the policy of political prostitution and vagrancy of those gathered in America from the scum of the earth " " Warped Mentality " Earthy obscenities flavor the rest of the broadcast . Secretary of State Dulles is described by another announcer thusly : " The man is crazy and has a warped mentality . " The announcer ended his broadcast by saying : " We warn you , Mr. Dulles , to lay off Arab nationalism before it proves to be the death of you and your like , you hypocrite . " Most broadcasts involving America contain so many obscenities that squeamish monitors wo n't repeat exact phraseology . Headquarters of Cairo Radio is in the heart of this hot , sunny city at 4 Sharia El Cherifeen , a. narrow lane between a canyon of buildings Policy for the station is decided by President Nasser and his top lieutenants A policeman In a white uniform stands with a rifle before the entrance of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medieval Italian castle The policeman steps forward then hesitates as you nod ? nonchalantly to him . Inside the drab halls people scurry back and forth between high vaulted offices . You remember the comment of one Western intelligence officer : " The station employs hundreds of people . literally hundreds , and it must cost a small fortune to operate . " A stair leads upward On one floor the landing opens into a hall where a group of radio supervisors are drafting a program . Each has a script and each has some suggestion to make in Arabic . The chorus of voices seems to make little sense . A youth thaws somewhat and explains that the radio supervisors are mapping a program to be beamed later that day to Lebanon . What should the tone be ? Violent ? Friendly ? Who should the program try to reach ? What should be the theme ? These questions are threshed out at " brainstorming sessions . " After agreement the outline is given to a team of writers and a script is written . Officials clear the script and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scheduling . There is nothing haphazard about the abuse which flows through this station . Economists , folk song writers , politicians , historians , anthropolgists , and radio technicians all join hands in carefully planning each part of the program for maximum effect . Each program is preceded'by long studies . Included are studieS of the customs of each people to whom a broadcast will be beamed . Attention is paid to the time they sleep and awake , the time they start and end work and the average time-distance between work and home . This helps decide the time the program will be beamed . Other studies delve into the political position of the country , its economy , the type of government and major problems occupying the attention of the people . This information decides the content of the program . More studies go into the literacy rate of the people involved , their method of express . ing themselves , their idiom , and their intonation . This helps set the tone of the presentation . Cairo Radio not only broadcasts news bulletins and commentaries , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The lonely Kurd in northern Iraq hears Cairo Radio 's messages interlarded with wild tunes of the Upper Tigris Valley The Sudanese hears the savage drum beat of his native dances along with the political pitch to join Egypt . Each program is presented by a native of the country to which the message is beamed , assuring that all idiom and methods of presentation will be authentic to listeners . Somali , Swahili Programs last from 15 minutes to two hours as a rule . Languages include . Indonesian , Malayan , Bengali , English , Kurdi , Turkish , Iranian . Sudanese dialects , Swahili , Amheric , Somali , French , German , Portuguese , Spanish and Hebrew . As many as seven programs broadcast simultaneously over different bands . A total of 62 hours of propaganda daily is now being fed to people in the Middle East , South and Southeast Asia . and Africa . Of the seven programs identified with Cairo Radio four are especially important These are the general program : " Voice of the Arabs , " which specifically aims at promoting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sudan on the idea of unifying itself with Egypt : and the beamed broadcasts . The latter may be directed at any country where Egypt thinks it has something to gain by spreading its messages Not content with carrying the torch of Aran nationalism , the station also beams broadcasts to the Belgian Congo lashing at " Belgian paternalism " in its native policy ; at Kenya urging natives to rise again against British colonialism ; at French West Africa selling natives the idea of working together with their " Moslem brothers " in Egypt Especially virulent messages to Africa are reserved for " The Voice of Free Africa . " This is a station operated from an unidentified location in southern Egypt by Egyptian intelligence . The government maintains a myth about this being a clandestine station but it is an open secret who runs it Western Counter Measure Egyptian officials claim that Cairo Radio is being operated merely as a counter measure against anti-Egyptian propaganda . The government claims that eight clandestine radio stations are now beaming anti-Nasser propaganda into the Middle East each day . There were nine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Iraq " was stilled by the revolution . Says an Egyptian government official : " We have reason to believe one or more of those stations are on Cyprus , another in France , one in Israel , and at least one in Turkey . They are constantly subjecting us to vilification and abuse . " No doubt Western powers would be only too happy to silence their clandestine stations If Cairo Radio could also be silenced . Their stations seem to be running poor seconds behind Egypt 's when it comes to effectiveness of propaganda . " The only way a small country can attack a big one is to yell like hell , " says one European diplomat . " Egypt Is not going to quit yelling through Cairo Radio unless forced to do so . for when you come right down to it this is her best weapon . "                     