@@713939

txt The United States lost a 50-50 chance to save North China from communism by failure to supply servicable arms and ammunition to the Chinese nationalist government , Vice Adm . Oscar C. Badger today Adm . Badger told the senate investigation of the firing of Gen. . Badger , former far eastern naval commander , contradicted sworn testimony of State Secretary Acheson that China did not collapse to the Reds for lack of military aid . Badger said a Chinese nationalist force of 110,000 men " colJawed " to communism in 1948 after waiting five months for aid and then receiving " almost use , less " equipment . Traces Fall of North China If proper equipment had been delivered , the army could have gone to the relief of Mukden and opened a channel of supplies to 300,000 of the best troops in China , the admiral said . He said many of these were American trained and American equipped . Failure to supply this nationalist force of Gen. Fu Tso-yi , fighting on the south border of Manchuria near the greet wall , resulted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The statement was made in one of the official dispatches that it had better than a 50-50 chance , " Badger said of the Chinese naticnalist army , had it been properly supplied . Arms Essentials Lacking Badger gave a detailed report of the lack of essentials in the equipment sent to the 110,00 man army . He said the failure to give fighting equipment was the last straw that broke the back of nationalist resistance and gave victory to the Reds . The admiral during his appearance on the stand before the combined senate and armed services and foreign relations committees said there is a chance South China may revolt againtt communism . He said Manchuria , Inner Mongolia , Sinkiang , and North China generally are deemed to be securely under communist control , but there is a chance of revolutionary repercussion against " communist tyranny . and ialism " in South China . Russia 's Weakness Told Badger read at length from a report he made to the war college last March on this possibility . He said the situation had not changed Materially since then . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advised against bringing Russia into the war against Japan at the Cairo conference in 1993 . He said the combined United States and British chiefs of staff decided that Russia was so weak in the far east that even its defensive forces were dependent for supplies upon American Pacific ports . These supplies were carried by 100 to 150 soviet ships moving thru Jap waters . As a result of this agreement , no effort was made to bring Russia into the watt at that time . President Roosevelt pledged support to China et Cairo . The Cairo decision was reversed at Yalta and Russia was granted concessions which enabled her to dominate China in return for entry into the conflict a few days before the Jap surrender . Price Termed " Cheap " Badger intimated that commercial and military rights at Port Arthur , Dairen , and Manchuria were given to the soviets in part because the soviet price was regarded as cheap by comparison with what the soviets were expected to ask . He said it had been predicted during the war that Russia would demand Russian control of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control at the Dardanelles as the price of entry into the war in the Pacific . The admiral today supported 's plan of a naval blockade of Red China , but held the blockade should be by the United Nations rather than by the United States alone . He opposed 's suggestion of bombing Red bases in China and using Chinese nationalist troops against the Chinese Reds . He said he believes these troops are not ready for wholesale invasion but can be used for raids on the mainland . Approves " Hot Pursuit " badger , however , drew a distinction between bombing Many churian bases and pursuing enemy planes into Manchuria in hot pursuit and destroying them . He said he understood that communist planes fleeing from the fighting in Korea " can be followed and are being followed " over the Yalu river boundary . Sen. Sparkman ID. , Ala.1 reminded him that altho the joint chiefs had recommended hot pursuit of enemy . planes over the border the plan had been dropped , according to Secretary Acheson , because six allied nations opposed it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continue every possible effort to put that into effect , " Badger said . " I agree with it . . . and I think it is a great morale factor , and I think that everything points to it . " Arms Delayed 5 Months In his direct opposition to the administration position on aid to anti-communist China , Badger said the joint chiefs of staff had approved sending 16 million dollars worth of sorely needed equipment to Gen. Fu . After the approval , nothing came thru for five months , Badger told the senators . Finally a ship bearing equipment arrived at Tientsin Nov. 29 , 1948 . The admiral said the ship carried 480 machine guns without spare parts or tripods . He said there were Thompson machine guns without clips or magazines , no loading machines for loading ' ammunition belts , light machine guns but only 1,000 with mounts , and only 1,000 clips for 2,280 light machine guns . Collapse Comes In 2 Days " The result was that Gen. Fu , who had his back to the wall at that time at Tientsin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Is this what we have been waiting for ? ' and then collapsed within two days , " Badger testified . Badger said the United States lost " a great gamble " in the way it carried out the 1948 China aid act . lie said Gen. Fu , a popular commander , had four well equipped armies , three poorly equipped , and four unequipped . He said that one Fu army relieving another would line up and take the rifles from the army that was being relieved . The admiral said that if Fu 's campaign had been successful , North China might have been saved . Lack of Cartridges Told Badger was asked about the statement of Maj. Gen. David Barr , head of an American military mission to China , who was quoted by Acheson as saying " no battle has been lost for lack of ammunition or equipment . " ? " There is a great difference between a battle which is undertaken and inability to undertake battles , " Badger said . IIHe said that in some battles naitionalists had only six cartridges for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Weisien , nationalist defenders " lost about 50 per cent of their troops when the Communists overwhelmed them by their attack on that town . " The defenders were not only1 throwing rocks , bottles , and bricks at them , but they were dropping , from small planes , homemade bombs of bottles with powder and ordinary caps , he said . Adm . Badger concluded his testimony this afternoon . Patrick Hurley , former ambassadof to China , who resigned with a protest against state department policy which led to the communization of China , will testify tomorrow                     