@@716796

txt Under a Tight Dictatorship , a Huge Population IF Driven Toward High Economic Goals The fighting off the China coast last week sharply focused attention on the Peiping regime and the vast nation it rules . Because Western correspondents are barred front the mainland , it is difficult to find out precisely what China is like today . Nevertheless , some news continues to filter through the " bamboo curtain . " Here are some of the highlights of what toe know about China . 1 . THE LAND Territorially , Communist China is one of the largest countries M the world . Its area of 3,750,000 square miles compares with 2,975,000 for the United States . This map shows the comparison : Occupying one-fifth of the Asiatic Continent , it has common borders with almost every other Asiatic state , facing the Soviet Union arid Outer Mongolia on the north , Korea on the east and Afghanistan , Pakistan , India , Burma and Indochina on the west and south . Only a relatively small stretch of the Pacific separates it from Japan , while Thailand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's most southern point . This strategic position in Asia 's heartland creates both opportunities and problems for the rulers in Peiping , particularly today when the airplane has diminished the importance of the mountain barriers that once cut off China to a large extent from many of its neighbors . Nature has not favored China as much as the country 's area would suggest . Much of the land consists of mountains arid deserts . The climate over most of the country is one of extremes , very cold in winter and very hot in - summer. 2 , THE PEOPLE China 's vast population is its main feature . It numbers , by recent Communist count , about 585,000,000  --  almost three times the population of the Soviet Union  --  though Western experts are qomewhat skeptical of this figure . This chart shows how . China 's popula tion compares with that of other populous nations of the world : The Communist claim is that population is rapidly expanding . One recent set of data suggested that 12,000,000 people was the annual population growth , though here again Western experts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four areas : the North China Plain , the Szechwan Basin in the west , the Lower Yangtze ' Valley and the canton Delta in the south . The major religions are Buddhism , Taoism , Mohammedanism and Christianity . The Communists have sought to establish " self-supporting , self-administered and self-propagating " Christian churches as instruments or the state . This movement has brought about the arrest and deportation of many foreign missionaries . 3 . THE RECENT HISTORY Communist China 's postwar history divides naturally into three periods . From V-J Day to 1949 , Communist forces were occupied with the military conquest of the Chinese mainland . Given an initial strong position in Manchuria by , the Red Ai:my which had occupied that area , the Communists swept over the country like a flood during the next four years . By late 1949 , Chiang Kai-shek 's Nationalist Government had been driven from the mainland to the island of Formosa . From late 1949 to late 1954 , consolidation was the keynote of the Communists'Activities . The old village gentry and urban merchant class were wiped out . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A process of " re-education " and " brainwashing " was used to mold the minds of China 's people along the lines desired by Peiping . The immense damage of the civil war period was partly repaired . Then , in September and October of last year , the Communists declared , in effect , that consolidation was complete , and they adopted a new Constitution to symbolize their confidence they were entering into the period of permanent rule and transition to full socialism . 4 . THE POLITICAL SYSTEM According to the recently adopted Constitution of Communist China , the country is " a people 's democratic state led by the working class and based on the alliance of workers and peasants . " This chart shows the set-up : Actually , however , Communist China is an absolute dictatorship ruled through the more than 6,000,000 members of the Chinese Communist party , who obey the orders of the party leaders , with Mao Tse-tung at the peak of the power pyramid . It is a police state in which the threat of death or imprisonment is the basic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facade is used to maintain the pretext of " democracy . " ? As defined by the Constitution adopted last September , Communist China 's Government consists of legislative , executive and judicial branches , as shown above . A popularly elected National ' People 's Congress is nominally " the highest organ of state power , " though it has met only once , and then briefly , since late last summer . A small standing committee acts for the Congress when the latter is not in session . The executive branch is headed by Mao as the Chairman of the People 's Republic of China . Under him is a State Council , or Cabinet , headed by Chou En7lai as Premier , and a National Defense Council ? for the armed forces . A Supreme People 's Court and an Attorney General are the chief judicial agencies . At lower provincial and city levels there is a corresponding organization . The actuality of Chinese politics is that decisions taken by the leadership of the Chinese Communist party , with Mao , Chou En-lai , Liu Shao-chi , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elaborate Gov. ernment apparatus , the extensive Communist party network , the police and the mass organ . izations that organize the youth , workers . peasants , women , intellectuals and other groups for easiest manipulation . 5 . THE ECONOMY The central fact of Chinese Communist economics is the abysmal poverty of the great bulk of the people . The overwhelming majority of the Chinese are peasants patiently and intensively tilling minute tracts of land for a subsistence livelihood under conditions of crowding difficult for Westerners to comprehend . The industry and commerce of the great cities , such as Shanghai and Canton , are still only marginal phenomena in Chinese life though rapid industrialization is one of the great Peiping goals . In achieving this goal , China depends largely on help from Russia . This shows the trade pattern : Mao 's goal now is to turn China into the same kind of centrally planned industrial economy , based on collectivized agriculture , as that in the Soviet Union , his historic example . But to attain power , he had to use the theme of land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and giving it to those with one-half acres or none . Now the campaign to collectivize China 's 100,000,000 farmers has begun in earnest , with completion scheduled for a decade hence . The struggle between Government and peasantry on this issue may be decisive for Mao , and for the world . Industry and transport are progressing rapidly , in part with Soviet technical aid arid because of the supply of Soviet machinery . Industrial towns such as Anshan are bulging with tens of thousands of newly'arrived workers , fresh from the farm , who toil under harsh discipline and at fantastically low consumption levels . But even with Soviet aid , China 's Communists do not expect ' to reach Russia 's low 1932 industrial production level until 1959 at the soonest . This chart shows China 's growth in production of steel and electricity , and the goals for 1959 : 6 . THE PROPAGANDA Day in and day out Communist China 's people are inundated by the regime 's propaganda , whose content and tone are carefully planned at the highest level of Peiping rule . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help implemeht this tidal wave of words . Even as he walks down a city street the Chinese citizen is exposed to the blare of the state 's message coming out of a public loud-speaker . In the millions of urban and rural groups of the nation , there are agitators who preach the official message incessantly , reaching alike the literate and the illiterate , the worker and the peasant . The schools pass this propaganda on to the children from the very beginning of their studies . It is difficult to judge how successful this propaganda is , though that it has had some success is likely . Open opposition to this propaganda is dangerous for any Chinese living on the mainland , but Radio Taipei can be heard ever much of China , while Nationalist planes drop leaflets from time to time . 7 . THE FOREIGN POLICY Communist China 's foreign policy falls into three categories in relation to the three main groups of foreign nations with which it must cleat . On the surface , Peiping 's relatigns with Moscow and with the Soviet satellites are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their links to the " camp of peace and democracy . " Bound to Russia by a mutual defense alliance and by economic agreements which are the cornerstone of its hopes for rapid industrialization asscl for an army equipped with modern wes.pons , Communist China seeks to show its friendship by glorifying the Soldet Union as its examplei by encouraging the large scale study of Russian by youngsters and adults , and by exchanging students , technicians , scientists , artists and the like . Yet there are signs of friction under the surface . Only a few months ago the Soviet Union " voluntarily agreed " to withdraw its troops from Port Arthur and to relinquish its share in the four " joint " Soviet-Sino companies which had given Moscow a significant toehold in China 's economy . Toward the neutrals , such as India and Burma , Peiping 's attitude is one of courtship , of seeking to win friends and influence nations by speaking unceasingly of Communist China 's supposed love ( V peace and of independence for all peoples . This campaign of wooing the neutrals is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference , called for April by the Colombo Powers , shown on map below : With regard to the main Western powers opposing communism , Peiping 's attitude has fluctuated in recent years , though certain features have remained constant . of the con. stant factors , the most important has been the strident and unabating enmity toward the United States , which is depicted as a predatory imperialist power that has already annexed Formosa and schemes only of bringing death , destruction and slavery to the Chinese main land . Toward Britain , Peiping has blown hot and cold at different times , though in the last year the main effort has been directed toward trying to split London and Washington by being relatively nice to the British . 8 . THE KEY QUESTIONS Many questions involving Communist China remain unanswered . Which road will it take in the future ? Will it stand with Moscow in a drive to conquer the world for comm. ' . nism ? Will it break with Moscow even . tually and seek to build a future through rapprochement with the West ? Will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the banner of Asia-for-the-Asians ? Much of future history will depend on the answers to these questions . qwq                     