@@718100

txt Bay State and national Republican leaders have embarked on a major political gamble in their determined effort to win hack at least one of the state 's congressional seats . The objective is the 8th Congressional District seat wrested from the GOP two years ago by Representative Torbert H. Macdonald ( D ) of Massachusetts . But it may injure GOP prospects of regaining a seat considered vital to Republican retention of the State Senate in 1957-58 . Control of the upper branch in the 1957-58 Massachusetts Legislature is of unusual importance because that session will have the job of drawing up new legislative districts to stand for the next 10 years . " Actually , Bay State GOP leaders are hopeful that they can pick up two congressional seats in November , the second one being that in the 2d Congressional District , centered on Springfield . But only the 8th District contest involves a political gamble on Senate control . Farnum to Hun National and state leaders , ineluding'teonard W. Hall , chairman of the Republican National Committee , and Representative Charles Gibbons ( R @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Lieutenant Governor , have persuaded State Representative C. Eugene Farnum ( R ) of Medford to run for the Macdonald-occupied seat . The state legislator had originally been counted on to protect the Republican 21-to. - 19 control of the Massachusetts Senate in the coming crucial election by recapturing from State Senator Frederick T. ( D ) of Medford the 6th Middlesex District Senate seat . Most political observers have felt that Mr. Farnum could do just that because of his liberal voting record and his vote-getting prowess . But those factors , plus his location in the heavily populated sector of the 8th Congressional District , made him an attractive prospect for Congress . Party leaders are particularly eager to make headway in Massachusetts in their national drive to win control of Congress in November . The state 's 14-man congressional delegation is now split evenly between Democrats and Republicans . In helping to persuade Mr. Farnum to make the run , Mr. Gibbons is , in effect , sidetracking a close political colleague , State Representative Theodore J. Vaitses ( R ) of Melrose . Mr. Vaitses has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Few political leaders , however , have felt that he could defeat Mr. Macdonald , because Mr. Vaitses comes from the less densely populated part of the district . As for the state Senate control gamble , GOP leaders are counting on President Eisenhower 's presence on the national ticket to help Republican candidates all down the line . Just officially announced for the GOP nomination for the Senate seat is Harrison F. Lyman , Jr. , former chairman of the Winchester Board of Selectmen and present member of the Winchester Planning Board . While a relative political newcomer , this young attorney is now being counted on to win back the district lost to Senator two years ago . He is a personable , hard-hitting campaigner . Party chiefs believe that by a resourceful and all-out campaign , he can win . Senator C. Henry Glovsky ( R ) of Beverly , chosen by party officials to head an effort to line up strong candidates for Senate nominations as a means of protecting or increasing the GOP margin of control , is reported to be unhappy over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lerche Goes Out While he is known to regard Mr. Lyman highly , Senator Glovsky has felt that Mr. Farnum was a sure thing to defeat Senator . Thus far , Mr. Lyman is an unknown factor as a senatorial candidate . Party officials are gambling for big political stakes . They realize it . Seven incumbent Republican state senators are not seeking reelection , with at least one other GOP senator also likely to step out . Some of the districts involved are politically marginal . For instance , GOP leaders such as Senator Glovsky are particularly concerned over the Hampden , Hampshire , and Berkshire District . The incumbent , Senator Ralph Lerche ( R ) of Northariipton , is stepping out after 18 years in the Legislature . If the GOP should lose this seat and one of the other marginal seats , and fail to pick up any of the Democratic seats at stake , the - GOP would lose control of the Senate . If the Democrats should retain control of the House and elect their gubernatorial candidate , political disaster could befall the Bay State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could continue Democratic control of the Legislature for many years .                     