@@717887

txt As Prime Minister Sir Anthony Eden ended talks with Nikolai A. Bulganin and Nikita S. Khrushchev at No. 10 Downing Street April 25 , British hopes of major progress in resolving main East-West differences were definitely lessened . But it was felt that there is still time before the Soviet visitors leave April 27 for a reversal of this expectation . The Communists are renowned for their last-minute bargaining tactics . For instance , both sides could find it easy to agree to cultural exchanges ; the Soviet leaders might be willing to barter their new-found power to calm the Mideast situation for needed British trade and the prestige at home of a successful conclusion to their British trip . On the thorny question of German unification , however , neither side appeared to expect any measure of agreement . In the meantime , British official circles and several leading newspapers are taking a realistic view that the outcome of the visit may be disappointing . On the other hand , it is thought that the visit will probably have useful long-term results if only because the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to indulge in enthusiastic welcome or be carried away by smooth words . And maybe it will be useful for the Soviet visitors to have experienced firsthand the sturdy independence and fierce love of liberty of this island people . The atmosphere of the " B and K " visit has toughened startlingly in the past 24 hours . There has not only been straight speaking in private ; there have also been sharp exchanges in the open . Communist Party First Secretary Khrushchev has behaved as if there were no doubt that he is the real boss . He has also displayed himself as a man of no understanding of , or patience with , opposition in its Western democratic sense . As the full story is told and retold and analyzed of the Labor Party 's stormy encounter with Mr. Khrushchev that dinner party looks as if it might become an historic landmark . Socialists Mistrusted in the earlier days of Soviet communism it used to be said that Moscow would sooner have dealingS with a right-wing Conservative government in London than it would with a Socialist Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were with the Tory Blues but that they did n't trust what they regarded as the mock socialism of the British Labor Party . . However , many political experts have always had strong doubts whether British Socialists ever really accepted this assessment . The Laborites apparently just could not believe that Soviet Communists would prefer the ' so-called spokesmen of capitalism and privilege as against the representatives of the British workingman . But now in their own capital of London the British Laborites have had the startling experience of snubs and hostility from the two top Soviet leaders . Westminster is agog with stories of the row between " B and K " and the Laborites . It is said that Mr. Khrushchev has been fuming ever since about the " hamstvo " ( churlishness ) of certain British Laborites when they were hosts of the Soviets . Some diplomatic observers are saying Sir Anthony had to work hard to prevent the visit from breaking up . Mr. Khrushchev may well feel he got back at the " churlish " Socialists when , after lunch in the Commons April @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to shake hands with a member of the Laborite " shadow cabinet , " George Brown , who had been one of the chief protagonists at the stormy dinner party the night before . Differences Etched Mr. Brown is a forthright and volatile arguer and just could not accept what he thought was Mr. Khrushchev 's implication that it was the Soviet Union which defeated Nazi Germany . To Mr. Brown it seemed that Mr. Khrushchev was making again the anti-British speech he had made in India . Mr. Brown just had to tell the Communist Party boss that Britain was fighting Germany while the Soviet Union was still an ally of Hitler . Then the exchanges got heated and after that the party rather went to pieces . Matters were made worse when Mr. Khrushchev brushed aside a Laborite request for the release of Social Democrats imprisoned in the U.S.S.R. and the satellite countries . It is possible Mr. Khrushchev thought this request and some questions about Communist persecution of Jews were merely aimed to embarrass him . In which case he has made a serious misjudgment . As Laborite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party illustrates beyond doubt the fundamental difference between So ? iet communism and British socialism . British socialism , it is stressed , has above all , a concern for human beings and human liberties . Perhaps never has this difference been brought home more dramatically , more forcefully to the British Laborite rank and file . It was being said in Westminster that this event might have tar-reaching results in restoring a more bipartisan British foreign policy and might considerably lessen the tendency of some British rank-and-file Socialists to blame the United States more than U.S.S.R. for keeping up world tension . Should British Socialists have allowed themselves to get into this fight with Mr. Khrushchev and Premier Bulganin who were their guests ? There is some heart-searching in the Labor Party about this . But the genera feeling seems to be that the British Labor Party would have betrayed its brother Socialists abroad if the dinner party had been merely an exchange of pleasa ntries.                     