@@720287

txt The Atomic Energy Commission asked private industry to submit proposals for the design of an advanced power reactor using nuclear superheat . The agency also scheduled a public hearing April 9 on the financial resources of Yankee Atomic Electric Co .. which is building a $62 million nuclear power plant near Rowe . Mass . Industry offers to design a nuclear superheater must be filed with the A.E.C. by April 20 . The commission said it plans to award a cost-type contract for research and development of concepts and materials most suited ' for a reactor using nuclear superheat . Superheated. or dry , steam can be many times hotter than ordinary saturated steam . which has a constant temperature of 212 degrees Fahrenheit at sea level . It is produced by running saturated steam through a superheater until all the water is vaporized . No Nuclear Superheater Yet Most conventional oil and coal-fired power plants use superheaters to boost generating efficiency . So far . however , nobody has yet built a nuclear superheater  --  one using atomic fuel instead of coal or oil . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for cheaper atomic power by permitting the use of simpler and more efficient turbines . Increased efficiency . moreover , might mean less fuel would be needed to power the plant  --  an important consideration when that fuel is costly uranium . The Yankee Atomic hearing will be held before an A.E.C. examiner at the agency s Germantown . Md. , headquarters . Besides looking into the company 's financial resources , the examiner will consider Yankee Atomic 's plans for raising money to pay for the Rowe project . Specifically , the hearing will cover the company 's proposal to sell 320 million of 5 ' - first mortgage bonds . due 1912 , to Old Colony Trust Co .. Boston . The company intends to raise the remaining funds by selling $20 million of stock and obtaining $17 million in unsecured bank loans . The final 35 million will be put up by the A.E.C. to pay for research and development . Permit Runs Out April 30 The A.E.C. in 1957 licensed Yankee Atomic to build the plant . but warned this permit would expire April 30 of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the project . The April 9 hearing i will consider evidence submitted by the coml. pan ? in compliance with A.E.C. directives . The commission , in scheduling the hearing , said I Yankee Atomic 's construction permit will be extended beyond April 30. if the hearing examiner has not made a ruling by then . Federal law permits companies building nuclear reactors with Government help to mortgage their projects . provided the A.E.C. approves . The Yankee Atomic proposal is the first one to be considered . The Securities and Exchange Commission must also approve the company 's financing plans . Yankee Atomic is composed of 11 New England electric companies . It hopes to finish its 145,000-kilowatt plant late next year . The nulear reactor is being provided by Westinghouse Electric Corp .. while the plant itself is being built by Stone &; Webster Engineering Corp .                     