@@714584

txt The Iowa State Republican convention today gave Gen. Eisenhower 14 delegates to the national convention in Chicago and Sen. Taft ( 03 nine . Of three other " neutral " delegates selected , Eisenhower 's followers were claiming one , and Taft said of the other two , " They are pretty certain for me . " The convention came to a hurried close after a day of district caucusing which indicated that Taft and Eisenhower were going to split the state 's 26 convention delegates 50-50 . Observers credited a wrangle within the nominating commitpe over Harrison Spangler , retirg national committeeman , with costing Taft delegates in the last minute flurry . Even Split In Districts In the eight congressional district caucuses , Taft was given eight delegates and Eisenhower eight . The district ? caucuses were followed by a session of the convention 's nominating commit t ee charged with the selection of the states 10 delegates-at-large . Because the committee consisted equally of four Taft supporters and four Eisenhower backers , it was assumed that the two candidates for the Presidential nomination would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ However , the committee named six Eisenhower delegates , one for Taft , and three neutrals , to make up the 10 delegates-at-large . This brought Eisenhower 's total of delegates to 14 and Taft 's to 9 . Wrangle In Committee While none of the insiders permitted themselves to be directly quoted , they implied that committee wrangling developed over Spangler 's insistence upon being named one of the delegates-atlarge. altho he was strongly opposed for the post by Eisenhower backers . In the midst of the bickering , it was reported , the Eisenhower faction proposed a " deal " in which they would accept Spangler . Thus , it was reported , Spangler , a Taft proponent , was accepted , but Eisenhower won six delegates instead of five . The three neutrals named by the nominating committee were Sen. Hickenlooper , Robert K. Goodwin , national committeemanelect , and Mrs. Gertrude Wilharm of Sumner , state vice chairman . Inasmuch as Mrs. Wilharm had previously stated that she would I follow the wishes of her district the 3d  --  an Eisenhower stronghold , the Eisenhower faction claimed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 15 . Of the other two . Sen. Taft , campaigning in Illinois , said , " they are pretty certain for me . " Neither Hickenlooper nor Goodwin have made zany public comment . The nominating committee was deadlocked for more than three hours in the fight over selection of the delegates-at-large and for a brief time it appeared the convention might be forced into recess until midnight or tomorrow . But at the last minute . the committee rushed its report to the convention floor . The rules for a roll call by counties were waived by voice vote and the committee 's recommendations giving Eisenhower an edge were adopted . Meet in Theater Adoption of the report ended a long fight in which both sides struggled thruout last night and today to shift the balance of power from the dead center it had reached in the district caucuses . The convention was held in a radio theater where a play was scheduled tonight and the delegates had been warned they would I have to be out of the theater by 5 p. m . Altho some observers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ county roll call had not been dispensed with , the recommendations of the nominating committee on the delegates-atlarge are usually accepted automatically . When the committee reported tonight , considerable booing was heard on the floor . Ike Picks Up Two Ottawa , Kas. , April 4 ( P ) ? Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower picked up two more delegates and a " probable " today in the fight for Kansas delegates to the Republican national convention , with two district delegates elected and one delegateat-large recommended without opposition in the 2d district convention here .                     