@@717821

txt Letters to The Times Participating in I. L 0 . Charges of Opponents of Labor Organization Are Challenged To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your ringing editorial " In Defense of the I. L. 0 . " on April 7 was both timely and commendable . The National Association of Personnel Consultants and its fiftyseven franchised associates are circulating petitions throughout the nation directed to the Congress ' asking for repeal of the 1934 Joint Resolution authorizing our active participation in the International Labor Organization . To induce people to sign these petitions the . N. A. P. C. is using the wholly fallacious statistic that in May 1954 , Russia and seven of her satellites were admitted as members . with thirty-two votes as against our nation 's four . Wholly ignored is what your editorial pointed out : that the eight Communist countries have but thirty-two out of the 284 total , votes . What irks the N. A. P. C. , the National Association of Manufacturers and the United States Chamber of Commerce is the fact that the I. L. 0 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in many countries of the world on the subjects of collective bargaining , insurance , medical care , employment services , the nursing of babies , the upbringing of school children , of young people on the farms , determination of wages , migration of workers , etc . This , they have said in print , completely subverts the original objectives of the I. L. 0 . and sets up a pattern for a Socialist state . Limits on Assistance It is all reminiscent of the position taken by Harold Stassen and others during the 1948 Presidential campaign that we should give no Marshall Plan money or assistance to any of the European countries under Socialist control even though they had resisted Communist infiltration . The current drive against the I. L. O. is a similar reflection of the Neanderthal views of that segment of our people who believe that the rest of the world is constantly placing in jeopardy the wealth , the comforts and the general well-being of our more fortunate land by striving to reach levels of decent living standards themselves . The cold war and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's determination to transform the rest of the world into its own ideological and Communist image . It all stemmed from a national anxiety neurosis over . coexistence . Are n't we going down the same atomic-laden road when we suggest withdrawal from the I. L. 0 . because so many of the countries of the world which are fighting communism as bitterly as we are have not seen fit to conform themselves to our economic image ? Ceylon and Cyprus and the Middle East  --  and the Far East too ? are symptoms of a Weltschmerz to which we should give heed before it is too late . HENRY MAYER . New York , April 8 , 1956 . Bus Improvement Plan Questioned ro THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : As a taxpayer may I protest against the expenditure of $50,000 , - 000 by ' the city to improve its surface transportation lines as suggested by the Transit Authority ? For years the operation of the city-owned buses has piled up huge deficits which have cost the people of New York . City many millions each year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when garage space is available seems like a tremendous waste . That the city could in three years put the lines on a self-sustaining basis is problematical . As far as I know there has been no substantial evidence that this is true . The private bus companies have the garage space available and operate with greater efficiency . They are willing to take a chance on making the lines pay . The city should- take advantage of this opportunity to save millions . If $50 , - 000,000 is available from the capital budget , is it not more important to use these funds for much-needed Schools ? LENORE LOIS CUMMER . New York , April 9 , 1956 , To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : . The Eisenhower Administration has repeatedly complained that Soviet Russia . while pleading for friendship and peace has not indicated any intention to do anything about it . Just what would our Government ' expect Soviet Russia to " do " about it ? She has no territory which we covet . Do we want her to take military action in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which we would accept as a deed to be substituted for words  --  namely , the granting of free elections in East Germany , looking toward the unification of Germany as a whole . But if we are to expect such action on the part of Soviet Russia we must be ready to perform some equivalent deed ourselves . I suggest that this might be our support of the candidacy of Communist China for admission to the United Nations , and the recognition of Formosa and the offshore islands as parts of Chinese territory and therefore as subject to the authority of the Government which now has firmly established itself on the Chinese mainland . I suggest , therefore , that instead of reproaching the Russians for talking instead of acting that we take action ourselves . This would be the best possible proof that when we propose substituting deeds Apr words we mean what we say . Sixteen new members were admitted to the United Nations in 1955 . Among those whose candidacy was rejected were Japan and Communist China . Unquestionably it is our opposition which was decisive in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have proposed it would be necessary to overrule the Chinese Nationalists , whom we have hitherto supported . When we first took this position the Chinese mainland was in a condition of revolution , the outcome of which was in some degree uncertain . That policy is now outdated . Though I believe that we owe Chiang Kai-shek and other high Nationalist Chinese officials a pledge of personal safety , and I believe that this can be obtained . we have no obligation to continue indefinitely a policy which has no relation to the actual facts as they have developed . The exchange of deeds which I propose would look toward an eventual rule of order in central Europe and confirm the actual situation as it exists in the Far East . It need not so far as I can see imply any pro-Communist ideology on our part and would enable us to secure - the cooperation of Communist China in setting limits to their expansion in the Far East . I aM not naive enough to expect that this plan would secure strong political support at this time , but ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group of influential citizens who would make a beginning of the only political arrangement that will stabilize the world order East and West and remove the major causes of a possible resort to violence . RALPH BARTON PERRY . Professor of Philosophy , Emeritus , Harvard University . Cambridge , Mass. , March 26 , 1956 . Soviet Reprisal Seen TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES On April 3 The New York Times reported that R. K. O'Malley , Associated Press Chief of Bureau in Moscow , has been expelled from ths U. S. S. R. for alleged illegal currency transactions . This expulsion of Mr. O'Malley looks very much like a reprisal for the American press ' attitude several months ago , during an unpleasant incident with Soviet currency in the United States , In the beginning of December , 1955 , your paper published that some private banks in Europe and in New York were selling the Russian rubles at an exchange rate of 20 rubles instead of the official 4 rubles to a dollar . This action took place presumably with the consent of the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abroad . The New York Times warned that such transactions are illegal according to Soviet laws , and the . entire American press , as well as radio broadcasts , joined in this warning , requesting an official explanation from the Soviet Government . The Soviets hesitated to give an answer , but the attempt of a great financial speculation failed right at the start after the warning ; there were no buyers for the worthless rubles . Only several weeks later the Soviet News Agency , Tass , confirmed that these transactions are illegal and punishable . It seems the Soviet Government did not forget this failure , and this probably is the real reason for Mr. O'Malley 's expulsion . Strange enough , the expulsion coincides in time with the seizure measures against The Daily Worker taken by the Administration in New York for unpaid taxes . Businesslike retaliation in line with the Geneva . spirit . I. J. GOLDMAN . New York , April 6 , 1956. vailed from Nova Scotia to Virginia . Some two feet of snow fell . " Both of these storms are recorded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The writer gives the depth in the 1841 storm as two and a half feet and says it was the heaviest snowfall he ever saw here : ERNEST S. CLOWES . Bridgehampton , N. Y. , April 8 , 1956 , Toward World Stability Support ' of Communist China 's Claims , U. N. Entry Proposed Story on Bittern Commended To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : This note is prompted Dy a letter to the editor a few days ago criticizing the paper for its treatment of the killing of a crippled bittern . It is my feeling and the feeling of my wife and daughter that this story was written with fine craftsmanship and delicate taste . We congratulate the reporter who handled the story . We also congratulate the editors for putting it on the front page . All bird and nature lovers have reason to be grateful to The Times and its staff . LAUREN D. LYMAN . East Hartford , Conn. , April 9 , 106 . Late Snowstorms Recorded To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Although April snowstorms are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there have been some entirely outside the class of winter 's recent encore . I quote from a letter published in The Times early in May , 1904 , signed W. I. Clark : " April 13 , 1841 , snow for twenty-two hours ; about two feet deep .                     