@@715682

txt A basic problem confronting citizens in large cities is how to establish a closer working relationship with the schools . In the ' mall towns and villages this is relatively easy . Through town meetings or school committees the citizens get to know their schools and participate in school activities . That is difficult , if not impossible , in school systems containing huge numbers of children . However , given an opportunity , the people of the largest city in the world will take as much interest in their public schools as folks in a small town . This is suggested in a report , made public last week under the title " Community Action for Education , " on a New York City project . Believed to be the first of its kind in the country , the project has in its four years of existence succeeded in establishing a strong , working relationship between the citizens of one section of the city and their schools . The report explains how the citizens in the East Bronx worked with school officials , teachers and research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for achieving community interest in the schools . The Bronx Park Community Project , as it is officially designated , was conducted jointly by the Public Education Association , the New York City Board of Education and the Institute of Administrative Research of Columbia 's Teachers College . It was the first attempt in the New York City school system to promote local responsibility so that many decisions and suggestions on the use of the ten elementary schools and one high school in the area involved could be made by the people served by the schools , rather than by a central office . Community Efforts Among the immediate aims of the project witen it started in 1949 was to encourage the people 's interest in the schools and to develop community-wide thinking among parents and civic groups . Activities  --  a community blood bank , a boys ' baseball league , a community-wide original musical=resuited from cooperative work of many groups and stimulated a wholesome community spirit . Everyone , including teachers , provided ideas on how to improve the schools , but most of the discussions , proposals and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a census of community resources and interests , followed by a series of conferences to discover the thinking about education in the community . Business men and other residents were invited to the conferences . Two thousand persons submitted statements describing what they felt were the principal needs of the schools in the area . The next step was to develop ways in which citizen groups , parents and teachers could solve some school-com , community problems discovered through the conferences . Using the office of the assistant superintendent of schools , Dr. Joseph 0 . Loretan , as a clearing house for all project activities , several committees were formed to " promote the dissemination of information and ideas from the school to the public and from the public to the schools . " The key committees responsible for wide public support of the project were two advisory councils composed of the most active civic leaders in the community . One was concerned with elementary school problems and the other with the use of high school facilities . The report explains that the councils provided a corps of interested citizens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the public , the administration , the teachers or the project staff . Institute for Adults One result of the project was the Bronx Park Community Institute . As a center for adult education and recreation , the institute offered more than 2,000 persons a choice of eighty-seven courses in languages , music , art , physical education , dramatics and home economics . A code governing the Bronx Park Community District has been promulgated . It calls for the formal creation of the , district and the election at a town meeting of a representative citizens ' committee to consult with the local superintendent as spokesman for the people at large . With limited powers to advise local school administrators and rdport to Bronx Park Community citizens , the committee now meets monthly with Dr. Loretan and the principal of the high school . Members of the committee also meet with an experimental citizens ' advisory committee in one of the elementary schools to discuss the people 's interests . Composed of nine men  --  and women elected for overlapping three-year terms , the committee is elected annually at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizens in the ten elementary school areas in the district . Delegates , one for every , 100 elementary school children , are nominated and elected by the people in their own area . ' The Bronx Park Community School Committee is a major experiment in meeting the need of citizens in a big city to share more directly in the planning and work of at least a part of /their government , the report notes . Organization of the committee is an effort to make school administration more meaningful to the individual . It is an effort to improve the relationship between the local citizen and what often seems like a remote bureaucracy . Charting a Course The committee is not expected to find a panacea for all of the deficiencies that political scientists see in the structure of the governments of big cities , explained Dr. Loretan , who has taken a leading role in the creation of this project . Rather , it is an effort to chart a course , experimentally , by which citizens may rind a better , richer life in their community , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? The members of the committee are typical citizens who meet with Dr. Loretan to review educational problems and related problems of the community ) and to give their opinions and suggestong . The advice of the committee has been called on for curriculum planning , evaluation of priority of school and related community problems , extension of worthwhile educational practices , review of guidance services and the development of policies and programs for the solution of school needs . People enjoyed working on the project , the report indicates . Teachers and principals became more closely identified with their community . Persons from various economic and social ' levels , embracing different faiths and political affiliations , worked harmoniously . Written by Dr. Loretan , Prof. John W. Piney of Teachers College and Mrs. Clara F. Blitzer of the Institute of Administrative Research , the report is expected to serve as a blueprint for citizens and school personnel in other communities to work together for better schools . A similar undertaking , based on the New York City plan , is under way in Minneapolis . Other communities throughout the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizens a guide for dealing with their own school problems .                     