@@719680

txt The administration has improved the outlodk for Pentagon modernization by assuring Congress that only a modest flexibility in money matters will be asked for the Secretary of Defense . Secretary of Defense Neil H. told a National Press Club audience on April 10 : " We will not suggest that Congress appropriate large sums of money to the Secretary of Defense for him to distribute as he sees fit . " Our objective is simply to have reasonable flexibility which will permit us , in time of sudden technological breakthroughs and rapid shifts in priorities , to transfer funds from less insistent projects to more vital ones . " Mr. was clearly trying to calm down congressmen who fear that the administration was seeking to circumvent Congress 's powers of . appropriation . Congress historically has appropriated directly to the Army , Navy , and Air Force . In this wav it was exercised a measure of control over service programs and determined the rolls and missions of the individual services . Cooperation Stressed What is needed , Mr. said , is the authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service to another ) only a minor percentage of the total . Moreover , said Mr.  --  who has continued to impress congressional committees with his cooperative attitude ? " whatever transfer authority is granted would be used only under a system of notification to the appropriate committees of Congress . " This could mean that the administration would not ask for much more than the $2,000,000 , - 600 transfer authority it asked in the President 's January budget message . There were some misgivings in Congress over the January proposal , but there were far more over the interpretation that was read into the President 's message last week . The Defense Secretary 's interpretation may more properly be called a clarification than a compromise . There likely , however , will be some of the latter at several points if Congress is to accept the entire presidential package . Senator John Sherman Cooper ( R ) of Kentucky forecast April 10 that a large majority in the Senate will support President Eisenhower 's defense reorganization plan , according to the Associated Press . Senator Cooper expressed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talked with the President about the plan . He said also , " I think the people absolutely will support him . " With Congress out of town for the Easter recess , the advocates of Pentagon reform have had the soap boxes all to themselves . Position Softened At his April 9 press conference , President Eisenhower was unusually vigorous in his defense of the program . He sounded as if he felt that his immense military prestige accumulated in World War II were at stake . Mr. was somewhat softer , being the man who would be granted greater authority . But he , too , insisted that the reorganization " does not set up the Secretary of Defense as a czar or dictator . " Mr. spoke from the same platform from which Admiral Arleigh A. Burke , Chief of Naval Operations , warned on Jan. 6 against placing " our future in the hands of a single military national protector . " The administration has attempted to meet this " man on horseback "  --  or military dictator ? issue head-on by emphasizing th " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Burke argument likely will return in another form ? namely that the civilian Defense Secretary will be at the mercy of his military staff headed by the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff . Anticipating this to a degree , Mr. said that the reorganization plans do not set up a single chief of staff or " set up a Prussian-German-type general staff . " The bulk of Mr. 's formal remarks were an explanation of the President 's recommendations . He declared that while there might not be complete agreement among the special Pentagon team which advised the President , he was confident " they believe the final proposal is a sound one . " Mr. emphasized the importance of the clarificationof-command recommendation of the administration by discussing it first , and at length , to the newsmen . Clearer Channels Seen The proposed changes , he explained , would clear command channels so that orders would proceed directly to unified commands from the President as Commander in Chief and the Secretary of Defense through the Joint Chiefs of Staff . At present the orders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service chiefs . He did not use the word " downgrade " in referring to the proposal . to strip the services of operational control of forces at sea , in the field , and in the air . Instead , he emphasized that the modernization " does not contemplate abolition of the traditional Army , Navy , Air Force , And Marines . " While the Air Fbrce and the Army have been relatively passive over the prospect of becoming merely suppliers of men and materiel to the unified commands , the Navy is not expected to take the President 's proposals sitting down .                     