@@712898

txt The Senate voted 47 to 32 to cut $250,000,000 from European Recovery funds for the year beginning July 1 . It previously defeated on a 40-to-40 tie vote a Republican move to cut $500,000 , - 000 from European Recovery funds . Senator Taft ( R ) of Ohio proposed the cut , Six Republicans voted with 34 Democrats against Senator Taft 's proposal . They were : Senators Aiken and Flanders of Vermont , Lodge and Saltonstall of Massachusetts . Smith of New Jersey , and Thye of Minnesota , The United States again charged Russia with flouting its international obligations in dealing with the Baltic plane incident , In a new note to Moscow , the State Department declared Russia had cut forward an " erroneous account " of the shooting down of the American plane on April 8 . Page 6 . The War Claims Commission complained that Congress is showing a " growing tendency to ignore and write off claims arising out of World War II and to treat their settlement as a matter of political expediency . " Gradual reduction and eventual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sought by Secretary of State Dean Acheson in conferences with the British and French in London next week , informed officials said . The labor contract between the CIO 's American Radio Association and Pacific shipowners is illegal because it gives hiring preference to union members , the National Labor Relations Board ruled . The House tackled the big money sections of the $29,000,000.000 appropriation bill . Several large increases are in the offing , thus dampening an economy drive . In Europe : Russia Asked to Release Trawler Britain has asked Russia for the release of a British fishing trawler seized by the Russians in the White Sea May 1 . The United Press reports Sweden and Denmark may send protests to Russia concerning repeated seizures of fishing vessels in the Baltic . Czechoslovakia 's Government has banned as not " desirable " American memorial services in Pilsen commemorating the fifth anniversary of the American liberation of that city . Five hundred striking Venetian gondoliers took to the canals again with a complete victory over their arch rivals , the motorboats . The municipal council has restricted the motorboats and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ railway strike , which tied up the country 's entire rail system , has ended with a settlement of promotion system grievances . Boston : New . ' Haven Fare Hike in N.Y . Urged An Interstate Commerce Commission examiner in Washington recommended requiring New York State authorities to give the New York , New Haven and Hartford Railroad a further increase in passenger commutation fares inside the Empire State , A 10-taxpayers suit is planned to test the legality of the Sears-Rugg law designed to guarantee free bus transportation to parochial schools . Page 24 U.S. Rubber Company announced it would set up its eastern manufacturing center for foam rubber mattresses in Woonsocket , R.1. , employing 300 men and women , in addition to the 800 employed by the company 's rubber footwear division . Connecticut , Massachusetts . and New Jersey placed first , second , and third , respectively , in the National Safety Council 1949 safety contest , National : Dewey 's Political Future Pondered New York State politicians renewed speculation concerning Gov . Thomas E , Dewey 's political future in the state and nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dinner . rage 6 . The FBI said that Stephen William Davenport , one of the nation 's 10 " most wanted criminals , " was arrested by local police in Las Vegas , Nev . Far East : Thailand Monarch Becomes Rama IX Thailand 's first constitutional monarch , Phumiphon Adulet , became Rama IX in spectacular ceremonies in Bangkok , His recent bride , Princess Sirikit Kitiyakara , became queen . Jawaharlal Nehru has been reappointed Prime Minister of India in a cabinet change required by India 's new constitution . Several changes in the ministries are expected . Communist North Korea has an air force of 195 planes , possibly all Russian built , South Korean President Rhee declared in a plea for more American military aid .                     