@@719368

txt The labor law program of the rederal Administration which Secvtary Mitchell revealed at the . merican Federation of Labor and ongress of Industrial Organizaions convention is , , Nby and large , a nodel of high statesmanship . For Zis major share in its formulation dr . Mitchell himself deserves great praise , as does the President for his inreserved approval . At a time when the exposed misieeds of union officials have given bile enemies of organized labor a good chance to promote anti-union Laws , Secretary Mitchell has had the courage to turn his back on them and hew to the line of strict impartiality . As his proposals demonstrate , that line , in the main , would help rather than hinder legitimate trade unions . True to American principles , Mr. Mitchell 's program is designed to prevent abuses , not to impose direct Government control . And he suggests that this be done by clearly defined legal standards of sound practice and by requirements for full disclosure of union operations , backed by severe penalties for those who violate the law . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor union dictatorship applies this policy at its most crucial and most sensitive point . Direct election by secret ballot of union officers , or of delegates to bodies which elect them , would be required . But this would not be enforced by an army of Government agents whose fingers would be in every election pie . All unions would be required to report to the Labor Department how their elections are held , and these reports would be open to the public . A union that falsely reported its compliance with the secret ballot requirement , or whose report disclosed a violation , would be subject to penalties which could culminate in forfeiture of tax exemption and collective bargaining status under the Taft-Hartley Law . The full disclosure technique would also be applied to the operations of all labor welfare funds and to the financial affairs of the unions themselves , . False statements in the required financial reports would make violators subject to_the fine and imprisonment , while " conflict of interest , " bribery and embezzlement of welfare and union operating funds would be made crimes under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given broad power of investigation and subpoena , both on his own initiative or on bona-fide complaints from outside . The broad effect of the Administration program , if adopted , would be to give labor unions a quasipublic legal status . And why not ? After all , they are associations organized to perform a public service , primarily to their members , but also to the entire nation  --  in so far as they bargain collectively with employers under Federal protection . And the Government has given them exemption from taxation . It is high time that those who belong to unions , as well as the public at large , be given legal protection against abuses that impair their usefulness . Secretary Mitchell 's proposals to that end are a welcome example of how the . nation 's Executive department can exercise leadership within the pattern of our tripartite form of government .                     