@@715251

txt Four . teachers and Itclifihfigfative aides liatmtbrewiNemir41 ? 7orlreitrdollegr , et today challenged the right of the Senate Internal Security subcommittee to ask whether they were now or had been Communists . Two of them defended the right of r Communists to teach in public educational institutions . They refused to give yes-or-no answers , invoking the guarantee of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution against forcing a witness to testify against himself . Their testimony ? was marked by repeated clashes . The four witnesses brought to a total of thirty-four out of fortyone the number of New York teachers  --  fourteen of whom were Ion college faculties  --  who have refused at public hearings to give , the yes-or-no answers to questions whether they had Communist records . The subcommittee said that lothers , . the number not disclosed , also had refused to give such answers at closed sessions . The witnesses today accused the Senate group of " invading academic freedom " and of injuring the country 's educational system by hurting " both teachers and pupils . " In a statement prepared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shaftel , Assistant Professor of English at Queens College , which the subcommittee accepted for its official record but would not permit him to read in open hearing , he stated : " You , with perhaps the best intentions in the world , are an incubus on the body of learning , and you are making our colleges the laughing stock of Europe . " If I am incompetent or morally turpitudinous , the college administrations are competent to deal with me . Yet , as a result of my appearance here today , without accusation of crime or professional impropriety , with no due process either legal or professional , I shall probably be abruptly separated from my loved profession . If this is not interference with academic freedom , gentlemen , what is ? " The other witnesses were : Joseph Bressler . Assistant Professor of Health and Physical Education at Brooklyn College ; Hyman Gold , a registrar 's assistant at City College , and Richard H. Austin , also of the City College registrar 's office . Dr. Shaftel 's address was listed as 33-15 Forty-fifth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's , 15 Ludlam Place , Brooklyn ; Mr. Gold's. 2802 141st Street , Flushing , Queens , and Mr. Austin's. 50 Cambricee Street . Great Neck . L. I. Dr. Shaftel and Mr. Gold defended the employment of Communists as teachers if they were competent teachers . The question of whether the teachers were Communists was " irrelevant " and " improper , " the witnesses contended . " I can not imagine a capable administrator telling Sean O'Casey I Irish dramatist he could not teach drama or Pablo Picasso Spanish artist that he could n't teach art . " Dr. Shaftel said . " If he slants his teaching toward the Communist party . toward the overtheow of the Government , is that proper ? " Senator William E. Jenner , Republican of Indiana ! and subcommittee chairman , asked , Dr. Shaftel said Mr. Jenner 's interpretation was irrelevant and the issue " must be settled by the academic profession . " In predicting that he might be dismissed for his refusal to answer , Dr. Shaftel referred to the New York City Charter , Section 903 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discharged for refusing to answer questions concerning communism when the subcommittee held hearings New York last fall . The charter ' provides for dismissals when wit-1 nesses refuse to answer questions , on the ground of self-incrimination . The dismissals are now under court appeal . Dr. Shaftel asserted that this , provision was enacted for application to " tin-box grafters , " not to teachers " seeking to preserve academic freedom of thought and decision . " Dr. Shaftel and Mr. Gold told the subcommittee that their refusal to give yes-or-no answers did not imply guilt of Communist affiliation or support . Mr. Austin told the subcommittee it was " debasing " the Senate by its tactics . Subcommittee members ashee Mr. Austin how he could subject himself to self-incrimination even without the protection of the Fifth Amendment by testifying with a simple " no " that he was not now and never had been a Communist . " Suppose in the future , " he replied . " some crackpot , some paid hireling or some religious fanatic should point a finger at me ' and accuse me of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' It would take only one more crackpot , paid hireling or religious fanatic to convict me of perjury . " Mr. Austin charged that the investigating group appeared to be " conniving " with New York educationa authorities to build up perjury charges against teachers and others in the school system of that city . Senator Jenner said the subcommittee would resume its hearings within a fortnight . It questioned two other teachers from New York in closed session today . They were not identified . Subpoenaed in 1940 Professor Bressler was one of numerous teachers at Brooklyn College subpoenaed in 1940 when the Rapp-Coudert legislative committee investigating subversive activities in the city 's public school system started public hearings . A year later the professor was head of the Health and Education Association of the four municipal colleges that drafted a program to prepare students in the institutions for tasks they might be called upon to perform in defense . For the last several years he has written letters to this newspaper campaigning for an increase in teacher salaries . Dr : Shaftel was suspended for two weeks from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York in 1929 as the result of an allegedly indecent joke published by a student weekly newspaper of which he then was editor . In that case the student executive board of the publication resigned in protest and commented that the punishment was " too severe " and " did not fit the crime . " Dr. Shaftel received his Bachelor , of Arts degree from the College of the City of New York in 1931 . A year later he took his Master of Arts degree from Harvard University and in 1936 his Doctor of Philosophy degree from the same institution . He held a Harvard Fellowship for three years . Before going to Queens College in 1937 Dr. Shaftel was a substitute teacher in English in city night schools . Mr. Austin has been a clerk in the City College Registrar 's Office since 1937 . He was graduated from City College in 1934 with a B. A. degree . His salary is $4,646 a year . Mr. Gold is a registrar 's assistant at the college . He received his B. A. degree from City College in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa . He was appointed to the registrar 's staff in 1933 . From February , 1937 , to September , 1939 , he was a tutor at the college in Romance languages . He then returned to his position in the registrar 's office . His salary is $5,050 a year .                     