@@720222

txt Governor Furcolo faces his toughest uphill battle of the 1958 Legislature in his drive for a 3 ner rent limited sales tax . Top legislative leaders , such as Senator John E. Powers ( D ) of Boston , President . of the Senate , are openly forecasting defeat of the Furcolo bill , even before the Governor submits it to the General Court . Filing of the measure may be delayed another two weeks . Although Senator Powers 's forecasts may be affected somewhat by his antisales tax views , close associates.of the Governor in the Legislature likewise give the sales tax far less than a 50-,50 chance of survival . Revenue ' Yield Aired Senator Powers believes the Governor will have to be satisfied with the already passed withholding tax and a gasoline tax increase as far as tax legislation is concerned this year . He contends that the budget can be trimmed - sufficiently to . reach a balance , particularly if estimates of tax yields from various sources are boosted . The State President has long contended that the newly established withholding tax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far more added revenue on a permanent basis than the administration , including the State Department of Corporations and Taxation , is willing to admit . While the tax department has stated that the one-year windfall will be about 50 million dollars and the permanent gain about 4 to 5 million dollars annually oyer the present yield , Senator Powers has contended the permanent gain will be 10 millions and even higher . It could be much higher , Senator Powers believes . ? The  - -  Senate - President feels that without'a sales tax the state will be able to balance the budget for the next fiscal year , even if it has to resort to financial legerdemain , as in the past . Opposition Cited Even those persons backing a sales tax report a much wider public opinion sentiment against a sales tax than in 1957 , when Governor Furcolo made his pitch for a retail sales levy . These persons report that the withholding tax controversy has made the people tax conscious , 4134 ** to the withholding lax Tias been a widening opposition to any further tax action on Beacon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not believe the sales tax measure would get through the - House , but if it did , the Senate would kill it . Actually the senator is not taking the active public part against the sales tax he did in 1957 . Two years ago Senator Powers campaigned throughout the state against it and probably was the greatest single factor in its defeat . This year , as Senate President , he is not taking the stump . But it is apparent that he will be extremely active in the political in-fighting , particularly if the sales tax bill reaches the Senate . Powers Role Noted Although Senator Powers has been shrewdly silent , as far as public pronouncements on the withholding tax issue arc concerned , he was a hig factor in the Senate maneuvering by which the Governor was forced to accept a compromise on the withholding tax issue . The compromise gave the cities and towns a share of the windfall revenue , when the Governor insisted the state should keep all the windfall in calendar 1959 to help balance its budget . The Senate President would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in an effort to bring about its defeat . He has amassed a great amount of antisales-tax data , which he is sharing with antisales-tax legislators seeking to build up public sentiment against it . This data is being made available to Republicans and Democrats alike , it is understood . Meanwhile , organized labor under the newly established Massachusetts State Labor Council ( AFL-CIO ) , is stoking its fires for an all-out campaign ? against the sales tax . The Massachusetts Chapter , Americans for Democratic Action , likewise is strongly opposed to the sales tax and will do what it ran to convince the public it is the wrong sten to take . Detailed Bill Due On the other side , various chambers of commerce , civic groups , local groups , and many local officials eager to gain revenue for reduction of municipal lax rates are plugging hard for a sales tax giving the cities and towns two-thirds of the anticipated 120 million dollars revenue and the state one-third . As yet the Furcolo drive for the sales tax has not hit a peak . It will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ detailed bill . Some of the support for a sales tax may be cut if the Governor proposes that the state take a larger share of the revenue for state purposes . Ile , himself , has advocated the 2-to-I split , but he holds to the claim that the state needs more revenue because of the withholding tax compromise .                     