@@718406

txt A crude , homemade bomb exploded in the Brooklyn Paramount Theatre last night , injuring six persons . Fifteen hundred persons were in the theatre . The small bomb detonated with a puff of flame and smoke in the rear of the orchestra at 7:50 F ' . M. Metal splinters flew across several rows of seats and cut three patrons . Three other persons in the explosion area suffered shock . The bomb was a pipe-andpowder contraption similar in content and structure to more than twenty-five exploded in the city over the last sixteen years . The police believe a demented man is .. responsible for the series of ' bombings . The explosive went off during a Sunday evening performance of Tolstoy 's " War and Peace . " The Police Department 's bomb squad , detectives , radio cars and mobile laboratory sped to the downtown theatre , at DeKalb Avenue and Flatbush Avenue Extension . Inside , the assistant manager , Horatio Tedesco , and several ushers helped the .. injured to the lobby . An announcement was made to the audience that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brief interrup- tion the film showing was continued . Two ambulances were sent from Cumberland Hospital , which later reported that the three persons injured by flying pieces of the bomb were in fair condition . Abraham Blumenthal , a 36-year-old postal clerk , of 627 ' Sackman Street in Brooklyn , was lifted from his seat by the blast . The explosion inflicted cuts on ' his left leg . Mr. Blumenthal , sitting with his wife , Ruth , 34 , was in the middle section of the orchestra about ' twelve rows from the rear . He said he had seen smoke rise from a spot near his seat . 2 Sisters Cut Also injured by flying bits of the bomb were Mrs. Doris Russo , 31 , of 903 Hancock Street , Brooklyn , and her sister , Miss Joyce Young , 27 , of the same address . Both women suffered facial cuts . The three who suffered shock were Mrs. Mary Young , 52. the mother of Mrs. Russo and Miss Young , and Mrs. Russo 's two children from a first marriage , Donna @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were also treated at Cumberland Hospital . At 9:30 P. M. , almost two hours after the explosion , the patrons who were sitting in the balcony were directed ' to seats in the orchestra while members of the bomb squad began a row-1 search . About twezity rows of the orchestra section , where the bomb exploded , were roped off for closer examination after the end of Sunday 's performances . The bomb squad said the bomb was made of a metal pipe , 21 , z inches in diameter ; black powder , a small battery , watch parts and wiring . Mr. Tedesco , assistant manager of the 4,200-seat theatre , told the police that he had received no warning before the explosion . If the bombing was done by the same person the police believe has committed many other such crimes , the failure to give . warning represented a switch in tactics . This person has made it a practice to telephone his victims before planting his bombs . Kings County District Attorney Edward S. Silver was one of the officials at the scene . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " old screwball . " The " old screwball " is a bomb maker the police have searched for over a period of sixteen years  --  ever since the first of the long series of lethal devices was planted on a window sill of the Consolidated Edison Building in East Fourteenth Street on November 16 , 1940 . His bombs have been found in Pennsylvania Station and Grand Central Terminal , the Port Authority bus terminal , several theaters and subway stations . Through chance , no one has bd'en killed . But yesterday 's six injuries brought the grand total of - victims to fourteen . The police believe the person responsible is a man with a private grudge who is willing to kill  --  or maim  --  innocent bystanders to satisfy it . In the most recent of the pipepowder-and-watch explosions , a 74-year-old attendant awas seriously injured in the men 's lavatory at Pennsylvania Station . The explosion occurred last Feb. 21 in a room on the sower level of the station . In an explosion at the Paramount Theatre in Manhattan in October , 1955 , fragments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ More serious was a blast in November , 1954 , in the orchestra of the Radio City Music Hall . Two women and two boys were hurt , and a capacity audience was startled . A washroom explosion in ' March , 1954 , at Grand Central Terminal caused slight injuries to three men . Pennsylvania Station was the scene of another explosion in March , 1955 , when a bomb went off in ? a rental locker in. the Long Island Rail Road section o : the station .                     