@@717937

txt An elderly- convict with a prison record in six states and three countries dating to 1910 won his freedom today on a writ of habeas corpus which he wrote himself . James P. Duty , 68 , said he was n't " mad at anyone " after Circuit Court Judge Grover W. Watson upheld his writ and ordered him released from Menard prison . The white-haired and frail Duty , described by Warden Ross Randolph as a " very egotistical man who hated to be contradicted , " composed the writ himself and wrote it out in longhand . Claims Jurisdiction Was Lost Duty contended Illinois lost jurisdiction when he was paroled and voluntarily extradit : ed to Virginia in 1934 after serving five years on a one year to life sentence for burglary and larceny . Duty was arrested in 1929 near Waynesville , Ill. , while driving an allegedly stolen car . He was wanted in Virginia where he escaped from prison in 1919 after serving a year following his conviction for burglary and larceny in Richmond . Duty was imprisoned for five years until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ term for escape . Then he was turned over to Arkansas authorities who sought him for a prison escape in 1927 . Paroled in 1942 Duty had been sentenced in 1926 to a five year term for grand larceny in Jonesboro , Ark. , whence he escaped a year later . He won his parole in 1942 after serving the unexpired part of his sentence . In the next 12 years , Duty served two terms in federal prison at Leavenworth , Kans. , for a post office robbery at Little Rock and a subsequent parole violation ; three terms at Menard for parole violation , and another term at Paragould , Ark. , beginning in 1947 for burglary at Gould , Ark . He had been at Menard since June , 1954 , when he was returned there for the third time ix five years for parole violaHim , until his release today . Long Prison Record Later , he served an 18 month sentence at Fort Leavenworth for deserting the United States army . In 1914 , he got a year term for burglary at Pontiac , Ill . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that led Duty to jail cells in several states and three foreign countries . Following his escape from a Virginia prison ; in 1919 , Duty served short terms in Brazil in 1920 , London in 1921 , and Paris , France , in 1923 . The sentences were for burglary , fraud , and larceny . Back in the United States once again , Duty served lime in a Colorado prison in 1924 for burglary and larceny and a three year term in Missouri in 1927 for larceny . In 1929 he was arrested again in Illinois . Duty said he plans to visit a  --  friend in Springfield , Mo. , before heading for California . He said he is unmarried and has no relatives .                     