@@718508

txt Congressional resistance to President Eisenhower 's Middle East resolution appears to be gathering momentum . Though the likelihood of outright rejection by the lawmakers still seems remote , the waspects are growing for a considerable faceHere , a week after the President presented his resolution to a joint session of Congress , is how the legislators seem to be viewing Mr Eisenhower 's proposal : Chances are still better than 50-50 the Chief Executive will be authorized , perhaps with some limitations , to use U. S troops if necessary to meet Russian aggression in the Mideast . But a sizable number of House and Senate Democrats now favor simply declaring Congress ' concern with Mideast security , pledging appropriate steps lo meet Russian advances and omitting any specific grant of standby military power to the President . Mr. Eisenhower 's request for new economic aid authority in the Mideast may be dropped completely from the resolution , for later consideration . At the least , Congress likely will put tight strings on any economic power it grants the Administration . The President has asked the lawmakers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $200 million this fiscal year from money already appiopi lated . He said he would ask , later on . for MO million more to be meted out on each of the next Leo years . Reasons for Growing Resistance Just what lies behind this growing resistance ca n't be answered simply Different lawmakers offer different reasons Some fear the U. S. is spreading itself too thin , both with troops and with money . Others fear the President may be heading the country into another Korea , or a third world wai Still others complain Mr. Eisenhower wants to take too much power unto himself , at Congress ' expense . And , of course , there is the pure political opposition . Many Democrats complain the President spoke lightly of the Mideast situation just before the election , but is now singing a different tune . Some are miffed that the President has taken the " political " . offensive by coming up with his resolution , earlier it had seemed the Democrats would be on the attack against Administration " mistakes " in the Mideast . Congress . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same as the one Mr Eisenhnwei moonset ' . But if it does , the reasons will he largely negative ones Republicans , for example , would be chiefIN backing then leader Democrats would he acting . to a large extent , out of fear of being tagged with the blame for Russian penetration of the Mideast in the absence of the President 's resolution . Last week , Secretary of State Dulles %%silted Congress , in testimony released over the weekend , of the dangers of not passing the Administration 's resolution He told the House Foreign Affairs Committee Russia might gain bloodless domination over the Mideast and , subsequently , Western Europe if the lawmak- ers did n't back the President . Mr. Dulles will appear today in open session as the Senate Foreign Relations and Armed Services Committees begin joint hearings on Mr. Eisenhower 's Mideast program . Furthermore , the foes of the President 's resolution have not yet been able to distill their opposition into one concrete plan . " Everyone in the Senate dining room . " remarks one Democratic lawmaker , " has different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so far . " Substitute Resolution Planned But a Democratic move now appears to be taking shape to offer a substitute resolution along lines suggested by former Secretary of State Dean Acheson . Democratic members of the House Foreign Affairs group will meet this morning to discuss the substitute , drafted by Rep. Zablocki ID ? Wis ) and , if they approve , probably will present it to the full committee later in the day . The Democratic alternative would be an expression of Congress ' intent , rather than a grant of any new power to the President . Mr Zablocki wants the lawmakers to adopt a resolution , without the force of law , declaring American concern for the security of the Mideast . It would recognize the possible need for economic and military measures in the area and " reaffirm " American policy of seek . ing peace through the United Nations . The outcome of the Zablocki proposal depends in large measure on the stand taken by House Democratic leaders , %Om are e. - pectecl to sit in on this morning 's closed-door Democratic session @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a hands-off attitude toward the substitute resolution In fact , he has hinted he 's in favor of the President 's resolution and Deputy Democratic Leader McCormack ( D , Mass. ) says he knows of no " Democratic resolution " as such . Proposal by Sen. Fulbright In the Senate . Arkansas ' Democratic Sen Fulbright is working up a similar resolution . Like the House Democrats ' plan , it would eliminate any specific authorization of economic aid funds for the Mideast and omit any authority for the President to use force If he deems it necessary . Mr. Fulbright , second-ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , contends the Constitution gives the President . as Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces , ample opportunity to use military force to protect U. S interests abroad . He said the Administration 's proposal , limiting Presidential action to " overt armed aggression , " actually limits Mr. Eisenhower 's present powers . His own resolution , the Senator claims , would leave the President free to do anything ne wished to guard U. S. interests in the Mideast . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authorization from the resolution for .. onsideration later on when the regular foreign aid bill comes up , key Repubill.t111:4 concede drastic changes will be made in the economic section of the resolution . Republican Leader Knowland of California , for example , and other influential G Senators are reportedly arguing the broad- ' scale economic authority asked by the President may not be necessary . These Senators c:tilin there is enough money in the Foreign aid pipeline to take care of any immediate needs in the Mideast The% suggest all the Administration has to ask for now is limited additional authority to transfer funds ear marked for another area to the Mideast .                     