@@718077

txt France proposed to the United Nations Disarmament Commission today a limited test of President Eisenhower 's plan for aerial inspection and control of international armaments . Jules Moch , . French representative on- the commission , amplified a suggestion previously made by the . United States for the experimental program . He indicated the plan might be puts , into effect quickly in , " sensitive sectors " where military buildups might take place as a prelude to war . K Moch declared the experiment could cover the border areas between the " two worlds , " in Western Europe , Scandinavia , Thrace and the Middle East . It also might include " a zone in America of equal size to the small area of the Soviet Union which is included in the sensitive sectors , " M. Moch added . The compromise proposals might go far to solve the differences between the all-out air inspection proposals made by the United States and the " nothing " in the way of aerial reconnaissance for which the Soviet Union apparently has now decided , the French envoy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if results proved satisfactory , he said . Soviet Plan Losing Favor M. Moch 's suggestion was made during a day of debate for which opinion both of ' the large , Western powers and of smaller , countries represented on the commission appeared to be crys-1 talizing against current Soviet ' proposals . Last week Andrei A. Gromyko , the Soviet representative , introduced a resolution calling on the commission to seek a general declaration against , the use of force or nuclear weapons , but without specific disarmament measures . ' Yugoslavia introduced a draft resolution that , in the opinion of some delegates , seemed closer to the Western than the Soviet viewpoint . Instead of a general declaration against war , the Yugoslav motion urged the subcommittee , Consisting of representatives of the United States , Britain , France , Canada and the Soviet Union to resume detailed consideration of specific disarmament measures . The resolution would instruct the subcommittee to seek agreement on " such initial disarmament measures as are now feasible and such forma ' and degrees of control as are re- ' quired for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attention partic-I ularly to a reduction of conven-1 tional arms and armed forces , 1 the cessation of tests of nuclear weapons " as well as other practicable measures in the field of nuclear armaments " and the re // duction of military budgets throughout the world . Such action would contribute to the implementation of the General Assembly directive last year for the draft of an overall disarmament plan , the Yugoslav re-solution said . All the features included have figured in Western proposals at one time or an-other , Australia , Belgium , Cuba and Peru expressed opposition to the Soviet anti-war proposal during the debate . With expressions already voiced by other members , this development seemed to indicate that the Soviet Union would stand alone in favor if its resolution when the vote was taken late this week . Meanwhile , representatives of Western states denounced Mr. Gromyko 's addr4s last week . In this , the Soviet delegate asserted that President Eisenhower 's " notorious " air inspection plan would " do no good to anybody " and might serve as a means of espionage . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Gromyko of having revivified " the words of Stalin , the words of ( Andrei Y. Vishinsky , " the late Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister and Moscow 's principal delegate to the United Nations . Mr. Lodge said Mr. Gromyko 's remarks had shown " contempt " for the fifty- six nations that generally endorsed the aerial inspection plan at the last session of the United Nations , General Assembly . " There is a plan which will go far to make true disarmament ? disarmament with inspection ? possible , " said Mr. Lodge . " When , herefore , Mr. Gromyko brands it as notorious men will ask : does he do so because the Soviet Union is opposed to true ? rather than trick  --  disarma-ment ? Britain and Australia offered amendments to the resolution presented by Canada , France , Britain and the United States . Calling on the United , Nations Disarmament Commission ? to give a general directive to its subcommittee to make specific decisions on phases of disarmament . Anthony nutting of Britain proposed to include in the resolution a move to place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a disarmament program . E. Ronald Walker of Australia suggested that the commission look into what he called the overwhelming preponderance of Communist manpower in the Far East before deciding on levels of armed forces . " Very considerable political consequences might flow from sanctifying such military predominance through levels of forces arrived at in purely global terms , " Mr. Walker said . The Australian representative called on the representatives of the great powers to consider the effect any disarmament agreement : might have on the special conditions existing in the Orient and the " special security problems " in the area .                     