@@719936

txt Massachusetts Republican leaders today pressed forward with increased vigor to insure nomination of Charles Gibbons of Stoneham for Governor at the Sept. 9 primaries , fully assured that his sticker candidacy is legal . They have recovered from the momentary turmoil into which they were thrown by legal doubts raised yesterday by Charles B. Rugg , legal adviser to the Republican State Committee . Those doubts were swept away after long consultations between Mr. Rugg , Daniel E. , chairman of the state committee : Thomas M. Joyce , Boston attorney ; George B. Rowell , former party chairman : and others . It has been agreed that Mr. Gibbons can run as a sticker candidate for Governor , even though he already is on the ballot as an official candidate for state senator in the 7th Middlesex District . Committee Votes ' Yes ' - Despite the law 's provisions that no person can run for two offices , most legal experts on Beacon Hill , both Republicans and Democrats , agreed that this provision does not bar a sticker candidacy for a second office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executive committee of the Republican State Committee voted at an emergency session to go along with the Gibbons candidacy as voted on Sept. 2 by the full state committee . The Sept. 2 action resulted from the passing of Attorney General George Fin-gold , who was to have been the nominee . But the issue still must be settled in court . On Monday Judge John H. - . Meagher of the Suffolk Superior Court will hear arguments on a case filed by Thomas F. Gallagher . Boston Democrat , challenging the legality of the sticker candidacy of the former Speaker of the House . Whether a decision will be handed down before the Sept. 9 primaries is uncertain . At any rate , Mr. Gibbons is proceeding with his sticker campaign undisturbed by the controversy . In fact , some Republicans feel the publicity over the issue will benefit the party by making the Gibbons name better known to the average voter . Other Candidates Loom Meanwhile , the possibility is developing that there will be several other sticker candidacies for Governor in the Republican primary . Edward M. Rowe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nomination to his old Senate seat , said he is considering a sticker candidacy for Governor . Already in the field is Joseph P. , an assistant attorney general under Mr. Fingold . Meanwhile , Governor Fu ? colo moved to halt efforts by some of his supporters to run him as asticker candidate for the Republican nomination . In a statement he said , " While I appreciate the offers of many people to nominate me for Governor through the use of stickers in the Republican primary , I am positively opposed to this movement . I believe that the Re-. publican Party is entitled to ha e its own Republican candidate for Governor nominated next Tuesday . Precedent Cited " I do not seek the Republican nomination . I would not accept it if it were given to me by any stretch of political imagination . " At the Sept. 4 emergency session of the Republican executive committee Mr. said that Mr. Rugg had revised his position after consultation with other attorneys . Later Mr. Rugg issued a formal statement saying reports on his original advice to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accurate representations of my views . " He stated : " It is not now and it nek er has been my opinion that Charles Gibbons is ineligible to be the Republican nominee for Governor . " In response to a request from you for an interpretation of the relevant law , I repligd that in my opinion a court would sustain Mr. Gibbon 's candidacy for Governor on any one of a number of respectable legal grounds , although there are grave and serious questions upon which any court would have to pass in handing down a decision in any action brought by a proper party plaintiff correctly presenting the issues involved . " For this reason , any lawyer objectively appraising the situation must of necessity express his doubts as to the certainty of the outcome of any properly instituted litigation . " Senate Plan Told State election division experts , both Republican and Democratic , have pointed to a precedent in 1944 when a candidate was nominated on stickers for one office and in the usual way for another office . After the primary , the candidate declined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his sticker nomination . On the Democratic side , Charles H. , former chairman of the Democratic State Committee and an acknowledged authority on Massachusetts election law , told Mr. the Gibbons sticker candidacy was legal . Meanwhile , in the 7th Middlesex Senatorial District , members of the Republican city , town , and ward committees , at a special meeting , voted to encourage Republican voters in that district to vote for Mr. Gibbons on stickers for Governor and in the regular way for state senator .                     