@@714706

txt The Texas Republican State Executive Committee , dominated by " Old Guard " supporters of Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio , unseated today enough delegates favorable to General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower to give Taft forces a dominating majority in the state convention that will name thirty-eight delegates tomorrow to the Chicago nominating ' convention . Eisenhower supporters replied ( tonight by saying that they would walk out of the convention and name a separate slate of delegates to the National Convention unless their contested delegates were seated tomorrow . The pro-Taft machine utilized a better than 2-to-1 majority in the holdover Executive Committee to steamroller the Eisenhower group , which admittedly had won clear majorities in the Republican precinct and county conventions . These sessions were attended by a record-breaking number of voters , exceeding even the turnout of Democrats in this traditionally oneparty state . Outvoted in all but one of Texas ' large cities , the Taft group sent contesting delegations elected at rump conventions before the Executive Committee today . The committee , after stormy and protracted debate lasting through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pro-Eisenhower delegates and seat groups favorable to Senator Taft 's candidacy . Eisenhower backers immediately charged Taft leaders with a " brazen steal " and prepared to bolt tomorrow 's convention . Herbert Brownell Jr . of New York , former Republican national chairman and associate of Gov . Thomas E. Dewey in the Eisenhower campaign , predicted the Chicago meeting would seat the pro-Eisenhower delegation . The verdict of the state committee , in brief , was that the Eisenhower group had been reinforced by Democrats favorable to the general 's nomination and that this group could not be recognized as Republicans , even though its members had formally declared themselves to be Republicans as required by party rules . There was no dispute whatever that the Eisenhower forces had won a majority in the popular voting , but the Taft men argued that theirs was the true majority if the precinct voting had been limited to " known Republicans . " The Eisenhower forces retaliated with a list of key pro-Taft leaders who had voted in Democratic party primaries as recently as 1950 , but their argument was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thirty-one contests involving 606 of the 1,060-member state convention before the committee , one small contest , involving only four delegates from Rusk County , set the tone of the entire proceedings . By a vote of 39 to 19 the Taft group recognized a pro-Taft delegation , led by J. R. Compton , County Chairman , and unseated a group favorable to General Eisenhower headed by John Paul Jones . Testimony in Contest These were the undisputed facts produced in the testimony of both Messrs . Compton and Jones : Mr. Compton and other pro-Taft leaders agreed unanimously with the Eisenhower forces on the list of delegates to the Rusk County convention . Both sides put up rival slates of delegates to the state convention and the Eisenhower group won by a vote of 8 to 6 . Mr. Compton said that he would not bolt the county meeting , but would abide by the will of the majority . When a resolution endorsing General Eisenhower was introduced , Mr. Compton joined in voting for it , declaring that " if you ca n't lick ' em , join ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without protest , Mr. Compton decided to certify to the Secretary of State a rival list of pro-Taft delegates to the state convention . He acknowledged that he had not held a meeting to elect this group but had decided for himself that it would have been elected if the voting in the regular convention had been limited to " known Republicans . " There was no argument at all on the merits as the pro-Taft group cast its votes for Mr , Compton 's list . Argument of Taft Group Throughout the debate Taft men emphasized that the Republican party in Texas was so small that the huge turn-out of voters for General Eisenhower in the precinct meetings could only have been made possible through the participation of Democrats . The Taft men argued , in effect , that the Texas Republican party was in the nature of a private club in which newcomers could not participate in the selection of party nominees until they had voted for the Republican state ticket at least once and perhaps made finEncial contributions as well . The Taft men discounted a insufficient the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and intended to participate in the party 's affairs in 1952 . They said the Eisenhower people had not taken this pledge " in good faith . " Good Faith Challenged Miss Bo Peep Fisher of Brenham , Tex. , who had held a proEisenhower proxy on the state committee , challenged the good faith of the Taft forces and inquired how some of the pro-Taft leaders had managed to reinstate themselves in the Republican party after voting in the last Democratic primary in this state , Orville Buffington of Wichita Falls , state chairman , agreed with the jocular comment that if the party started purging sometime Democrats " there probably would n't be enough purging powder to go around . " Despite the fact the committee had thirty-one cases before it , it devoted nearly three hours to hearing the first one , involving nineteen delegates from Jefferson County . An Eisenhower slate was unseated in favor of a pro-Taft group by a vote of 46 to 14 . Key testimony in this case was- given by Paul R. Lowry of Beaumont , who had been part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well coached " to try to dissuade Democrats from declaring themselves Republican in order to vote for General Eisenhower . " I did everything I could to disqualify them , " Mr. Lowry said , as a witness produced by the Eisenhower group .                     