@@715987

txt CONTROLS MAPPED FOR CHARITY PLEAS , With Congress Action , Albany Program Will Cover-Outstate as Well as Local Groups By CHARLES GRUTZNER Out-of-state organizations that solicit charitable contributions from New Yorkers will be covered , along with local groups , by control measures to be introduced in the State Legislature within three weeks . This was disclosed yesterday by State Senator Bernard Tompkins and Assemblyman Samuel Rabin , Republicans of Queens , the ranking members of the Joint Legislative Committee that exposed charity rackets and wasteful use of donated money at public hearings here last month . The committee is drafting bills for compulsory registration and filing of annual accountings by all organizations , except religious institutions , which ask the public here for money in the name of charity or philanthropy . This will require Federal legislation in the case of organizations that conduct their fund campaigns from headquarters outside New York State . Senator Tompkins , committee chairman , said implementing legislation was being prepared in Washington . The Congressional measure , similar to the law making it illegal to send liquor into a state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to solicit contributions in a state without complying with state laws . Senator Tompkins announced // that his committee would hold public hearings on Feb. 5 in Syracuse , Feb. 11 in Rochester , Feb. 19 in Elmira and Feb. 26 in Buffalo . The Tompkins - Rabin committee will recommend to Governor Dewey and the Legislature eight major provisions to be covered at this session . In addition to requiring registration with the Department of Social Welfare of au but religious charities conducting public appeals , the program calls for : ( Ming of annual sworn statements , which would be available for public inspection , of how much money was collected , how much went for fund-raising , administrative and other expenses , and how much went to charity or welfare aid , with jail terms for false reporting . gRequiring organizations to obtain written permission from al persons whose names they use as sponsors , with criminal penalties for unauthorized use of names . eLicensing of all professional fund-raisers. 6Authorizing the State Attorney General to take court action to enjoin the operations or revoke the charter of any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in such a way that too little of the money collected in its name goes for charitable work . gAmending the State Busie ness Law to cover solicitation by mail or in any bther way by organizations outside the State . CPermitting cities and other local government units to adopt or retain supplementary controls over charitable and - fund- raising groups . erAuthorizing the Department of Social Welfare to make approlpriate regulations . These proposals , agreed upon by the five Republican and two Democratic members of the Joint Legislative Committee after four months of investigation and consultation with charity and welfare workers and heads of reputable -- fund-raising organizations , are expected to be enacted into law . Governor Dewey has stressed the need for legislation to end charity rackets , with a special reference to the Tompkins-Rabin committee 's disclosures , in his annual message to the Legislature . If its life is extended to next year , the committee intends to study aspects of the situation that may require additional legislation . One serious problem , according to Senator Tompkins , is how to draw the line between bona fide and fake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ban on all solicitation by telephone and a prohibition against mailing unordered merchandise , such as fountain pens , holy medallions , punchboards and ' miniature auto tags . " We would rather get the basic controls through at once , " said Senator Tompkins . " Next year we can make finer distinctions and amend Where necessary . " Observing that the program did not call for licensing of charitable organizations , but only of professional fund raisers , he said volunteer aides and full-time employes of charitable organizations who might be used in fund campaigns would not be required to be licensed . Senator Tompkins said also the controls would apply only to groups asking contributions from the public . This would exempt colleges that ask help from their alumni , trade unions asking their members to contribute to a strike relief fund and several other kinds of limited appeals . The committee 's program was outlined at a press conference at the Lawyers Club , 115 Broadway . Assemblyman Jelin Ryan , Brooklyn Democrat , a committee member , and Sidney Paymer , counsel to the committee , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              