@@714798

txt With six avowed candidates , one " favorite son " and two " dark horse " possibilities listed for the Presidential nomination , the Democratic National Convention , which will con. vene next Monday , is confronted , with the prospect of a prolonged battle before the party 's nominee is selected . It also faces even more bitter fights over the adoption of a civil rights plank in the party platform and on the seating contests be. , ? ween rival delegations from Texas and Mississippi . The outcome of the contests not only may have a bearing on the fight over the civil rights plank but also could cause the states concerned and others from the South to bolt the nominee of the convention . The States Rights delegations from Texas and Mississippi are led by their respective Governors , Allan Shivers and Hugh White . The opposing pro-Truman or " Loyalist " delegations are led by former Representative Maury Maverick of San Antonio , Tex. , and J. B. Snider of Natchez , Miss . Six Avowed Candidates The six avowed candidates for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for headquarters in the Conrad Hilton , Hotel , are Vice President Alben W. Barkley of Kentucky , Averell Harriman of New York , Mutual Security Director , and Senators Estes Kefauver of Tennessee , Robert S. Kerr of Oklahoma , Richard B. Russell of Georgia and Brien of Connecticut . The " favorite son " is Senator Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota , who won the primary election in his state . The two " dark horse " possibilities are Gov . Adlai E. Stevenson of Illinois and Speaker Sam Rayburn of Texas , who is scheduled to be permanent chairman of the convention . Governor Stevenson continued to be the chief question mark of the convention . Although he has showed no sign of changing his ' frequently expressed determination to run only for re-election as Gov governor , there is still talk of the possibility of drafting him ? for the Presidential nomination . Barkley Called Man to Beat Supporters of Senator Russell have taken the lead in getting pre ? convention publicity for their candidate . Senator Edwin C. Johnson of Colorado , his campaign manager @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the eighth ballot and expressed the opinion that Vice President Barkley would be the man to beat . Mr. Johnson said that Senator Russell was more optimistic and expected to win the nomination on the fifth or sixth ballot . The Bus/sell manager estimated that the , Georgian would have about 300 votes on the first ballot but con- ceded that Senator Kefauver would lead on the first test . Senator Johnson said that he be. ) lieved Governor j Stevenson was " Cut of the , picture , " and added : " I do n't ? believe there will be- a draft of anybody . " - He confirmed the report that Senator Russell Visited Chicago last week and had dinner with Jacob M. Arvey , National Committeeman from . Illinois , who had expressed hope that Governor Stevenson would be a Presidential candidate . - The Colorado Senator also said that Senator Russell , after his talk with Mr .. Arvey , had conferred with President Truman in Washington . However , Mr. Johnson said he did not know the substance of those conversations . John S. ? Gleason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , joined the Russell campaign directorate yesterday . There was speculation as to whether this signified that Governor Stevenson was definitely out of the running of whether it meant that the way was being paved for a possible Stevenson-Russell ticket . Notes New Kefauver Support Gael Sullivan , campaign manager for Senator Kefauver , declared ' that " a tide of support is coming Kefauver 's way . " He declared that television would make impossible any " synthetic draft " of a candidate and would prevent supporters of other candidates from " ganging up " on Kefauver because " millions of people throughout the nation are going to have living room rights to this convention . " Headquarters for Mr. Harriman were opened today on the eleventh floor of the Conrad Hilton in the quarters occupied last week by supporters of General Eisenhower . The Harriman boom is expected to gain impetus tomorrow when Paul E. Fitzpatrick , New York State chairman , Senator Herbert H. Lehman , honorary chairman of the Harriman eampaign committee , and ' Representative Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr. , national chairman of that committee , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 150 votes on the first ballot . If President Truman does not interfere , he added , he expects that the nomination for President will be made on the fifth or sixth ballot . Platform Hearings Scheduled Hearings on the platform will begin on Wednesday before the Resolutions Committee of the convention , of which Representative John W. McCormack of Massachusetts is chairman . It is expected that most of the controversies would be centered on the planks on civil rights and agriculture . The fight on the civil right plank is likely to be the bitterest of the convention . Senators Lehman and Humphrey already have said that they will oppose any retreat from the 1948 declaration on that issue . In addition , Representative Adam Clayton Powell Jr. , the first Negro to be named a delegate at lar:e from New York , also h 3 announced his intention of addressing the convention in support of the 1948 plank , if he does not urge an even stronger declaration . The 1948 Democratic plank on civil rights called for establishment of a Federal Fair Employment Practices Commission with powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Most of the delegates from the southern states will seek a substantial modification of the party 's position on civil rights by reserving to each state the right to determine certain questions of segregation and discrimination . The controversy over this issue will be involved in the contests over the Texas and Mississippi delegations . Even the right of the South Carolina delegation , headed by Gov . James F. Byrnes , may be involved . At the South Carolina Democratic state convention on April 16 , a resolution , proposed by Governor Byrnes in his keynote speech , was adopted . It directed the state delegation to serve notice on the Credentials Committee of the convention that the Democratic party in South Carolina was not bound to support candidates chosen . by the national convention who . were not , acceptable to the South , The , delegates were . further rected to notify the Credentials Committee that - the-  Democratic party - in South Carolina reserved the right to meet after the national convention to authorize its State Executive Committee to name candidates for Presidential electors , with the implication that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Democratic state conventions in Mississippi and Georgia , instead of adjourning , each took a recess - until after his national convention . This was to enable the conventions to nominate independent candidates for electors . In Texas , - a September state convention is authorized by law . No deliInite action was taken in Louisiana but . leading Democrats in that state took a sympathetic position toward what may be a more seirious revolt than that of the ' States Rights party , or " Dixieerats , " in 1948 . In Texas , after the regular convention named a delegation headed by Governor Shivers , a group , inspired largely by- former Representative Maverick , held a protesting convention and named a delegation . On the face of the controversy , there seems to be comparatively little doubt of the regularity of the Texas delegation headed by the Governor . Mississippi Contest The Mississippi contest is somewhat different . Former Gov . Fielding ' H. Wright of Mississippi was the States Rights candidate for Vice President in 1948 . Governor White was one of the Mississippi delegates to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adoption of its civil rights plank . Governor White , in his address at this year 's Mississippi State Convention , predicted another bolt at the national convention if the same civil rights plank were adopted . The state convention elected a national delegation pledged to fight such a plank . Mrs. John Clark of DeKalb , acting member of the National Committee , then called a series of county conventions and a state convention that elected a delegation supporting the position of the Truman Administration . Hearings on the Mississippi conI test will begin Friday before a National committee subcommittee on credentials , of which Calvin Rawlings of Utah is chairman . The subcommittee will report to the full National committee on Saturday . The subcommittee is expected to hear the Texas contest on Sunday . Officers of the National Committee , who have knowledge of the evidence , expect the delegations headed by the two Governors to be placed on the temporary roll of the convention .                     