@@719529

txt ALBANY , Feb. 14 ? Governor Harriman vetoed today the Republican bill scheduling the primary election for June 3 and state nominating conventions for June 16 and 17 . Unless changed , the primary this year would be on Sept. 16 and nominating conventions could not be held before Sept. 24 . Since the latter date is the Day of , Atonement , a Jewish holiday , conventions would- not be scheduled until at least Sept. 25 . Mr. Harriman , who plans to seek re-election in the fall , called the bill " a brazen attempt on the part of the majority in the Legislature to play fast and loose with the election process from year to year to suit their fancies . " The move was interpreted as an effort to block Republican plans for a long campaign designed to improve the election chances of the Republican candidate for Governor . Republican legislative leaders declared that " the most shocking consequence of Governor Harriman 's political veto is that it will deprive about 50,000 service men and their wives of // the right to vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no provision in the law for absentee voting by service men . It must be authorized annually . Mr. Harriman recognized that his veto would leave military personnel without a vote and urged that a new bill for a military ballot be enacted . Republicans are expkted to decide at a conference on Monday whether to repass , the vetoed measure or introduce a substitute proposal . Mr. Harriman said in his memorandum that it was well established tradition to hold conventions in September and that there was no good reason to have the campaign extended by three months . Mr. Harriman said he would savor advancing the dates of conventions and primaries permanently if the Legislature would accept his suggestion for a primary for state officers after party conventions . Under this plan the final choice of state candidates would be made by the enrolled party voters . Under the present procedure , enrolled voters choose in the primary the delegates to state and judicial nominating conventions , candidates for the Legislature and the House of Representatives and party officers . State conventions nominate candidates for Governor , Lieutenant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator and judges of the Court of Appeals . Senator Walter J. Mahoney , the majority leader , and Speaker Oswald D. Heck of the Assembly said new legislation would be filed to assure military personnel of a vote , but pointed out that unless the dates fixed in the election law for the primary and conventions were changed , the military ballots could not be received hi time to be recorded . The Republican leaders said that on the fall schedule , the Secretary of State could not certify candidates until Oct. 14 and that the printing and mailing of war ballots would take several more days . This would allow less than twenty days for the round trip of service men 's ballots , they noted , whereas experience has shown that a minimum of forty days is essential . War ballots must be filed by noon , Nov. 3.                     