@@714644

txt The simulated atomic bomb blast in Nassau County today and the highly controversial beef stew served as part of the exercise were both highly successful , although the stew was adjudged to be on the bland side . The atomic " raid " was the first of nine to be offered by state Civilian Defense officials in locations designated as " target areas . " Beginning at 8:58 A.M. with the Sounding of the " red signal , " indicating that an atomic bomb had " exploded " 2,500 feet above Fulton and Main Streets in Hempstead , 100 or more " incidents " took place throughout the county , involving 5,000 trained volunteers . During the " red alarm , " which lasted eleven minutes , all traffic within the county , with the excepItion of Civil Defense vehicles , was halted . It was estimated that 22,000 vehicles were affected within the county , and 2,400 cars were stopped at the Queens and Suffolk borders . Long Island Rail Road trains did not halt , but trainmen on the seven trains moving in the county @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ After the diarni csal signal , at 11:45 A.M. , a beef stew , prepared at an outdoor stove by Public Welfare Commissioner Edwin W. , WalLace , was served to 260 state and ' county officials , Civil Defense ' volunteers and newspapermen . When Mr. Wallace had first announced the receipe , he had received criticism and gratuitous advice for planning to put a pound of salt in the twenty gallons of stew . Gourmets and others who partook of the dish , made in accordance with the disputed recipe , pronounced It excellent , except that it needed a bit more salt . The praise more than made up for Mr. Wallace 's discomfort from the rain , which caused his jaunty chefs cap to droop sadly after three hours . In all , 31,500 volunteers had re- , ported for duty after the " yellow alarm " had been transmitted at ' 8:03 A.M. Most of them remained on stand-by duty . One minor traffic incident was reported , resulting from a warden 's attempt to halt an ice cream truck . He was told by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it as a Civil Defense carrier of simulated blood plasma . A Civil Air Patrol plane substituted for an Air Force plane that was to have dropped leaflets as part of the test . The Air'Force ' had grounded its craft because of the weather . The C. A. P. plane dropped 10 , - ; 000 of the messages , printed in , red , on white paper . The text read : " Hempstead or Hiroshima . Luckily for you the bomber that dropped this leaflet was a friendly one . What are you doing to save your life and the lives of your loved ones from this terrible fate ? Join Civil Defense today . " Fourteen C. A. P. planes took part in the exercise , flying twentyone missions . , Also included in the test was " the greatest use of radio in civil defense , " as one official put it . In addition to four standard broadcasting stations , police , fire and commercial companies ' two-way radio hookups were used . In a preliminary evaluation of the test , Col. Lawrence A. Wilkinson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cyril C. Ryan , director of the county Civil Defense group , said it had been " very successful . " Colonel Wilkinson added that he was " very impressed , especially with the emergency communications control center . It is much more effective than others I have observed . " Mr. Ryan called the exercise the " greatest stimulus to public interest we have had in Nassau County . " In Albany , Col. Alfred H , Jacobson , director of the Albany County Civil Defense Office , said that the air raid test held yesterday in three cities and ten towns in the county was generally satisfactory . He was critical , however , of the lack of sufficient volunteers . Only one-quarter of the persons injured in the simulated test would have survived , he said , because of this lack . The test took place from 7:49 to 8:01 A. M. , with 8,000 policemen , firemen and volunteers participating . Cooperation by the civilian populace in downtown Albany was reported as 100 per cent . Among other Civil Defense developments , New Jersey is scheduled to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which traffic from New York to New Jersey will be halted for a short period . The use of radar-equipped " picket " palnes , flying from advanced bases to strengthen this country 's air defenses , was reported by The United Press . In a story from Washington , it quoted Congressional sources as having said thatt he use of the craft extended a protective radar umbrella far beyond the continental boundaries .                     