@@717112

txt DEMOCRATIC RIFT LOOMS OVER SALE OF STATE POWER Alcoa Deal May Pit Lehman and Roosevelt Against Harriman and Wagner Text of letters exchanged by Moses and Lehman , Page 24 . By LEO EGAN . A. split in Democratic ranks over the sale of state-produced hydroelectric power seemed to be in the making yesterday , though it has not yet taken definite shape . At this stage , the division appears likely to pit Senator Herbert H. Lehman and Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr . against Governor Harriman and Mayor Wagner . Such a cleavage among top Democratic leaders could have important political ramificaLtions , affecting not only Governor Harriman 's possible candidacy for President , but Mayor Wagner 's ambitions to run for , the United States Senate . The immediate point at issue is a proposed contract between the State Power Authority and the Aluminum Company of America for the sale of about one - fourth the hydroelectric power to be generated in the international rapids section of the St. Lawrence River . Three Basic Objections Senator Lehman has raised three basic objections to the contract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too long ; that a clause limitling Alcoa 's obligations if its opierations should be curtailed by la labor dispute is unduly favorable to the company ; and that the amount of power the authority is agreeing to supply Alcoa is too large . Despite the Senator 's objec-tions , the Alcoa contract was approved unanimously by the , authority last Friday , It is now ' pending before Governor Harriman for his separate approval ' as required by law . He has sixty days  --  until July 27 ? to approve or disapprove it . There is strong reason to believe that Governor Harriman is siding with the authority . He has discussed the contract with Robert Moses , chairman of the authority , on several occasions . He also has discussed it with Charles Poletti , who was Lieutenant . Governor when Senator Lehman was Governor and who is one of Mr. Harriman 's principal advisers on power policy . As a member of the authority , Mr. Poletti voted to approve the contract . Mayor Wagner was brought into the picture by Senator Lehman and Mr. Roosevelt . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lehman wrote to Mr. Wagner suggesting the employment of Mr. Roosevelt as special counsel to the city to contest the approval of the contract . Mr. Roosevelt and the Senator are reported in fun agreement on the basic public policy involved . Two of Senator Lehman 's objections to the Alcoa contract // were detailed in letter he wrote to Mr. Moss several days after the authority had held a ? public hearing on the subject . . on May 10 . These dealt with , the term of the contract . and the amount of power to be suppliedte . Mr. Lehman likewise contended that the contract - was out of tune with the power policy of previous Democratic Governors . Mr. Moses sent the Senator a reply to his objections on May 17 , shortly after they had been received . In this letter the authority chairman implied that Governor Harriman was in favor of the contract and in accord with the authority 's general distribution policy . The Senator 's third objection , dealing with the strike clause , was not mentioned in his letter or in Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority members who have an answer for it . Length of . Contract Defended As to the term of the contract , Mr. Moses pointed out that Alcoa was surrendering its - own generating facilities and committing itself to spend $25,000,000 to convert its plant from direct to alternating current . Without assurance of a long-term - power supply , it might be forced to close down its operations , which provide employment for 6,500 persons , the answer emphasized . The contract provides that the term can be renegotiated if the authority is able at some later date to reduce the price it is charging the company . As to the amount of power involved , Mr. Moses emphasized it was almost the same as the company is now using . Only about one third of the Alcoa 's present power supply is provided by its own plant ; the balance is purchased from private utilities and the Province of Quebec . The objection to the strike clause is centered on a provision cutting Alcoa 's obligations to half if it can not use the power it is contracting to buy because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which the authority has ready , is that most private utilities make no charge at all , beyond a minimum stand-by fee , if power is not used . Whether Mayor Wagner ever replied to Senator Lehman 's suggestion that the city employ Mr. Roosevelt as special , counsel in connection with St. Lawrence power could not be learned yesterday . But it was established that he has not yet been employed , and the indications were that he would not be . In general the position taken by Senator Lehman and Mr. Roosevelt represents the views of leading advocates . ' of public power development . Some of these have suggested that a rejeCtion , of their policy by Mr. Harriman might influence delegates to the next Democratic national convention from . states where publicly developed power is popuiar ; such as those in the area served by the Tennessee Valley Authority and some western states .                     