@@720226

txt A tornado struck . here without warning shortly after 2 A. M. , Central standard time , today . Within three minutes it had left behind twenty-one known dead and more than 300 injured . It also left a trail of wreckage that lay like a scar across a quiet residential area and small business section of the city . The wrecked area Was fifteen blocks long and from one to eight blocks wide . While the - residents of the western and northern areas of St. Louis were sleeping after a night of torrential rains , the twister slashed in from the ' southwest unheralded . It tore I modest dwellings to shreds , battered substantial apartment houses , unrooted trees , ripped huge signboards to tatters and hurled bricks , stones , chunks of metal and pieces of houses through the air with the force of cannon shells . Many Buried in Wreckage Moments after the tornado struck , hundreds of rescue workers , including Civil Defense , fire , police and utility workers , were tearing at the wreckage in response to scores of cries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ darkness , a hundred scattered fires glowed from broken gas mains , accidentally ignited by the storm . Firemen and ' ? rescue crews worked furiously by the light of these fires and of searchlights to save those trapped in the wreckage of buildings threatened by fire or already burning . Small floods hampered the rescue efforts . Violent rainstorms had dropped two inches of rain on the city shortly before the tornado struck . Winds measured at a force of up to sixty-five miles an hour accompanied the tornado , which spent its fury in less than three minutes . The storm struck be- fore a word of warning could be issued . No one was reported to have seen its approach . Several persons said they had heard a growing rumble shortly before the tornado arrived , . Few of the victims were aware of it until after it had passed with the speed and sound of a careening express train . The course of the destruction ran from the southwest to the northeast of the city 's residenI tial and small business area and ended abruptly less than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marks the city 's eastern border . There the tornado bounced into the air and disappeared . Storm Warnings Issued The Weather Bureau here had issued storm warnings for the St. Louis area during the weekend . The intensity of the tornado 's blow came as a surprise , the bureau . said today . City officials estimated tonight that 1,725 structures had been damaged , including fortyone destroyed . The buildings of twenty business concerns were destroyed . Sixty-nine suffered major damage and 354 had minor damage . Twenty-one multiple dwellings , chiefly two-story frame structures , were destroyed . One , hundred and forty-one suffered , major damage and 1,104 had minor damage . In addition , , two schools were damaged ' slightly and one church was virtually wrecked . In Washington it was announced later in the day that President Eisenhower had designated St. Louis a major disaster area at the request of ' Mayor Raymond B. Tucker of St. Louis and Gov . James T. Blair of Missouri . This makes Federal money available for relief work . City officials declined today to estimate the cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issued a city-wide plea for sightseers to stay away from the damaged area . An inpouring of thousands of curious persons became quickly a major obstacle to rescue efforts . The area struck by the tornado was about the same as that battered by a tornado here in 1927 , when seventyeight persons were killed . Today 's tornado struck in the Crestwood-Brentwood area of St. Louis , slashed into the city and spent its fury on the heavily populated region . The struck area lies two and one half . miles from the city 's business district . Passing over Forest Park , a recreation area in the western section of the city , the tornado dealt its heaviest blows in a region bounded by Olive Street , Grand Boulevard , Newstead , and St. Louis Avenues . Nearly all of the victims , both the dead and the injured , were asleep in bed when the blow struck . Adding to the fury of the blow , debris hurtling through the air slashed into homes , injuring and killing several whose residences had withstood the tornado 's force . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ KLXW 's tower were hurled to the ground . They fell like guillotine knives , slicing buildings in half . At least eight persons died in one two and a half story brick dwelling . Two men were killed at work in a garage when the tornado toppled a brick chimney . lit crashed through the garage roof , crushing the men underneath it . Survivors offered varied descriptions of their observations and experiences . Some said they had heard a heavy rumbling almost at the moment that they had been struck down or thrown from their beds . Joseph Evans said he had been aware of approaching flashes of lightning shortly before the tornado struck . " It was getting reddish in color , " he said . " I felt the building begin to shake . My wife and I were thrown out of bed onto the floor . I told her : ' if we are going to die we 'll die together . " Mr. Evans-and his wife were not injured . Clarence Tibbs , who lived in a two-story dwelling that was destroyed , ? said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basement , of the building seconds before the tornado struck . He and his family survived . During the morning , the St. Louis chapter of the American Red Cross established collection points for lost children and coffee bars for rescue workers . Three Salvation Army mobile canteens also were set up at the disaster scene .                     