@@715734

txt To appease rebellious southerners , Democratic leaders agreed yesterday to submit the loyalty oath controversy to a special advisory committee which will report to the 1956 national nominating convention . " We 're happy , " said Gov . White of Mississippi as he walked , aided by a cane , from a Conrad Hilton hotel room where a special committee on rules and by-laws had met under the chairmanship of Mayor David Lawrence of Pittsburgh . Vote Unanimous White and Gov . Battle of Virginia had insisted that the Democratic party abandon the watered down loyalty pledge which almost disrupted the 1952 cOnvention . Battle offered the resolution , adopted unanimously , which will be referred to the Democratic national committee at a meeting today : It would authorize National Chairman Stephen A. Mitchell to appoint a committee to stuay party rules ana maim recommendations by 1956 . The resolution stipulated that there must be southern members on the committee . Also to be considered will be means of stopping the repeated polling of state delegations which slowed up the 1952 convention roll calls and bored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the northern " liberal and big city blocs , have objected to taking any loyalty pledge . Threats of revolt were heard as the two ' day conference opened . 4 Dixie States to Ike The Eisenhower Republican ticket carried four Dixie states in 1952 . In 1948 , a Dixiecrat ticket in Democratic columns carried four other states . Before the rules meeting , Battle , White and National Committeeman Fielding Wright of Mississippi , who was ' the 1948 Dixiecrat nominee for Vice President , held a long conference with Chairman Mitchell . The advisory committee presumably would report at the start of the 1956 convention , at the time rules are adopted . Each national convention can adopt and change its own rules . Another committee - will attempt ' to revise the rules , unchanged since 1899 , governing the Democratic national committee . Southerners Win Victory The southerners won a victory when a special committee , of which Rep. Sam Rayburn of Texas and Gov . Marland of West Virginia were co-c hair me n , dropped a proposal that a midterm convention be held in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committeeman , had proposed the mid-term convention during next year 's senatorial and congressional campaigning . Rep. Boggs of Louisiana made the motion to drop it in favor of continuing the Democratic- practice of holding regional conferences . During a breakfast meeting of 16 state chairmen , L. Marion Gressette of South Carolina recommended that the group go on record for repeal of the loyalty oath . He dropped it with reluctance when Chairman James A. Ronan of Illinois , who was presiding , just U formalgathering . " After a ? closed session of Democrats from 14 midwestern states , J. M. Arvey , the Illinois committeeman who presided , said he was surprised to hear men from other states ? talk with optimism and confidence about prospects of defeating Republicans next year . Farmers were reported to ? be dissatisfied with the Eisenhower administration , Arvey said .                     