@@713401

txt ? An outburst of protest against the Foreign Ministers Committee , and against what- was alleged to have been ra British veto in- that committee on the Consultative Asgen-lhiv , s recommendation's. marked the first plenary meeting of the resumed session of the Council " of Europe ' here , today . , The discussion showed at once that the Assembly was split between those who , with the British Laborites , backed by the Scandinavians and some of the Netherlanders , want to hold the Council to a modest ' advisory role and those who , following Paul Rey ! laud , former French Premier , want the Assembly to assert itself and wrest from the governments a limited authority to make it represent a Parliament of Europe . The Assembly was debating the report delivered in person by Count Carlo Sforza , Italian Foreign Minister , about the session of the Foreign . Ministers Committee in Rome at which a number of the Assembly 's recommendations had been rejected or postponed . At the same time Count Sforza noted that a number of the proposals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that there was wide scope for the Assembly to act for the unity of Europe . Count Sforza , delivering the // ministers ' unwelcome message , won a personal success in the Assembly by adding advice from his own experience as a fighter for European unity for thirty years . He said he felt that great progress had been made and , recalled what had been gained since the whole of Europe had threatened to sink under a wave of Fascism and Nazism . He urged the Assembly to persevere ' in an effort to " mobilize opinion " and to build up ties through the Atlantic Pact with the United States and Canada . He paid tribute to the United States assis tance toward European unity as " generous and farsighted . " Before the session , the Council took the important step of inviting French Foreign Minister Robert Schuman to - come to Strasbourg and tell the Assembly about France 's wish for a European army , a move that is felt here to have been suggested by the Assembly 's recommendation . This , if accepted , will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The neglect of the ministers , who in the Council hold executive authority , to include the Assembly 's claims for widening the convention on human rights , signed at Rome , struck fire at once . In the first speech delivered after Count Sforza 's address , Pierre-Henri Teitgen of France blamed Britain for refusing in the accord to grant rights for free elections , to hold property or choose the education for youth . " If Britain wished to veto these rights for herself she had a right to do so , but she should not have prevented others from reaching an accord , " M. Teitgen declared . This speech was introductory to a half dozen others in which the ministers were accused of framing the Council 's Charter so as to hold its moves in check , of deliberately delaying any action by referring every matter to the experts , and of having emasculated the significance of the convention on human rights . The speeches included a vehement one by the Irish representative , Thomas F. O'Higgins , who declared that the Assembly should be told @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of democracy . " I 'll wage ? " he said , " that it was not France or Greece or Turkey . " The speech evoked an ironical retort from G. R. Mitchinson , British Labor representative , who warned against " twisting the British lion 's tail , " recalled Britain 's roll in achieving the rights of man and asked how many freedoms Europe would enjoy if . Britain had not acted to , save them ten years ago . James Callaghan , speaking . Hugh Dalton , chief of the Briish delegation who is ill , regretted the tone of the debate and urged the Assembly to take a moderate and practical view o ? matters. ? He asked that instead of lamenting what the Ministers had not done , the Assembly should get down to work on the proposals the-Ministers had made . He said there was good work to be accomplished through compromise and pointed out that Britain had accepted the principle of specialized agencies within the Council , which meant that the countries could unite in groups without unanimous participation . He defined Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " We regard this as a consultative assembly , " he . said . " That is what it was formed'for and - that- is what it should remain . " Opponents of this theory were at the disadvantage of having subscribed in the beginning to an ' organization of that type but contended that it had always been agreed to increase its powers as its capacities were proved . With M. Reynaud , they announced that they would carry their campaign to public opinion ? and take the fight fox " real if limited powers " into the ' parliaments . They regretted the delay imposed upon the revision of the Charter in this sense by the Min ? isters ' decision to submit the plan once more to the experts who , it was promised , would ? complete their work by March 1 . The plan would go before the Assembly 's meeting in . August , it was said . cThe Assembly , despite the . decision of the ministers that this body was incompetent to make , decisions upon matters of defense , decided to discuss that question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if any other minister than Mr. Schuman , in committee , wished to speak on ' the subject , he would be welcomed by the Assembly . The representatives showed little favor toviard the proposal that , the ministers initiate a declaration of peace condemning . Communist agressions . Leon Maccas of . Greece objected to " replying to the Coniinform propaganda like another CoMin form " and Henri Rolin of Belgium said it was like a declaration of war . Finally , words of moderation were spoken by Lord Layton and others that may affect the plenary sessions of next week , beginning Tuesday .                     