@@717337

txt Public schools in the District of Columbia opened this week with the boast/ of the Superintendent that racial lines no longer existed in the educational system of the nation 's capital .. Dr. Hobart M. Corning declared the desegregation of whites and Negroes was com plete in classrooms from kinder-1 garten up through adult education night schools . Desegrega-1 tion also had been accomplished in athletics , military drill , the parent-teacher associations , teachers ' associations and the public school teachers ' colleges . In Delaware , school integration moved slowly . Maryland , however , appeared to accept desegregation with only a fewinstances of minor friction . But the Superintendent of Schools differentiated between " desegregation " and " Integration . " He defined " desegregation " as " moving people and things about " in such a way as to remove the color line . He said that it by no means meant complete integration , which , he predicted ; will take some years . He defined " integration " as " putting together two school systems that have been entirely separate for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , will be on integration . This will include more catch-up classes for slow pupils and increased emphasis on teaching democratic ideals . There also will be more emphasis on teaching of reading , writing , spelling , arithmetic and the facts of history . The capital was the first large city to carry out the Supreme Court desegregation mandate of May 17 , 1954 . All last , summer the Board of Education and Dr. Corning and his staff worked out the details of school redistricting system . This was done at the request of President Eisenhower , who expressed the wish that the nation 's capital become a model in doing away with the dual system of education . Dr. Corning at the time called the redistricting and merging of classes " the biggest single administrative task any school system had ever faced . " Its ramifications were the more complex hi view of the fact that Negro students outnumbered white , about 84,000 Negro students to about 40,000 white , within the boundaries of the District of Columbia . The Board of Education backed the move by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That teacher appoihtments , transfers , and promotions and ratings should be solely on merit . 2 . That no pupils be favored or discriminated against for reasons of race . 3 . That attendance at schools be , yond new boundaries be al1 lowed only for the most necessitous reasons , and never for reasons of race . 4 . That no records be kept on race . 5 . That maximum use be made of buildings regardless of race . Today , Dr. Corning was willing to say that desegregation as outlined has gone " amazingly well . " " I would not want to leave the impression that all are happy about it , for that is far from being the case , " he said . " But aside from the demonstration of last October there has been no disturbance of any kind . That so-called ' strike ' lasted only four days and involved only 2,600 of 106,000 high school students . So it was not widespread . In our judgment it was a direct copying of walkouts at Milford , Del. , and Baltimore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not much of a racial thing . Indeed , a few Negro students walked out with the whites . More Positive Side " On the more positive side , many adjustments have taken place without any incidents coming to our ears . " Football schedules ; were already made up for last fall before desegregation went into effect . The schedules were carried out on a segregated basis . But beginning with the basketball season , athletics were desegregated , continuing through the year . No disturbance of a racial nature resulted , either on the playing field or among the cheering sections . " This fall we start football with new schedules , on an integrated basis . " The Superintendent reported the school cadet corps was fully integrated all year . It so chanced that on the basis of taking turns , the colonel on the regimental drill was a Negro , commanding the whole review . " Negro couples danced at a senior prom without incident , " he added . " No trouble has come from Negro boys trying to date white girls . " Even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Negroes have been elected to the student councils and to class offices. - So-called " hardship cases " in which white parents asked that children be moved from schools predominantly Negro were " not large " in number  --  and this year are much fewer ' than . last . No transfer has been permitted on a racial plea alone . Almost all that have been granted have been on the basis of doctor 's certificates . Many Negro teachers are working with white teachers to teach white children . Dr. Corning could not give the number because " we do not even keep track of . them racially . " " My own staff has been reshuffled , so that no one has any racial delegation , " he noted . " A Negro ' assistant Superintendent with a white assistant , is in charge of all grade schools . A white assistant superintendent with a Negro assistant is in charge of all junior high schools . " A Negro is in charge of all vocational high schools , evening schools , summer schools and daytime adult education classes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are all-white , a few schools are all-Negrobut Dr. Corning explains that is because they are located in neighborhoods of that type . If a new family moved in of another race , the neighborhood ' school would be ready to receive it . " In between these two extremes we run the gamut of all possible Negro-white percentages , " he continued . The two teachers ' colleges , Wilson ( formerly white ) and Miner ( formerly colored ) , have just merged into the D. C. Teachers College . It has a white president , and a ' battery of deans , Negro and white . " The white and Negro parentteachers ' associations merged of their own volition , " the Superintendent reported . " White P.-T . A. 's have accepted colored members in all buildings , and ' the city-wide P.- T. A. has now become a common group . Negroes have been elected to office . " The Educational Association of the District of Columbia , a ' white teachers ' group , and the Columbia Education Association , for Negro teachers , both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The combined group has employed an executive secretary . As a result of desegregation , Dr. Corning said , all schools in the city received the same graded tests last year , with the result that many schools rated below the national averages in fundamental subjects . He termed this " one of the advantages of integration , " in that the city-wide tests " brought more sharply into focus " the different achievement levels and many individual problem cases needing special attention . Among the aims this fall , Dr. Corning said , are smaller classes , more special classes to meet the needs of children ; more equal distribution of the services of special teachers ; and study groups to help parents under- , stand what the schools are trying to do and how the parents can help .                     