@@714044

txt Letters to The Times VICENTE D. GABRIELC . LANGDON WHITE , HERBERT BAYARD SWOPE.J.RD.CARL COLODNE , LA ... Letters to The Times Philippine War Claims Stand on Reparations Provision in Japanese Treaty Explained To THE EDITOR OF THE New YORK TIMES : Of late there have been a number of controversial stories on contemporary Philippine affairs , particularly the Philippine role in the forthcoming Japanese treaty conference . As one who has just come from Manila and who has closely observed the forces at work in the new nation during the past years , I can not help but be concerned about such efforts to appreciate conditions in my homeland , which somehow damage the closer PhilippineAmerican relations . The Filipino leaders in power today are not anti-Japanese treaty . They believe in the termination of occupation status for Japan , but the arrangement must be to the basic satisfaction of all concerned . The treaty must be drafted and signed as soon as possible , but the agreement must be just . While it must give benefits to the vanquished nation to gain economic and security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tremendous losses of life and property perpetrated upon allied nations , such as the Philippines . ? Occupation Damage It is emphasized in some articles that the Philippines is in prostrate , nearcrisis condition . Why ? Before the war our budget was balanced , foreign trade was favorable to the Philippines and there was general peace and contentment in the country . The Pacific war , however , which was brought to our shores by the Japanese warlords without any provocation from us , wrought destruction and carnage reaching a staggering total of at least $8 billions and human casualties of over a million , with 95 per cent of the entire population having been directly or indirectly affected by Japanese cruelties and indignities . Whatever is the state of affairs in the Philippines at present is the result of enemy atrocities in the new nation . Not only that there was physical and human devastation , but a moral breakdown was a natural negative result of four long years of enemy domination , when there was not enough food and no opportunity for work . By fair evaluation the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ badly . It still stands as a vital bulwark of democracy in ' Asia , resolute and unswerving . Right to Compensation If America , a comrade in the battlefield , a friend and a guardian of global democracy , in altruism or even in enlightened self-interest would desire to underwrite or to help in the rehabilitation of a war-devastated country , why can not the Filipino people , for good and legitimate reasons , demand reparations from the very hand that stabbed us into prostration ? This is not a radical move , nor an anti-Japanese peace treaty monkey wrench . It is simply a truthful and urgent collection statement from one who - needs and deserves reparations . The issue of collaboration is raised against Philippine leaders in a merciless manner . While certain leaders actually were Manning the functions of emergency government during the occupation , they did so because of their intense and supreme desire to help ? n the survival of the Filipino people . The entire nation was underground . This is the glorious war record of the Filipinos , written in blood and martyrdom for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and beloved leader of the Filipinos , branded as a collaborator , was never in a key position in the Japanese Government . He was in the economic planning board to provide food for the people , and he had a hand in the drafting of the independence Constitution to see to it that democratic fundamentals were the foundation in the fundamental laws of the land . No one can doubt the loyalty and devotion of General to his country , and it was this great American emancipator who screened and cleared the loyalty records of President Manuel Roxas during the occupation and pronounced the need for his leadership in the post-war Philippines . American Policy It is understandable why the policy makers in Washington , as reflected by Ambassador Dulles ' attitude , are against payment by Japan of Philippine reparations . Firstly , it is for American defense preparedness that Japan , under American sponsorship , is being raised to economic and military selfsufficiency ; secondly , it is American responsibility , at least initiative , and even financial burden , to carry out the building up of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be necessary to accelerate Japan 's build-up . And the need for the stability and strength of this vital Asian buffer nation against international communism is urgent and immediate . There is a universal social revolution going on all over the world today , particularly in Asia . China has fallen into the Communist clutches , and there is Communist upheaval in Indo-China , in Malaya , in Indonesia . A third-force movement is being led by such nations as India , the Arab bloc and even Indonesia . The Philippines , being an agrarian country , can not be spared from Communist influence or foothold . The Huk movement is Communist-led . Eradication of such a movement depends to some extent on the complete destruction of global communism . But it may be safely . said that the Philippine Government forces , personally directed by the enlightened and inspired leadership . of Defense Secretary Magsaysay , have successfully destroyed the fighting initiative of the Huks , and there is definitely no chance for the movement to develop into a national revolution against the Government . While the Government is determined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are also being urged to return to normal life with opportunities to settle in newly opened lands . Meanwhile social reform measures are being enacted to meet the problems of the underprivileged . The people are by temperament , religion , culture ana contact against communistic teachings , They are a predominantly Catholic people , with over 350 years of Western contact under Spain , with an American educational system , and with a temperament that is creative , ruggedly independent , and a believer in free enterprise . While the Huk movement may exist in surprise raids , forays and other disorders , the Government has reduced it to a minimum local problem . The Philippines , more than any other nation , ? deserves American understanding , appreciation and support . It has proved its worth in many trying American needs . The American people , more than any one else , should sponsor the cause of Philippine stability , security and contentment  --  to entrench its position as the roclt of democracy in Asia . VICENTE D. GABRIEL . New York , Aug. 2 , 1951 . Importance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Relation to Nature To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Twenty-three years ago the American Library Association published a whole series of books  --  the over-all title of which was " Reading With a Purpose . " One of the set was " Geography and Our Need of It . " The author 's ( J. Russell Smith , now Professor Emeritus of Geography , Columbia University ) first sentence was : " I want a new declaration of independence . I want to be free from the New England sea captains whose ghosts still haunt some of the school geography texts and injure the reputation of geography . " In those intervening twenty-three years geography has gone through a veritable revolution and is now of age . Accordingly , I could scarcely believe my eyes when I looked at the examination questions in THE NEw YORK TIMES of July 11 , for the very type of questions that J. Russell Smith complained of so caustically had popped up again in 1951 . Most of those thirty questions on THE TIMES examination are not truly geographical . Geography no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and bound that " and of the memorizing of multifarious unrelated facts such as characterized THE NEw YORK TiniEs examination . Were this geography , it would not merit a place in our educational program . Rather does geography consist of an interpretation of the relation between man and the elements , factors and forces of nature . It studies man 's adjustments to the natural environment , the varied and peculiar ways in which man conforms or adapts his life , either wholly or in part , to physical and organic nature . Sometimes the adjustments are simple and direct ; at other times complex and indirect . When carefully analyzed these adjustments seem to be orderly and systematic and may be classified into broad groups . They are , moreover , conditioned by principles , in much the same way that the behavior of physical matter is governed by laws . It is the possession of these established and demonstrable principles of relationship which gives to modern geography its rank as a science . We see , then , that the center of interest in geography is man and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our educational policy ( public schools ) will continue to squeeze geography out of a place of prominence in the elementary and secondary school curricula so long as most people look upon it as place and factual geography . THE TIMES had a great opportunity  --  and " muffed " it . When will educators realize that geography is dynamic  --  that it is no longer the arid subject it once was  --  that there is much more to it than a mere cataloging of locations and isolated facts ? As a writer in the British publication Nature said several years ago : " No other human study permeates so many of the sciences ; no other study is so necessary to the equipment of the educated man . " C. LANGDON WHITE , Stanford University . Stanford , Cal. , July 26 , 1951 . Democratizing Youth To THE ! EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMER : I think the Drew Middleton story of the meeting of the Communist Youth in the Russian sector of Berlin dreadfully significant . I am hopeful that some means may be devised of preventing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Assembly of Youth , at Ithaca , will help . The fight for the spirit of the young and enthusiastic is far more important than to attempt the indoctrination of the old and cynical . HERBERT BAYARD Swors . New York , Aug. 7 , 1951 . Limiting Public Housing To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES " . ' Your correspondent Ira S. Robbins regrets that Congress has shown some disposition to limit socialized housing . That Congress should go into this vast project to eliminate private enterprise in the real estate economy is deplorable . Only the present low morale of the people , accustomed to hand-outs , makes it possible . No doubt the competition for votes will decide the issue , irrespective of our institutions and welfare . J. R. D. New York , Aug , 3 , 1951 . To Curtail Drug Addiction Sociological , Approach Favored Radler Than Punishment of Addict To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Penal punishment , including the death penalty , is increasingly advocated as a deterrent to illicit narcotics traffic . Why are we so quick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than sociological reasoning ? I suspect that our rage stems from our subconscious sense of guilt In our social neglect and apathy . But surely we can use better weapons than the instruments of brute force . An examination of the traffic manifests the immense falsity of the penal approach . Why are there sellers of illicit narcotics ? This question must . rightfully be divided ; why are there the " higher-up peddlers , " and why the " bottom-pushers " ? The " higher-up " is there for the fantastic profits . As for the " pusher , " the answer is more complex . The existence of the " pusher " points to one of the most tragic and least understood aspects of narcotic addiction . The opiate addict becomes physically dependent on the drug ; unless his body receives as great a dosage as the preceding one , an agonizing physical abstinence syndrome sets in . Contrary to opinion , it is not a mental " craving , " but only this terrible physical necessity that motivates the petty crimes of the opiate addict . Included @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of narcotics on the bottom level , i. e. , directly to his own fellow sufferer . Thus , we have the peddler who reaps the fantastic profits , and the " pusher " who sells to procure his own physically needed supply . Contrary to opinion , it is invariably the sick , desperate addict " pusher " who bears the brunt of penal punishment ; within the shrewd framework of narcotics distribution the nonaddict peddler is rarely caught . As for the " pusher , " thank God the City of New York is pioneering and breaking into this tragic and yet ; vicious cycle by its forthcoming opening of a hospital on North Brother Island . But as for the peddler , we have not reasonably answered the fantastic profit incentive that essentially creates him ; we must take the profits out of illegal narcotics ! England ( since 1926 ) , Denmark , Norway and Sweden are countries which have taken the profits out of illegal narcotics , which treat the addict as ill , and keep addiction amazingly low . England reports less than 400 citizens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for our country is considered a ' control " figure , with addiction " out At control " today with some 40,000 in Drew York City alone ! Why ca n't we do as well as England ? No reason at all . Recognized as a phys ? ically and mentally ill person , the addict is administered his drug by an accredited clinic and at the same time offered every facility for healing . This sociological approach eliminates the profits ; no profits , no peddlers ; no peddlers , no need for penal punishment . Narcotics addiction is an unnatural , artificial conjuration out of the ignorance of our society ; not with brute force , but with knowledge , intelligence and compassion will we eliminate it .. CARL COLODNE , New York , Aug. 2 , 1951 . Caballero 's Political Views To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK . TIMES : Reference is made to the letter published Aug. 4 and signed by John Campbell of London , who cites a telegram supposedly sent by the Soviet League of the Godless to " Communist " Largo Caballero @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the outbreak of hostilities . Largo Caballero was never a Come munist . He was a Socialist with views so moderate that he was once a privy counselor to King Alfonso . He was not the head of the Spanish state at the outbreak of hostilities . That honor was held by Sefior Azafia . It is true that at a certain period of the conflict Cornmunist Russia , from which the Republican Government had to buy arms or go without , attempted to gain some influence in the Republican Government . Largo Caballero was leader of the drive to break that influence , and did so . He finally succeeded in abolishing the army commissars . He is credited with having threatened to throw the Soviet Ambassador out of the window . This supposed telegram strikes me as a pure invention , one of many of its kind . But even if its existence were proved , which is not the case , it would no more " prove " anything against the Spanish Republican Government than if a similar telegram were sent to our Secretary of State or to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Aug. 4 , 1951 . The writer of the above letter was formerly correspondent in eastern Spain for The Times of London . Fighting at the Little Big Horn To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Noting the record of " one of the most colorful regiments in Korea , the Seventh Infantry , " under a Tokyo dateline in THE NEW YORK TIMES Of Aug. 1 , special correspondent Murray Schumach added : " Its history includes the battle of the Little Big Horn , in which Gen. George A. Custer was slain . " But the Seventh Infantry was n't at or near the Little Big Horn . It was a squadron of the Seventh Cavalry that was wiped out there , including its commander , Lieut Col. George A. Custer ( a Civil War general ) . RIENZI B. LEMUS . Washington , Aug. 1 , 1951.                     