@@717348

txt Two sober faced youngsters today gave a boy's-eye view of what it 's like to have eight of your brothers and sisters stricken with polio . Bernard Walsh , 7 , and his brother , Tom , 6 , are among the " lucky six " of the Walsh family 's 14 children who have n't contracted the dread disease . Four of those stricken are in hospitals and two are in serious condition . The little boys , interviewed at the Walsh farm home 4 miles front this northern Illinois town of 700 , were impressed mostly by the unusual quiet that has enveloped their big and generally buzzing home and the great amount of work to be done , including many new tasks that have fallen onto their young shoulders . Used to Be Noisy " We have to keep quiet around here now , " Bernard explained seriously . " We have to stay out of trouble , too . Our big house was noisy before this all happened . But now it 's awful quiet . " Tom and I have to help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lou 1 year old . She ca n't dress herself yet . " We help carry meals on trays to our sisters who are sick in bed . " We do n't , know how to milk cows . But we feed the pigs and the cows . We do whatever we can . But it sure is quiet around here now . " Get Tiddlywinks Game When the boys are n't working , freckle faced Tom related , they " put puzzles together and look at magazines . " A neighbor , he said , had " just sent over a game of tiddlywinks . " Neighbors , relatives , and friends have been helping with the chores on the 160 acre farm . They have also provided prepared food for the big family whose heavy blow from polio fell in the short span of time since Sept. 2 . David , 17 , and Edward , 16 , are in iron lungs in the Rockford Township hospital at nearby Rockford . Their condition is serious . Allis , 14 , was taken there yesterday and Rosellen , 5 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fears that Baby Molly Lou had contracted the disease , which would have made her the ninth stricken member in the family , were dispelled today when Dr. Charles Leonard said , after a period of observation , that she does not have polio . More prayer meetings , in addition to two special church services held for the stricken family last night , were planned by neighbors and other sympathizers. heron Walsh , 53 , father of the ailing brood , told the scores of persons who visited the farm to offer their help and well wishes : ' " We are doing and have done everything known to do about polio . But it has n't been enough . We need your prayers . "                     