@@719173

txt WASHINGTON , Sept. 26 ? The Army revoked today a training directive issued yesterday to prepare certain Regular Army units to deal with possible ' crises similar to the one at Little Rock , Ark . In announcing the revocation of the directive , Wilber M. Brucker , Secretary of the Army , said it was feared the order might be " subject to misinterpretation . " Secretary Brucker confirmed , after an indirect disclosure of unspecified Army alert precautions in the South , that the order was related to the use of troops to carry out peaceful school desegregation in Little Rock . News to White Hous ? Originally , official sources had given the impression that orders had been issued some time ago to train selected units in the South to cope with possible school integration troubles . At ' Newport , R. I. , James C. Hagerty , Presidential press secretary , said the White House definitely had not authorized the alert of the troops and had had no knowledge of the order until it got the news on press association wires . Within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ riots , Secretary Brucker issued the following statement : " I learned about the order today after its issuance in routine fashion . I have order ed that it be revoked immediately . " Second Brucker Statement An hour later , after conferences in his office with other officials , he issued this statement : " I learned today of a precautionary training directive sent yesterday to certain Regular Army units directing an increased emphasis on training for riot duty under Field Manual 19-15 and for organization and training for air and motor movement . " The issuance of this order was suggested by the recent emergency employment of units of the 101st Airborne Division in Little Rock , Ark . Realizing that this order might be subject to misinterpretation , I have directed that it be revoked immediately . " It was clear from Secretary Brucker 's speedy action and the role of Murray Snyder , Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs , that the Pentagon feared repercussions . The possible inference by Southerners that Federal troop actions were contemplated was cited privately . Mr. Snyder delivered the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He said . the " special order " was a training order . Asked why , then , it was being revoked , he replied " because of the implication " that it related to the school situation at Little Rock . Not until Secretary Brucker 's second announcement was it officially confirmed that a training order had indeed related to the situation . Earlier , it was learned that such an order had been issued to the Continental Army Command , Fort Monroe , Va. , for distribution to field units . However , the original discussion of the Army alertness to riot training was indirect . An Army spokesman had said that selected units were involved , but fie emphasized he could cite no specific order . The Army spoke-man compared the military precautions to the normal preparations made when the possibilities of unrest were sensed in other situations . He used the example of a major coal strike . The spokesman said the Army was always ready to provide " military aid to the civil power . " The Army announced that a tear gas team of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Infantry , from Fort Myer , Va. , was now on duty with the 327th Airborne Infantry Group at Little Rock . The detachment was flown from Bolling Air Force Base yesterday to lend assistance if tear gas was needed to quell any disturbance . The Army spokesman said that the tear gas experts were not sent to participate in any tear gas bomb-throwing operations . The Regular Army troops on the scene are fully trained and equipped to do that job , if required , he added . The four enlisted men were required to transport additional supplies and to supervise storage of tear gas equipment , the spokesman pointed out . The Army official reported that there had been " no indication " of any members of the Air and Army National Guard failing to report to duty in Arkansas because of racial feelings . President Eisenhower ordered the call to Federal service of 9,936 Air and Army National , Guardsmen in Arkansas on , Tuesday to help keep order in Little Rock . In Little Rock 1,240 guardsmen reported for duty yesterday , and 100 more reported this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contingent of 1,450 and said this was a good record . Esiimate on Cost He said the record was simi- , larly good throughout the state , although full reports were not available . He pointed out that elsewhere in state guardsmen were ordered to return to their jobs after they reported for duty as ordered . Although engaged in their normal pursuits , including income-paying jobs in most cases , the unassigned guardsmen in Arkansas are regarded as being on duty and will receive Federal pay . Officials at the Pentagon said they were not able to estimate how much the Little Rock crisis ' was costing the Defense Department . Officials said they would not complete calculations until the situation had cleared up . However , one estimate was offered by a Defense Department official that the federalization of Air and Army National Guardsmen cost about $6 to $10 a day for those on duty . This indicated expenses ranging from , at most , $60,000 to $100 , - 000 a day . In addition , the Air Force said that the fuel and lubrication costs cn the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Army troops to Little Rock , amounted to $9,113 . The Air Force said that this was based on the average cost of $42 an hour for the thirtyeight C-123 's and the eight C-130 's used in transporting the 1,000 paratroopers from Fort Campbell , Ky . The planes are based at Seward Air Force Base , Smyrna , Term . An Army spokesman pointed out that pay for personnel was the minimum cost involved in calculating the extra expense of the Little Rock crisis . He said that in addition to the Air Force bill to the Army for the airlift , there would be considerations of field rations for troops , lost clothing and equipment , spare parts of motor vehicles and billeting of troops on the scene .                     