@@719970

txt Massaehusetts motorists with six or more known accidents within the last 18 months face suspension of their licenses , Registrar of Motor ? Vehicles Clement A. Riley said yesterday . Lists of such motorists arc being prepared . The announcement came as part of the registry 's current crackdown on traffic habits of Bay State motorists . - Registrar Riley put the new policy into effect yesterday by revoking the operating licenses of 30 drivers . The latest move was termed one of the most drastic penalties ever levied by the registry . Registrar Riley said that the offending drivers , whose right to operate was withheld following hearings before him , may receive their licenses back after they produce a doctor 's certificate on their physical fitness or . an optometrist 's report on their visual acuity . Driver May Appeal The Registrar said he would rule off the road every driver found incompetent , but pointed out that every driver will have the right to appeal his decisions . He warned that physically unfit operators or drivers with faulty vision could be ruled of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Here is how the registry 's current crackdown is working : A team of registry career personnel under the direction of Alexander Kowalski , registry inspector , has compiled a list of every Massachusetts driver with six or more accidents within the last 18 months . The list is reviewed and a hearing is ordered before the registrar if the facts on file warrant it : After- the  --  Maring the driver 's record is reviewed and a decision whether or not to re voke his license is rendered . Probe : ' Overdue ' The &iver; review , incidentally , followed a national recommendation just made to motor vehicle administrators meeting in San Francisco for a point system for automobile drivers as a means of promoting highway safety  --  and possibly reducing insurance costs . . ? .. tfOur probe is long overdue , " Mr. Riley said . " Our accident rate is too high . Our insurance costs  --  resulting from high accident rates  --  are too high . Improper persons driving automobiles must be uncovered and ac- tion taken to protect the public , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has found definite patterns of accident involvement ; phony accident claims ; unreported physical deficiencies ; and aggressive driver attitudes bordering on assaults by a motor vehicle on unsuspecting motorists . Penalty Repealed In San Francisco , proposals for a point system came as the result of a two-year research for determining methods for regUlating and improving automobile driving . The American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators meeting , which was attended by Alfred W. Devine of Malden , Deputy Registrar , has proposed that ' its Poiot System Committee study be furnished to its members as a guide and reference work . Massachusetts had a " merit " system , which penalized accidentprone or reckless drivers through increased compulsory insurance premiums . The Bay State Legislature , however , repealed the insurance penalty feature of the law after it was subjected to political pressure . Mr. Riley said that the Bay State 's " point " system , however , places too much emphasis on insurance penalties and does not concentrate on the driver 's record as his current campaign is doing . Under the Bay State 's assignment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ records can still continue to secure compulsory insurance , Reports Sifted The registrar said that he had not seen the San Francisco point system proposals and that he would confer with Mr. Devine to determine whether it had any features of benefit to Massachusetts . The AAMVA project , called one of the most exhaustive researches into American driving habits , analyzed , the point systems of - 25 states and two Canadian provinces . Purpose of the study is to provide a guide to state motor vehicle administrators who want either to improve their present point system or institute such a method . The point system study was conducted at the Institute of Government at the University of North Carolina . Its researchers sifted through the accident reports of 150,000. , motorists supplied by the 25 states and two provinces . They studied records of drivers penalized for violations under the point system and other systems .                     