@@718215

txt Jacob K. Javits , Attorney General , was nominated today as the Republican candidate for the Senate ( seat being vacated by Herbert IH . Lehman , Democrat . He will be opposed by Mayor Wagner of New York who was chosen today as the Democratic candidate . Mr. Wagner is scheduled to receive the Liberal party nomination tomorrow . The outcome of the contest could decide whether the Republicans or the Democrats will control the new Senate . The Democrats now have 49 seats to 47 for the Republicans . Mr. Javits was picked to run for the Senate by a unanimous vote of the 304-member Republican State Committee at a meeting this afternoon at the Hotel Ten Eyck . Opposition to his selection had collapsed earlier at an hour-and-a-half closed session of the thirty-two-member Republican State Executive Committee . Effect of Rumors Feared The opposition to Mr. Javits within the Executive Committee had been based on a fear that his vote-getting ability had been impaired by rumors and reports that he had courted Communist support . This was alleged to have happened ten years ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Javits has denied under oath that these reports and rumors have any basis in fact . In an acceptance speech this afternoon he declared that he was proud of his party for rejecting this line of attack on his candidacy . He said : " There was apparently a great effort to stir up a storm about me out of bits and pieces of stories from ten and eleven years ago , ' bits and pieces cornTletely refuted by my life , my record and my beliefs . " It is a tribute to our party ( that it stood fast by the proposition that it would not tolerate rumors , innuendoes , smears and political character assassination ; that we would respect facts and the willingness of a member of our party to meet the facts in the most public way  --  no matter how uncalled-for the ordeal . I am proud of our party . This is the true spirit of Lincolnian and Eisenhower Republicanism , in the highest American tradition . " L. Judson Morhouse , who presided at the closed Executive Committee sesion , asserted that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thirty-two committee members on the first bailot . Eight votes were cast for J. Raymond of New Rochelle , former State Controller . The remaining members were either absent or did not vote . Thereafter the Executive Committee voted unanimously to recommend Mr. Javits ' nomination to the full committee . Mr. Morhouse , who is the Republican State Chairman , declined to identify the eight Executive Committee members who voted for Mr. tut it became known that seven of the eight were Thomas J. Curran and Mrs. Preston Davie , chairman and vice chairman of the New York County Committee ; Senator Arthur H. Wicks , Ulster County chairman ; Herbert C. Gerlach , Westchester County chairman ; Frank Kenna , Queens chairman ; Miss Jane H. Todd , state vice chairman who lives in Westchester , and Mrs. Charles W. Weis Jr . of Rochester . National Committeewoman . Nominated by At the open nominating session of the full committee , Mr. Javits ' name was placed in nomination by Mr. . The former Controller had withdrawn as a candidate following the Executive Committee session @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nomination , had withdrawn while the Executive Committee was in session . He said he was acting in the interest of party unity . In his nominting speech , Mr. described the 52-yearold Attorney General as a man dedicated to " the Eisenhower doctrine of modern Republicanism . " This , he said , has " revitalized our party and made it the instrument of moderate , middleof-the-road policies , most repressentative of the wishes and beliefs of the American people today . " As to the reports that Mr. Javits had once sought Communist help , Mr. noted that James P. Richards , Democrat of South Carolina and chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee , had called the Attorney General a " bulwark in the fight against international Communist aggression and conspiracy . " Plea Presented Before the state committee voted for Mr. Javits ' nomination , it received in open session a batch of petitions urging the selection of General of the Army Douglas , war-time commander of the Pacific theatre , as the candidate for Senator . These petitions were presented by Mrs. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by unanimous consent , to make a speech on behalf of the general . A striking blue-eyed blonde whose husband was imprisoned by the Communists in Hungary for several years , Mrs. Vogeler spoke with a distinct trace of her native Hungarian accent . She said General 's nomination would contribute toward the cause of peace throughout the world . When the vote in favor of Mr. Javits was announced , she became a picture of feminine indignation . She told reporters that she was " outraged " by the outcome . At least six members of the committee had promised to vote for General , she declared . She attributed their failure to do so to the pressure of political bosses , which she described as " uncourageous and un-American . " Since she was not a member of the committee herself , she had no vote . Before she had presented the petitions , the committee had been informed by John A. Crews . Brooklyn chairman , that General had informed Representative Frances E. Dorn of Brooklyn that he was " not a candidate for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his name on petitions of any kind . Before deciding to recommend Mr. Javits ' nomination today , the Executive Committee considered the possibility of drafting former Gov . Thomas E. Dewey for the nomination . Such a course had been advocated by Mr. Kenna . Dewey Declines This discussion was dropped when Mr. Morhouse read a telegram from the former Governor saying he would not accept the nomination under any circumstances . Mr. Dewey said he was " deeply grateful for the confidence and friendship of the members of the committee " but wanted them to know his position . Mr. Morhouse said that consideration had also been given in the Executive Committee to the names of Mr. Alfange and Representative Kenneth F. Keating of Rochester , as well as Mr. , before the first vote was taken . Asked by reporters if he thought Mr. Javits could win in view of the rumors and reports about him that began circulating several weeks ago , the state chairman replied : " Naturally we think he can beat Wagner and will do so . We simply feel he is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he has lost a small amount of support but the gains he had made among liberal and independent voters for the way he has met the issue far outweigh what he has lost . " In picking Mr. Javits , Republicans are counting on him to cut deeply into the normal Democratic pluralities in New York City . Two years ago , when he was nominated for Attorney General , he was the only Repub ; ican on the state-wide ticket to win . He was elected four times to the House of Representatives from the Washington Heights district in Manhattan , which is normally Democratic by a two-to-one margin . In his Congressional campaigns he had Liberal party endorsement . But when he ran for Attorney General , the Liberal party endorsed his Democratic opponent , former Representative Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr . A Heck-Sprague Victory Mr. Javits ' nomination represented another distinct victory for the Heck-Sprague alliance in Republican state politics . In the combination is Oswald D. Heck , Speaker of the State Assembly and a candidate for the Republican nomination for Governor in 1958 . The second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican leader of fastgrowing Nassau County .                     