@@716692

txt The resumption Monday of the Senate 's censure debate seemed assured today after the disclosure that Senator Joseph R. McCarthy had left the Naval Hospital for several hours yesterday . A woman telephoned The Washington - Post-  and Times Herald yesterday afternoon that she had seen the Republican Senator from Wisconsin and other persons in an automobile in Connecticut Avenue . The newspaper requested conr firmation from the Naval Medical Center at Bethesda , Md . The officer of the day made this reply : " All that I can give out is this statement , which I will read you . Quote : Senator McCarthy continues to show satisfactory response to treatment . Unquote , " Today , however , in response to queries , Capt . C. L. Ferguson , Executive Officer of the Medical Center , said that the Senator , who entered the hospital last week for bursitis in his right arm , had gone out for " several hours " in the late afternoon and evening after eating Thanksgiving dinner . Capt . G. B. Tayloe , Commanding Officer of the Naval Center @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ McCarthy permission to leave the hospital . As of late this afternoon , Captain Tayloe said Senator McCarthy 's condition " is very satisfactory and he 's doing very nicely . " The debate over whether Senator McCarthy should be censured for conduct unbecoming a Senator was halted Thursday last week because the Senator had entered the hospital the day before . His office said that an admirer shaking his hand had bumped his elbow against the edge of a glass-topped table , bringing on bursitis . The debate was postponed until next Monday . In a stormy session some Senators voiced the suspicion that the move was designed to avoid a final vote on censure or to give Senator McCarthy 's friends in the Senate time to develop a compromise action while supporters in New York sought 10,000,000 petitions against censure . Senator William F. Knowland of California , the majority leader , said Capitol physicians had informed him that Senator McCarthy would be out of the hospital in time to appear Monday " if he continues to make progress on recovery . " Dr. R. W. Gifford , assistant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to appear , " barring unforeseen developments . " Edward Bennett Williams , Senator McCarthy 's lawyer , said the Senator would leave the hospital Sunday night and appear in the Senate probably with " some kind of a cast " on his elbow . The possibility also arose that Senator McCarthy might go to ' New York Monday night for a Madison Square meeting arranged by supporters seeking petitions in his behalf . Richard O'Melia , an aide , said the Senator originally had told the petition organization that he would be unable to attend . Mr. O'Melia did not know as of today whether the Senator had changed his mind . Senator J. William Fulbright , Democrat of Arkansas , urged the public and the press today to demand a final vote on , censure before the Senate 's adjournment deadline of Dec. 24 . He also called on Senate leaders to hold sessions from 10 A. M. to 10 P. M. without a luncheon recess to assure completion of the debate in the special session . The Senate usually does not take a luncheon recess . During the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that no member would have to absent himself while any other was talking . Nevertheless , attendance during the first seven days was consistently poor . Senator Fulbright , who had been limping during the debate because of a knee operation , has been one of the most outspoken critics of postponement , He had sought unsuccessfully to include a provision in the adjournment resolution that the Senate would vote within ten days of Monday . Senator Herbert H. Lehman , Democrat of New York , had sought an adjournment only until last Monday to check on Senator McCarthy 's condition and resume the debate as soon as possible . Senator Fulbright said that if Senator Knowland and Senator Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas , the Democratic leader , agreed to limit debate the Senate would dispose of the issue promptly . Democrats suspect that Senator McCarthy 's friends will try to delay the issue until the Eightyfourth Congress , convening in January , which under present indications will be controlled by the Democrats , with a majority of one . Senator Arthur ? V. Watkins , Republican of Utah , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discuss the issue on the " Meet the Press " television program on Sunday night . He decided to take the issue to the public as well as the Senate because Senator McCarthy has denounced him as a " coward , " has referred to the present session as a " lynch session " and has accused the censure committee of " doing the work of the Communist party . " Censure of Senator McCarthy has been recommended on three counts : that he contemptuously refused to appear before a Senate Elections subcommittee that investigated his conduct and financial affairs in 1952 ; that he abused its five members , and that he abused Brig . Gen. Ralph W. Zwicker                     