@@715109

txt Three men and a woman , residents of the Miami area , surrendered today to Federal authorities on indictments charging them with lying . in connection with last winter 's terrorism against religious and racial groups . The indictments. were returned by a Federal grand jury investigating the bombings of Carver Village , a Negro apartment development in northwest Miami . Justice Department attorneys who assisted the grand jury in its investigations described the three men as " alleged members of the Ku Klux Klan . " They are William G. Orwick of Miami , a former officer of the John B. Gordon Klavern of the Klan in Hialeah ; Harvey G. De Rosier of Hialeah and Arthur F. Udgreen of Miami . The indicted woman is Mrs. Helen Russell of Miami , vice president of the Edison Center Civic Association . All were released under $1,000 bond each after , having been booked and fingerprinted at the United States Marshal 's office . They agreed to go to the marshal 's office voluntarily after having been informed they were wanted . Ernest L. Duhaime , assistant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fortunate if we can bring them to trial before 1951 . " He ex-rshoto . Yre.ss NV1 Mrs. lielen Russell. -e plained that the District Court here was about two years behind in its files . Mr. Orwick , a linotype operator , was indicted on two counts and Mr. lUdgreen , a laborer , on one count of having made false statements to Federal Bureau of Investigation agents . Mr. De Rosier , a Post Office employe , was charged on two counts of having made false statements to the Post Office Department 's loyalty board . Mrs. Russell was charged with having perjured herself in sworn testimony before the grand jury . All face , upon conviction , maximum penalties of five years in prison on each count . The three men declined to comment on their indictments . Mrs. Russell , who protested that she was being persecuted by the grand jury and by Miami newspapers , is accused of having denied under oath that she had consulted with a committee of KIsnarnen to discuss " ways and means of preventing Negroes from moving into Carver Village . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jury , that she had ever " requested the assistance of the Klan or any of its members in handling the situation at Carver Village . " Denies Organizing Motorcade Mrs. Russell purportedly organized a protest motorcade in the Edison Center section of Miami in the summer of 1951 when it was disclosed that two apartment buildings in Knight Manor , an allwhite project bordering on Carver Village , would be converted to Negro occupancy . The move created a tense situation . One of the buildings was dynamited on Sept. 22 , 1951 . Two other bombings there followed . " I neVer organized any kind of a motorcade , " Mrs. Russell said . " I never lied in my life . I never met with any Klansmen or invited any Klansmen to meet with me . " Mr. Orwick told the F. B. I. he had not belonged to the Klan since 1946 , but the indictment states that he was a member in 1950-51 . In the second count he was charged with having lied when he told F. B. I. agents that he had not been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accused of telling the F. B. I. that he had not taken part in any Klan burnings , but the indictment says he participated at a burning in Miami on July 14 , 1951 . The indictment against Mr. De Rosier states that the loyalty board notified him it had learned that during his membership in the Klan " you were in charge of assembling information concerning any organization opposed to the Klan . " He allegedly told the board he had not known he was in the Klan until his initiation and that he had resigned in May , 1950 , when he learned the nature of Sports , Inc .. a front for the Klan , which he actually joined . It is charged he had not resigned and had been installed as Klan Kludd ( chaplains in January , 1951 . " This is only the beginning of the investigation . " Mr. Duhaime said . " There will be much more . "                     