@@714013

txt ACHESON SAYS U. S. SEEKS SPANISH TIE Reassures Allies on Priority of Arms Supplies ? Accord on Bases Seen in Madrid Acheson statement on Spanish negotiations is on Page 6 . By WALTER H. WAGGONER Special to THE NEW YORK TIMES . WASHINGTON , July 18 ? Secretary of State Dean Acheson disclosed officially today that the United States was seeking an arrangement with the Spanish Government that would give Spain an active role in the defense of Western Europe . The Associated Press reported from Madrid that authoritative sources had said that basic agreement had been reached on the use of Spanish naval and air bases by United States forces . Spain also has agreed to send troops beyond her frontiers if United States arms and funds are received , The United Press reported . Mr. Acheson confirmed a t the same time , in a statement released at his news conference , that the United States had reached a deadlock with its major allies over the Spanish issues after " many months Df discussion . " Both Paris and London regard // the Franco Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an undesirable , ineffective , and untrustworthy ally in a test of democratic strength and unity . But the Secretary assured the British and French Governments , in a clear effort to answer certain criticisms that have already been made , that United States policy was based on the following principles : 1 . The North Atlantic Treaty Organization , which is soon likely to be broadened by the addition of Greece and Turkey , is the backbone of the European defense system . 2 . The Atlantic allies would continue to have " clear priority " for the vast quantities of United aid . 3 . Western Europe would not be abandoned , for liberation later , deleted 20 lines about the report that a United States mission consisting of representatives of the State Department and the three armed forces would go to Madrid later this month , State Department informants said : " We know only that the two governments have agreed to meet again . " Secretary Acheson added at his news conference that he-.was very glad that Britain was now ready to admit Greece and Turkey into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the position of the United States Government that the two Mediterranean countries merited full membership , but objections had been raised by some of the European members . strengthening of the common defense against possible aggression . " Calling attention to the " general agreement " among military authorities that Spain was strategically important to the construction of a Western European fortress , the Secretary made it plain that the United States , without reservations , now placed the strategic consideration of the defense effort above the broader political factors . This was perhaps the first public acknowledgment of such a shift in State Department policy , and it was confirmed privately by other officials . To arguments that Spain could contribute an element of strength to the bastion of freedom in Europe , the State Department had until the recent past called attention to its belief that , whatever Spain 's military contribution , her presence would so divide and alienate the European democracies that the result of Spanish participation might be a net loss rather than a net gain . British , French are Adamant Spanish diplomats have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to win a place in the Atlantic defense line-up , on the assumption that Spain'would receive military and economic aid in payment for her new responsibility . This campaign was especially successful in Congress , where most of the discussions have been taking place . The Spanish Ambassador , Jose Felix de Lequerica , is a rare visitor at the State Department . Calling attention , to the t'many months " of fruitless discussions with London and Paris , Mr. Acheson declared : " We have not been able to find a common position on this subject Basic Agreement Reported MADRID , July 18 Ilfl  --  Spain and theUnited States have reached a basic agreement on American use of Spanish air and naval bases in Western Defense , authoritative sources said tonight . This would not involve an outright Spanish-American alliance . The agreement in principle , informants said , was reached yesterday when Admiral Sherman had a four-hour talk with Generalissimo Franco . Informants yesterday said Admiral Sherman had asked for the use of naval bases at Cadiz , Cartagena and Ferrol , as well as Santa Cruz in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Seville and possibly Valencia and Lugo , southeast of Ferrol . Details of the agreement would be worked out late this month by a special United States mission representing the three armed services and the State Department . The groundwork already has been done by American air , naval and military attaches here . No details were learned of Spain 's asking price for the use of ' the bases . Spanish sources , however , said Generalissimo Franco thad not asked anything that could : not be granted easily by the United ' States . Spanish sources reported that Generalissimo Franco was " extremely satisfied " with his talks with Admiral Sherman , and described them as " a real meeting of minds and spirits . " Troops Might Cross Frontier MADRID , July 18 IUD  --  Generaltissimo Franco has agreed to send ttroops beyond Spain 's frontiers to , fight beside the allies in any war ! against the Soviet Union if he gets ' United States arms and money , an ! authoritative source said tonight . Generalissimo Franco said durling a conference with Admiral Sherman that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and planes , in return for his ( promise of alliance , the source said . Admiral Sherman is reported to ' have told the Generalissimo that such a military alliance would demand the use of the Spanish mainland and Balearic ' Islands for United States air and naval bases . The source , close to the negotiaItions that have been under way for ' , the past two days , said Admiral ' Sherman had not mentioned Spain 's possessions in Northwest Africa or the Canary Islands . The French Foreign Office protested last night that granting any bases in Spanish Morocco to the United States would violate an agreement giving France the right to defend Spain 's territory in Africa                     