@@714783

txt Walter Ulbricht , East German Communist Deputy Minister-President , has announced that new measures would be taken to " defend " East Germany 's borders with the West . He gave no details of the measures . - ' In Bonn , Franz Neumann , Social Democratic leader in West Berlin , said the Communists plan to close the border between East and West Berlin Aug. 1 . West Berliners , he added , no longer would be allowed to work or shop in the eastern sector , and all public transport between the zones would stop . His information came from a leak in the office of Gerhart Eisler . East German propaganda chief , he said . Laid to Bonn Pacts Herr Ulbricht told the second conference of the Socialist Unity Party  --  the ruling Communist organization of the Soviet Zone  --  that the Bonn conventions terminating the Allied occupation in West Germany made it necessary for East Germany to create " national defense forces " to extend its " peace policy . " He added that treaties signed by either East or West Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ magazines in East Germany said the conference would be briefed on East German rearmament and would plan mobilization of " neutralist , " nationalist , and pacifist forces in the western zones against ratification of the Bonn conventions . Soviets Quit Radio Berlin Thirty-three German staff members trailed out of the Soviet-controlled Radio Berlin in l British sector after a month 's sell-imposed blockade . They told West Berlin police they had had orders from their superiors that all German employees leave July 9 . They said nothing of the Russian officer and guards still in the building . The blockade began June 12 , when British troops cordoned off the building and refused to let anyone enter . The employees present at the time refused to leave , though at liberty to do so . The British authorities later lifted the barbed-wire cordon , but would not let anyone enter with- out a special pass . No entry permits were applied for . The British move was in retaliation against Soviet interference with several small islands of British sector territory inside the Russian zone . Roadblocks Speeded MeAnwhile , officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavily armed roadblocks between West Berlin and the Soviet zone of Germany , to prevent Communist kidnaping forays across the frontier . An official said all main roads would be guarded to check anyone entering the Soviet zone . The border between East and West Berlin would not be armed , but customs officials would be ordered to search all cars . The action followed the July 8 daylight kidnaping of Walter Linse , a prominent anti-Communist lawyer who was dragged over the border .                     