@@716460

txt The text of Premier Pierre Mendes-France 's proposals for revision of the European Defense Community treaty was handed today to officials of the other , signatory states and was studied by experts ' on the treaty . It caused much amazement , some incredulity and here and there indignation . Those who read it with full awareness of its import refused to believe that the authors of the document expected it to be taken seriously by the states that had signed the treaty ' in the hope of creating a European army and thus taking a step toward a unified Europe . The conclusion that some expert readers of the document reached was that its purpose could hardly be to insure full ratification of the treaty , but that it might have had a contrary aim . The Premier 's proposals , covering nearly fourteen typewritten pages , were regarded as designed to undermine the supranational character of the proposed defense community , to prevent any real integration of military forces ' under it and to put off as long as possible further advances toward the European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pave the way . Premier Goes on Radio In his weekly broadcast tonight the Premier argued that Germany could not be kept disarmed and that the revision of the treaty he proposed would appeal to the-majority of FrenchMen . : Experts . who read the Premier 's proposals wondered why the three Gaullist ministers , who resigned early , today , should have resisted ' them since they effectively took the substance out of the treaty . The suggestion was made that the Gaullists , opponents of the treaty , might not have realized how far the Premier had gone toward destroying it ; or that they ( might have desired to further the destructive revision by ap-. pearing to condenin it . As for Premier Mendes-France , some observers . insisted that his motives might not be the same as those of the authors of the ' document to which he put his ' name . They suggested that his ' strategy might be to make an ostensible effort to destroy the treaty by amendments impossible , for the other states to accept , with the intention of returning to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tried ' to modify the treaty but I could not do so , so we had better ratify it as it is . " , Emphasis was placed upon these changes in the treaty that were proposed by the Premier : CiFor an " initial period . " without any fixed limit , common European regulations covering recruiting , discipline , standardization , and so on  --  in fact , the essentials of the military protocol of the treaty  --  would be held in suspense . The period could be ended only by unanimous vote of the Council of Ministers , a Government body to be created tinder the treaty . ( rile period , limited in the treaty to eighteen months . during which the military organization would remain on national lines , would be indefinitely extended . These two proposals together were considered designed to put off for an indefinite time the military integration that was to be the heart of the treaty . ilAny state that decided that its vital interests were involved could suspend decisions of the commissariat or administrative body of the community . The right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years . This would seem to cover even orders for supplies that the commissariat might place in one country , to the dissatisfaction of another . In any event , it would take away powers given to the commissariat without giving them back to the states . Experts said this would destroy the supranational authority that was to be the foundation of the community , and would make the treaty inoperative . Would Enable Bonn to Quit The experts said this veto power , which every state would have , apparently would enable Germany to veto withdrawal from the European army of French forces for use overseas : although the French had worked hard a year ago to get around anybody 's veto on such withdrawals . ( IFor the same eight-year period no state would have a right to appeal to the court that was to be set up by the treaty to deal with violations of it or disputes under it . There would therefore be no way of preventing violations of the treaty . qThe appointment , promotion and dismissal of officers in the units contributed to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the treaty would be subject to the national authority of those states . That is , this national authority would be exercised by all the states except West Germany , which has no national army before application ofi the treaty . triArticle 107 of the treaty prevents West Germany from manufacturing much heavy military ' equipment on the ground that it is a strategically exposed area , where war industries would not be safe . Hence it is assumed that most of the heavy equipment for the European army would come from France and be exported to the other member countries . Under the financial clauses of the treaty it is provided that not ' more than 115 per cero. of the financial contribution . of any state to the common budget should be spent in the territory ' of that state . Heavy Equipment Factor Since the French are peculiarly favored for the production of heavy equipment , and since this equipment might exceed 115 per cent of France 's contribution to the European army budget , the Premier proposed that this 115 per cent limit should not apply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effort to safeguard the market for French producers of clothing and other " soft " kinds of military equipment , as well as the market for heavy equipment . Moreover . supplies of both sorts would be considered exports and therefore not subject to the high French production tax , according to the Premier 's proposal . 9Another proposal by the Premier was that no member of the High Authority of the European Coal and Steel Community should be eligible to be a member of the commissariat of the defense community until five years after he had ceased to be a member of the High Authority . This is familiarly referred to by the experts as the " Monnet clause . " For it is regarded as b bein. * aimed at Jean Monnet , now chairman of the High Authority of the Coal and Steel Community , who was the principal originator of both the Coal and Steel Community and the proposed European Defense Community . Held Aimed at Monnet One comment was that the Premier seemed to be asking five other European countries to join with him in keeping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community . int seemed clear at any rate . in the opinion of experts , that the Premier 's proposed revision was aimed at M. Monnet 's ideas if not at M. Monnet . For he would proclaim that Article 38 of the treaty was no longer applicable . This Article provides that the Assembly of the Defense Community shall propose a plan for making itself elective " on a democratic basis , " and in doing so shall assume that the goal is an organization of Europe with " a federal or confederal structure . " The Premier 's document goes on to say that if further attempts are made to unite Europe , they ' should be made , not by the Assembly of the Defense Community but by the heads of states and that Britain should be included . In other words . M. MendesFrance does not want a federal Europe in which Britain has refused to participate , but a less unified one in which Britain can participate . To the experts on the subject this suggested the Europe of the Council of Europe at Strasbourg , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe envisaged by M. Monnet and others upon a supranational basis . This conception of Europe gave rise to the Coal and Steel Community and dictated the drafting of the European Defense Community treaty . Resolution for Partners Attached to the Premier 's fourteen pages of proposed revisions of this treaty is a resolution that he suggested should be adopted by the foreign ministers of the six nations proposing to form a European army  --  West Germany , France , Italy . Belgium , the Netherlands and Luxembourg . He suggests that it be adopted next week when these ministers will meet in Brussers to consider the French Premier 's revision of the treaty . The resolution provides that the six declare their intentions are pacific and that better-balanced armed forces would facilitate " peaceful co-existence " of all the states in Europe , whatever their social and economic systems . It adds that efforts should be made toward disarmament Nvithiq a system of general security . Here is the link that Iii . Mendes-France seeks to make between the European army treaty . which would sanction German rearmament , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imagine might make German rearmament unnecessary . He proposes that the six other foreign ministers join him in this endorsement of the pursuit of such negotiations . It is not yet clear whether  --  as reported in the French press  --  M. Mendes-France wants to get the European army treaty ratified by the Assembly in August and then make an approach to Moscow while it is awaiting ratification in November by the Senate . What appears clear to observers in close touch with the question is that the Premier 's revision plan was drafted by officials who have long opposed a federal Europe and supranational authority of any kind . It was reported that , suddenly . about four days ago the broad consultations were ended and the work of drafting the proposals turned over to a small group of what the French call " antiEuropeans. "                     