@@716732

txt A field of largely traditional issues will open out before the Eightyfourth Congress as it convenes Wednesday . Its first year is likely to be relatively peaceful . The crisis in the relationship between the Democratic Capitol and the Republican White House probably will be delayed until the second session in 1956  --  a Presidential election year . Almost certainly , however , 1955 will see some bitter disputes , for example , in such unrelated matters as public power policy and governmental security procedures . But the outlook is for a fair degree of serenity . No great pending legislative issue is really new . Some , such as the President 's desire for a liberalized world trade , do not so much divide him from the Democrats as they do from the right-wing of his own party . Against this wing he has taken an increasingly bold line since the November Congressional elections . In the most important issues , those relatipg to peace and war and national survival , what appears to be , the strongest and most authentic bridge of bipartisanship since World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democratic Congressional leaders . The private estimates of both sides are that bipartisanship has a good chance of lasting through this year , at least in high foreign policy . There is no strong or general Democratic dissatisfaction with the Administration 's conduct of affairs in the Atlantic or Pacific regions . Some Hostile Inquiries No important Democratic challenge to the Administration in these areas is in sight . The new Senate is likely to consent with dispatch and considerable satisfaction to the ratification of three pending master treaty arrangements . These will : gRearm the West Germans and bring them into the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . ilSet up a Southeast Asian defensive structure by which it is hoped to mitigate the disaster of the Communist victory last year in Indochina . 9Pledge the United States to take an intimate interest in the safety of Nationalist China on Formosa , although not necessarily to go to war . The Administration 's military proposals are likely to run into much Congressional skepticism . Many Democrats are anxious about the planned reductions in the Army and about what some see as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicated , nevertheless , that members of Congress are nowhere on less promising ground than when they attempt to debate military matters with a Commander in Chief who has spent a lifetime in military service . Keenly aware of this , they will approach the subject gingerly . The President 's military budget thus probably will prevail in about the scope and nature that he suggests . Apart from foreign and mili- tary policy , there will be many areas of controversy , and some limited areas of hostile Congressional investigations . An example will be the inquiry into the Administration 's decision to let the Dixon-Yates priyate group supply power to the Tennessee Valley Authority to replace power furnished by the T. V.A . to the Atomic Energy Commission . Then there will be the hardy perennials that have so long pitted the Democrats against most Republicans . The Democrats have a single-vote margin in the Senate , plus the suport of Senator Wayne Morse , Independent of Oregon . The House line-up is 232 Democrats to 203 Republicans . The Democrats will attempt , with fair prospects of success @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will there be attempts to reverse the Administration and restore the old high , fixed subsidies paid to the farmers on basic crops . This more difficult task seems less likely to succeed . On labor legislation , it is improbable that this Congress will accomplish this year any basic revision of the Taft-Hartley Act . The Democrats , especially in the Senate- , are themselves inherently divided on labor . The dominant Southerners supported the Taft-Hartley bill and are pretty well satisfied with the law . The more " regular " Northern Democrats do not like the act , holding it overly harsh . But even they will be slow to insist upon an all-out struggle this year . On social legislation , housing , minimum wage standards , health I.nsurance and the like , the outlook is for the passage of about what the President requests . In this area , as in some others , the President is returning to a DemocraCc Congress for . programs denied him by the Republican one . His reception is likely to be warmer . This is true also of one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislative proposals , a liberalization of the reciprocal trade program . The President will ask for a three-year extension of the act land authority to make additional tariff reductions . The Democrats were prepared to assist him in driving through such a liberalization in the old Congress over the hostility of the orthofiox Republicans , but he decided then not to press the issue . President Eisenhower is understood to have assured the Senate Democartic leader , Senator Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas , that he now will press for the change despite the objections of some Republicans . Miscellaneous issues will include the President 's renewed requests for statehood for Hawaii and a Constitutional amendment to lower the voting age to 18 . Neither proposal is expected to prevail . The powerful Southerners will continue to object on principle to a national voting age minimum on the ground that this would usurp the powers of the Istates in such matters . Regional Issues Loom On statehood , the Democrats no doubt will insist , as they did I last time , that presumably Republican Hawaii may be invited into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The President probably could get statehood legislation for both territories but not for Hawaii alone . This session will see some sharp regional issues , two outstanding ones involving natural resources . A dozen Western states are greatly interested in the proposed water resources development of the Upper Colorado River basin , for which Congressional authority and fund 's will be sought . The question here will be the location of dams and thus the ultimate division of the water between the h affected states . It is expected also that Senators representing natural gas ' producing states will renew their efforts to have intrastate gas producers exempted from Federal regulation . This probably will pit the consuming states against the producing states . Such a bill , by Senator Robert S. Kerr , Democrat of Oklahoma , passed Congress in 1950 but was vetoed by President Truman , and the veto stood .                     