@@720602

txt President Eisenhower , reversing his earlier opposition , has pledged White House cooperation in a forthcoming Congressional study of the Government 's organization for reaching national policy decisions . The President 's assurance of cooperation in the unusual Congressional inquiry was disclosed today by Senator Henry M. Jackson , Democrat of Washington , who will head the threeman Senate Government Operations subcommittee conducting the inquiry . Senator Jackson said in a statement that the White House cooperation would make possible an " unprecedented " Congressional study of the adequacy and the shortcomings of the present organization for devising national strategy . Scholarly Evaluation ' " Never before have the Congress and the Executive Branch worked together in a scholarly and nonpartisan evaluation of our national policy machinery , " the Senator declared . An exchange of letters with the President made public by the Senator disclosed that President Eisenhower earlier had serious objections to the proposed inquiry and had expressed his concern in a letter to the Senate majority leader , Lyndon B. Johnson , Democrat of Texas . From the exchange it was evident that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ privileges and go into the sensitive area of National Security Council deliberations . To meet these Presidential objections , proposed guidelines for the inquiry were worked out in discussions between Senator Jackson and Bryce N. Harlow , a Deputy Assistant to the President . Study , Not Investigation ' The proposed guidelines specify that the inquiry , so far as it relates to the National Security Council , " will be a study , not an investigation " and " will not attempt , by legislation or otherwise , to infringe upon the Constitutional privilege of the President to obtain advice through such organization and procedures as he deems appropriate . " The guidelines also state that the study of the National Security Council will be directed to its " purposes , composition , organization and procedures " and will not go into " substantive " matters considered by the council . In a letter to Senator Jack- son on July 10 , the President said that the guidelines " relieve the most serious of the concerns " expressed in his earlier letter to Senator Johnson . He gave assurances , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cooperatively with your subcommittee in an effort to help make this study of value not only to the Legislative Branch but to the executive , Branch as well . " Presidential Study Cited The Presidents letter indicated that the study might play a role in the reorganization plans he intended to submit to Congress before retiring from . office . At his news conference this week , the President ob served that the present organization imposed " unsolvable " burdens upon higher Govern- , ment officials and said that he ; planned to submit some reor- , ganization recommendations to Congress so his successor have the benefit of a better or-i ganization . " Senator Jackson , who is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and the Joint Congressional Committee Associated Press ? PLANS POLICY . STUDY : Senator Henry , -k . Jackson , who will head a subcommittee to study Government 's organization for reaching national policy decisions . ion Atomic Energy , has criti-1 leized the present policy-making machinery on the ground that it does not " produce clearly de fined and purposeful stategy for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposals for revising the present organization , including establishment of several policy planning staffs in various Government agencies to relieve the National Security Council of some of its planning responsibilities and creation of a national academy to act as a permanent policy study group " n all phases of defense strategy . Fundamental Issue Seen " The fundamental issue , " Senator Jackson said in his statement today , " is whether a free society can so organize its human and material resources so as to outthink , outplan and outperform totalitarianism . " In carrying out its study the subcommittee plans to hear testimony from officials who have held policy-making jobs in both Republican and Democratic Administrations . Preliminary hearings are expected to begin next month . Senator Jackson announced the appointment of these three men to the subcommittee staff : Kenneth Mansfield , former staff member on the Joint Congressional Committee on Atomic Energy and now assistant to the director of Combustion Engineering , Inc. of Windsor , Conn. , who will serve as staff director ; Robert W. Tufts , former member of the State Department policy planning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . and Greenville Garside , a New York I lawyer . 