@@720701

txt The House of Representatives failed by a one-vote margin today to override President Eisenhower 's veto of a $1,216,000,000 civil works appropriation bill . The ballot was 274 to override and 188 to sustain the veto . A. switch of one would have produced the required twothirds majority . President Eisenhower 's record of never having a law enacted over his veto thus was preserved . It was a dramatic upset for leaders of the Democratic majority , They had been confident of sufficient strength in both the House and Senate to override the veto , which was the President 's 144th . The Senate had been prepared to vote immediately if the House passed the big water projects bill . But the failure of House Democrats to muster a two-thirds majority killed the measure . Committee Meets Today Representative Clarence Cannon , Democrat of Missouri , announced after the vote that the Appropriations Committee would meet tomorrow and approve a substitute bill omitting funds for the sixty-seven projects opposed ' by President Eisenhower . Mr. Cannon is chairman of the committee . While the Democrats ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they had been counting on sufficient Republican help to turn the trick because of the bill 's wide appeal . It contained funds for hundreds of rivers , harbors , flood control and power projects of special interest to individual members of both parties . Critics refer to such bills as " pork barrel " legislation , reminiscent of the barrel of pork that once , stood in the country store hold- , ing succulent morsels availablel to everybody for the taking . The final ballot was announced after a flurry of lastminute vote switches that promptcl cheers and applause first from one sic:a and then the other . The final result was greeted by cheers and applause from the Republican side . Eleven Republicans voted with 263 Democrats to override the veto . Six Democrats and 132 Republicans sided with the President . Fourteen Democrats and ten Republicans did not vote . But all of them , except four Republicans and two Democrats , were announced as " paired " ? that is , divided in such a way as not to affect the outcome . $800,000,000 Cost Seen President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ funds for the sixty-seven projects Lhat he had not budgeted . While the Immediate cost of those projects aggregated only $50,000,000 , the President complained that they would ultimately involve outlays ofl more than $800,000,000 . Senator Allen J. Ellender , Democrat of Louisiana , said he would try to add funds for the sixty-seven projects to the MuSecurity appropriation bill now pending in the Senate Appropriations Committee . His chances of succeeding were regarded as poor . Representative Cannon said the House would never go along with such a maneuver . The public works veto was President Eisenhower 's seventh of the session . Of the 144 bills he has vetoed since taking office in January of 1953 , all except sixty-four of the measures were " private " bills ins olving claims against the Government , individual immigration cases and the like . Only six of the President 's vetoes have been put before either the Senate or House for tests on overriding . The others were allowed to stand without challenge . Two Democrats Switch The Senate has overriden two vetoes , both of which were sustained by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tried and failed to override one other and the Senate two others . When today 's roll-call was completed , the count stood unofficially at 274 to 138  --  the same as the final official tally  --  but tense moments intervened . Two Democrats who had sided with the President switched their votes . Another withdrew his vote and announced himself merely as " present . " This brought the unofficial tally to 276 to 135 , or one better than two-thirds . Cheering soon moved from the Democratic to the Republican side of the aisle , however ? as three Republicans who had voted with the Democratic majority switched the other way . One Democrat who had missed the roll-call voted to override , but this failed to offset the Republican shifts . Representative Cannon then demanded and got a recount : While it was being made , Democrats worked unsuccessfully In Lhe lobby to produce another switch in their favor . The Democrats who shifted after the roll-call were Representatives Cannon and Burr P. Harrison . Democrat of Virginia . Mr. Cannon said he had inadvertently answered " no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ withdraw his vote was Representative A. Sydney Herlong Jr . of Florida . ' The Democrat who voted to I override after missing the roll- ' call was Representative Henry S. Reusse of Wisconsin . The last-minute Republican switches were by Representatives Willard S. Curtin of Pennsylvania , Ivor D. Fenton of Pennsylvania and Edgar J. Chenoweth of Colorado . The Republican floor leader . Representative Charles A. Halleck of Indiana , told colleagues privately that he had at least one additional switch vote In reserve . The balloting took place without debate . President Eisenhower vetoed an omnibus public works bill on similar grounds last year . Instead of trying to override it . Congress wrote a compromise bill ' that the President signed . , The 1958 measure authorized , various water projects but did Iinot appropriate cash for them . The annual appropriation bill is a separate measure covering ( many but not all projects previously authorized .                     