@@718704

txt When the grass roots speak , the results are not always what many politicians would expect . Testimony before a congressional subcommittee on foreign affairs here today turned up some relatively startling statistics , a few conflicting opinions on dealing with Communists and neutrals , and an amazing amount of public interest in foreign affairs . It was the first time in the history of the House Foreign Affairs Committee that American foreign policy was being reviewed away from the banks of the Potomac . And if this initial testimony here on the shores of New Hampshire 's Lake Winnipesaukee is an indication of what the subcommittee on international organizations and movements will find elsewhere in grass-roots hearings , the stock congressional picture of public opinion on international affairs may have to be altered considerably . For instance , one witness , Laconia Attorney John Chandler , testified that ballot polls conducted by 20 discussion groups here over the past eight weeks had yielded these results : Of 72 ballots returned on the question of how to meet the Soviet threat in neutralist areas , 54 recommended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ channel such aid through the United Nations , and only 1 suggested cutting off our aid to neutrals who accept Communist aid . Peking in UN ? On another ballot a majority of answers favored keeping Communist China out of the UN . and deferring United States recognition , but continuing to negotiate with Peking . Only three suggested walking out of the UN if Peking were admitted , and 24 suggested giving up opposition to Communist China 's entry to the UN if a majority of other nations voted it . Opposed to these results , which showed a popular tendency toward being exploratory and flexible in international affairs , was the testimony of Judge Emile Lemelin of Manchester . Judge Lemelin , president of the Association Canado.Americaine , stated that " the United States ca n't deal with the Communists as long as they stick to the idea of world conquest . " He suggested that the United States keep aloof from the Communists and freeze them out of the UN . But , he said , while they remain in the UN they are using it as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would be a good idea to shift UN headquarters " to some faraway island . " Another witness , Dr. Charles B. Kinney , dean of instruction at Plymouth Teachers College , visibly surprised some of the congressmen by advocating an end of aid to Spain . He averred that aiding " Communist Poland , Hungary and Yugoslavia , or Fascist Spain and Egypt , . is only helping to strengthen the ruling ' elite in those countries. ? Edward J. Gallagher , publisher of the Laconia Evening Citizen , and two-time Mayor of Laconia , started his testimony by declaring boldly , " I am glad to stand up and be counted as in favor of increasing foreigi .. aid . " He explained , with extensive documentation from economic studies , that he saw foreign prosperity as one of the . principle means of boosting American industrial expansion . Research Disclosed Dr. James Squires of Colby Junior College laid before the committee results of his statewide public opinion research . He said a majority of New Hampshire citizens support the UN : think that all nations , including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; feel that technical assistance can be improved by being made more practical ; want more economic and less military aid sent out from Washington ; and do not support the entry of Communist China at the UN . Eralsey Ferguson , president of the state Senate and a one-time teacher in Madras , India , said that a lot more common sense could be used in planning aid . He added that such common sense would also tend to give aid recipients a greater feeling of self-respect . Three of the seven congressmen conducting the subcommittee hearings spoke on international affairs last night at a banquet held in Manchester to start the three-day program of grassroots foreign policy making . Subcommittee Chairman Albert S. J. Carnahan ( D ) of Missouri , calls himself " an Ozark Hillbilly " but is actually a former teacher with an MA Degree , spoke with gentle sarcasm of those Americans who are out to balance the budget by cutting its foreign aid appropriations.                     