@@715594

txt KOREA FOE CHECKED AFTER 4-111111 PUSH Allied Troops and Guns , Aided by Heavy Rains , Stall Reds in Effort at Breakthrough Hy The Assoetated Press . SEOUL , Korea , Wednesday , July ** South Koreans and roaring Allied guns checked the raging Chinese offensive on the east-central Korean front today after it had smashed miles into United Nations territory . By midday it was apparent at Eighth Army Headquarters that the Communist drive on the'twenty-mile sector had stalled , at least for the moment . Two inches of steady rain yesterday and last night , a sturdy defense by four Republic of Korea divisions and a , curtain of Allied artillery fire appeared to have prevented a breakthrough in the biggest Communist attack since May , 1951 . A correspondent reported from the front that the Chinese apparently had not pressed their attack during the night . Greatest Achievement ' " This is the greatest achievement of the Republic of Korea Army and justifies the great effort and great faith it took to create it , " one high-ranking Allied officer said . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from American artillery and supply units , fought one of the great defensive battles , and at noon today it looked as if they had won it . " The Eighth Army withdrew from the " permissive list " all identifications of units in the bulge battle and only the United States Forty-fifth Division could be named on the basis of a comparatively small-scale attack west of " Heartbreak Ridge . " The Republic of Korea divisions were identified yesterday as the Capitol , Third , Sixth and Eighth . The withdrawaVof their identification in battle reports resulted from reshifting and reinforcement in an effort to confuse the Communists . Unless the Chinese increased their efforts or attacked in another sector , it appeared that the worst of the battle was over . The four South Korean divisions and their attached United States artillery and advisory units had fallen back up to four miles yesterday under the Communist onslaught . While Eighth Army officers would not- say yesterday exactly how far the South Koreans had retreated , they permitted reports of Conmunist penetrations by Infiltration as deep as four miles at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twin-engine bombers blasted the Communist attackers during the night with 190,000 pounds of explosives . More Allied planes took off for the battle zone today , but the heavy rains sharply curtailed air support of front-line troops . Enemy spearheads had knifed at least four miles into the flanks of the Allied lines along the Kumsong bulge . United Nations positions near " Lookout Mountain " were gone and " Finger Ridge " was all , but lost " Sniper Ridges " and " Cap-1 ital Hill , " like the other positions ' long fought over in the last two years , were in the endangered sector and their status was in doubt . One United States battalion , assigned to long-range harassing ' fire , suddenly found itself firing , directly at Chinese storming down a slope just in front of it . Destroy-1 ing its weapons , the battalion fled ? to the hills , but was re-equipped and in action again late yesterday . The entire northward bulge of the Allied line between Kumhwa and the winding Pukhan River was endangered by the Communist penetrations on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Maxwell D. Taylor , Eighth Army commander , who flew to the front for conferences with division commanders , said on his return : " The attack was not unexpected and the defense is extracting a very heavy toll of casualties from the Communists . " Our troops have behaved extremely well in spite of the weight of the enemy pressure and the unfavorable weather . Some ground north and east of the Kumsong River is being yielded as the defense readjusts itself to the new situation . " Fresh Troops Used He commended Republic of Korea soldiers for their heroism in the face of assaults that had engulfedmany Allied outposts . The ' South Koreans fought to the last Man at many of these-points . Front-line officers estimated that the Chinese had about eight divisions in the fight , with more than four of them committed the first day and the others steadily funneling in. reinforcements . Esti- . Mates a enemy troops actually in battle ranged between 60,000 and 70,000 . A correspondent reported from the Republic of Korea Capitol pivision , on the western flank of the fighting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assault . He said the attacking troops moved through the Chinese divisions that regularly man the line . The line troops apparently were holding in preparation for any Allied counter-attack . The Communist losses in the offensive must be staggering , observers said . The South Koreans also were suffering heavily . The Allies ' Kumsong bulge , be- ' ' tween Kumwha and the Pukhan. has been the most important salient in the Communist line since the United States Twenty-fourth Division carved it in the United ' Nations offensive of October , 1951 . The foe also could still have designs on the ruined power plants of the great Hwachon Reservoir , twelve to fifteen miles south of the fighting .                     