@@718605

txt Communist China plans to boost industrial production goals above those blueprinted last summer for its second live-year Dian . ? But the new goals announced in Peking Feb. 24 do not bear out Western forecasts that because of peasant discontent and inflation the Chinese Communist Government might have to make radical revisions in its plan and place greater emphasis upon consumer goods for the civilian population . ? Output Goals Boosted The new goals were listed by Vice-Premier Po I-po on the eve of the People 's Consultative Council meeting which was expected to produce several major policy pronouncements . Mr. Po disclosed that the orig- inal steel-production estimate for the current year would be boosted from 4.12 million to 5.4 million tons . He said power output would be jumped some 20 per cent over original estimates . And he said that coal production would be boosted &dm; 112.85 million to 117 million tons . Imbalance Spoil ighted He pointed out that production of consumer goods would be increased 31/2 per cent . But this does n't appear to indicate any shift in the pattern which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Publication of the second five-year plan last summer was followed by a series of reports from inside mainland China indicating that heavy revisions might be made . These reports were based upon the belief that farmer discontent coupled with rising wages would make it necessary to provide more consumer goods . These reports appeared to be substantiated somewhat by a Peking publication last month of strong criticisms of the plan from Yale and Columbia-educated Prof. Ma Yin-chu , one of the country 's leading economists and president of Peking University . Dr. Ma stressed the huge gap between light and heavy indus- ? try and urged that a more even balance be achieved . No Shift Noted Since then , on Feb. 7 , the State Council has formally accepted the original second five-year plan draft without the expected changes and passed it along for confirmation by the National People 's Congress . Continued emphasis on heavy industry was disclosed by the fact that the plan envisages 21/2 times more steel production over the projected five-year period and only about an 80 per cent increase in typical key light industry producing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five-year plan is necessarily flexible in nature and that later changes are possible . But in analyzing Communist China 's present economic position , particularly in regard to farmers , there still is no tangible evidence of acute economic problems such as spiraling inflation . Artily Funds Cut By Rcutr ? s Hong Kong Expenditure on Communist China 's Army will be cut by a third this year to provide funds for economic construction , Peking radio announced Feb. 25 . It was quoting Gen. Hung Hsuch-chili , Commissar General , who said that the cut would be made in the existing budget . Economics were being made in response to an appeal by the government for reductions of administrative and military expenditure . The radio asserted that since 1950 . Communist China 's Navy had fought 357 encounters , sunk or damaged 18 enemy warships and 52 other naval vessels , captured 83 naval vessels , and hit or brought down I11 enemy planes . The figures were given at an Army - Navy conference which opened in Peking Feb. 25 . Another Peking announcement said the Chinese People 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ date was given , but it was said that it would be before the end of February . The most eloquent fact about the new form of government proposed for Indonesia Feb. 21 by President Sukarno is that the country 's Communists are enthusiastically in favor of it . It opens up for them again the road to power . Dr. Sukarno , who will derive increased personal power from it , has been increasingly the Communists ' friend since he returned from visits to Moscow and Peking last summer . The " guided democracy " he now advocates is designed to replace Indonesia 's version of the Wes ' - ern style democracy that he saw functioning in the United States on his first visit there earlier . It is welcomed by Indonesia 's Communists because it offers them a share in the guiding . Their goal is complete administrative control . At present they have none . By votes gained they were the fourth most successful party in the only Indonesian general election yet held , in 1955 . But they were kept out of the Cabinet by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Masjumi ( leading Moslem political group ) , and the Nandatul Ulama ( Moslem Teachers ) . Nationalism Fomented Should the Communists ever succeed in gaining control of Indonesia , they would win a rich prize . Indonesia , with 82 million people , is the sixth most populous country in the world . It is situated between the rest of Southeast Asia and Australia . It is a republic of 3,000 or so equatorial islands strung together by a nationalism which Dr. Sukarno has done more than any other man to foment . Even when ambitious rivals reportedly considered the idea of assassinating the President they have decided against it on the grounds that the resultant falling apart of disparate elements would be more than they themselves could survive . Thus , apart from the widespread personal loyalty to him that exists , quarreling politicians of the 20 parties in Parliament  --  incapable of eliminating corruption , strengthening administration , and imposing control over armed outlaws  --  have a vested interest in his continuance at the head of a state internationally recognized as independent , after 300 years of Dutch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indonesians proclaimed themselves independent as far back as Aug. 17 , 1945 , having been " emancipated " by the Japanese , the occupying power until their unconditional surrender in World War II two clays previously . It took the Indonesi- ans the next four years to get rid of the returned Dutch . The 1945 proclamation was made by Dr. Sukarno , son of a poor schoolteacher earning the equivalent of about ten American dollars a month . This son has spent 1:3 years ; in prison and exile as a nationalist revolutionary . By his side was Dr. Mohammed Hatta , Ile resigned from the Vice-Presidency of the Republic last December after Dr , Sukarno declared that political parties must be scrapped " if we want to construct in the way I saw in the Chinese People 's Republic . " Own System Urged Last December and January the Indonesian Army and the island of Sumatra , Indonesia 's most productive area , were riven into pro-Hatta and proSukarno factions . The central government is on Java , the world 's most densely populated island , which has received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sumatrans deeply resent . Dr. Hatta is a Sumatran . A strongly anti-Communist socialist , he advocates for Indonesia a federal government and state rights after the American pattern ? Rejecting any such idea , on Feb. 21 at the State Palace in Jakarta , the federal capital , before 900 leaders of political parties , civic organizations , military high-ups , and Parliament and Cabinet members , President Sukarno said , in part , in a nationwide broadcast : " Let us create our own system and not follow Western democracy ... ? All parties have the Tight to sit . in the Cabinet . . . . This is justice . . . . Sonic of you oppose Communists in the Cabinet , but how can we avoid.this group , which won the support of six million people in our elections ? I do not take sides . I only want national unity . I only express the will of the people . " Lincoln Quoted Quoting Abraham Lincoln 's Biblical allusion , he declared " a house divided against itself can not stand , " addling " we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to survive long because of the continuing crisis Every time we have had the same problem , an opposition which opposes just for the sake of opposing . At last I am convinced we used the wrong system  --  western 1101110C-racy . The democracy we used ' is an imported democracy , so we were faced with abuses . ' ; Dr. Sukarno has invited party leaders to study die proposal and give their views to him at a conference Feb. 28.                     