@@718149

txt Arabs from the Mediterranean Sea to the Persian Gulf still regard the Suez Canal crisis primarily as a contest between Western colonialism and Arab nationalism . This is clear from the way several Arab nations are coordinating both their support of President Nasser of Egypt and their warnings to the West that the use of force against Egypt would be considered war against the Arab world . Labor unions in Arab countries announced a 24-hour protest strike to begin Aug. 16 , timed to coincide with the opening of the Western-called London conference on the Suez . Though no Arab countries other than Egypt were specified . it was assumed that labor unions in Lebanon , Syria . Jordan , and possibly Iraq , would take part . Already the strike call has resulted in the cancellation of all airline flights between Rome and Cairo for the period of the strike . Trans World Airlines , an American carrier , was among airlines canceling their Cairo service . Pipelines Threatened In Damascus representatives of all Syrian political parties met Aug. 14 to voice threats against the movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against Egypt . Former Premier - Khaled el-Azem read out a decision , according to the Associated Press , that oil flowing to the West through pipelines across Syria " would be immediately barred the moment any Western power starts military action against Egypt . " In this connection it is believed Egyptian agents are working in Iraq , Saudi Arabia , Kuwait , Syria , Jordan , and Lebanon to coordinate sabotage moves against Western oil installations in the event of war . The complex Middle East oil network controlled primarily by the United States and Britain includes all those Arab lands . In Amman , capital of Jordan , 10,000 Arabs demonstrated Aug. 14 in support of Egypt 's nationalization of the Suez Canal Company . So tense was the atmosphere that the families of United Nations truce sunervi sion personnel were moved from the Jordan-controlled sector of Jerusalem to new Jerusalem in Israel . In Cairo the newly nationalized Suez Canal authority announced Aug. 15 that daily ship convoys through the canal had been reduced from four to three . The new schedule means that there will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only one northbound convoy . Officials of the Suez authority said the change was due to a heavy seasonal increase in traffic and to pilot vacations . Ships are allowed to pass through the canal only in convoys directed by special pilots . Briton Retires Another development occurred on Bahrein , an oil-rich island in the Persian Gulf , where Sir Charles Belgrave , British political adviser to the Sheik of Bahrein , announced his retirement . Though Sir Charles said " it is not a second Glubb affair , " it is a fact that Arab demonstrators on Bahrein , inflamed by the anti-Western feeling which has swept across much of the Middle East , have demonstrated recently for his removal . ( Lt. Gen. Sir John Glubb Pasha was dismissed as Commander of the Arab Legion by Jordan 's King Hussein on March 2 , 1956 . ) In Baghdad , meanwhile , Reuters quoted " very reLable sources " as saying that Egypt had asked Iraq to mediate the Suez Canal dispute . Iraq is at the same time a member of the Arab League and an ally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Baghdad Pact . A Reuters report from Cairo said that Wing Commander Aly Sabry , chief political officer of President Nasser , has been granted an entry visa to Britain . His intended visit was connected by observers with the London conference on Suez . In Washington , President Eisenhower nominated Raymond A. Hare , a career diplomat with wide Middle East experience , to be new United States Ambassador to Egypt . Mr. Hare succeeds Henry A. Byroade , who will become Ambassador to South Africa .                     