@@715626

txt Communist and United Nations delegates in Paamimjom signed an armistice at 10:01 A. M. today 9:01 P. M. , Sunday , Eastern daylight time . Under th. ? truce terms , hostilities in the three-yearold Korean war are to cease at 10 o'clock tonight 9 A. M. , Monday , Eastern daylight time . President Syngman Rhee of South Korea promised in a statement at Seoul Monday to observe the armistice " for a limited time " while a political conference tried to unify Korea by peaceful means , The United Press said . The historic document was signed in a. roadside hall the Communists built specially for the occasion . The ceremony , attended by representatives of sixteen members of the United Nations , took precisely eleven minutes . Then the respective delegations walked from the meeting place without a word or handshake between them . The matter-of-fact procedure Underlined what spokesmen of both sides emphasized : That though the shooting would cease within twelve hours after the signing , only an uneasy armed truce and political difficulties , perhaps even greater than those of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representatives of the two sides were expressionless as they put their names to a pile of documents , providing for an exchange of prisoners , establishment of a neutral zone for the cease-fire and a later political conference that would attempt to settle the tragic Korean questions , unsolved by three years of fighting that caused hundreds of thousands of casualties . According to the latest figures , revealed July 21 by the Department of Defense , the United States has suffered a total of 139,272 casualties . This included 21,965 dead , 101,368 wounded , 2,938 captured , 8,476 missing and 1,525 previously reported captured or missing , but since returned to military control . Early this afternoon the Allied part in conclusion of the armistice agreement was completed at advance headquarters near Munsan , where Gen. Mark W. Clark , United Nations commander , put his name to the documents previously signed at Panmunjom . General Clark signed in the presence of some of his high-ranking officers , Vice Admiral Robert P. Briscoe , commander of the naval forces in the Far East ; Gen. Otto P. Weyland , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ D. Taylor , Eighth Army commander ; Lieut . Gen. Samuel Anderson of the Fifth Air Force , and Vice Admiral J. J. Clark , heading the Sew enth Fleet . Also present at Munsan was Maj. Gen. Choi Duk Shin , former South Korean representative on General Choi , who walked out of the United Nations armistice team . the meetings at Panmunjom last May , also had boycotted the ceremony there this morning . As a result , no South Korean representative signed the truce , which South Korea will observe , at least temporarily , but did not approve . Almost simultaneously , General Clark 's headquarters in Tokyo released a message the general had written in advance of the armistice  --  a grim warning that the mere military armistice would not permit the United Nations to relax its vigilance against communism . " I must tell you as emphatically as I can , " said the statement , addressed to all members of the ; United Nations Command , " that this does not mean immediate or even early withdrawal from Korea . The conflict will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political settlement . " General Taylor , at Eighth Army heaquarters in Korea , echoed General Clark 's views and warning . " There- is no strong feeling that our problems here are over , nor that the armistice is an occasion for unrestrained rejoicing , " he said . For the United Nations , the documents were signed at Panmunjom by Lieut . Gen. William K. ; Harrison Jr . For the Communists , the signer was Lieut . Gen. Nam II of North Korea , a Russian-trained school teacher who donned a military uniform after the outbreak of Ithe Korean war . Each Signs Nine Times Seated at separate tables , each put his name nine times to nine copies of the armistice agreement in English , Korean and Chinese . On Gtneral Harrison 's table stood a miniature flag of the United Nations . The North Korean flag decorated the Communists ' place in the meeting house . On a central table lay piled copies of the agree- ' ment , bound in stiff blue cardboard covers . Aides passed them in turn to the two signers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signed the first copy of the agreement at 10:01 A. M. General Nam put his signature to the final copy at 10:11 o'clock , ending the brief ceremony . Because of what General Clark called unreasonable restrictions demanded by the Communists , the top military leaders of the opposing armies did not appear at the session . The enemy , it was revealed , had demanded that if Marshal Kim II Sung , North Korean Premier and Commander in Chief , and Gen. Peng . Teh-huai , commander of the Chinese Communist troops in Korea , came to Panmunjom , all correspondents and all representatives of South Korea would be barred from the neutral zone . General Clark refused . Following signing of the truce documents by General Clark , the agreement was scheduled to be sent to Marshal Kim and General Peng . Their names probably will be affixed in their secret headquarters near the bombed out North Korean capital of Pyongyang . The United Nations delegation appeared on the scene at 9:30 o'clock this morning , alighting from helicopters that had brought them from Munsan , and filing past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the peninsula . Allied Observers Present General Harrison was accompanied by his fellow American delegates , Rear Admiral John C. Daniel , Brig . Gen. R. N. Osborne and aides . The observers from the United Nations members lined the Allied section of the hall . ' There were representatives of Turkey , Thailand , the Netherlands , ; France , the United Kingdom and the Commonwealth countries , Colombia , Belgium , Denmark , Luxembourg , Ethiopia , Philippines and Norway . The Communists came to Panmunjom in a fleet of jeeps , thirtyfive correspondents of Iron Curtain countries accompanying them . Altogether , it was calculated that there were 130 press and radio correspondents and photographers Of many nations in the hall . Outside the thin ' wooden walls there was the mutter of artillery fire  --  a grim reminder that even as the truce was being signed men were still dying on near-by hills and the fight would continue for twelve more hours . As the delegates settled in seats , aides took the bound copies of the armistice agreement from the central table and passed them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the few Americans present today who saw the start of the truce negotiations two years ago , handed the documents to General Harrison and pointed out to him the place where he should sign . Both General Harrison and General Nam used a single fountain pen . Lieut . Col. H .. M. Orden of the liaison officers group blotted General Harrison 's signatures and returned the documents , one by one , to the central table , from where they were passed to General. , Nam by a North Korean colonel , You Ju . At no point in the armistice negotiations have the delegates given each other greetings beyond a possible silent nod . The procedure was the same today . At one point General Harrison whispered briefly to Colonel Orden and an interpreter , Lieut . Kenneth Wu . There was a click of cameras and the grinding of newsreels . Otherwise , only the distant artillery broke the silence . At 10:10 A. M. General Harrison finished , and General Nam one minute later . The North Korean general glanced at his watch , rose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the United Nations table . General Harrison strolled out in more leisurely fashion . To correspondents who asked him for corn ; ment , he ' replied : " You know ido n't do . that . " But he smiled and posed for Pictures , saluted the honor guard and greeted some United Nations Irepresentatives before he climbed into a helicopter to fly back to Munsan at 10:27 A. M. Inside the hall , the signed documents remained on the central table , watched by security guards and liaison officers , who remained for a brief meeting with interpreters . Presumably they were arranging the later signing of the armistice by the high commanders . Seventy-two hours after the signature of the armistice , the troops will withdraw one and a quarter miles from the fighting line , and a neutral zone will be established between the armies . Within a few days the first of returning United Nations war prisoners might be expected to trickle in . They are expected to reach their homes probably next month . General Clark flew to Korea late yesterday afternoon to play @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negotiations were closing on the same note of scarcely veiled hostility and accusations of bad faith with which they began more than two years ago . General Clark , landing in Korea made it clear he also had scant hope the truce would go far to solve the tangled problems of a divided Korea . " A long and difficult road still lies ahead , " he warned . " There are no short cuts . If we are to honor the great sacrifices which have been made in the name of freedom , if we are to achieve peace , if we are to uphold the principles of freedom justice and human dignity we must continue our efforts toward peace and we must be ready to defend these principles whenever and wherever they are challenged . " Persons close to Dr. Rhee said his major interest today centered on a political conference that is to follow the truce , with the armistice for the time being regarded as an accomplished fact despite his former stubborn opposition to the cease-fire . Thus far , there was little knowledge here just what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be constituted . The armistice agreement itself states only that the commanders in the field " recommend to the Governments concerned " that the meeting be held to negotiate a withdrawal of foreign troops from Korea , a peaceful settlement of the Korean question , " etcetera . " No mention was made of what Governments would be included or of the question of unification of Korea , which Dr. Rhee demands . Neither is the word " etcetera , " on which the Communists insisted during the truce negotiations , further defined . The Communists , it has been suggested , meant to bring in under that word such questions as Chinese Communist admission to the United Nations and the status of the Chinese Nationalist regime on Formosa . Dr. Rhee , on the other hand , has stated that unification of Korea will be the conference 's immediate task , and he is understood to have been disappointed over the supposed failure of the United States to clarify further conversations to that effect he held with Walter S. Robertson , Asssistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @           