@@720022

txt If Democratic Gov . Abraham A , RibicOff fails to win . reelection , ? and by a fair margin , many neutral observers , as well as party leaders on both sides , will see the limb of their political prognostications sawed off behind them . Connecticut political opinion , except among the most ardent followers of Republican nominee Fred R. Zeller , State Comptroller , regards the contest as already decided in the Governor 's favor . The only doubt concerns the margin . Margin estimates run from 30,000 to 300,000 , with many persons setting it at around 75 , - 000 votes . Such a margin probably would produce a near sweep of major offices by the Democrats on Nov. 4 . The Ribicoff-Zeller contest has been a gentlemanly affair , with no personal attacks . Republican Zeller even refers to the Governor as a good man , while being critical . of Democratic spending and other policies . Governor Ribicoff carefully avoids mentioning his opponent . He discusses his record and his plans for the future of Connecticut . Early Vote Decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has leaders openly concerned . On the other hand ; many seasoned observers feel the situation is not so much one of voter apathy but early voter decision . Many observers expect a good turnout . The fact that many voters arc maintaining their own counsel about how they will vote provides one uncertainty in the gubernatorial contest . However , it is more an uncertainty as to the size of the : Ribicoff plurality than of the outcome . Many Republican and independent voters have openly disclosed their intention to support ! the Governor , on the basis of his first four years . - For instance , one top Republican businessman said " the Governor has given Connecticut its best administration in some time . " Support for the Governor among Republicans and independents arises from his relatively nonpartisan approach to state problems , his nationally praised highway safety campaign , his work after the 1955 floods , and his policy of reappointing many Republican department heads and calling on Republican businessmen to serve on commissions studying state problems . Belt ind-Seen es Bat Ile In addition , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Republican Party for party control . This battle dates back to the Republican convention struggle for the GOP gubernatorial nomination . When Mr. Zeller , 14 years State Comptroller and a Ta ft conservative , won the nomination , control of the party slipped out of the hands of the Yankee Republicans . The ' Yankee Republicans were backing John R. Alsop , Hartford insurance executive , a strong Eisenhower supporter and brother of Joseph and Stewart Alsop , newspaper columnists . ? ? ? When Mr. Alsop was defeated at the convention , the Yankee Republicans saw control of the party slip out of their hands . As sonic Connecticut political observers sec the picture , the Zeller forces would in turn lose control , if Mr. Zeller himself . fails to win the governorship on Nov. 4 . Therefore , there is some feeling that many Republicans will stay home or vote for Governor Ribicoff . Popular Among Pros However , , DIr . Alsop himself now is taking all active part in . the campaign . He ? presided at the Hartford rally this week at which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has offered his campaign services to the Zeller forces for the finaT , drive . Mr.-Zeller 's convention victory for the nomination has been attributed to his popularity among the professionals of the party , due to patronage involved in legislative positions under his control , and the many favors a comptroller has at his disposal in Connecticut . - The two candidates contrast sharply . Governor Ribicoff is smooth , immaculately tailored , an effective public speaker . Mr. Zeller is better at personal contact than on the platforM. , He is rather colorless , inclined to being a little rumpled in appearance . The contrast is not all to the Governor 's political benefit , because some observers feel the Republican candidate may be more readily . indentitied with the average voter than the Governor himself . Int pon d crab es Weighed This is one imponderable which is disturbing some prognosticators . They assert that they can not tell yet how this factor will affect the vote , whether or not Mr. Zeller will be able to cash in on his " workingman 's friend " slogan which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an approach to the average v of er , Other imponderables are the effect of the Governor 's much publicized drive against speedIlow many of these speeders who lost their licenses will vote against him is unknown . Also how effective is the issue raised by Republicans over the increased tolls on the Hartford bridges ' But in the main , no real issues have emerged from the campaign except Governor Ribicoff himself . As John M. Bailey , chairman of the Democratic State Central Committee , puts it : " Abe RibieofT is the only issue in this campaign . " The party will rise or fall with him . "                     