@@718639

txt U. N. police force in Gaza in precarious position , Tribune writer says . Story on page 3 . Dag Hammarskjold , U. N. secretary - general , plans flight to mid-east to map peace program ; story on page 3 . Mid-east oil output at three-fourths normal ; story on page 5 . ( Picture on page 3 ) CAIRO , Egypt , March 9 GP ? Egypt 's information director said today that all Suez canal tolls. must be paid henceforth to Egyptian authorities . He rejected a proposal backed by the United States for collection by a neutral agency that ' would split the revenue with Egypt 50-50 . ' " The Egyptian government will not accept any such proposal because it violates Egypt 's rights under the 1888 agreement on the Suez canal , " the director , Abdel Kader Hatem , told newsmen . IT h e agreement of 1888 was signed by Britain , Germany , Austria , Spain , France , Italy , the Netherlands , Russia , and Turkey . It guaranteed the neutrality of the waterway. 100 Million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about 100 million dollars a year , have been disputed since President Nasser 's nationalization of the Suez Canal company . The issue returns to the spotlight now that Israel has evacuated the Gaza strip and Sharm el Sheikh ; the last bits of territory she won in the British-French-Israeli invasion of Egypt last fall , and the canal has been cleared of all except two of the major hulks blocking the channel . Showdown to Come The United States , Britain , and France suggested to , the United Nations secretary genii Dag Hammarskjold , last month that the tolls might be paid to the World bank or Isome other international agency , which would give Egypt half fot operating expenses and impound the rest until the toll issue was finally settled . Before the invasion , ships of ' Britain and France paid their tolls to accounts of the Old company in Paris or London . The showdown will come when tankers and other vessels up to 10,000 tons head into the canal after the U. N. salvage fleet removes the 841 ton tug Edgar Bonnet , which was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1,461 ton Egyptian frigate Abukir , which went down four miles from the southern and . , Egypt has started preliminary work toward their removal . Lt. Gen. Raymond A. Wheeler of the United States , head of the U. N. salvage operation , said today that it would take three or four weeks to examine and remove the Edgar Bonnet after the Egyptians give his crew permission to go to work . Principles Laid Down Hatem chose his words carefully and laid dowWprinciples rather than specific statements . But the following can be deduced from his comment on the big questions : 1 . The rights of user nations , as well as those of Egypt , will be protected by the 1888 convention . 2 . Egypt will continue to bar the ships of Israel from the canal on the ground that a state of war still exists between the two countries . ' ( In Washington , the Israeli ambassador , Abba Eban , yesterday reminded the United states government of President Eisenhower 's declaration on Feb. 20 that " the society of nations " should deal firmly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the canal or the Gulf of Aqaba . ' Israel has a port on the gulf , Which is at the head of the Red sea . No Nation Exempt 3 . A hint that the British and French , who hold interests in the old Suez Canal . company , like others must pay Egypt tolls : " No ships of spe , : cific nationalities can be exempt from paying tolls to : ' , , Egyptian authorities since this ' : would mean discrimination among nationalities and that ... is a violation of the 1888 convention . " 4 . Ships up to 300 tons , ... exempt from tolls , are already ? moving thru the canal and it will be cleared sufficiently soon to let . bigger vessels pass . President Nasser told Palestinian students from Gaza today that Arab nationalism had liberated the Gaza strip and " will help us win back all of Palestine . " Nasser spoke to a thousand students who assembled at the presidential palace to hail the president as the liberator of Gaza . and to demand that Egyptians return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arab nationalism became stronger as the result of the aggression by Israel , Britain , and France against Egypt , he said , and the " whole world has witnessed that Arab nationalism has become a reality . " Ar a b nationalism is a weapon with which we will fight aggression , imperialistic domination , and ambitions of zionism . It extends from Morocco to Baghdad and it is a weapon for us in battles that await us . It was the weapon that gave us victory against two powerful countries , Britain and France . " Repair Pipe Lines DAMASCUS , Syria , March 9 ( 10 -- The Iraq Petroleum company said that work on repairing its damaged pipe lines thru Syria started today with Syria 's permission . Emergency repairs to resume pumping 11 million tons of Iraqi oil a year across Syria to Europe could be finished within one week , a spokesman said .                     