@@718223

txt President Nasser rejected the Western Big Three 's proposal for an association of Suez Canal users as " a declaration of war . " ? Speaking publicly for the first time since the proposal was announced in London by Prime Minister Sir Anthony Eden , Colonel Nasser told an audience of Air Force cadets at Bilbeis the United States attitude to the new proposal is " puzzling . " Colonel Nasser noted that President Eisenhower advocated a peaceful solution while the State Department favors international control of the canal . United States support of the users ' association , he said , " means they will help Britain provoke the Egyptian people into a clash with Britain . " By Geoffrey Godsell Mediterranean Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor Cairo Egyptians have accepted the challenge ? and have started to run the Suez Canal on their Own . All but about half a dozen of the Suez Canal Company 's foreign ' pilots ceased work after taking - their Mast . convoys through the ' canal the ? night of Sept 14 . Their walkout ? cut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egyptian canal authority with only some 60 pilots to carry on for the time being . Most of these are Egyptians . The biggest foreign national group staying on is Greek . The first convoy to be manned by pilots from the remaining pilot body . moved southwards from the Mediterranean end of the canal in the early hours of the morning Sept. 15 . The convoy consisted of 10 ships . IDetermined and Bitter An all-Egyptian staff got a big 29-ship convoy moving from Suez up the channel toward Port Said and the Mediterranean Sept. 15 without any apparent hitch , the Associated Press said . Egyptian canal officials were overjoyed when the convoy of 16 tankers , 12 cargo vessels , and 1 passenger ship got off ahead of schedule . Egyptians are tackling the difficult job of keeping the canal running smoothly with a mixture of determination and bitterness . They are determined because they understand what is at stake . They know the ' Western powers , particularly Britain , believe Egypt lacks the ability to run the canal on its own . A notice posted by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no efforts includes the following sentence : " We rely on them to do their utmost so that they will win the admiration of world public opinion , adding to it the admiration of the Fatherland for its working sons . " Egyptians are bitter because of the way in which they feel the British and French are ' conspiring " to make maximum difficulties for them in operating the canal . Egyptians believe , despite official British denials , that the British and French Governments are responsible for the walkout of foreign canal pilots . Shifts Doubled Egyptians hope to have a further 60 pilots available for duty in a week or so , thereby doubling the remaining pilot strength : To cope with - the present situation , the canal authority is asking the pilots to double their . shifts . . Soviets Have Stepped ln dramatically at a moment when the Western canal pilots were leaving , The Soviet consul at Port Said drove to the canal authority 's headquarters ' in Ismailia to inform the authority that a number of Soviet pilots had arrived in Cairo to come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made another move to show themselves friends of Egypt and the Arabs . The Soviet Union , together with China and other Communist countries , has given:approval to President Nasser 's proposal for a negotiating body to discuss guarantees for freedom of Suez Canal navigation and revision of the 1888 convention . Observers speculate that the West may be intending the proposed Canal users ' association as a device to , boycott the Suez Canal , in the event Egypt forbids association ships to transit the waterway . Under this reasoning , the West would not attempt to force their ships through Suez , but would divert them around Africa 's Cape of Good Hope , thus . boycotting the Suez Canal . Moscow Despite storm clouds over the Eastern Mediterranean , Soviet opinion does not expect Britain and France will resort to force against Egypt . To begin with , the Soviets are reluctant to believe the hardheaded British would risk India 's defection from the Commonwealth , loss of their remaining positions in Iraq , Pakistan , and Libya , just to mention some probable repercussions . As seen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occupying the Suez Canal and defeating President Nasser militarily , it would-be a Pyrrhic victory and only the beginning of their real troubles . The canal itself would probably be wrecked in the process and rendered unserviceable for am indefinite period . Moreover , it would be almost impoSsible to control Egypt and hold the rest of the Arab world in check by repression . Soviet observers likewise count on a large ' body of public opinion in Britain and France as a deterrent to strong-arm policy . This fits the thesis proclaimed last February at the 20th Soviet Communist Party Congress to the effect:that wars - are . nb longscriu , , eyitableAnyiew of the growing ' itiength- of peace forces : Danger of Local War Finally , it is felt that British and French statesmen must realize the danger , to this day and age of a local war spreading out of controLinto a ' general conflagration . The next few days should test the validity of this estimate . On the negative side Soviet commentators rightly sense that certain powerful financial interests and notably the Suez Canal Company in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same time it is hard for people here to fully assess the emotional compulsions behind the British and French attitude on the Suez ? and a feeling of desperation that unless they buck Colonel Nasser all will he lost . Since Soviet observers are utterly out of sympathy with the French military campaign in Algeria , which they regard as a lost cause anyway ; it is not easy for them to measure the mentality of those Frenchmen who feel that unless the Suez challenge is met all of North Africa will be it-. revocably forfeited and France . reduced to a second-rate power . The Soviets hare been especially puzzled by the behavior of French Socialist Premier . Guy Mollet and Foreign Minister Christian Pineau ; who on the Suez question have made common cause with the French Right and have even out-Torie4 British Tories . ? Moscow Visit Recalled . . The British Labor Party from the outset , on the other hand , has urged moderation and opposed the-use-of- , force . =be-re-= called that Messrs . Monet and Pineau visited Moscow not long ago and for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the French . Socialists than toward the British Labor Party leaders . While rejecting or discounting prestige . issues which weigh so heavily with the British and French in the present crisis , the Soviets have argued consistently from the . outset that Egyptian possession and control of the canal is fully in accord with international . law and in no wise conflicts with or prejudices freedom . of navigation . ' From this it logically follows to the Soviets that the hue and cry of Western powers against Colonel Nasser is utterly unjustified . Parenthetically there has never been any reference to his banning . from the canal all Israeli shipping . By the same token the Soviets have endorsed without reservation Colonel Nasser 's self-portrait as champion of Egypt 's independence and of the Arab world in general against colonial powers seeking to restore their dominion . U.S. Duplicity Charged While careful to differentiate the United States attitude ' from that of Britain and France , Soviet commentators miss no Opportunity to accuse United States policy of duplicity  --  of egging on the British and French while feigning friendship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correspondent ' reports that two versions of President Eisenhower 's - Sept. 11 press conference were put out , one " peace lOving " for Arab consumption , the other " pugnacious " for the benefit of the United States ' Western partners . The same correspondent , by way of impugning American motives , cities with apparent agreement an editorial in the Paris paper L'Information to the effect that , the sole objective of American moves in the Mediterranean area is to " assist in liquidating French and British positions . " Echoing of this charge is especially piquant in view of the self-evident Soviet objectives in the same ? general area , U.S. and Soviets Parallel In all seriousness , however , ? instructive narallels. , ? could drawn between Soviet and American aims and interest in the present Suez crisis . Both are somewhat removed from immediate , conflict . Neither di ate at stake . Both are anxious to avoid armed conflict developing and find some compromise settlement . Just ' as the United States seek 's to restrain Britain and France , the Soviets , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to influence him in the direction of caution and avoidance of anything which might serve as a pretext for intervention . All this would indicate ' that despite recriminations , a fairly large area of agreement exists between the two superpowers , at least as regards immediate Suez objectives and that this could conceivably provide grounds for joint action in the spirit of the Geneva conference . Unfortunately , even prelim. inary , approaches to such " cooperation appear to be lacking , The United States Ambassador , who in many ways is best qualified to serve ' as a contact point in such a matter , has been away from the post for the past month and is not due back until the end of September .                     