@@720792

txt Conventional notions regarding elderly people were knocked cock-a-hoop by Dr. Margaret Mead , noted American anthropologist , when she testified Oct. 14 before a Senate subcommittee on problems of the aged and aging holding the first of its countrywide hearings in Boston . " We have an idea that older people ca n't learn , " she told Senator Pat ( D ) of Michigan , committee chairman . " This is a primitive notion , " she declared , " and not true of , people in the United States . Dr. Mead mentioned experience as one of the elderly person 's assets , and said that older people need " love and trust and dignity as the nutrients of survival , " as much as they need food , shelter , and medical care . Elderly Speak Elderly people themselves got a chance to speak during the morning session . One by one they came to microphones which had been placed in the aisles of Suffolk University auditorium and told of their experiences . Typical of their thinking was the constantly reiterated theme , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opportunity to help ourselves . " One speaker said she was capable of doing part-time store or office work . She advocated lifting the social security pension ceiling " as it is impossible to get along on such a small amount . " " It 's the middleman who suffers from exorbitant hospital prices , " she told the committee , explaining that the very poor are cared for through welfare agencies while the very rich do n't need help . " Do n't put us all in homes for the aged , " she pleaded . " We want to live where we can be among people and see young life around us . " Mr. John Dunphy mentioned the need of good entertainment for elderly people , " to lift up their spirits . " A woman from Boston 's South End district told of rooming house rents that had gone up " from $5 to $10 a week , " Residents either cooked one item at a time on small hotplates , she said , or went out to cheap restaurants . Other South End residents complained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them when called . High medical and hospital costs were prominent among complaints listed . Testimony by doctors included mention of this factor as compounding difficulties encountered by the aged . Asperity Creeps In A certain asperity tinged an exchange between Senator and Edward A. Green , vice-president and group actuary of the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company . During questioning Mr. Green said he felt private industry by its " flexibility " could better take care of old age insurance than the federal government . " Th'ey have every chance to prove it now , " returned the chairman . Mr. Green had advocated keeping benefits under the OASI system " at a floor of protection level . " Among others called to testify at the final hearing in Boston was Dr. Seymour Harris of Harvard University 's Department of Economics , who asserted that America 's 16,000,000 elderly citizens should have at least three-quarters of the average income of other people in the United States and that the country could well afford it , Pittsburgh Next Stop The committee 's next hearings are scheduled for Pittsburgh Oct. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ W.Va. , Nov. 5 ; Grand Rapids , Mich. , Nov. 18-17 ; Miami , Dec. 1-2 ; and Detroit , Dec. 10-11 . In addition to Senator the subcommittee includes Senators Jennings Randolph ( D ) of West Virginia ; John F. Kennedy ( D ) of Massachusetts ; Joseph S. Clark ( D ) of Pennsylvania ; Everttt Dirksen ( R ) of Illinois ; and Barry Goldwater ( R ) of Arizona . The only members present at the Boston hearings were Senators and Randolph .                     