@@714265

txt Winning totals in tomorrow 's municipal election in Boston for Mayor , city council , and school committee may be overshadowed by one figure  --  the number of registered voters who do n't bother to go to the polls . Qualified to vote are 388,088 Bostonians. or about 75 per cent of the persons who could have registered if they had cared to . The record registration was scored in 1949 when there were more than 410,000 registered voters . Of this total 300,500 actually went to the polls , setting a record high for Boston . ! Lower Vote Due In Mayor Hynes ' last contest against his present opponent , former Mayor Curley , Mr. Hynes received 137,930 votes . a plurality of 11.930 over Mr. Curley . The 100.000 registered voters who failed to vote in that election certainly could have changed the results if they had wanted to . In tomorrow 's election the total vote cast is expected to be decidedly lower than it was two years ago . Political experts do not expect it to change the results of the mayoralty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They agree , however , that the size of the vote will definitely determine the outcome of the city council and school committee battles . Highest estimate made by election officials is that 60 per cent of the registered voters will go to the polls here tomorrow . If they are correct , that means that 155,000 qualified voters will not vote . 11 is generally conceded that the higher the vote , the greater the chances of the New Boston Committee - endorsed candidates will be for election . For City Council the New Boston Committee candidates are Michael Herbert Cantwell , Gabriel Francis Piemonte , Francis X. Ahearn , Lee M. Friedman , Perlie Dyar Chase . Frederick C. Hailer , Jr .. . Joseph C. White , Patrick Gilbert Sullivan , and Francis X. Joyce . Candidates Prod Voters They are opposed by William F. Hurley , Francis Patrick Tracey , William .1 . Foley , Jr. , William A. Glynn , Michael J. Ward , Kathleen T. Ryan Dacey , . John E. Kerrigan , Clement A. Norton , and James S. Coffey . New Boston Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ F. Musco , Alice Lyons , Isadore H. Y. Much-nick , and Mary K. Fitzgerald . They will be opposed by Joseph Lee , . Joseph C. Tomasello , Timothy .1 . , Jerome Patrick Troy , and Patrick J. Foley . The weather , which always has a great bearing on the size of the vote , is forecast as clear and cool for tomorrow by the United States Weather Bureau . Candidates themselves have done much to get out the vote . Many will make automobiles and even baby sitters available so that people will go to the polls . Debate on NBC Mayor Hynes leads in this campaign to get out the vote . " My main opponent in this campaign has been apathy , " com mented the Mayor . His workers will supply nearly 1,000 cars to drive persons to the polls . Working steadily from now until the polls close at 8 p.m. tomorrow night , New Boston Committee officials will have " town criers " touring the city tonight in full costume urging Bostonians to vote for good government . " Whether or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the subject of a debate today at the State Club , Inc. , meeting with the City Club of Boston . Stuart C. Rand , president of the club , will debate with Douglas Lawson , executive director of the State Club , on " ' The New Boston Committee  --  Right or Wrong . " Mr. Rand has endorsed the New Boston Committee and its slates of candidates for school committee and city council . Mr. Lawson has severely criticized the NBC and its officers . Other details and picture : Page 2.                     