@@715935

txt Icy ? gales swept mile high Myrdals JokuI glacier tonight , handicapping efforts to rescue ? three reported survivors of the crash of a United States navy Neptune bomber on its snowy wastes . A United States patrol plane striving to pinpoint the wreckage , first spotted yesterday afternoon , was obliged to turn back at 4 p. m. because of the wind . The dangerous weather -- hinting of another blizzard like that in which the twin engine Lockheed bomber cracked up with its crew of nine on a patrol flight Thursday  --  immobilized at least one of the three Icelandic parties assigned to the ground search . Hole Up 15 Hours Expert skiers and mountaineers , they were forced to hole up for 15 hours and perhaps can not get moving again before morning . The other parties , approaching from different directions , may have reached their goal , but they have no walkie-talkie or other means of communication . All the parties are otherwise well equipped . The glacier  --  a mass 30 miles long and from 10 to 20 miles wide on Iceland 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ southeast of Reykjavik , the capital . It was reported broken up in many places . Flares Sighted Two orange colored explosions believed to be flares sent up by the survivors were sighted in the night by rescue planes . Lights ' that perhaps had been rigged from the wreckage were seen briefly in the murk . Clothing and medical supplies were dropped . United States air force headquarters said pilots reported visibility was so bad they got only a glimpse of the explosions and later spotted " an object " moving toward the spot where the supplies ) vere dropped . " It was absolutely impossible to determine whether the object was human , " one of the flyers reported . The searchers expressed belief lase night that at least three . of the crewmen got out of the wreckage . The problem now is to reach them before they succumb in the freezing weather . Down Near Volcano Icelanders speculated that the plane went down near a dormant volcano named Katla . Tho close to the Arctic circle and studded with glaciers , this westernmost European state has more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hunt is being directed by the United States 53d air rescue squadron from the international airport at Keflavi k , built by United States forces in World War II . ' Nat airport , 20 miles southwest of Reykjavik , was the Neptune 's base . The Neptune took off from Keflavik at 2 p. m . Thursday for a routine patrol over North Atlantic waters . It wars circling back thru the storm toward that base when it radioed its last positional report . Then 100 miles southeast of Reykjavik , it made no mention of any trouble .                     