@@718001

txt In 1950 Congress passed a law permitting dismissal without appeal of security risks in eleven sensitive Government offices . The law also granted the President authority to extend the provisions of the act to any other departments or agencies where " necessary in the best interests of national security . " In 1953 President Eisenhower issued an Executive Order blanketing the entire Government under the provisions of the law . A number of Government employes were subsequently fired as security risks ? either because they were subversive , or associated with subversives , because their morals laid them open to blackmail , or because they could n't keep a still tongue in their heads . Nov , the Supreme Court by six to three decision says the President had no right to broaden the act 's provisions to include all Government employes . The majority opinion said the act was designed to control " those activities of the Government that are directly concerned with the protection of the  --  nation from internal subversion or foreign aggression . " All other Government activities are " non-sensitive " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ruling plainly means that treasonable people have a right to work for the Government in some jobs and the Government has no right to fire them . We think the Supreme Court is wrong for two reasons . One is that the Court makes a distinction between the risk the Government should take with one man in one job and another man in a different job . Any person in Government who is a security risk is in a position to do disservice to the country . The three members of the Supreme Court who disagreed with the majority ruling wrote that " The janitor might prove to be as important security-wise as the top employe in the building . " They added that the ruling " might leave the Government honeycoinbed with subversive employes . " And there is the second reason for disagreeing with the majority 's ruling . The decision can seriously shake the reliance people must have in their Government . The public is told by the Congress and the Executive Department that Communism is a danger to our way of life and that we must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and abroad . Net the Sum:erne Court says that security risks have a right to work in the Government , that there is nothing wrong legally with a little disloyalty providing it is found only in some places and not in others . We think that most Americans will agree with Mr. Eisenhower who believes that Government employment is a privilege and not a right . And we think they will agree with him when he demands " complete and unswerving loyalty " to the Constitution of every person who is employed by the Government . Anything less can not only honeycomb the Government with spies , but destroy the very fabric of public confidence on which Government must rest .                     