@@713068

txt While his family watched the baseball game preliminaries from home over television , a middleaged man was killed by a mystery bullet today as he sat among 49 , - 000 spectators in the flag bedecked Polo Grounds to see a double header game between the New York Giants and the Brooklyn Dodgers . The Victim was Bernard Lawrence Doyle , 54 , of Fairview , N. J. a former Railway Express company employe and once a prize fight manager whose activities it small New Jersey clubs are credited with getting ex-Champior James Braddock started as e fighter . Police said the death bullet , a .38 caliber slug , may have traveler half a mile before striking Doyle in the head above the left temple , Police Comb Area They surmised it might have come from tall apartments that tower ' above the ball park in upper Manhattan , or from nearby bridges or the Harlem river speedway . In the belief a sniper or Fourth of July celebrant may have fired into the park from some distance outside , 40 detectives canvassed the Edgecomb ay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which nestles into Coogan 's bluff . The shooting apparently was not seen by anyone , either on tele ' vision or by the fans in the park . Few in the big , noisy crowd were even aware of the tragedy . Doyle was sitting high in the second deck of the grandstand in deep left field with a young companion , Otto Flaig , 12 , a neighbor , who was his guest . They had planned to go to last Friday 's game but because it was a night game they changed their date to today . Slumps In Seat The Dodgers had come onto the field for pre-game batting practice and the crowd was bellowing its noisy admiration . Doyle suddenly slumped in his seat . His companion and two men sitting nearby reported they heard a loud " pop " I like the bursting of a paper bag . Then they saw Doyle bleeding . Young Otto thought Doyle had suffered a heart attack and the other fans nearby took little interest , apparently supposing a man merely had been taken ill . A fan who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " That man 's dead , " then disappeared back into the crowd . Question 10 Boys Police on duty at the ball park summoned an ambulance and the body was quietly removed . Examination showed there were no powder burns or skin breaks around the small hole in which the slug was partly visible . Detectives found 10 boys playing in bushes on Coogan 's bluff and took them to a police station for questioning but obtained no leads to the ' strange shooting . Meantime , the ball game went on as scheduled .                     