@@720902

txt In the glare of public attention focused on the tragic crash here Nov. 24 of a disabled cargo airplane which caused 11 fatalities , considerations vital to the nation 's aviation welfare come to light . The fact that the giant four-engine TWA Constellation , heavy-laden with air mail , packages , freight , and fuel , swooped into a residential neighborhood no more than 1,500 feet from the runway at Midway Airport , raises the question of airport geography . Eight of the 11 victims were asleep in their homes when the plane smashed into the buildings . Many feel that the apparent failure of one engine which precipitated the crash within four minutes of take-off , underscores the importance of ever more thorough preflight equipment checks . Minute Check Bc.rins in The immediate mobilization of federal and local aviation officials to retrace every moment of the incident in order to checkout airport operational efficiency , is reassurance of the vigilant attention to safety which has made Midway not only one of the world 's busiest airports but also has given it one of the best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planes and 9,667,696 passengers without major incident . As many as 1,405 aircraft and 38,347 passengers have been shunted through Midway on a peak load day . In October , this year , 37,676 planes and 853,505 passengers came and went . Airport officials have said take-offs at the rate of a plane a minute are not unusual . Even as a reporter for The Christian Science Monitor stood near the crash scene in a rainy overcast that slowed Midway 's pace he clocked aircraft roaring overhead toward landings every three minutes . Located approximately miles southwest of the Loop business center of Chicago , Midway is hedged by neighborhoods whose congestion is said by population experts to average about 15,000 per . squire mile . Compared with other areas of the city whose residents are jammed in at nearly five times C. Nelson Christian Science Monitor that rate , Midway 's neighbors are relatively few . Yet , today , those neighbors and many of their fellow Chicagoans are wondering if wisdom should allow even such relatively uncongested blocks . neatly lined with single-family dwellings , to be located less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is one that is troubling many communities throughout the country which have planes swooping low over their dwellings for take-offs and landings  --  especially those which have experienced tragedies similar to the Chicago crash . In petitions to the city , these Chicagoans have reported their alarm over the low-flying aircraft . but no official action has been taken . Equipment . Checked Chicago 's revised zoning ordinance , of July , 1957 , speaks only of legal height for buildings in airport neighborhoods . A sequence flasher was installed , Jan. 21 , 1959 , to guide pilots to runways . Radar beams are constantly on the alert for aircraft as near as overhead and as far away as 200 miles . Midway facilities , in fact , were ready with radar guidance for the faltering plane Nov. 24 had the pilot wanted it . At the same time they kept other approaching aircraft within safe standby control until the emergency had passed . An immediate Federal Aviation Agency check , after the traffic controls , reported all Midway equipment in perfect working order . As for the aircraft malfunction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produce clues . None of the three crew members survived the crash . Meantime , redoubled dili gence by ground maintenance workers seems a likely prospect , as official investigations get under way . Civil Aeronautics Board officials have set up four investigative groups , three of them probing into the conditions of the flight and the plane , and the fourth interrogating witnesses .                     