@@712602

txt President Truman today presented to congress another high spending , deficit budget for 1951 and drew a blast of criticism from economy advocates on Capitol hill . The new budget called for government spending of 42 billion 439 million dollars in the fiscal year beginning . July 1 and ending June 30 , 1951 , and proposed increased outlays to achieve Mr. Truman 's self-styled . Fair Deal program . The budget is in the red more than 5 billion dollars . The total i of expenditures is 858 million dollars lower than the current 1950 estimated figure of 43 billion 297 million dollars ? highest peace time government spending in American history . " Extravagant , Unsound " Republicans and some Democrats In the house and senate assailed the President 's budget as extravagant , unsound , and political . They vowed a finish fight to reduce ; the spending total and balance the budget , or at least bring it more nearly in line with revenues . With few exceptions , the congressional criticism and praise of the 1951 budget followed party lines . Typical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Sen. Taft 0. , senate G , 0 . P. policy committee chairman , and House Minority Leader Martin Mass . . Taft . asserted that the President 's long list of spending projects makes , a balanced budget impossible and accused Mr. Truman of using previous mention of economy and budget balancing in the state of the Union message " only for window dressing . " Martin Vows Fight Martin declared that Republicans in congress have " no intention of accepting this budget and . . . will work night and day it necessary to bring it within the bounds of the capacity of the people to pay . " He said the American people " are sick unto death of this juggling of public funds for political purposes " and want reduced expenditures , lower taxes and government efficiency . Sen , Ferguson R. , Mich. said the 1951 budget would be cut " even tho the President says it involves the prosperity of the nation . " Rep. Taber IR. , N.Y. ) , ranking minority member of the house appropriations committee , ? said that if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only the choices of defaulting on its obligations or adding to the already heavy tax burden . Sen. Byrd D. , Va. ) replied to the President 's 1951 budget by proposing his own fiscal plan to limit federal spending ? to 36 billion dollars for the year . Among the major savings , Byrd said , he would slash Mr. Truman 's 12. billion 200 million dollar total for domestic programs to 8 billion 900 million , and cut national defense expenditures from 121/2 billion to 11 billion 300 million . " Moderate Tax Increase " In contrast to billions of dollars in additional taxes the President demanded a year ago , he said today he would ask congress only for unspecified adjustments in the tax laws to produce a " mod. erate " increase in federal revenues . Mr. Truman proposed , however , a boost of nearly 1% billion dollars in pay roll taxes to finance extended ' social security coverage and to launch a government health insurance program . The 1951 spending estimate set a record In that It was the largest total for a new peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Truman handed congress an initial spending figure of 41 billion 857 million dollars for the 1950 fiscal year . This later proved ' to be an underestimate of nearly 11/2 billion dollars . Since taking office , Mr. Truman has almost invariably underestimated his spending in his original January budgets . Expects Drop in Revenue Mr. Truman told congress that anticipated federal revenues in the 1951 fiscal year would amount to 37 billion 306 million dollars , a decrease of 457 million from this year 's revenues . The expected decline was attributed to smaller corporation tax collections reflecting the business slump of last year . The revenue estimate for 1951 did not include the new tax proposals which the President will send to congress in a separate message in a few days . The proposed Truman spending ( ) Ways and the anticipated federal revenues in the 1951 fiscal year show a budget deficit of 5 billion 133 million dollars . The deficit for the current fiscal year is placed at 5 billion 534 million dollars  --  more ' than six times larger than Mr. Truman figured a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the ? " downward trend in expenditures from 1950 to 1951 may be expected to continue , " but he gave no indication of when  --  or how ? he hoped the budget might be balanced in future ' years . Ile spoke in general terms of pursuing " a policy of financial prudence and restraint . . . . Directed at producing a surplus as soon as possible under favorable economic conditions . " Mr. Truman forecast that the public debt , which topped 257 billion dollars at the end of 1949 , would rise to 263 billion 800 million dollars at the close of 1951 . The 1951 budget provides 5 billion 625 million dollars for annual interest on this debt . In his meAage today , the President repeated his contention that large government expenditures are essential to the welfare and growth of the nation and to world peace . He declared that his 1951 budget is " sound " and " honest . " At the same time , he opened fire on economy advocates in congress with the assertion that " irresponsible and shortsighted budgetary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to a decline in production and employment in the United States . " The 1951 budget calls for reductions in expenditures totaling approximately 1 billion 800 million dollars In foreign aid , veterans ' benefits , and public debt interest .. Comparative 1950 and 1951 fiscal year figures for these budget items are , respectively , foreign aid and affairs , 5 billion 964 million and 4 billion million dollars ; veterans ' benefits , 6 billion 005 million and 6 billion 80 million dollars , and public debt . interest , 5 billion 725 million and 5 billion 625 million dollars .                     