@@714257

txt Letters to The Times STANLEY P. DAVIES , JOHN H. WUORINEN.CHARLES J. MURPHY , WILLIAM L. HOLLAND , HARRY ... pg . 28 Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIDIES : Lucy Freeman 's recent articles ' on welfare practices and expenditures are remarkable for their clarity and perspective . The series has documented in intelligible fashion the problems of governmental and voluntary welfare administration on federal , state and local levels . And with characteristic insight that has marked Mrs. Freeman among the ' ablest interpreters in the field of welfare , her four articles presented important issues that confront us as a nation and as citizens of our community . There is doubtless general acceptance of the principle that the necessities of decent living need to be provided for those who are temporarily or permanently unable to provide for themselves and that in the ' absence of other resources governmental . programs discharge a basic public responsibility in this respect . It ' is , therefore , important for citizens both to know the facts about their governmental programs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible understanding of the needs they meet , of the standards by which they operate and the way in which they are administered . Thus Mrs. Freeman 's articles have rendered a real public service . That there is a place for both the public and the voluntary agency , each exercising its indispensable role according to American tradition , is clear from the facts so ably presented . As Mrs. Freeman pointed out , with government " assuming the basic financial responsibility for the nation 's needy " the voluntary family and children 's agencies now focus on other needs of troubled people and study the causes of these needs " in an attempt to prevent emotional and economic dependency . " As Mrs. Freeman has also brought out , the present resources of the private agencies are not sufficient fully to meet the great need and growing demand for the timely and preventive services which these agencies are so well equipped to render . It is to be hoped that this series of articles will give the citizen a heightened sense ' of responsibility for providing increased support to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ falls upon voluntary endeavor , while bringing an enlightened understanding to the large rid essential role which his governmental agencies play in meeting basic human needs . STANLEY P. DAVIES , General Director , Community Service Society of New York . New York , Nov. 9 , 1951 . Sweden 's Political Trend To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIDIES : One of the two editorials commenting , on Oct. 2j on the outcome of the British elections made an interesting point . It was to the effect that in turning the Labor Government out of office the British voters had given still another illustration of the fact that socialism has passed its flood tide and is now receding . At present , the edithrial claimed , only two wholly Socialist Governments remain , those of Sweden and Norway . It would be interesting to weigh the merits of the broad conclusion that the twilight of socialism has actually set in , Space forbids , however . Meantime , it is pertinent to note that the reference to Sweden requires correction . Actually , Sweden also seemingly illustrates the trend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The facts ? are these : Sweden 's first wholly Socialist Cabinet assumed office in 1945 . On Oct. 1 of this year the Government was reorganized . Of the sixteen seats in the Cabinet four were turned over to the Farmers Union . The Ministry that had been in office for six years thus became a Socialist-Agrarian coalition Ministry . ' Basically. , the setup became pretty much what it had been for years after 1933 . The two parties represented in the reorganized Cabinet control 142 out ' of the 230 seats in the lower house of the Riksdag , and 104 of the 150 seats in the upper house . It remains to be seen , of course , whether in the long run socialism in Sweden has gained or lost by this change . In view of the fact that socialism has never enjoyed strong majority support , however , the surmise may be hazarded that Swedish Socialist leaders consider the present position of their party relatively weak and the economic , foreign relations and other problems that await solution so formidable that they require an executive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority could he assured only by a coalition Ministry . JOHN H. WUORINEN . New York , Nov. 1 , 1951 . I. P. It . Criticism Examined Evaluation of Institute on Basis of Publication Record Asked Cleaning Up Subway Facilities To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIDIES : A great deal of discussion has been aroused regarding ? your recent editorial advocating removal of subway kiosks . There are few persons who will disagree with you . that these kiosks are old-fashioned , obsolete eyesores which , in some locations , block the motorist 's view . I doubt , however , if they present as serious a problem concerning the health and welfare of the people of New York City as other parts of our subways . The removal of these kiosks would be an expensive proposition , and certainly this money could be used by the Board of Transportation more effectively in other ways . As an example , the board could . render less offensive the toilet rooms in the subways . These dingy , poorly lighted , insufficiently cleaned rooms are greatly in need of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from them is foul . The majority of New York subway To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Prof. Richard L. Walker 's letter in your issue , of Nov. 5 on the " defense methods " adopted by the Institute of Pacific Relations warrants an answer . Unfortunately , he gives no indication that he has read my thirty-page statement of Oct. 10 , which the McCarron subcommittee agreed to insert info the record . That statement , which is available on request from the I. P. R. office and has been widely distributed , makes it clear that the I. P. R. officers are not following what Professor Walker calls an " all or nothing defense policy " in the sense of refusing to acknowledge past errors of judgment or of uncritically defending everyone ever connected with the institute , or everything ever done or published under its auspices . Professor Walker seems to overlook the fact that most of what he calls the subcommittee 's " impressive evidence " has been artfully and misleadingly , selected from the files of the . I. P. R.% and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousands of other documents in the files ( access to which the subcommittee still denies to the I. P .. R. officers ) which would convincingly refute most of the allegations thus far introduced into the hearings . They would also clearly show the open , non-partisan character of the institute . What the I. P. R. officers maintain is simply that the institute should be judged by what it actually did and published . They also specifically repudiate the unfounded and insulting allegation that the institute has been ' controlled by Communists and has exerted a subversive influence upon the State Department or on American Far Eastern policy . To support the I. P. R. 's position I would cite the direct . experience of some two thousand . reading scholars , journalists and business men ' who have attended its conferences and meetings , and the contents of about 18,000 published pages of articles and 216,000 , pages of books , pamphlets and other I. P. R. publications . Professor Walker would like the I. P. R. officers to confess to unspecified past " transgressions , " repudiate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promise that the institute will sin no more . All this public repentance is apparently , to occur before the accused persons have had a fair chance to answer specific allegations and when only a manifestly one-sided selection of the evidence has thus far been presented . Not being Communists or ex-Communists , the I. P. R. officers can not easily indulge themselves in the luxury of such omnibus " confessions . " ? Nor can they , in good conscience , try to acquire virtue today by issuing ex post facto condemnations of former 11 . P. R. officers or activities which , in the psychological climate of past years , were widely praised or supported by hundreds of eminent and patriotic Americans . The present officers are , however , always ready to give full , candid and reasonable answers to ? all honest inquiries about the institute 's past or present policies . programs and person . WILLIAM L. HOLLAND , Executive Vice Chairman . New York , Nov , 9 , 1951 . Danger to Freedom Seen To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of speech and freedom of expression and , paradoxically enough , voices raised to demand censorship on those who speak or think in the unpopular and unorthodox vein , it is a pleasure to read an editorial such as the one which appeared in your issue , , , of Oct. 30 entitled " Freedom at Ohio State . " 0 When an educational institution takes it upon itself to decree what a student may listen to , and who may address the student body , there is very real danger of the undermining of our basic freedoms in the very creation of a limiting agency . I have noted with interest the fortho right manner in which THE NEW YORK TIMES has declared itself , - both editorially and in news feature articles , as in favor of freedom of speech and freedom of expression , without impost. tion of one man 's mind over the minds many the HARRY WEINBERG. of Chappaqua , N. Y. , Nov. 1 , 1951 . Aiding the Nation 's Needy Voluntary . Agency as Supplement to Government Program Discussed riders have grave forebodings about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Let us have , a paint-up and clean-up program for these facilities before we spend large sums - of money ' on removing the kiosks . Perhaps , in a few years , this program might even result in mothers not having to warn their dill. , dren against the use of the subway toilets if it can possibly be avoided . CHARLES J. MURPHY , President , Young Men 's Board of Trade . New York , Nov. 2 , 1951.                     