@@718190

txt Letters to The Times Our Suez Role Praised Mr. Dulles Said to Introduce New Approach to Colonial Problem To THE EDIT3R OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The New York Times and Dana Adams Schmidt merit hearty congratulations for the latter 's article in The Times of Sept. 2 , " United States Role in the Middle East ? the Dulles Strategy . " It would be an excellent thing if every American could read this informative analysis of what the Secretary of State is trying to achieve toward a settlement of the Suez question . It would be especially helpful if people throughout the world , by reading this article , could come to understand better the Dulles strategy of stressing the practical rather than the national prestige or pride approach to the settlement of this difficult problem . In taking this common-sense approach the American Government , acting through our Secretary of State , seeks at once to disengage the United States from undue and shackling association with Britain and France on questions of decolonialization while at the same time standing firmly with Britain and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and practicalities . Rights and Responsibilities This approach would keep vitally in mind that the United States , while understanding and sympathetic with the emergent nations , believes it imperative for the wellbeing of all concerned that decolonialism should proceed with a proper respect for international agreement and the international necessities imbedded therein . With a decent pattern of national behavior based upon the theme that new rights call for corresponding new responsibilities . We ourselves were an emergent people in 1776 . Our national existence came into being in a climate of anti-colonialism . Yet today we are the strongest " going concern " in the world . Thus we are on both sides of the fence , so to speak . We understand and sympathize with the views of European states with long-held colonial territorial possessions the political and economic roots of which are difficult to disentangle or eradicate . At the same time we understand and sympathize with the newcomers to international rights and responsibilities at a time of great revolutionary portent throughout the world , and at a time also when a new and enslaving " colonialism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Position The Secretary of State is trying most ably to place the United States in a position to utilize for our own and for world stability the unique situation in which we find ourselves . At the recent London Conference he apparently sought essentially to gain " elbow room " for the deployment of our special situation for dealing constructively with both sides in the Suez problem . In this effort the Secretary of State may be by way of achieving the impossible ; of being on both sides of the question while being neither neutral nor partisan ; of wishing to be a frank but fair compositor of international controversies on terms primarily practical rather than emotional . This does not mean that the new approach spells a policy of appeasement , of " Nasser knows best . " The principle of standing up for one 's own rights is as imperative as ever . While a strong military establishment must still constitute the background for the development of national policy , the means of carrying this out should be sought through economic financial and psychological pressures , not advertised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially emergent peoples are quick to lose " face , " but employed quietly and none the less effectively . Whether or not the Secretary of State brings to a successful conclusion in the Suez problem a new approach to liquidating colonialism , he will have written into the record of international thinking and action a manner of negotiation which may prove of value in countering , constructively , Soviet ambitions to turn the clock back for their disruptive purposes . FERDINAND LATHROP MAYER , Bennington , Vt. , Sept. 4 , 1956 . Subway Anniversary Noted TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Sept. 10 marks an important transportation anniversary for the City of New York . On Sept. 10 , 1932 , the city Independent Subway System opened its first link to service ( and , by the bye , Paul R. Crowell wrote The Times story about it , one of the many he was to write , always with sure comprehension of our transit problems ) . As the great Samuel Seabury said of this event four years later , " Public ownership , operation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and A. A. Berle Jr . were pleading with the State Transit Commission in 1936 to approve transit unification , which came to pass in 1939 with the aid of a constitutional amendment permitting the city to use exempt bonds to buy out the owners of the old I. R. T. and B. M. T. contracts . Among the most substantial fixed assets acquired in unification were the private power plants owned by the Arthur Krock is on vacation . His column , " In the ? Nation , " will be reslimed shortly . I. R. T. and B. M. T. Today debate rages over whether to sell these power plants to Con Edison or continue operating them as part of the city-owned transit system , which the city leased to the State Transit Authority in 1953 for a ten-year term . All rapid transit issues seem to be perennials  --  rate of fare , threats of strikes , extensions of service , whether the city should own or lease . Large steps in doing something about these problems , like creating the city Independent line from 207th Street to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the late John H. Delaney was chairman of the Board of Transportation which built and opened this railroad , and he had courage . WILLIAM G. MULLIGAN . New York , Sept. 10 , 1956 . Stevenson Victory Seen Democratic Candidates Backed as Leading Nation to New Era To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The team of Adlai Stevenson and Estes Kefauver is , I believe , the most outstanding ticket ever presented to the public for the offices of President and Vice President . Either of these great and good men is qualified to lead our country to new heights in the fulfillment of what our fathers envisioned as a political system in which the individual could achieve a sense of economic security within a framework of individual liberty and self-respect . In achieving this best of possible tickets for the Democratic party and the nation , the striking thing is that neither of the nominees departed from the highest standards of ethical conduct . The nomination of these two men for the two highest offices in the land is a very real victory for the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the participation of decent and unselfish men in the political lffe of the nation . Mid because the candidates are , I believe , the most outstanding team ever to he nominated for these two offices , and because they are effective campaigners , and because what they represent in government is what the vast majority of the people want , they will lead their party to victory . Their victory will , I am convinced , lead to a new era of hope and development for the democratic way of life at home , and furnish again the kind of leadership which is needed to win to the cause of human decency and brotherhood the billions about the world who long for peace , freedom and prosperity , BERNARD L. STREHLER , Assistant Professor of Biochemistry , University of Chicago . Chicago , Sept. 1 , 1956 . Supreme Court Ruling Queried To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Is it not incontrovertible that the Supreme Court can make a mistake and is not infallible ? The court reversed itself in this latest law on integration , having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fulfilled constitutional requirements . If the court is now right , is it not undeniable that the previous decision was wrong ? Therefore is it iSn. itself heinous for some Southerners to feel that the Supreme Court has now made a mistake  --  since many Northerners feel that the court did make a mistake in the previous decisions ? I realize we must bow to our Supreme Court if we are to be a nation of law and order and also that the Negro race should have economic advantages , and fair treatment  --  yet I do feel the court made a mistake in this latest decision , not realizing the tremendous overturning of ageold traditions of our Southern friends . ETHEL R. WILKINSON , New York , N. Y. , Aug. 31 , 1956 . Pre-Trial Judgments in Press To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : That was a good editorial The New York Times printed on Sept. 5 , entitled " Conviction Before Trial . " It is important that the truth set forth therein should be kept in the minds of newspaper men who , having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be careful not to abuse it . There is a responsibility involved in this situation that makes it impossible to achieve justice if we indulge in trials by newspapers , which are always based on the unbridled charges of those who , for the moment , are in authority . It should be said that the newspapers do not imagine the things they print ; these are fed to them by officials who like to see their names in print , and who are regardless of the damage done . Irresponsibility is a danger that journalism always faces . HERBERT BAYARD SNVOPE . New York , Sept. 7 , 1956 . Tax-Exempt Realty Opposed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial of Aug. 29 entitled " A Big City 's Big Budget " tells a tremendous story . You will get nowhere until and unless the City Fathers really get down to the business of looking into the exempt realty now totaling a figure of $8,400,836,029 ( that 's eight billions , not millions ) in 1957 , as against a little over six billions in 1951 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while the rest of us have to make it up to meet the budget . An honest check on all the taxexempt property would undoubtedly reveal gross " misplacement of exemptions " or abuse of the privilege , but such investigation should be made forthwith to reduce the load on others . OTTO SCHULER . Rego Park , N. Y. , Aug. 31 , 1956 . Banning Modern Art Government Policy on Paintings in Exhibitions Criticized To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I was astonished to read in Anthony Lewis ' article , headlined " U. S. Unit Assailed on Art Tour Ban , " in The New York Times of Sept. 3 , that " no confirmation could be found " in Washington for the statement published in the September Art News that the United States Government has banned all paintings dating after L917 from any exhibition traveling abroad under its sponsorship . The United States Information Agency has the responsibility for such circulating exhibitions . After censoring for political reasons a traveling exhibition organized by an outstanding professional group , the American Federation of Arts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both some United States Senators and art critics and museum directors . The head of the U. S. I. A. , Theodore Streibert , took the issue to the White House , or so he told the American Federation of Arts ' trustees , and he later reported to them that the White House backed his contention that no artists with Communist connections  --  which usually ' means artists who have been connected by any source with any movement someone has called " Red " ? could be included in future international exhibitions under Federal auspices . Basis of Decision Quite obviously the U. S. I. A. is unable to ascertain which artists are " clean , and which might be presumed to be tainted , " especially in the face of Lhe continuous stream of **25;270;TOOLONG emanating from Congressman Dondero on the floor of the House of Representatives . Perhaps it is for this reason , perhaps for some others , that the U. S. I. A. decided to include no more paintings dating from after 1917 ? the year of the Russian Revolution -- in its shows . This policy switch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to your reporter , but it was- clearly stated in a letter from the Deputy Director of the U. S. I. A. ( the Director was on vacation ) to the Committee for an Adequate Overseas Information Service , Inc. , in New York . Charlotte Devree , who wrote a brilliant analysis of . this whole sorry and ambiguous bit of governmental double-think in Art News , learned of the contents of this letter and quite properly reported it . I can not understand how the U. S. I. A , has the temerity to deny the existence of its new policy . The agency 's reference to its currently traveling exhibition of the Fleischman Collection pictures obviously was meant to throw Mr. Lewis off the track . That show was organized before the new policy had been established and , equally obviously , the Government could not go back to Mr. Fleischman with the sudden decision to chop off part of his collection as being unsuitable for export and expect anything but bad publicity for what is , essentially , its public-relations effort . Insistence on Conformity The fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to use culture in order to show the world a true aspect of America , but insists that culture conform to a governmental fashion of security clearance . As modern American painting , which is , I believe , the most important Contribution we have made to culture in the past decade , can not be screened , the Government , regretfully perhaps , will not touch it . It is a pity that Washington can not realize that the whole point of art is that it can never be " reliable " and that its merit often lies precisely where there is " risk . " But meanwhile the administrators might have the good will to confess , when asked by a reporter , that , as of last month , at least ( for all I know they may be switched again ) it has banned modern American painting from its exhibitions . THOMAS B. HESS , Executive Editor , Art News . New York , Sept. 4 , 1956 . Bus Disregard of Traffic Laws To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I would like to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buses in our city by our Police Department , with particular regard to observance of traffic signals and the ' comparatively new regulation on unnecessary blowing of horns . As a native New Yorker I was delighted with the passing of this recent law , but the flagrant disregard on the part of the bus drivers is appalling . Last week one driver blew his horn 147 times from Twenty-seventh Street to Ninety-sixth Street , jumped nine red lights after they had turned red , blowing his horn at pedestrians whom he thought in the wrong . - I would defend to the utmost the fact that our police force is tops in America , but to our buses they turn a blind eye . It is habitual on the part of drivers to proceed right in the face of a signal already turned red , and woe be unto the unwary street crosser who foolishly depends upon a bus waiting for a green light . Perhaps this is the fault of an unfair hurry-up schedule , and not the driver , because I can not believe drivers want to involve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patrolmen were ordered to give summonses to these drivers , perhaps our city would be safer and quieter HERBERT ROSEN T II AL . New York , Sept. 4 , 19513.                     