@@718983

txt WASHINGTON , July 14 ? Friends and foes of civil rights legislation were officially standing firm today while awaiting the first test vote in the Senate . The vote will be on a motion by the Senate Republican leader , William F. Knowland of California , to make the bill the pending business . before the Senate . It is scheduled to come shortly after 6 P. M. on Tuesday . The coalition of Republicans and liberal Northern Democrats led by Mr. Knowland is expected to win by a comfortable margin . The result is likely to be a Southern filibuster , a tactic of dilatory debate designed to kill a bill . A filibuster of moderate duration may eventually result in a compromise measure stressing principally the right to vote . Despite a week of preliminary debate and much cloakroom maneuvering looking toward agreement on such a compromise , leaders of both camps remained adamant today in their nubile statements on the issue . Early Concession Opposed This reflected a general belief in the Senate that it would not be strategic for either side to concede @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most Senators conceded privately that an accommodation of conflicting views was necessary if civil rights legislation in any form was to pass this year . In line with such strategic considerations , Senator James O. . Eastland , Democrat of Mississippi , declared on a special television discussion of the Columbia Broadcasting System that " there is no part of this bill that I would approve . " Case and Carroll Adamant A colleague , Senator Sam J. Ervin Jr. , Democrat of North Carolina , appearing on the same program , agreed that the bill " is so bad it ca n't be patched up enough to make it palatable . " Also appearing on the program were Senators Clifford P. Case , Republican of New Jersey , and John A. Carroll , Democrat of Colorado . They were equally positive on the other side . Senator Case said the bill was " a reasonable bill * * * applying traditional remedies . " Senator Carroll insisted that it was a bill to " persuade and not punish " the South - in encouraging it to grant greater civil rights to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , leader of the Southern bloc , declared on " Open Hearing , " television program of the American Broadcasting Company , that the bill was " a very severe and un // American measure , in my opinion . " The Georgia Democrat said that it had as its primary purpose " not voting rights , but to enforce the intermingling of the races in the public schools at the point of a bayonet , if need be . " Senator Paul H. Douglas , Democrat of Illinois , leader of the Northern Democratic wing of Senator Knowland 's coalition , insisted on the A. B. C. television program , " College Press Conference " that the measure was " a moderate bill " that Was being opposed only by " the extremists and the race-baiters in the South . " Anderson Plane Amendment In a separate development , Senator Clinton P. Anderson , 1 hitherto considered a member of Senator Douglas ' group , announced that he was preparing an amendment paralleling one offered by Senator Russell that would strike from the bill a section giving the Attorney General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Anderson , a Democrat of New Mexico , said his amendment would delete Section III of the bill , which authorizes the Attorney General to seek Federal injunctions against violations or threatened violations of civil rights , including the right to attend non-segregated schools . Anyone who was convicted of ignoring the injunctions would be subject to fine and imprisonment without trial by jury . Senator Anderson said his amendment would not affect this power in cases involving voting . Other proposed amendments , including one offered yesterday by Senator Karl E. Mundt , Republican of South Dakota , would strike out Section III and provide for jury trials in voting ' cases where- the facts were in dispute . The Mundt amendment has al , ready won wide support as a potential basis for compromise . Both Senator Douglas and , Senator Case insisted today that Section III was necessary for adequate civil rights protection . Senator Eastland said it would authorize " shot - gun government . " Senator Russell said he believed civil rights pressure groups had convinced leaders of both political parties that whichever did the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1960 . He said much of the pressure for the bill , backed by such organizations as the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the Americans for Democratic Action , was " shot through and through with politics . " The Georgian conceded earlier in an interview that the Knowland motion to make the bill the pending business would probably pass . He said he hoped it would be defeated but said he recognized " the realities " of the situation . " I know a number of men who will vote for Senator Knowland 's motion are opposed to some of the provisions of this bill , " he said . He added that Southern forces on Tuesday would " muster nothing like our total strength , " which will be displayed later against the bill itself .                     