@@713090

txt Lower prices for a number of food items  --  in the face of generally rising food prices and an increasing amount of " scare buying " of food staples  --  marks the " good-buys " news on the New England food front today . The lower prices  --  for the most part even below those of a week ago  --  are for fresh produce , the products of . New England farms , to be found on retail store counters throughout the area . The higher prices apply to many other items  --  and are blamed on two things : 1 . General uncertainty over future supplies becauseof the Korean war situation ? with many food manufacturers and distributors taking advantage of this , and boosting wholesale prices all along the line . 2 . A rapidly rising tide of " scare buying " on the part of a public whose memory of food shortages , ceiling prices , and rationing of World War II is all too vivid . ' Runs ' on Sugar In many cases , the public has only itself to blame if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is particularly true in the case of sugar , where report of " runs " on supplies are reported throughout the area . New England housewives may rest assured that there are plentiful supplies of sugar available  --  and " there is plenty of food on hand , with absolutely no need for a rush on buying , " according to one of the major grocery suppliers . Among the latest commodities to hit the rush-buying class along with sugar have been shortenings , flour  --  and even nylon stockings , men 's shoes , washing machines , and refrigerators . Retailers in many sections reported sugar stocks as completely exhausted because of this virtual stampede of scarce buying . " Needless stockpiling by the individual housewife will only serve to overtax refining facilities , " said John P. , Massachusetts State Director of the Division of Necessaries of life . " Sugar will keep much better in warehouses than it will piled up under the kitchen sink , in a dark closet , or a damp cellar , " he said . Appeal to Consumers A forthright appeal has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of food prices by refraining from such stockpiling of staples . As for fresh native-grown New England vegetables , celery topped the plentiful list , followed closely by squash , beets , snap beans , corn , cauliflower , lettuce , cabbage , carrots . cucumbers , potatoes , tomatoes , radishes , scallions , and chicory . Prices on many of these are lower than those of a week ago , according to the Food Marketing Bulletin of the New England Extension Marketing Information Office .                     