@@718473

txt Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In your editorial of Jan. 2 you properly distinguish between the problems of " opposing aggression " and of preventing " Communist infiltration and subversion " in the Middle East . You asked whether the United States in contributing to the solution of these problems should " work through the United Nations or outside of it . " " Aggression " as a technical term of international law refers to the violation by a state of its obligation not to use armed force , and particularly the obligation of members of the United Nations under Art . 2 , Par . 4 of the Charter to " refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force " without adequate justification . The answer appears to be that any use or threat to use armed force across an internationally recognized frontier by a de facto or a de jure government , or by armed bands or " volunteers " for whose acts such a government is responsible by complicity or negligence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual or collective self-defense , by the authority of the United Nations to restore international peace and security or by consent of the state within whose territory such armed force is being used . According to the Charter ( Art . 51 ) a necessity for self-defense can be pleaded only if " armed attack " has occurred against the state making the plea . Acceptance of Decision The Security Council has authority to " decide upon measures to maintain and restore international peace and security , " and all members are obliged to accept such decision . Either the Security Council or the General Assembly may make recommendations for the maintenance of international peace and security , and practice makes it clear that if a ceasefire recommendation made by either body is accepted by one state engaged in hostilities and not by the other , the non-accepting state is presumed to be an aggressor . Consequently , the accepting state is justified in continuing hostilities as a measure of necessary selfdefense , and other states are justified in responding to its request for aid in " collective self-defense . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speak for a state whose territory has been invaded , will not constitute justification for the invader unless the consenting government was generally recognized and its consent was explicit . General collective defense agreements do not justify one of the parties in sending forces into the territory of another party unless such action is explicitly requested in an emergency . Clearly consent given by a government , established by the invader as a result of its invasion , does not constitute consent by the invaded state . A United States policy to prevent or frustrate aggression thus defined requires commitment to use armed force as a last resort ? if persuasion fails . Such commitment would strengthen general confidence that the United States would act in accord with its legal obligations under the Charter to observe Security Council decisions , with its moral obligations to assist in carrying out Security Council or General Assembly ceasefire recommendations and with its freedom to engage in " collective self-defense " at request of a state , victim of attack . Such a policy should indirectly assist in preventing " Communist infiltration and subversion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ address of Jan. 5 , fear of aggression ( though from sources other than those covered by the proposed Congressional resolution ) has probably been an element in the decision of certain Middle Eastern governments to accept Soviet aid and so to open themselves to " infiltration and subversion . " Aid to Area However , the direct method of dealing with the latter danger would seem to be a program of technical aid and economic assistance from the West , preferably through the United Nations , and consistent behavior by Western states convincing the Middle Eastern states that the West intends to assist them in realizing independence and economic progress . In view of the fact that the General Assembly has made it clear that it will support such policies by overwhelming majorities , there seems to be no reason why a suitable policy , both for preventing " aggression " and for " preventing subversion and infiltration " can not be conducted by the United States entirely within the United Nations . It would seem desirable to make it clear in the proposed Congressional resolution that the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preventing the charge that it is substituting its " imperialism " in this area for that of others . QUINCY WRIGHT . New York . Jan. 7 , 1957 . Placing Older Workers To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIDIES : Three hundred and thirty-six years after the Mayflower 's landing , America is still a young people 's country . Compared to the European nations where the shift of emphasis from one generation to another ? senior to junior ? is much slower , it To THE EDITOR OF THENEW YORK Tnsus : A very sufficient answer to your editorial of Jan. 8 " Fighting the Filibuster " is to be found in the third column over in the statement of Arthur Krock . It is well worth reading carefully . It is interesting to know that in the particular conditions under which the Senate was operating at the moment , and in the parliamentary situation that existed , the Vice President handed down a " precedent-setting opinion , " whatever that may be . It is quite true he did give voice to some dicta , and he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ? There is a sharp difference , you know , between opinion and ruling or decision . Opinions were being expressed on all parts of the Senate floor that day , and who is to say that one was better than another ? , The word " filibuster " is suddenly being made an opprobrious term in the hope of facilitating passage of some legislation which certain minority and pressure groups , and certain ideologists , want enacted . In the effort to gain passage they would seemingly pull the Senate apart , destroy its very nature , and make it a catspaw for the benefit of the noisy minorities of the future . A significant thing , still fresh in mind , is that when Messrs . Douglas , Lehman , Morse and others indulged last spring in prolonged and pointless discussion of the Natural Gas Bill , and when earlier Messrs . Hill , Lehman , Morse and others engaged in similar dilatory and pointless discussion of the Tidelands Oil Bill , both of which in their very nature were filibusters , they were not so called by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate 's action on its own rules . Yet both of those incidents were most certainly filibusters , nothwithstanding all of the perfume and extolling and adoring editorials that were poured over them . It is fortunate that Senate rules do provide safeguards , and give protection in the legislative process , from the oscillations and ephemeral fluctuations in editorial viewpoints , which at best are no more than nonprecedent-setting opinions . B. C. CLARKE , Washington , Jan. 8 , 1957 . Lack of Backing for Allies To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In your editorial of Jan. 10 titled " Eden Resigns , " with which otherwise I am in full agreement , you repeat the legend that England and France had to withdraw from Egypt because of the action of the United Nations . Of course , it was Russia 's threat to send her divisions and airfleets under the name of " volunteers " that forced the withdrawal . If the United States had backed her allies instead of using pressure against them the Russians would never have dared to threaten armed intervention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place to live in . PAUL M. KAuFMAN . New York , Jan. 10 , 1957 . Senator Eastland Praised To THE EDITOR OF THENEW YORK TIMES : Our Board of Directors protests the unfair criticism of Senator Eastland in your editorial on Jan. 2 . The charge of anti-constitutionalism is particularly unjustified . His high regard for the Constitution is one of the main reasons for his opposition to the decision of the Supreme Court on school segregation . We regard James Eastland as an able Senator and a thoroughly loyal American . Jon N H. Wisreen Jr. , President , Pro-Constitution Association , Inc . Westfield , N. J. , Jan. 9 , 1957 , Middle East Plan Examined Policy Conducted Within the United Nations Is Considered Feasible is the worker 's accomplishments , not his youthfulness , that gives hies preference . But here , an reported in your columns recently , " extreme difficulty " is being encountered in placing the former employes who are over 45 years of ' age of two magazines that have just folded up . The older worker 's most valuable assets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the years , but they are too often sacrificed to the good of youth . Consigning men and women workers of mature years whose livelihood has been taken away to the scrap heap is both ruthless and uneconomic . GUY d'AULBY . New York , Jan. 5. 1957 , Voting on Senate Rules Tactic of groups Seeking Filibuster Change Criticized                     