@@718391

txt In a policy statement to which he has given the widest possible distribution President Nasser disclaims any ties with Soviet Russia and all imperial ambitions and dedicates himself and his country to national independence within a framework of international cooperation to achieve a " just and honorable " solution of the " highly inflammable " Middle Eastern p  --  problems . This new declaration should promptly be put to the test . Such a test would be provided by ascertaining Colonel Nasser 's willingness to negotiate simultaneously and in good faith not only for an adequate basis for the United Nations police force in Egypt but also for a permanent settlement of the Middle Eastern issues . These issues are , first , Arab peace with Israel , and , second , guaranteed freedom for the Suez Canal , If these problems are settled the Middle Eastern crisis is over , the hostile armies can go home and the whole Middle East can enter into a new era of political and economic development in which it is assured of American aid . With a United Nations force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be too difficult for Colonel Nasser to negotiate with one or more United Nations committees , which in turn would negotiate with the opposite parties and then recommend a settlement mutually agreed upon . Such committees , one on Palestine and one on Suez , have in fact been proposed to the General Assembly by the United States , and it would seem imperative for the Assembly to take prompt'action on these proposals . Of the two problems involved the question of the Suez . Canal should be the easier to solve ? provided Colonel Nasser is willing to return to the international law which he now espouses but which he broke when he seized the canal by force in disregard of a treaty that is part of international law . The principles of such a solution have already been laid down in the unanimously adopted resolution of the Security Council , to which Egypt agreed . The most important of these principles is that the operation of the canal should be " insulated " from Egyptian politics . As no other operation on Egyptian territory is or can be so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has already been given a special status calling for some kind of international instead of purely national control . As regards Israel , no settlement is possible so long as Egypt maintains a technical state of war and indulges in " acts of war " not only by commando raids across Israeli frontiers but also by blockade of Israeli shipping . This state of war must be ended , as it has been ended in other cases without prejudice to riiral claims . Once it is ended there is ample room for adjustment of rival claims on the basis of mutual concessions . Israel has always declared itself ready and eager for peace . Let us now see whether Colonel Nasser will show a like desire and validate his claim to leadership by leading Egypt and the other Arab states in this direction . His acts along this line , rather than his words , will determine the world 's judgment .                     