@@717973

txt Letters to The Times PIERO FOSSI.SYLVAN GOTSHAL.LOUIS C. WYMAN , SYMON GOULD , Letters to The Times NATO Evaluated Need Seen - for Unity of Alliance Nations to Check Soviet Expansion The writer of the following letter is a critic and former journalist . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The President of the Italian Republic , Giovanni Gronchi , during his recent journey to the United States declared that the Atlantic pact must not only be a military alliance if it is to be a bulwark of the free democracies and safeguard the spirit of our Western civilization . The alliance must be extended to political , economic , social and psychological fields , thus creating a unity capable of standing up against Soviet totalitarianism and expansion . The voice of each nation must be heard and each must make its contribution , while no problems should be confined ( as often the most delicate ones are ) to only two or three nations . ' bis implies a very precise political vision and is in the true spirit of the Atlantic pact . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thinking that it is still only a distant goal , if such incidents as those that occurred in Cyprus should arise among nations belonging to the Atlantic alliance . One Nation 's Claims These incidents indicate a lack of social , political , economic and psychological unity . This lack is also reflected in the strategic unity which has been achieved , at least formally . It allows the strategic claims of one nation to prevail over the vast defensive strategic plan of SHAPE or NATO  --  in this case the strategic defense of the British Empire . It is troubling to see that two countries belonging to tlee Atlantic union were unable to reach an amicable agreement  --  England by recognizing the political autonomy of the Cyprus Greeks , and obtaining their military bases on the island from Greece . But what is far worse , to our mind , is the English intolerance to the reaction of public opinion in the Western democracies on the Cyprus incident . This is one of the occasions in which the British tradition reveals , in a moment , the fact ( usually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the empire is the backbone of the Commonwealth . If the political life of a country is to be ultimately identified with the administration of its power , whether economic or military , we certainly can not deny to a country like England her own backbone and her own strategy . But it is the nature and the spirit of this strategy that we are questioning , making a subtle but fundamental distinction . A strategy of imperial defense is of course , one of the essential principles of politics  --  Machiavelli 's " Prince 's subsistence . " But in the political evolution of modern times a people 's free self-government for free peoples ( since democracy is a principle which expands when it has been defined ) has taken the place of the prince . So that the mere political principle of preserving the prince 's rule is broadened and expanded into a moral and universal principle of preserving the people 's freedom , and strategy should therefore be used only in defense of all peoples and all nations . Defending Freedom This is the character of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world . We must acknowledge that it is most clearly interpreted in the United States , which , since it fortunately lacks an imperial tradition , is able to use its military and economic power in a more modern manner in defense of freedom . This idea is confirmed by the words of President Gronchi before leaving the United States . " Everything has contributed to confirm to me that this great country is in reality what hundreds of millions of human beings , in all parts of the world , imagine it to be : a gigantic force in the service of democracy and of peace , and therefore an immense hope for the future . " We willingly share this hope . But the Cyprus events must warn us of the difficulties that a democratic policy may still encounter in old Europe and in the Mediterranean , owing to the persistence of attitudes and traditions which are still opposed to that kind of policy . And they must admonish us that the moment has come for the continental nations of Europe to hasten their political , economic and military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe which can play its part in the broader Atlantic organization , a new and modern Europe which , in close collaboration with the North American continent , can guarantee a truly democratic policy and a strategy for safeguarding the freedom of all peoples . PIERO FOSSI . Florence , ' Italy , May 27 , 1956 . Tribute to Matthew Woll TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : As one who knew Matthew Woll and worked closely with him in many public activities I was moved by your report of his death in the June 2 issue and by your summary of his career . I think , however , your readers may be interested in a phase of his life 's work which has been either overlooked or insufficiently noted . Throughout his busy life Mr. Woll was a devoted believer in voluntary arbitration as a means of settling controversies . For close to twenty years he served uninterruptedly on the board of directors of the American Arbitration Association , and for a good part of that time was a memTo THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the States " reflects common misunderstanding in ti field which in the public intere , warrants clarification because ( the importance of the whole subjec There may be sedition in a stal directed solely against the stet government as distinct from tl Federal Government , but it is almo ; impossible to conceive of seditic against the Federal Governmer that does not include a real peril each and every state . Your editorial talks of seditio and subversion directed against te nation as something that only t ? Federal authorities should be cot cerned with . This is respectful ! believed to involve a non sequitur fc the simple reason that , if we bt face it at this point in histor : domestic and international comm. nism is directed against the capita ; ist system and hence against th republican form of governmen under which this entire country an each state therein is organized . It is impossible to say that a tru subversive . Communist who advc cates the overthrow and destructio of the capitalist system , whethe presently or at some future time i this extreme step should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system , direct his subversion ( sic , sedition ) agains merely the Federal Government , o merely the state government which his activities take place . Help From States The problem is one for the state and the Federal authorities ti handle as partners . The Departmen of Justice has told both the Suprem . Court and Congress that it find . such a partnership in the COMMOI interest and that efforts of the state , to help have actually helped rather than hindered keeping abreast o subversive activities on a collective national basis . The extremes of certain portion : of certain state laws may or maj not involve specific constitutiona issues . These can be resolved a : they arise . But to say that th : separate sovereign states of thi : country do not have the reservec police power to regulate by their own criminal laws those who sea to destroy the capitalist system be force and violence is to indulge in a kind of intellectual semantics their is just plain dangerous to the whole United States . Louis C. WYMAN , Attorney General , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ June 6 , 1956 . We believe with the Supreme Court that the problem can be more efficiently handled by Federal agencies working under Federal law , without the inevitable confusion , competition and complexity that would arise if forty-eight state agencies were also dealing with this problem under forty-eight different state laws . And we suspect most law-enforcement officers would agree , with us if they would publicly speak their private minds . May we remind the Attorney General of New Hampshire of what J. Edgar Hoover once said : " Meeting the spy , the saboteur and the subverter is a problem that must be handled on a nation-wide basis . " ? Editor , The Times . Use of Animals for Food Opposed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The legislation which has been introduced to confer a greater degree of painlessness in the slaughter of animals for our food supply and its controversial aspects assuredly calls for an expression of the viewpoint of vegetarianism on this issue . I can fully appreciate the arguments put forth by Helen E. Jones of the National Humane @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American Meat Institute , but both of these worthy proponents lose sight of the greater crime that is committed in the unnatural slaughter of these innocent animals for human sustenance . The moral issue that should be argued is whether we have the right to slay millions of animals annually . for food , sport or style which suciv vegetarians as Pythagoras , Plato ? Socrates , Aristotle , Buddha , Shelley , Gandhi , Shaw and others of equal eminence have indicated in their writings is contrary to natural law . SYMON GOULD , The American Vegetarian . New York , June 6 , 1956. ber of the association 's executi committee . In that capacity he in monthly with other committee mei hers and officers , giving active lea ership and counsel in promoting u of arbitration clauses in collecti bargaining agreements . During recent years Matthe Woll turned his attention mostly the international scene . He was ev alert to the totalitarian threat the free world ; his activities in t half of free trade unions abroad w not only an expression of his outloi as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mov ment is an essential element in der ocratic society . His advocacy of arbitration w. based on the same broad outloo He saw in it a practical demonstr tion that people in all walks of li could , by applying rules of read and methods of goodwill , solve the differences without resort to Gover ment controls and without the u of ' force or compulsion from az direction . SYLVAN GOTSHAL . President , American Arbitration A sociation . New York , June 5 , 1956 . Perils of Sedition Subversion Against Government Seen as Involving States                     