@@718978

txt Public opinion in the Middle East is intrigued  --  and puzzled ? by the failure of President Nasser of Egypt ' and Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru of India to issue a communique or formal statement after their several days of Parley . Although the issuance of communiques is by no means obligatory , it has become almost accepted practice , and the educated Middle Easterner had awaited a Nasser-Nehru statement with warm interest . There are those who are asking if this omission meant that less was accomplished than hoped for . At the airport before his departure Mr. Nehru merely said , " We come to Egypt to visit our friends . We take the opportunity of being together to discuss and exchange views in a cordial way on questions which are of interest to us . " Cairo and London Nod The question on which public interest continues to center here is whether resumption of Anglo-Egyptian relations has been brought near as a result of the Nehru - Nasser meeting . Relations between Britain and Egypt have been severed since British participation in the attack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Nehru had just attended the Commonwealth Prime Ministers Conference in London , and was therefore able to give Colonel Nasser an up-to-date report on the British attitude toward restoring diplomatic relations with Egypt . British and Egyptian financial experts met in Rome at the end of May to explore the possibility of resuming relations in financial and commercial fields , but their discussions were suspended after a few days . Colonel Nasser said in an interview with the United Press a week ago that he expected these Rome talks to be resumed within 20 days . It now remains to be seen whether the British and Egyptian delegations will be getting together again , and whether arrangements now will be worked out ? as the Egyptians have suggested  --  for the British to send a mission to Egypt to inspect the state of British property sequestered at the time of hostilities last fall . Claims Presented Britain is understood to , be insisting on satisfaction of its claim in respect to this sequestered property before agreeing to unfreeze Egyptian sterling assets blocked in Britain at the time of President Nasser @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morrow of Mr. Nehru 's departure there is no editorial comment in the Egyptian press on his discussions with Colonel Nasser . The magazine Rose elYoussef , however , carries a cartoon showing the British lion meekly crouching at Colonel Nasser 's feet . Mr. Nehru is represented as the lion tamer , stroking the lion with an olive branch and saying , " Sec how polite it has become ! " It now is nearly one year since Colonel Nasser nationalized the Suez Canal , and after the ensuing crises the . average Egyptian longs for a return to normalcy . At the moment he seems to be using this qtiestion of resumption of Anglo-Egyptian relations as his yardstick to judge how near normal the situation is again becoming . Simultaneously with moves toward restoring relations with Britain , Colonel Nasser seems to be trying to remove some of the acerbities which had developed between Egypt and other Arab countries in the wake of the Suez crisis and more recently of events in Jordan . Arabs Pine for Unity This should cause satisfaction throughout the Arab world , for in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arab public generally longs for Arab unity and is grieved when relations between Arab countries become strained . Colonel Nasser has used an Egyptian products fair , which has just opened in Cairo , as an occasion for conciliatory gestures toward the other Arab countries by inviting them to send special representatives for the opening ceremony . Among those present were Lebanese Minister of Finance and Economy Nasri el Maalouf . In view of the strained relations between Egypt and Lebanon because of the pro-Western policy of the present Lebanese Government , special interest is attached to his visit to Cairo . ' Lebanese Foreign Minister Charles Malik is quoted here as saying in Beirut at the week end that Lebanese-Egyptian relations were steadily improving . Dr. Malik is reported to have said that these relations have " never been so bad as some have said . " A day earlier , Lebanon had lifted its ban on entry of Egyptian newspapers which had been in force since May . Smiles for Saudi Arabia The Saudi Arabian Minister of Commerce was another guest at the opening of the Cairo fair . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Colonel Nasser was trying to remove any suggestion that his relations with King Saud had deteriorated because of the latter 's support for the firm action taken by King Hussein to suppress the activity of radical and pro-Egyptian politicians in Jordan . Colonel Nasser . recently sent his War Ministe ? and Commander in Chief , Gen. Abdel Hakim Amer , to Saudi Arabia for talks with King Saud . This has been followed by the announcement that Egypt has begun to deliver fighter aircraft to the Saudi Air Farce . Two batches are said to have arrived already in Saudi Arabia , and delivery of the rest is expected to continue during July and August . There are also reports indicating that moves are afoot to improve relations between Iraq and Egypt . Iraq was represented at the opening of the Egyptian products fair , and the Egyptian press i ? eports that Iraq is to suspend jamming of broadcasts by Cairo radio . In a further conciliatory gesture  --  this time outside the Arab world  --  President Nasser invited Turkey to send a representative to the opening of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister for Foreign Trade now is in the Egyptian capital  --  the first Turkish ministerial visit to Egypt since Turkey initiated the Baghdad Pact early in 1955.                     