@@716483

txt President Eisenhower today signed the anti-communist bill . He also approved 48 other bills and vetoed one minor measure . Then , his work largely done for the day , the President left his Lowry air force base office for the Cherry Hills Country club for lunch and an afternoon round of golf . . Chatting with reporters outside his office , Mr. Eisenhower said he is glad to be away from Washington , even tho he had to bring some work with him on his six to seven week holiday stay in Mrs. Eisentiower 's home city . Quizzed on a Day Off A reporter , noting that the President has been signing a lot of bills since he arrived here Saturday , asked the President when he was going to take a full day off . " Well , as a matter of fact , " the President said , . " this is still better than being in Washington . " Mr. Eisenhower also reported that Mrs. Eisenhower liked his nation-wide radio-TV speech last night on the administration 's record to date . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the talk , but that perhaps he had tried " to cover too much ground " in his half hour appearance , in which he made art indirect appeal to voters to give him a new Congress that will carry forward his program in 1055-56 . Virtually Outlaws Party The anti-communist bill the President signed virtually outlaws the Communist party by denying it all legal rights : and denies collective bargaining and other rights to any labor union upon a finding by the subversive activities control board that the union is " communist infiltrated . " The measure started out as an administration bill aimed solely attRed labor unions , but Congress last week added to it the provisions cracking down on the Communist party . Before passage , Congress struck from the measure a proviso opposed by the White House to make individual membership in the party ecrime . In a statement issued with the signing , Mr. Eisenhower praised the anti-Red union proviso . He said the " full impact " of the sections outlawing the Communist party " will require further careful study , " but that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with internal communism . Fifth of Series The measure signed today is the fifth piece of legislation to become law in recent weeks under what the President called a stepped up drive to defeat the communist conspiracy in this country . Mr. Eisenhower served notice in his statement that in the next few days he will sign three more measures Congress has enacted " to assist us in our fight to destroy communism in this country . " These provide : 1 . Loss of American citizenship to those advocating overthrow of the government by force and violence , upon conviction in the courts . 2 . Death penalty for peace time spies , and a broadened definition of sabotage to include acts involving radioactive , biological ; and chemical agents . 3 . Denial of government annuities , as in the case of the convicted spy-perjurer Alger Hiss , to past or present federal employes found guilty of certain crimes , including lying about Communist party membership . Fair Play Stressed The President said the entire package of anti-red laws was designed to protect the American people from the communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of justice , fair play , and the Constitution . " The measure Mr. Eisenhower vetoed was a private bill that would have given permanent United States residence to Nina Makeef , 53 , a native of Russia who has overstayed her visa period , but is eligible to return to France , her previous residence . 300 More Await Action This was the second bill Mr. Eisenhower has disapproved since coming to Denver Saturday . Since then , he has signed 154 measures , and still has nearly 300 to approve or veto . James C. Hagerty , Presidential press secretary , meanwhile announced that the President on Labor day will break ground by remote control from Denver for the first peace time atomic power plant at Shippingport , Pa. , near Pittsburgh .                     