@@718676

txt between Secretary of State John Foster Dulles and British Foreign Minister Selwyn Lloyd  --  the conference arranged months ago when British-American relations were at their nadir  --  included both matters of substantive decision and informal agreements on trends and attitudes . 1 . There was an encouragingly wide measure of agreement on Middle East policy ? not total accord , but more than the conferees expected in advance . This agreement means it is exceedingly unlikely that the United States and Britain will again march off in different directions on Mideast policy . 2 . The United States and United Kingdom have taken forthright steps to eliminate the threat of Soviet " missile blackmail " against Britain ? or against Western Europe , for that matter . The American agreement in principle to supply intermediate-range guided missiles to Britain will put London in position to reply in kind to any future veiled Muscovite threat ? of the kind perpetrated at the height of the Suez crisis ? to subject Britain to rocket attack . lAtomic Challenge 3 . The United States and Britain , in what is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and do likewise , have pledged to use sharp restraints in further nuclear testing so as to avoid a hazardous rise in global radiation . They agreed to inform the United Nations of future nuclear tests and to permit limited international observations of such tests " if the Soviet Union would do the same . " 4 . As Britain had hoped , the United States has applied the Eisenhower Doctrine to the Baghdad Pact by agreeing to join the pact 's military committee . This makes possibl e joint defense planning amon g the Northern Tier nations , Britain , and the United States , and it further isolates Egypt 's President Nasser . 5 . Quietly , at a morning session where Prime Minister Macmillan and President Eisenhower talked alone , and later at a dinner meeting involving the principals and the foreign ministers only , the strong divergence of viewpoint on use of the United Nations as a main instrument of national diplomacy was discussed . On each side views were expressed plainly . Nobody got incensed . Each agreed that the UN stood in need of improvement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ momentarily under severe testing in the discussions at Cairo between Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjold and Fresident Nasser . Firepower Stressed 6 . Britain 's plans to reduce its global garrisons in West Ger ? many , in Libya , Hong Kong , Malaya , and elsewhere were surveyed . American conferees well understood the British need to cut military commitments and launch a production-for. ; export drive . It was decided to try to replace the reduction in manpower with increases in firepower , a trend also visible in the Soviet Union . 7 . The whole burgeoning move toward a common market and free-trade area in Europe , including its impact on African colonies and former British dependencies , got a quick going over . Closer asso7 ciation of Britain with Europe was endorsed . The United States strongly supported the British view that development of a common European market should not result in the raising up of high tariff walls against the rest of the world  --  or against products from British overseas areas . 8 . China trade and Communist China 's membership in the United Nations was discussed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is against UN membership for or boosted trade with Communist China . But Britain may quietly increase some trade with Peking . 9 . There is no change whatever in the Anglo-American policy  --  also agreed to by France and West Germany  --  to " stand fast " on present Allied proposalt for the reunification of Germany . Red Role in Africa Sifted The conferees also discussed ' the impact of Communist propaganda on Africa , the desirability of coordinating all the " united Europe " assemblies in one overall assembly , general problems of defense , and the prospects of a visit to North American shores by Queen Elizabeth II next autumn . The final communique summed up the conference atmosphere when it stated that the President and the Prime Minister " have conducted their discussions with the freedom and frankness permitted to old friends . " " In a world of growing interdependence they recognize their responsibility to seek to coordinate their foreign policies in the interests of peace and justice " it added . As regards Middle East policy , there was some difference of emphasis between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prime Minister Macmillan told his press conference there was agreement on the " line " both countries proposed to take , in both short-term and long-term policy . The Americans said there was no final agreement on precisely what would be done if the Hammarskjold mission should fail . They said , however , that " atti. tucles " have been developed , guide lines have been laid out . The Middle East picture was thoroughly discussed , and views are not too far apart . Nasser Reassessed For instance , both sides are somewhat apart but not totally apart in their estimates of Colonel Nasser . The British believe him to be totally unprincipled . The Americans are very disappointed in his recent behavior . What the conference has essentially done is to convince the British that there is iron inside the velvet glove with which Secretary Dulles has been dealing with President Nasser . Later events may or may not dispel this British impression , but that is their present delighted discovery ' . Bermuda talks text : Page 4 . Revision of United States A-law sighted : Page @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            