@@713044

txt The House of Representatives voted almost three to one today to override President Truman 's veto of a bill increasing the pay of World War II veterans in the postal service . The ballot was 213 to 7,2 . It was the first such setback for the President on a piece of important general legislation in the life of the Democrat-controlled EightyFirst Congress . The President , in his veto , attacked the bill as one providing little more than an inequitable " indirect bonus . " Arrayed against the President in the vote were 114 Democrats , ninety-eight Republicans and the one American Labor member . Fifty Democrats and twenty-two Republicans voted to uphold the - veto . If the necessary two-thirds vote to override develops in the Senate , veterans in the postal service will be entitled to a pay increase of $100 , the equivalent of one pay grade , for each year of military service . Senate Outcome Uncertain The outcome of the vote in the Senate is uncertain , but the elections this fall will be less of a factor there than in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are at stake . More than one House member , interviewed after today 's vote , said that he " had to ride with the herd on this one . " There was no debate before the record vote , forced by Representative Vito Marcantonio of New York , American Labor party . Almost a score of the votes to override came from Democrats , generally considered prominent in the Administration camp . House leaders sought to send the bill back to the Committee on Post Office and Civil Service on a motion by the committee chairman , Representative Tom Murray of Tennessee . This motion to recommit , made immediately after the veto message was read , apparently prevailed on a voice vote . There were only a few scattering nays . Before the result could be announced , however , Mr. Marcantonio jumped up to make a point of no quorum . This brought about an automatic roll call on the motion to recommit . With members forced to a record vote , the motion failed , 115 to 165 . Even on this vote Administration lines broke . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Many of the votes against overriding were cast by more conservative members who apparently agreed with the President that the bill was a " step in an undesirable direction . " In his veto message President Truman declared that the bill had four basic weaknesses . He said that it allowed credit for service in no way related to a civil service career . He stated also that it would create discontent among veterans in other departments . A third basic weakness , he as // serted , was that it was not a veterans ' benefit bill but a special benefit bill for one group of veterans without any regard for real and distinctive need . This led to his fourth point , he added , which was the Post Office budget problem . The over-all cost of the bill was estimated at $163,000,000 . The President stressed that there might be good grounds for rewarding civil servants whose careers were interrupted by war service or those who were on eligible lists when called to arms . " On the other ? hand , " he proceeded , " it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ benefited by this law intended to enter the postal service ; many of them by reason of age , lack of experience , or other work history , could not have obtained any eligibility until after the completion of their military services . " Therefore I believe that to extend the benefits proposed in this measure to them would be tantamount to giving what might be called an indirect bonus or adjusted services payment in recognition of military service . This would be a far-reaching step in an undesirable direction . " The Republican Eightieth Congress overrode Presidential vetoes on important legislation , but this Congress has finally overridden a veto of only one private bill , involving reimbursement to a tobacco firm for revenue stamps lost by fire . That action was on May 18 , 1949.                     