@@715716

txt A Chinese Red vessel fired on a Hong Kong defense corps motor launch yesterday , and the British admiralty in London reported today that six of the launch 's crewmen were killed and five wounded . News of the incident . which occurred at the mouth of the Pearl river estuary , was held up by a news blackout . It was learned that the fivq wounded c r e w m e n , suffering from bullet and shrapnel wounds , were under heavy guard in a navy hospital . They were brought into this British colony by the destroyer Concord . A navy source said the launch was afloat and would return to Hong Kong soon . Relations Called Tense Relations are tense between Hong Kong and neighboring Red China . The news blackout apparently was aimed at avoiding an increase in this tension . Naval and military hospitals refused to ' answer questions . The launch was a 72 foot vessel of about 50 tons . It had two light guns and usually carried a crew of 14 . The Concord was not . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The destroyer St. Bride 's Bay also was missing . The navy said both ships were " on maneuvers . " Defense corps launches patrol all the Hong Kong waters where the demarcation line between the crown colony and China is often in dispute . Seldom a month goes by without reports of one or more Chinese firings on a British launch . The Pearl river estuary is across the bay from Victoria , the main island settlement of Hong Kong . It leads to the Red city of Canton , 90 miles away . Three Americans Held Small boats and ships many times have drawn fire when they ventured close to the Red islands , mostly within 25 miles of Hong Kong . Several boatmen have been seized by the Communists . Among them are three Americans , Ben Krasner , 30 , a merchant seaman from Newark , N. J. ; Richard Applegate , 37 , of Medfo:A , Ore. , a National Broadcasting company correspondent , and Don Dixon , 25 , of New York , a correspondent for the International News service . A Chinese gunboat seized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward the Portuguese colony of Macao aboard Applegate 's 42 foot yacht , Kert . United States efforts to obtain their release so far have been fruitless . Report Second Clash News from Formosa indicated the British navy had a brush with the Chinese nationalists yesterday .. The defense ministry in Taipeh said one of its gunboats fired a warning shot across the bow of the destroyer St. Bride 's Bay as she was escorting two British merchantmen toward the entrance to the MM river , leading to the communist port of Foochow . ? The ministry said the British warship and two merchantmen turned back , but a British source in Hong Kong scoffed : " No British warship has ever run from a nationalist ship . "                     