@@713163

txt What lies behind the filibuster tactics adopted by Soviet delegate Yakov Malik in the United Nations Security Council ? And what are the western powers doing about the situation ? These are questions most often asked at . UN headquarters by those who probe beneath the surface of pyrotechnics in the council chamber , As far as the second question is concerned , all the Security Council representatives  --  except Russia and Yugoslavia  --  have begun moves to counteract Mr. Malik 's tactics as chairman . The group conferred in New York City on Aug. 9 and reached some conclusions on procedure which might break the deadlock . Mr. Malik was invited to another informal get-together to be held on Aug. 10 , prior to the Security Council sessions scheduled for that day . Soviet Plan Studied Getting back to the first queslion , one thing taken as axiomatic . Even if the rest of the council succeeds in outmaneuvering the Russian chairman in a procedural sense  --  and this is by no means a foregone conclusion  --  the West still may lose the more important propaganda @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to . Nearly all delegates assume that Mr. Malik is acting according to plan . The possibility that he is improvising out of pique , or is an innocent victim of ill-informed orders from Moscow , is not taken seriously . Headline Filibuster The following are the best-informed guesses , roughly in order of seriousness : 1 . Mr. Malik is competing for headlines . He makes a splash and then tries to filibuster until adjournment , so that:no one else has an opportunity to do anything which is more newsworthy on that day . Unfortunately , there are millions of persons in the world who believe what Mr. Malik says . Poor though the reception of his charges and claims is in the western powers , there are other huge areas , such as the Mideast and Orient , where his words uttered at Lake Success are not successfully countered . 2 . Mr. Malik believes that by wearing down the West 's resistance , stirring up dissension , and exhausting the council 's patience , he either can win his points or can trap his opponents into making some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is delaying because the Kremlin wishes to see how the Korean fighting comes out before taking a hard-and-fast stand on peace terms . 4 . He is stalling while Moscow plans some new outbreak of fighting . Meanwhile , he is helping to prepare the way by inciting Asia ? particularly Communist China ? against the United States . The first two answers are considered very likely to be correct . The latter two are more speculative , although many of the facts seem to bear them out . Skillful Opposition If Mr. Malik is competing for headlines , he has met some very skillful opposition . How the newspapers and radio in India . Indonesia , the Middle East , and North Africa , for example , have been playing up the Security Council story is not known here . But in the United States , Mr. Malik recently has been getting a very bad press . The Aug. 8 session was in large part a duel for headlines . Mr. Malik began by reading an extremely abusive message from North Korea denouncing American air raids as " brutal , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " monstrous . " This and an accompanying resolution he planned to introduce were to provide Mr. Malik 's headlines if all went well . Austin Scores The West 's most effective reply would have come from the mouth of the South Korean representative waiting to be seated at the table . He could have said what no one else could say so well  --  that the raids were justifiable means to an end , that the alternative of Communist tyranny would be worse . For more than three hours , the West fought to seat John M. Chang , the Korean ambassador . Mr. Malik 's answer was a filibuster . As the session neared an end  --  Mr. Chang still looking on from the outside  --  the air-raid denunciation remained the most spectacular thing which had happened . So the United States acted . It named Russia as the influence behind the North Korean forces , and threatened moves to have Mr. Malik ousted ' from the chair . The Soviet chairman saw his headlines vanishing , and attempted to recapture them with new invective and his air-raid resolUtion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Can Stop War , " one paper bannered on Page 1 the following morning . " U. S. Gives Malik Two Days to Stop Stalling in UN , " says another . The air-raid message was on an inside page .                     