@@719492

txt Governor Harriman 's budget for the state fiscal year , starting April 1 , is to be submitted to the Legislature tomorrow . It . is expected to touch off the sharpest partisan clash of the legislative session to date . In view of the state election in the fall , the Republicans , who control the Legislature , can be expected to examine Mr. Harriman 's spending and tax program carefully . Mr. Harriman is expected to be the Democratic and Liberal party candidate for re-election . It has already been disclosed that the budget will recommend an increase of at least $67,000 , - 000 in state payments to local governments and a $15,000,000 pay adjustment for state employes , including the cost of shortening the work week for those now working more than forty hours . It will also make claims that administrative improvements Mr. Harriman has put into effect are saving the taxpayers $17,000,000 a year . But there has Deen no definite indication as yet as to whether it will recommend a discontinuance of the customary temporary income tax reductions , amounting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also has been no hint at the size of his over-all spending program . The date Mr. Harriman has picked for the submission of his budget is almost a week in advance of usual . It will be the earliest a Governor has ' submitted his budget since Gov . Herbert H. Lehman 's last year in office in 1942 . The Constitution does not require the submission prior to Feb. 1 . Three other clashes between Mr. Harriman and the Republican legislative majorities appear in sight for this week . They involve a Republican pro , posal to have the state guarantee school-district bonds issued for new buildings , the date for this year 's primary elections and state nominating conventions , and unemployement insurance benefit payments . The school bond proposal is contained in a Constitutional amendment that will come before the Senate tomorrow night and the Assembly later in the week . Governor Harriman has repeatedly denounced it as unsound and unworkable and a possible destroyer of the state 's lcredt . Because it is a proposed amendment the measure will not go to the Governor for his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second ap ! year by the Legislature next ' year and , then ratification by the voters in 1959 . Mr. Harriman is reported to be threatening privately to veto a Republican bill to fix June 3 as the date for this year 's primary and to fix June 16 and 17 as the dates for state nominating conventions . , His objection is said to be against the Republican practice , dating back to the start of World War II , of fixing primary and convention dates on a temporary basis each year rather than to the dates chosen . Some of his political advisers would . like to see the conventions delayed this year until the fall . They believe such a delay would operate to Mr. Harriman 's advantage by reducing the time available to his Republican adversary to become known . Republicans have already chosen Rochester as the site of their convention if it is held in June . Democrats have been delaying the choice of a convention site until they know the date . A meeting of Republican legislative and party leaders has been called for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Last year , the Republicans backed measures to raise maximum benefits from $36 to $45 a week but coupled the increase with a revision of unemployment insurance taxes payable by employers . Mr. Harriman vetoed this proposal twice , once at the regular session and once at ) a special session , on the ground that the rate changes were unfair to seasonal employers , especially those in the apparel , construction and resort industries . Republicans are still insisting on a package bill but have indicated they will consider changes in the rate-revision sections . Even without waiting for the Republican decision , Democratic leaders announced today that they would attempt to force votes this week in the Senate and Assembly on unemployment insurance bills of their own . These would raise benefit payments without making any changes in tax rates .                     