@@716265

txt WASHINGTON , May 14 ? After months of angry argument beI hind closed doors , the issue of " one-man rule " in the Atomic Energy Commission promises a lively party-line battle in Con-gress , The issue has been drawn by Rear Admiral Lewis L. Strauss , the forceful A. E. C. chairman , and Representative W. Sterling Cole of upstate New York , Republican chairman of the Joint Congressional Committee on Atomic Energy . It brings out in the open a 3-to-2 split within the commission between Truman and Eisenhower appointees in which feelings have run so high as to inspire reports of a violent shake up to come . By the present terms of the Act , which is on the Congressional calendar for revision , Admiral Strauss is " first among equals " with no more statutory authority than the four other commissioners , The bill prepared by Mr. Cole and Senator Bourke B. Hickenlooper , Republican of Iowa , would write into the law a provision that the chairman shall be " principal officer of the commission . " Mr. Cole also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Security Council , the President 's top policy planning board . Dominance Acknowledged These . changes would give Admiral Strauss by law powers that he has largely exercised in fact since becoming commission chairman last July . His dominance in the commis , sion is acknowledged  --  and at times resented  --  by other members . There have been complaints from inside the commission that the chairman , who also is President Eisenhower 's special adviser on atomic energy matters , has not always consulted the other commissioners on impor ( sometimes policy questions , that he Isometimes withheld information from them and that , in general , he took to himself powers not prescribed in the law . A sample complaint is that the commission 's chairman has refused to report to his fellow commissioners the substance of his private discussions with President Eisenhower on atomic matters . Such information is essential , other commissioners feel , to their effective participation in policy decisions . . Admiral Strauss and his supporters deny these allegations . , They say he has kept fellow commissioners informed and taken no action without their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggested that he had done nothing more than to show leadership rather than go along with the " rule by committee " methods of his predecessor , Gordon Dean . It was Mr. Dean 's predecessor , - ? avid E , Lilienthal , an old anItgonist of Admiral Strauss , who tecommended after his resignation in 1950 that the A. E. C. should be directed by a single dommissioner . Mr. Lilienthal contended that " one-man rule " would improve the administrative efficiency of the commission . Although the Cole-Hickenlooper bill proposes a far less drastic change ( the five-man commission would be retained with the chairman designated as its " principal officer " ) Democratic members of the Joint Congressional Committee have definite misgivings about it . Representative Chet Holifield , Democrat of California , said that the language proposed would empower the chairman to run the commission pretty much by himself and would reduce the other four members to the status of figureheads . " I am going to fight this thing in committee and on the floor of the House , " he said . " To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is unthinkable . Commission rule must be maintained , with equal access for all the members to all information , and to the President . " Representative Melvin Price , Democrat of Illinois , expressed a similar view . He suggested that in view of the dispute within the commission on the question of the chairman 's authority , approval of the Cole-Hickenlooper proposal would be interpreted as Congressional sanction of Ad- ' miral Strauss ' position . The split within the commission has found Admiral Strauss Iand the other Eisenhower appointee , Joseph Campbell , on one side . Aligned against them on the issue of the chairman 's powers are the three commissioners appointed by President Truman ? , Eugene Zuckert , Dr. Henry De-I Wolf Smyth and Thomas E. Murray . Mr. Zuckert 's term ends on June 30 . His departure ik not connected in any way witfi the dispute . Dr. Smyth , author of the Smyth Report on Atomic nergy Development during World War II , expects to resign this summer and return to Princeton University , although his term runs until June , 1956 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change in the commission 's operating methods is believed to be a contributing factor , although ? it is one of several factors . He was chairman of the Physics Department at Princeton from 1935 to 1950 and has been offered a new post there . Mr. Murray , for the present , shows no disposition to leave the commission . With the appointment by  --  President Eisenhower of successors to Mr. Zuckert ad Dr. Smyth , later this summer , he may , however , find himself in. a minority of one . Published reports bracketing these personnel changes with other unconnected events have been denied , on the highest authority . There is no intention , for example , to place the commission under all-military direction . Lieut . Gen. Leslie R. Groves , retired , wartime head of the Manhattan District Project , who has been mentioned as a successor to Mr. Zuckert , will not be appointed . Reports that s. second A. E. C. consultant had been challenged ' on security grounds , as in the case of Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer , are untrue . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more lucrative positions in private industry are regarded as normal in view of the salary restrictions in Federal employment . The Oppenheimer hearings before a security panel headed try Gordon Gray , president of the University.of North Carolina and former Army Secretary , have ended . The three-man panel is now writing its report to Kenneth D. Nichols , the commission 's general manager . The Gray board 's findings , if they are clear-cut , may involve the commission in a new controversy . The commission , in that event , would have to determine what steps should be taken and unanimity on the delicate matter of how to interpret the findings would seem to be ruled out by the strong feelings of the commissioners on opposing sides .                     