@@720582

txt WASHINGTON , July 14 ? The former head of the Cuban Air Force testified today that Premier Fidel Castro was the chief Communist in Cuba and a member of the international Communist conspiracy . The witness appeared at a Senate hearing that was interrupted by a bomb scare . Maj. Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz told the Senate Internal Security subcommittee he was convinced that Dr. Castro was determined to impose an all-out Communist regime upon his country . Major Diaz fled Cuba June 29 // after the Premier had discharged him from command of the air force . He said his ouster came after he had issued a statement denouncing Communist infiltration of the Cuban armed forces . The witness , a trim , darkhaired man of 32 , who spoke halting but serviceable English , was accompanied by his 19-year-old wife , Tania , her dark hair in a pony-tail knot , and by his half-brother , Sergio . He had scarcely begun to testify when a telephone call came for the subcommittee . After a secret conference in an adjoining room with the witness and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mississippi , the chairman , announced that the subcommittee had just received information " from a source we consider very reliable that an attempt will be made to injure the witness . " It was reported later that the information had come from the Federal Bureau of Investigation . Senator Eastland ordered the room cleared and the hearing suspended for thirty minutes . During the interval , which lengthened to forty-eight minutes , members of an Army bomb squad searched the room but found nothing . Newsmen and spectators were then readmitted and Major Diaz resumed his testimony , his first in public session . He had previously appeared before the subcommittee twice in secret session . In response to questions by the counsel , J. G. Sourwine , and subcommittee members , the major testified that a number of leading figures in the Castro Government , including Dr. Castro 's brother Raul , Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces , were Communists . Asked if Raul Castro was " the strongest Communist in the Castro Government , " Major Diaz replied : " I think it is Fidel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " He said he thought both brothers were connected with international communism . Reminded that Premier Castro had called him a traitor , Major Diaz burst out with obvious emotion : " Well , he says I 'm a traitor . but my conscience is clear . I believe he is the traitor , not me . " He said we were going to bring back the Constitution , have democracy , have freedom , have elections . What have we got now ? Most of us are not Communists , but he has given the Communists control of the country . " I am not going to say anything like he said about me  --  I am not going to descend to their level . I am not doing anything against my country . I am trying to make all people to understand and not let this man , Castro use Cuba as a tool of Russia . " Major Diaz said he was convinced Dr. Castro was a Communist because of " many facts , " including things the Premier had said to him about getting rid of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ giving Cuba " a system like Russia has . " Further , he said , Communist indoctrination schools are being set up in the armed forces with the knowledge of the Castro brothers . Major Diaz expressed the view that Premier Castro was trying to turn Cuba into a base for communism in the Caribbean area . He said the Premier had conferred for two hours with the leading Communist of Venezuela and had ordered plane loads of men to be sent to Nicaragua and the Dominican Republic . Both those countries have charged outsiders with attempting to intervene in their affairs .                     