@@713658

txt ! tiers to The Times ' LREL RUBIEN , Rev. J.J. AMBROSE.HENRI VETCH.justified . DONALD G. WEISS , B.S. BO ... 12 Letters to The Times Revising Unemployment Law Proposed Tax Formula Criticized as Penalizing Labor , Small Business To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Thp Hughes-Brees bill now before the Legislature contains the most damaging revisions of the unemployment insurance program ever proposed in New York . Its enactment would mark the end of a sound unemployment insurance program in this state . The bill would scrap the present unemployment insurance tax system entirely . Some six hundred million dollars in the present pooled fund would be divided among selected employers to set up individual accounts . In the process of dividing this sizable sum the state 's largest corporate employers would receive disproportionately large sums running into tens of millions of dollars , while some 125,000 small employers would receive little or nothing . In addition , the tax formula is so devised that it automatically favors large employers . The individual employer accounts would ' be used very much like checking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be charged to an employer 's private account . Since the employer 's tax will depend primarily on how many benefits are charged to his account , it will not take extraordinary acumen on his part to realize that it is simply good business policy for him to contest every claim for benefits made by a worker , no matter how meritorious the claim may be . The proposed plan would create constant conflict between employers and workers in an area which is now free of such difficulties . For more than a hundred thousand workers the Hughes-Brees bill will mean the end of any unemployment insurance benefits . For even more hundreds of thousands of workers the bill will mean lower or fewer benefits . In place of the present eligibility formula , which is simple to understand and easy to administer , the Hughes-Brees bill would substitute a hopeless hodgepodge of individual base and benefit years which vary for each worker . Benefit rates would be based on a so-caIled " average " of weekly earnings , rather than on normal earnings as is the case under the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ include weeks in which the worker has had very low earnings which bear no relationship at all to his usual " earnings . Asa result the Hughes-Brees bill will lead to drastic cuts in the now meager benefits received by many thousands of workers in this state at a time when the cost of living is. zooming to unprecedented heights . Workers would be excluded from benefits in a most arbitrary fashion . Furthermore , the bill would deprive workers of the protection of unemployment insurance most rapidly during a period of economic decline  --  at a time when they need benefits most . Finally , it is difficult to understand how its sponsors can offer as a serious proposal a bill which the federal authorities have stated may not be in conformity with federal requirements . For the Legislature to enact into law a scheme which may well leave employers subject to double taxation or deprive workers of benefits altogether would be , at the very least , a disservice to the citizens of this state . GEREL RUBIEN , President , New York Women 's Trade Union League . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Criticized To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Some of us here in England  --  our number is not inconsiderable and we are far from being Communists  --  are much perturbed at the way we are being led step by step toward war . America has not suffered as we have done , and it seems dreadful indeed that a country which once seemed so stable is now heading toward an appalling gonflict and dragging us with her . What strikes us most is the apparently callous obliviousness of your statesmen to what a war will really involve . This country will almost certainly be entirely obliterated ; and as we see ' America turning down with contempt  --  as it seems to many of us ? every attempt to bring about a meeting between the democracies and the Communist-controlled nations we are losing hope . In the name of humanity  --  of men , women and children  --  can the statesmen of America , I ask , do nothing more than goad us all on toward an abyss whose horror is beyond imagination ? But perhaps imagination is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ AMBROSE . Manchester , England , Feb. 28 , 1951 . Curtailing Mail to China To THE EDITOR OF THE Nsw YORK TIMES : While Carroll  --  Binder , American delegate to the Unesco , could be heard on the air . Jan. 21 urging all Governments to allow their people free access to sources of information , the United States Postmaster suspends secondclass and third-class mail to China . At the same time the United States Government freezes the funds of the many Chinese educational and health institutions founded and maintained by American philanthropy , thus adding another barrage to the free inflow of American journals and books , and all that that means to us here  --  when most needed . While the U. N. member nations are at war with the People 's Government of China in Korea it is poor policy to cut off cultural relations whereby , as Mr. Binder rightly claims , a better understanding can be achieved between peoples  --  or at least act as dampers on violent hatreds . For a great and free nation , American policy seems to be singularly lacking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aggression under a Volstead Act , for war and peace , love and hatred , are natural to man . Human society or its embodiment  --  the U. N. ? can only hope to limit the ravages of evil ; to try to suppress is to face ultimate delusion and frustration . Aggression should be dealt with under the U. N. Charter locally , with the utmost vigor , narrowing down the issue and the area of the fight , while maintaining normal relations in all other sectors . In recent years we have the examples of Russia in dealing with aggressive Japan at Chang-Ku-feng and Nomonhan in 1939-40 , the Berlin Airlift , Greece in 1948-49 clearing her frontiers of foreign intruders . In China American policy has been unhappy because the United States presumed too much on her good intentions and intruded in an old family feud , as old as the Chinese people , with twenty . five changes of Restraint and humility ht dealing with evil are necessary to our human society . For , otherwise , while gathering the tares are we not also rooting up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Feb. 24 , 1951 , Red Tape in V. A. Denied Incident Involving School Contract for Veterans ' Courses Explained To THE EDITOR OF THE DIRT. , YORK TIMES : The Veterans Administration would like you to have the facts on the incident which served as the basis for THE NEW YORK TIMES editorial " Repairs Needed " in the March 4 edition . I think you will find that these facts hardly give rise to the statement in the editorial that " the last word in red tape came to light the other day in a report that one Government contract covering veterans ' training at an institution in Buffalo had to be signed or initialed no less than 1,500 times . " The contract in question is one between the Institute for Applied Arts and Sciences , Buffalo , N. Y. , part of the University of the State of New York , and the Buffalo Regional Office of the Veterans Administration . This contract is for the education and training of veterans in the year 1950-51 . The school informed the Veterans Administration that it did not have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The school requested that the V. A. accept as part of its proposed contract its catalogue for the year 1949-50 , which the school said it would bring up to date by making pen-and-ink changes . Since it is necessary to include an upto-date catalogue of courses and related information in the contract with the V. A. for the training of veterans , it was obvious at the time to all concerned that these hand-written changes would have to be initialed . The V. A. acceded to the school 's request . Thus , the initialing was brought on by the school 's inability to produce an up-to-date catalogue and not by socalled " red tape . " Even so , the Veterans Administration is at a loss to understand the statement in the editorial that the contract " * * * had to be signed or initialed no less than 1,500 times . " A review of the contract shows no more than 108 initials or signatures by the individual who made this charge , Dr. Alvin C. Eurich , president of the University of the State of New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ catalogue . This latter group of initials would have been unnecessary had the school been able to provide an up-to-date catalogue for inclusion in the contract . The V. A. requires six copies of the contract . Thus the total number of initials required of Dr. Eurich was not even half of the 1,500 figure . One of these copies is returned to the school for its own records , another is provided to another Government agency . Thus only four copies are retained by the Veterans Administration . Other copies of the contract may have been prepared but not as a V. A. requirement . In view of the school 's request for use of its out-of-date catalogue and the fact that initialing of changes , in contracts is a normal and sound business procedure , it would seem that the " last word in red tape " statement in the editorial is hardly justified . DONALD G. WEISS , Information Service Representative , Veterans Administration : New York , March 7 , 1951 . Robin 's Building Material To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW ' YORK Tams : In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of " Topics of The Times , " it seems rather a pity that the column slipped into the error , in the issue of Feb. 27 , of referring to a robin 's nest as " a miserable collection of mud and sticks . " Mud and straws , grass , weed-stalks , yes . But sticks are not included in a robin 's building material . Save for this flaw , the discussion of the " first robin of spring " should appeal to all bird lovers , B. S. BOWDISIL Demarest , N. J. , March 1 , 1951.                     