@@714975

txt The airport use panel of the President 's air coordinating committee today gave up its attempts to decide whether the air force or the commercial air lines need Chicago 's O'Hare field more . The dispute now goes to the top air coordinating committee for decision . The committee is cornposed of the undersecretaries of treasury , state , raw , and air force , and second rank officials of the postoffice and commerce departments . Donal Nyrop , chairman of the aeronautics board , is chairman of the ACC . With the possibility of a decision there considered remote , the dispute is expected to go to the White House for a final decision . Reports that agreement already has been reached between civil aviation officials and President Truman to give O'Hare to the city for air line use circulated among civil aviation officials in Washington last week . Call Meeting at Miami Meantime , the airport use panel lu , s called for a showdown meeting with the air force in Miami next week to determine just what the air force intends to do about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military fields to municipal airports since the war . ' The air force reportedly has 25 major fields it could reactivate for its training programs without disturbing civil aviation . For the last several months , however , it has been seeking to put major training programs into operation on airports of some of the major cities . The President 's airport commissiori , headed by Lt. Gen. James H. I Doolittle , said in a report this summer that joint military and commercial use of an airport is dangerous and should be separated . Air Lines Balk at Move Chicago had expected to transfer some of the commercial air operations from its congested MidI way airport to O'Hare this fall , but the air lines refused to move when they learned that the air ' force planned to step up its operations at O'Hare . Chicago invested 22 million dollars converting O'Hare from a military field to a commercial airport . This investment is threatened by the air force 's plan , city officials have told the airport use panel . The pan31 has debated the issue since last spring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military and civil aviation representatives . Only today , however , did the panel finally give up and agree to submit the decision to the full air coordinating committee . The Miami meeting will be held next Tuesday , Wednee , day , and Thursday , according to present plans . A. B. Curry , director of the Miami airport authority , is chairman of the airport use panel . The meeting is to be a closed session between the panel , the air force , and the Air Transport association , the trade organization of the air lines .                     