@@713533

txt Elizabeth T. Bentley admitted at William W. Remington 's perjury trial in Federal Court yesterday that the foreman of the grand jury that had indicted the defendant had helped her in the preparation of a book on communism . She told Judge Gregory F. Noonan and a jury of seven women and five men that John Gilland Brunini , the jury foreman , did " editorial work " and gave her " moral encouragement " on the preparatory material in which she called Remington a Communist . Miss Bentley , one of the Government 's major witnesses in the trial of the former Government economist who is charged with having lied in denying under oath that he ever was a member of the Communist party , again underwent cross-examination by William C. Chanler , defense counsel . Mr. Chanler questioned Miss Bentley , , a self-confessed former courier for a Soviet spy ring , on her relations with Mr. Brunini and the publication of her book , to establish that the witness had an interest in the prosecution of the defendant . After the completion of Miss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Robb Kelley of tipper Darby , Pa. , a Philadelphia insurance man and former schoolmate of Remington atiDartmouth . Mr. Kelley testified in reply to questions from Irving H. Saypol , United States Attorney , that Remington had told him in Ithaca , N. Y. , in the 1937-38 school year that he was a member of the Communist party , and why . The witness said that he and the defendant were delegates to an intercollegiate conference on " Making Democracy Work " on the Cornell University campus . Remington , he said , took " a very active part " in the discussions of an extracurricular ' Marxist study group at Dartmouth . At Cornell , Mr. Kelley said , " out of curiosity . I asked him why he was a member of the Communist party . " Asked about Remington 's reply , the witness said : " He said - he was because his father had always been a stooge for the capitalists , and it was his hope that some day he could do something to improve the situation that was prevalent at that time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and even briefer crossexamination , the Government rested- its case against the defendant at 3:50 P. M. It had called eleven witnesses in the presentation of its case . Judge Noonan set 2 P. M. today for the argument of motions , and excused the jury until 10:30 A. M. tomorrow , when the defense is expected to begin presentation of . its case to save Remington from conviction , which carries a maximum ? sentence of five years in prison and a $2,000 fine . Earlier , Miss Bentley had told the court she was writing a book on communism to be published by , the Devin Adair Company . The book is scheduled for publication in March . Admits Help From Brunini She admitted under cross-examination that she knew Mr. Brunini and that he had helped her on the book last June . She denied that she had any arrangement with Mr. Brunini to serve as her literary agent . She said an editor of the publishing house also aid'ed in the preparation of the book . Mr. Saypol then arose and told the court that the Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the twentythree members of the grand jury that returned the indictment against the defendant . Mr. Chanler objected vehemently to Mr. Saypol 's move , adding that he would not agree to the Government 's concession . He then turned to - the witness and asked whether the Mr. Brunini who helped her with the book was the foreman of the grand jury that indicted Remington . " That 's quite right , " Miss Bentley replied . ? Mr. Chanler then showed Miss Bentley the contract with the publishing house for the book  --  it was dated June 2 , 1950  --  and asked her when she signed it . She replied that it was some time after the date on the document , " a few days or no more than a week . " It was later brought out that the Remington indictment was handed down on June 8 , 1950 . Mr. Chanler inquired whether there had been a previous contract with . the same publishing house , and ' Miss Bentley replied in the negative . Defense counsel also brought - out that the manuscript @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Sept. -1 , and - that the witness did not meet this requirement . ? Asked whether the new delivery date ' for the manuscript was not sametithe " shortly after the trial , " Miss Bentley said that Devin A. Garrity , president of the publishing house , may have sent out " something like that . " Mr. Chanler then asked whether she had participated in discussions on the effect of an acquittal on the publication of the book . Miss Bentley said she could recall no such discussion . Earlier in her testimony , Miss Bentley admitted that she had material about Remington in the forthcoming book , and added , " Naturally I mentioned he was a Communist . " Mr. Chanler asked whether she had discussed omitting the Remington-Communist material if he should be acquitted . " I certainly did not , " Miss Bentley replied . " It was something that was never even discussed . If someone starts a libel suit , as Communists do to defer issues , I 'll have to stand it . " On re-direct examination by Mr. Saypol , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Westport , Conn. , to look over the book for the first time in the latter part of July or early August , 1950 . It was also brought out that although she had known Mr. Brunini since April , 1949 , she had not discussed the book . with him until after the indictment had been handed up . Mr. Brunini , executive secretary of the Catholic Poetry Society , said yesterday he had " no comment " on Miss Bentley 's testimony . Mr. Saypol also brought out that the grand jury was unanimous in its indictment of Remington , but the court refused to take judicial notice of this fact " at this time . " Miss Bentley also testified that she had sorneftwodr three-pages devoted to Remington . Mr. Chanler I requested that portion of the manuscript , and Judge Noonan suggested that defense counsel and Mr. Saypol get together in obtaining it . She also testified that Thomas Donegan , special assistant to the Attorney General who was among those who presented the Government case to the grand jury , had once been her attorney . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law practice in 1946-4 ? when Miss Bentley came to him in connection with an old law suit . ' ? Mr. ' Donegan said he took the case , but later informed her that she would have to get a new attorney because he was to become associated with the Attorney General 's office in a short time . Miss Bentley also testified that she did not retract her charge about Remington 's alleged Communist ties even after he was awarded $9,000 in a $100,000 libel ' suit Remington- had brought against her , the ' National Broadcasting Company and the General Foods Corporation .                     