@@714335

txt A civil defense practice alert for a simulated enemy air raid was cut short here today after eight persons had been injured in accidents resulting from the exercise . The injuries were caused by the misfiring or premature explosion of two aerial bombs of the type widely used in Independence day celebrations and an automobile accident involving an ambulance and three passenger vehicles . The victims included twoyolicemen , one of whom . Charles F. Bozeman. 43. was not expected to live . Bozeman was one of 25 policemen assigned to set off the black powder bombs in various parts of the city to signal the start of the exercise at 12:30 p. m . Second Bomb Does Damage Bozeman set off one of four bombs in a vacant lot near his home . His second bomb either exploded prematurely or he mishandled it . It blew up in his face , tearing off part of his skull . His wife , Frances , saw him fall . A neighbor , Louis H. Sunderhaus , rushed to Bozeman , beat out flames on his clothing , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policeman , George Wilson , 35 , suffered minor burns when a bomb he was setting off exploded prematurely . The other six injured all incurred their injuries in a fourcar crash at a Lima intersection when an ambulance on a civil defense practice mission collided with an automobile driven by Mrs. Betty Kessen , 23 . Both flit Other Cars The ambulance , driven by Charles Goldsberry , 44 , whipped : about and smashed into an unoccupied , parked car at the curb . Mrs. Kessen 's car jumped a sidewalk and rammed an unoccupied jeep in a used car lot . Goldsberry and his employer , A. W. Cantrell , 56 , an undertaker , were injured , as were Mrs. Kessen and the other three occupants of her auto , Mrs. Margie Johnson , 41 ; Mrs. Johnson 's son , Ronald , 21 , and her daughter , Janice , 14 . Roy Boggs , 13 , and Eugene Barry , 12 , Boy Scouts on civil defense duty at the crossing , said the ambulance had the green light and its siren and warning lights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A. Heiser and Police Chief Kermit Vestbay called off the scheduled 90 minute exercise 15 minutes early . Heiser said that , except for the mishaps , the exercise appeared to have gone off successfully . The entire population of Lima 50,000J did not participate . Participation was confined to 500 civil defense volunteers . The exercise had been widely publicized , however , and motorists entering the city were warned by state police that a simulated alert was in effect . Simulated events , some of which were not completed , included fires of " incendiary " origin , an attempted bank robbery , and the " destruction " of homes , business buildi ngs , and communications . Crews of men who were to analyze the efficiency of the civil defense organization have not yet made their report . Mayor Stanley Welker appointed a committee to investigate the accidents .                     