@@717536

txt When a country as big and important in the world as the Soviet Union launches a new offensive of any kind , whether it be military or only political and economic , the rest of the world must adjust its policies and attitudes to meet the new development . When the new offensive comes after the dawn of the so-called " Geneva spirit " and casts at least a dark cloud across the new sun , a cloud made darker by confident statements from Moscow that the world has entered the era of communism , the necessity of adjustment is an imperative . The Western governments have been both reluctant and slow to recognize the necessity for adjustments . Under the circumstances they call for budget revisions , raise new obstacles before the goal of budget balances and tax cuts , disturb a popular assumption that strains and dangers of the old cold war period of history were over . False Charges Rain By this week it had long since ceased to be possible for any Western government to ignore the obvious fact of new Soviet offensives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radiated such carefree confidence , assertiveness , and brashness . As Soviet Premier Marshal Nikolai A. Bulganin and First Party Secretary Nikita S. Khrushchev romped through India and Burma behaving as though they , not Prime Ministers Jawaharlal Nehru and U Nu , were the leaders of the Indian and Burmese people . Mr. Khrushchev particularly , Mr. Bulganin less so , tossed so many and such outrageously false charges at the outside world that London was forced to reconsider the , wisdom of its outstanding invitation to the two to visit Britain . This week , and against this background , the Western powers did at last begin to adjust their attitudes and their policies . London arranged to send Prime Minister Sir Anthony Eden to Washington for consultation . Washington faced up to the unwelcome fact that military and foreign aid budgets could not be cut as much as the budget balancers had hoped , and would most probably have to be raised at least a little . Dulles Reformulates United States Secretary or State , John Foster Dulles , as the ranking Western foreign minister , took out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more carefully , and prayerfully than ever before , polished , trimmed , revised , and adjusted his often-repeated formulations of United States policies to fit the changed circumstances of the times . The new Dulles speech , which came out , like all careful reformulations of foreign policy defies glib summation or simple headlines . The importance of it lay not in phrases used but in the balancing of phrases and in such delicate matters as the shading of difference between the context of a phrase today as against the context the last time it was used . This was not a speech intended for popular consumption , nor the hustings , but for the other foreign ministers of the world , including the one in Moscow . What it told the experts can be summarized imperfectly as follows : 1 . Washington recognizes the existence of a new Soviet offensive . 2. *The offensive is estimated to be mainly political and economic . 3 . Its strength , and its danger , lies in the fact that Moscow possesses an exportable surplus of technicians and obsolete weapons . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this exportable surplus to the disadvantage of the West in the Middle East and South Asia . 5 . As a result of the offensive Washington is prepared to tighten up the loose joints in the Western alliance . 6 . As a contribution to such tightening , Mr. Dulles has redefined " massive , retaliation " downwards until it means what would be obvious anyway even if the phrase had never been coined . In its revised form it merely means that the United States will use its military power if that becomes necessary in whatever way seems wise and appropriate at the time , and under the circumstances . 7 . The main answer to the offensive will be economic . The Republican campaign promise of 1952 to end foreign economic aid has been scrapped . There will be a ' continuing aid program . 8 . Washington hopes , and expects , that the " descent from the summit " will be halted short of a resumption of the violence of the early cold war . All of this represented the reformulation of official United States policy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hammered out in staff conferences , weighed by the National Security Council , and approved by the President . If that were all Mr. Dulles had done during the week , the Allies , at least , would be satisfied and comfortable . They had wanted Washington to react , but not over-react . The Dulles speech represented reaction , if anything , on the cautious and restrained side . No one could fairly say that it went off any deep ends . But then there was the episode of Mr. Dulles and the Portuguese " province " of Goa . Here we see the difference between Mr. Dulles operating at the end of the staff process and Mr. Dulles on his own . He had been entertaining the Portuguese Foreign Minister in.WashPattern Of Diplomacy in &on.; United States base tights in he Portuguese Azores are up for renewal and renegotiation . Those bases are valuable and important to United States military plans and operations . Portugal also has an ancient foothold on the shore of India , a place named Goa . It contains valuable manganese deposits . India wants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sentiment and religious ties , partly for economic reasons . Messrs . Khrushchcv and Bulganin backed the Indian demand when in India . By Portuguese definition Goa is a province , not a colony . When Mr. Dulles called Goa a province in a public and official statement he was in fact openly siding with Portugal against India . It is understandable to side with an ally against a neu tral , but in cases lie this there are overtones . It would have been more diplomatically orthodox- for Mr. Dulles to have tried to save Goa for Portugal quietly . It would also have spared the United States a bitter outburst of protest in India , and saved much patient work there by United States Ambassador John Sherman Cooper whose mission was knocked out from under his feet by the Dulles demarche . It would ? also have allowed the Bulganin-Khrushchev brazenneis in India to be felt without distraction by the Indian Government . In effect , Mr. Dulles provided an antidote for Soviet folly and got Mr. Khrushchev off the hot spot in India . Had Mr. Dulles consulted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Goa . That time he shot from the hip , on his own . At latest reports he was still refusing to admit that it was a mistake Mr. Dulles often feels a personal frustration in dealing with Indian Prime Minister Nehru , and in that he is in the Truman-Acheson path . They felt the same . Some observers believe , however , that they hid their feeling a bit more successfully . By the week 's end Mr. Dulles was almost the only man left in Washington who would argue seriously that loyalty to the Portuguese ally required outraging public and government opinion in India .                     