@@718515

txt Joseph C. Harsch , special correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor , has gone to Warsaw to send onthe-spot reports on.the Jan. 20 elections , whose outcome will determine how secure Poland 's newly gained independence from Moscow really is . Moscow is trying to go back on it now , but has not yet dared to repudiate it finally and formally . Its current variant is equality under Moscow leadership . Chinese Communist . Premier Chou En-lai is in Poland now attempting to persuade Mr. Gomulka to accept this new twist in the Moscow line . Pressure from that source is hard for Mr. Gomulka to resist . Apparently Peking has become the umpire in the relations of satellite countries to Moscow . The Kremlin would not dare to take action against Poland which Peking disapproved ? for that would be to risk the defection of Peking from the Communist alliance . But conversely , Mr. Gomulka dare not move further from Moscow than Mr. Chou approves , for that would be to risk Peking approval for a Soviet repression in Poland . Poland and Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement intended to put Poland on record as declaring solidarity with the Soviet bloc , the Associated Press reported . No reason for the postponement was announced . But it could indicate a hitch in the ideological talks in progress here since Mr. Chou arrived Jan. 11 on a mission in behalf of Communist unity . ! Clings to Titoism Mr. Gomulka so far has stuck to the Tito formula of " independent roads to socialism . " He has not accepted the variant of Moscow leadership . But he has balanced this by tightening up his election procedures .. He must somehow keep the lid on both the nationalists on his right and Stalinists and pro-Moscow Communists on his left . He must do this during the election period which heightens political consciousness and political action . If he fails to avoid the dangers on either side , to left or right , there is destruction for him , politically . More than that , there is extreme danger for the whole world . It is axiomatic that Moscow will not allow its military lines of communication to East Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armed forces in Poland , against the Polish people , it would do something much more dangerous to the general peace than was the same action in Hungary . Polish Army Prepared Poland has a big army , well organized , and ready and willing to fight for Poland . It is inconceivable that East Germany would remain quiet during a-pa :                     