@@714536

txt unnana , it scarcely would seem probable that agreement can be reached . However , the condition which caused the breach in serious diplomacy between East and West in 1946 has been rectified to some extent . At that time , the western powers did not possess the " situation of strength " which would have permitted bargaining on a basis of equality . Since then , the West has been building " situations of strength . " It is conceivable that the Russians now recognize that strength to the extent of being prepared to treat with it realistically . Several features of the Soviet note support this possible  --  though tentative ? conclusion . For example , its text is free of vituperation . Other features are as follows : 1 . It is not obvious propaganda bait for Germans , as were all previous Soviet proposals on a peace treaty for Germany . It proposes that the German frontiers be established on the Potsdam terms . This hardly could be popular with Germans , True , it contains many features which would appeal to German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Germans . 2 . It is not an obvious attempt to put the West " on the spot ! ' On the contrary , it avoids the familiar demand for specific acceptance of Soviet proposals by a specific time , and does assert Russian readiness " to consider other possible proposals on this question . " Serious Offer Suggested . i.riese matures suggest , if only tentatively , that this is a serious Moscow proposal to resume diplomatic discussions on the subject of Germany as distinct from propaganda maneuverings on the subject of Germany . Certainly the West never for a moment could accept in full the terms proposed in the Soviet note . Those terms fail to provide for supervised , free elections to establish an all-German government . They also propose conditions which would make it impossible for a new German government to outlaw , suppress , or control Communist subversion . The West , at this stage , could accept a liberation of Germany only if the new Germany were to be - free ? to defend itself against Communist subversion and only if it could enjoy a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West Germany loyal to the West is better for the West , than a whole Germany dependent on Moscow . The outcome of the Russian move depends largely on whether the Russians are sincere when they say they are willing to con- ' sider " other possible proposals . " That would have to be tested  --  and it would be tested with utmost caution . The western diplomats-who are studying the note regard it primarily as the expected Russian reaction to the Lisbon decisions of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . They have believed all along that Moscow would make a last major effort to prevent a final military integration of West Germany with the North ? Atlantic alliance . This is regarded as such an effort . And since all current Washington plans have been built on that prospective integration , Washington is bound to be extremely hesitant about any proposed treatment of Germany which would change the whole pattern of Washington Planning . Call to Parley However , the fact remains that the original purpose of building western strength was to gain a position from which it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equality . The key question is whether western strength now is so Impressive that the Russians are willing to treat with it realistically . Needless to say , if tests should bear out a readiness of Russia to deal realistically with the German problem , the whole face of the power struggle might be changed . This might even explain the delays over the Korean truce . It is conceivable that Moscow is deliberately holding everything in abeyance pending the outcome of its move on Germany . The one ' thing that is clear at this moment is that the first major Russian move on the power-struggle stage subsequent to Lisbon and the Korean stalemate is not a new act of aggression but a call to parley . It may be that the call to parley is only to gain time , or to confuse the opposition , or to camouflage a more dangerous move in the offing . Still it is a call to parley .                     