@@715431

txt Columbia University has decided to withdraw recognition by Oct , 1 , 1960 , from all campus organizations  --  except religious groups ? that denymembership because of an applicant 's race , color or religion . The action was announced yes- ; terday by the Committee on Student Organizations , a supervisory student - faculty - administration , 1 group . It reflects the consensus of I Columbia College students as ex pressed in a referendum held last week . The ban strikes directly at the discriminatory practices of some fraternities , which have been a hotly debated issue not only at Columbia but also in colleges over the country since the end of the last war and the heavy influx of veterans to campuses . The prohibition is similar to that already in force at Amherst College , the University of Connecticut and Dartmouth College , and one projected for the University of Michigan . At the University of Connecticut four of the eighteen fraternities severed ties with their national organizations as a result of the ban . They were the chapters of Lambda Chi Alpha @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Two of these , Sigma Nu and Sigma Chi , have local chapters at Columbia University that have been reluctantly enforcing the discriminatory provisions of their national organizations . Two other fraternity chapters at Columbia ? Zeta Beta Tau and Alpha Sigma Phi  --  are a similar position . At other colleges where no formal ban has - been enacted , there has been a series of revolts by local chapters against the policies of the national fraternities , revolts that have usually ended either with expulsion or resignation of the chapters . The most recent of these was the February expulsion of the Williams College chapter of Phi Delta Theta for pledging a Jewish student . The Columbia action flies directly in the face of a resolutig adopted last year by the National Interfraternity Conference , which declared that , " any attempt to restrict or regulate " the right of a college fraternity to choose its own members was " an inadvisable interference with the fundamental right of free association guaranteed by the United States Constitution . " For Protection of Individual The committee resolution , passed unanimously on Friday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be withdrawn from any fraternity , social organization or other student group that , after Oct. 1 , 1960 , is compelled by its constitution , rituals or government to deny membership to any person because of his race , color or religion . " This resolution shall not apply to a student group that is organized in good faith for devotional purposes or for the study or propagation of a religious faith . " , In an accompanying statement , file committee declared that Columbia wished to protect the - student 's freedom " to select friends and associates according to personal interests and tastes " against " interference by persons or groups outside the university . " The statement added that " the committee sincerely hopes " that the discriminating fraternities " will assure the freedom of choice for its members at Columbia well in advance of the date now finally fixed . " Members of the committee are Nicholas MCD. , Dean of Students at Columbia College ; Dwight C. Miner , Professor of History ; Walter Gellhorn , Professor of Law ; Richard Chapin , chairman of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , outgoing chairman of the Columbia College Board of Student Representatives . A sixth member , Assistant Provost W. Emerson Gentzler , did not participate . He is 011 vacation in England . Background of the Action Attempts to eliminate discriminatory fraternity practices have ' provoked continual debate on the campus . In November , 1950 , the college student board , acting on al referendum , ' suggested that the committee set a 1956 deadliner . In 1951-52 the committee questioned sixteen national organizations represented on the campus as to whether their laws contained discriminatory provisions . Last month the interfraternity council , Pamphratria , noted " the involuntary discrimination forced on Columbia chapters by their national constitutions " and asked the committee to relay the university 's attitude after a student referendum . The referendum indicated that 1,011 of the 1,551 voters  --  the college has 2,300 students  --  favored the setting of a deadline . According to committee members , the national organizations have not yet been informed of the 1960 deadline . Presidents of the four discriminating chapters , whose combined membership is 180 , either would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However , members of Zeta Beta Tau said they were hopeful that offending clauses would be removed at their national convention this , summer .                     