@@720476

txt The foreign ministers of the United States , Britain , France and the Soviet Union will meet in secret , restricted session here Friday after thirteen formal plenary meetings in which they failed to reach substantive negotiations . The first topic before the ministers will be detailed proposals for Berlin 's future presented to the conference today I by Secretary of State Christian A Herter . Despite earlier Soviet rejection of these proposals , which are an integral part of the Western package plan , there is qualified optimism about Friday 's meeting . One reason for this is that , according to an unimpeachable source , Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko of the Soviet Union has informed the Western powers that he is now willing to discuss the Western plan point by point instead of rejecting it without discussion . Herter Offers Two Points The Secretary of State 's presentation of the Western plan for reunification of Berlin through free elections included two points that Western diplomats hoped Mr. Gromyko would explore if he wanted to negotiate an interim arrangement guaranteeing access to the city . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powers would have the right to m &ntain; their forces in the city and insure their security . Another is a provision of free and unrestricted access to Berlin for all . Implementation of these proposals in a separate agreement would , in the opinion of West German and British sources , be an indispensable part of any interim arrangement for West Berlin in the period before the city could be reunited . Reconciliation Doubted The Secretary of State 's presentation of the proposals on Berlin came when Western diplomats had concluded that there was no chance of reconciling the opposing positions of the Western plan and the Soviet Union 's draft peace treaty for the two German states . . Mr. Gromyko has also advised the United States and Britain that he is prepared to discuss the reconstitution of an experts ' committee to talk about the detection of nuclear tests . The findings of the experts ' committee would be reported to the conference on cessation of nuclear tests on which the United . $tates , Britain and the Soviet Union are represented . The conference has recessed until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ session Friday was announced after Foreign Secretary Selwyn Lloyd had talked with Mr. Gromyko at the latter 's villa for an hour and a half this morning . A Soviet spokesman strove tonight to give the impression that the agreement was a British idea . A British spokesman , sensitive to Western allegations lof his country 's softness toward the Soviet Union , tried equally hard to make it clear that the agreement was " spontaneous " in origin . Discussion of plans for a secret session began last Friday night when Secretary of State Herter raised the point at a dinner party for the British , French and Soviet ministers . In subsequent private talks with the Western ministers , Mr. Gromyko indicated he was agreeable to the idea . Then , last night , at the close of a long formal meeting that was . considered sterile by the participants , Mr. Gromyko remarked to Mr. Lloyd that such meetings were not profitable and that restricted sessions should begin soon . This morning Mr. Lloyd , after talking with Mr. Herter and Maurice Couve de Murville of France , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Lloyd is to be chairman ' Friday , the session will be held at his house in Geneva on the Rue Senebier . One or possibly two advisers will accompany each minister . Neither Ambassador Wilhelm Grewe of West Germany nor Lothar Bolz , East Germany 's Foreign Minister , will be present . This was agreed by the four ministers at the outset of the present conference . United States and British sources said it was probable that the four ministers might have a preliminary " high altitude " talk on their return journey from Washington Thursday night . Mr. Herter , Mr. Lloyd and M. ' Couve de Murville flew to Washington in a United States plane this evening . Mr. Gromyko , left before the session began to catch a regularly scheduled jetliner in London and the Soviet Union was represented at the meeting by.Deputy Foreign Minister Valerian A. Zorin . The four ministers will return together on a United States plane Thursday night . It is probable , authoritative sources said , that they will then go over the work of the conference thus far . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting . The only speaker for the Communist side was Dr. Bolz . The East German Foreign Minister told the meeting that his government had recently offered to negotiate an agreement with West Germany on the strength , stationing and equipment of the armed forces of the two German states . Mr. Herter 's presentation of the Western proposals on Berlin was intended more as inducement to discussion than as a subject for negotiation . The proposals cover ? seven main phases . During the first phase , East and West Berlin would be governed and administered as one indivisible area pending the reunification of Germany . To achieve this , a Berlin Constitutional Council of 100 members , elected by " universal . free , secret and direct ballot , " would draft a constitution and electoral law for Greater Berlin . These would be submitted to the electorate for approval in a plebiscite . Under the second phase of the process , the four occupying powers would declare the Constitution in force and the city government would have full authority , save for certain rights reserved to the occupation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their forces in Berlin and to insure their security . The third stage of the proposal calls for a four-power agreement " that free and unrestricted access to Berlin by land , by water and by air ! should be assured for all persons , goods and communications . " The fourth item of the proposal would give the occupation powers ' the right to deal with the Berlin Government in all matters relating ' to the presence of their forces . Fourman military police patrols , one soldier from each occupying garrison , would deal with incidents involving troops . The Berlin government would be empowered under the fifth provision to put into effect in the city any proposals of the Mixed German Committee , which would be created as another part of the Western plan . Citizens of Berlin would participate in all-German elections . Upon adoption of a German constitution and establishment of an all-German government , Berlin would become the capital of a reunified Germany in the sixth phase . Finally , when the peace treaty came into force , stationing of troops in Berlin would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign troops in Germany . The Secretary of State attached to these proposals a detailed rebuttal of the Soviet contention , advanced earlier by Mr. Gromyko , that East Berlin lis legally part of East Germany .                     