@@715007

txt Americans may be surprised when the smoke has cleared after the election campaign to discover how Ifar Europe has moved toward acceptance and ' even . rather s.tirOng advocacy of the idea that United States economic aid should end soon . It is probably moral rather than economic factors that are chiefly responsible for this development . European governments are awfully tired of feeling dependent on the United States , of having to justify to their people various actions that acceptance of this aid entails and of going through the agony of Congressional hearings in which their deeds and misdeeds are aired by all and sundry who care to testify . Reports from most European countries indicate that these sentiments now far outweigh those that undoubtedly prevailed in many official circles for several years after the war that tended to look on American aid as an easy solution of vexing problems , United States economic aid is not an easy solution any more . In fact , it is coming to be realized that it is not a solution at all for Europe 's present day problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large scale may aggravate these problems . Of course , circumstances might change , but the economics of the situation tend to reinforce Europeans ' growing desire to have economic aid end for other reasons , not least the possibility that its end might lead to some reduction of the United States ' huge bureauc-I racy in Europe which , from a pay chological viewpoint at any rate , ' has clearly outlived its time . It is not that Europe is in a position to finance all the imports it needs nor that American assistance of all kinds is no longer needed . Military aid and aid in bearing the burden of military operations against communism in other parts of the world must remain , responsible Europeans believe , if a disastrous collapse of the whole western community is to be avoided . It is large grants to governments financed by annual appropriations and allocated on the basis of bilateral negotiations that are becoming obsolete . Whether by accident or as a result of superior wisdom , originators of the Marshall Plan hit it just about right when they fixed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States could appropriately assist European countries in overcoming deficiencies in their own capacity to finance investment programs . It was necessary right after the war ; it has become both unnecessary and dangerous , observers here feel , to have the economic development of important countries like France and Britain proceed any further on the basis of the investment capital that is not their own . Stronger Disciplines Needed In the period when any increase in output of any important industrial or agricultural commodity was desirable and right from the viewpoint of Europe 's economy , justification of a project to a committee or a branch of the United States administration was perhaps a sufficient discipline . In the period when the problem is one of getting rid of economic dead wood and singling out healthy from unhealthy branches of economic activity stronger disciplines are necessary . With the exception of France and Norway , every country in Western Europe has now recognized this fact by seeking to subject important sectors of the economy once more to the rigorous disciplittd-of the capital market . Continued economic aid front abroad only makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that industry the possibility of getting financed out of resources injected into the economy from outside . Europeans look to an increase in United States expenditures abroad and a more realistic United States import policy to keep the flow of dollars into world economy at a reasonably satisfactory level . If nonmilitary assistance remains in the picture after this year , they want it to be channeled through international or supranational agencies and to be directed to general rather than specific objectives ? building up monetary reserves rather than financing power dams . The spectacle of a French Government unable to make up its budget without knowing what American aid will be has made many Europeans feel that time has come to end this kind of thing even if the first shock of cutting the pipeline should be unpleasant .                     