@@719336

txt A participant in some of the great natural science advances of this . age , Dr. Edward Teller , warns that the Soviet rate of achievement is perilously ahead of the United States . The Budapest-born , German-educated " father of the H-bomb " eloquently pleaded with Senate probers of missiles and satellites to attack the cause  --  a serious underrating of the value of natural science endeavor in American society , he said . If the United States and the Soviet Union continue to devote the same amount of effort to military technology , " there is no doubt that the Russians will leave us behind , and way behind , " he said . The lead-off testimony in the Senate inquiry , Dr. Teller 's words would bring a rush of color to the faces of Americans who feel a little extra effort here and there will solve both military and natural science deficiencies . Encouragement Urged At times the eminent natural scientist seemed desperately alone in the hard glare of camera lights . ' Every once in a while , his interrogators brbught him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Teller responded helpfully , but somehow managed to include a fervent plea to the American public to find out what the natural scientists are doing and then encourage them at least as much as the quarterback at Milltown High School . Before Dr. Teller moved into his thesis , Edwin L. Weisl , committee counsel , elicited these evaluations : That the United States fell behind the ' Soviet Union in long-range ' missiles because it waited until it was certain an effective warhead was available for such weapons . That there is little reason to doubt the Soviets when they say they have perfected an intercontinental ballistic missile capable of accurately singling out a target 5,000 miles away in the United States . That this country 's missile program , though started late , is " excellently managed . " A rapid reorganization of the present effort would " rock the boat , " Dr. Teller said . Soviet ' Gamble ' Noted That the Soviets undertook missile development immediately after the war and were not concerned with throwing missiles great distances at that time . Greater gambles were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not closed the gap With the United States . How ever , they are abreast of the United States in aircraft and ahead in missiles . It is unfortunate that the tale that the Soviets accomplished what they did by stealing secrets or by capturing German natural scientists is still believed by some , Dr. Teller said . " They caught up with us because they worked harder and that is the simple fact . " Closer cooperation among the armed services and with industry is essential . It is dangerous to be " keeping secrets from each other , " Dr. Teller declared . Dr. Teller was offered free rein throughout most of the morning session . When asked for specific ways in which missile programs could be Stepped up , he replied : " A strong . hand is most useful if it . is not just acting in an administrative manner . " He then urged that more overtime work be undertaken and that the United States cooperate more closely with its allies . At one point , the dark-haired , lean natural scientist figuratively pointed a finger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ask me what can be found out . " Dr. Teller said : " I can not , tell you what black-and-white advantages will result . " But all that is beside the point . Pure scientists explore for the sake of knowledge itself , he explained , and who knows what practical advantages may come of it . Why , he exclaimed , when speculating on whether there was life on the moon or planets , " we may not even recognize life on Mars because it would be so strange to us . " Ile indicated no doubt that the Soviets would make a try for the moon . They have already advertised this fact , he reminded the senators . The full committee listened attentively . There was not a sleepy nod in the crew . Johnson Sets Tone " We probably need nuclear propulsion if we want to explore the planetary system . , .. With the best nuclear propulsion ' I can imagine today , it will take 100 years to reach the nearest star , " he estimated . Senator Lyndon B. Johnson , subcommittee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opening statement . would appear that we have slipped dangerously behind the Soviet Union in some very important fields .. . . Our goal is to find out what is to be done . We will not reach that goal by wandering up any blind alleys of partisanship . " Dr. Teller deplored the attitude Of many Americans toward natural scientists and their work . Parents could help a great deal if they themselves took greater interest in natural science . It is not enough merely to urge Johnny to do so , he said . One suggestion to stimulate interest in natural science was that industrial scientists take about 20 hours of their timc'each year to go into classrooms to explain the wonders of their Profession .                     