@@713341

txt When Gov . Thomas E. Dewey launched the Eisenhower presidential boom , he confirmed the worst anxieties of Gen. Omar N. Bradley , chairman of the United States Joint Chiefs of Staff and the man primarily responsible for building up the defenses of Europe . To nonpolitical military leaders , General Eisenhower is the ideal man to head up the new armed strength of the Atlantic Pact countries . The fact that General Eisenhower always has been a Republican presidential possibility for 1952 never bothered the gencials and admirals . If he were willing to take the job for two years and then come home to run for the presidency , that would not worry them . The difficult part of the job will be the beginning . They think General Eisenhower could best put the " balanced collective force " of the West together . Double Problem Looms Until Governor Dewey launched the boom , they had only one thing to worry about : Could they get clearance from the White House for an appointment which might build up the opponent for the Democrats in 1952 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appointment is made in spite of the boom , Republicans will consider it an effort to neutralize their presently strongest appearing candidate . If the appointment is not made , the very omission can he subject to the charge of politics . Another difficulty has been that the job is not an American appointment . It can come only from the council of the Atlantic powers . That is why General Eisenhower has not been formally asked yet to take the job . There is little doubt that the council will ask him to take it provided he is willing , but there is no firm offer until the council itself has made it . Now the council will be embarrassed . The deputies of the other countries will hesitate to make an offer which might be construed as interfering in American politics . If it can be done , it will put back into top position the same team which master-minded America 's share in the European part of the last war . Marshall , Eisenhower , and Bradley were the United States first team . Generals Marshall and Bradley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jobs . To have General Eisenhower return to Europe would reestablish the team without any dislocations in the present setup . If he is made unavailable through politics , it probably will he necessary to take General Bradley from the post everyone agrees is being handled superlatively well . That would mean breaking in a new man at the Joint Chiefs of Staff . Political View Politicians , of course , look differently upon the matter . On the Democratic side , the news came as no surprise  --  in fact , some in the White House circle think it is good for their team . They figure that the Eisenhower boom was bound to be launched anyway , and that an early boom is less formidable than a late one . It is an old political axiom that the dark horse tends to be the strongest runner . Other hopefuls tend to gang up on the first man out in front . The Democrats long ago concluded that General Eisenhower was the most dangerous potential in the Republican stable for 1952 . Of course , they would much prefer that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Eisenhower entry long ago as probably inevitable , they incline now to think that Governor Dewey has done them a small favor by starting it early . General Eisenhower was , approached by the Pentagon previous to the Dewey move on three occasions . It is known that he said he would be happy to accept . Lt. Gen. Albert C. Wedemeyer , Gen. Mark W. Clark , and Maj. Gen. Alfred . M. Gruenther are possible alternatives if the Dewey move spoils the Eisenhower deal and if it is . decided that General Bradley should remain in Washington .                     