@@717017

txt Edward J. Barrett , 55 , veteran Democratic politician , was named yesterday as county clerk to succeed Richard J. Daley , who will become Chicago 's 40th mayor in inauguration ceremonies tonight . Barrett was named at a special meeting of the county board . Nine Democrats signed the resolution nominating Barrett , and all voted for him . Two Republicans , Charles Chaplin and Fred Fulle , abstained from voting . One Democratic board member and three Republicans did not attend . Daley Gives . Oath As county clerk , Barrett also will serve as clerk of the County court . He will fill the positions until the November , 1956 , general election , when a new county clerk is to be elected . Daley 's term as clerk would have run until 1958 , but under state law a special election must be called whenever an unexpired term extends for more than one ' year . After the board proceedings , Daley administered the oath to Barrett in the clerk 's office , which was packed with politicians . Then Barrett swore in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the office . Barrett , of 2440 Lakeview ay. , a veteran of both world wars , has been one of the best political campaigners in Illinois . He was 30 years old and virtually unknown in politics when elected state treasurer in 1930 . Balked by Stevenson Barrett was elected state auditor in 1932 and 1536 and secretary of state in 1944 and 1948 . Adlai Stevenson , as the Democratic Presidential nominee , blocked Barrett 's ambitions to run for governor in 1952 . He was beaten for secretary of state by only 9,303 votes in the Eisenhower landslide of 1952 . He held state offices for 18 years . In submitting his resignation to the county board , Daley thanked the board members for cooperation and assistance in setting up modern business machine methods in the office with resulting savings . Barrett promised " continuation of good administration of the office " with further improvements . Inaugural Is Tonight Me anwhil e , preparations were nearly completed foithe inauguration of Daley and others of the new city admin. - istration starting at 8 o'clock tonight in the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because Daley is to repeat his inaugural address at 9:30 p. n. in a telecast from the mayor 's 5th floor city hall office . Transcribed highlights of the inauguration will be broadcast by station W-G-N from 10:05 to 10:30 p. m . Martin H. Kennelly , outgoing mayor , will open the ' meeting and introduce Judge Abraham L. Marovitz of Superior court , who will administer the oath to Daley . Daley will swear in his running mates  --  Treasurer Elect Morris B. Sachs and Clerk Elect John C. Marcin- ,  --  and the ' 50 aldermen . Families to Attend Three clergymen will take part in the ceremonies . They are Msgr . D. F. Cunningham , pastor of St. Angela 's church ; the Rev. John W. Harms , executive vice president of the Church Federation . of Greater Chicago , and Rabbi Herman L. Davis of Lake View Anshe Sholom Center . . City council business , except for formalities such as approval of bonds of the new mayor , clerk , and treasurer , will be delayed until tomorrow . Seated on the rostrum , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's family including his wife ; six of his seven children ; his father , Michael , and an uncle , Martin . Families of Sachs and Marcin also will attend . Plan 100 Police Guards Admission to the council chambers will be by ticket only , with 100 policemen on hand to prevent gate crashing . Seats have been installed for 930 spectators . Each alderman got 10 tickets , and the remainder . went to the mayor 's office . The council chambers and nearby hallways have been cleaned and polished for the event . The mayor 's office also has been polished , with some portions repainted.                     