@@713392

txt The senate Republican hierarchy headed by Robert A. Taft of Ohio expects Sen. Vandenberg Mich. to step down from the party 's policy committee to make way for his colleague , Homer Ferguson . These Republican leaders also are giving sympathetic consideration to putting a newcomer , Sen.-elect Everett M. Dirksen of Illinois , on the policy committee , the most powerful Republican group in congress . They look coldly upon the claims of Sen. Morse Ore. , a strong supporter of Truman administration foreign policy in most areas and a follower of Sen. Vandenberg , to a seat on the senate foreign relations committee . Favor Knowland for Post They intend that this place shall go to Sen. Knowland Cal. , one of the earliest and most persistent opponents of Truman policy in the far east . All this is stated on the most competent authority . The changes involved would become effective with the 82d congress , which assembles Jan. 3 . The Taft group , numbering all but a handful of occasional rebels , will dominate the 47 Republicans in the new senate . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sen. Ferguson ? an expectation likely to be carried out unless Vandenberg , who is ill , should make an issue of it ? is based upon the feeling of the Taft forces that Ferguson should now have his chance . Dirksen Choice Likely Ferguson , the Taft forces say , gave up a place on the policy committee in favor of Vandenberg after the 1948 elections had returned the Democrats to control of congress and Vandenberg thus had lost the chairmanship of the foreign relations committee . As to Dirksen , the conqueror in last Tuesday 's elections of the Democratic floor leader , Sen. Lucas of Illinoie , his selection to the policy group is likely tho not certain . A place for Dirksen on the policy committee is in the plans of the controling Republicans for several reasons , among them the desire to have at least one " new man " in the highest party councils and recognition of Dirksen 's feat of defeating , in Lucas , a key man of the administration . . Foreign Policy Under Fire Knowland 's ascension to the foreign relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in both the policy and foreign relations committees , is a Republican membership far more inclined to be critical of administration foreign policy . Sen. Ferguson has been much more hesitant about European aid than has Sen ; Vandenberg . Dirksen , for his part , was supported in Illinois . by forces . that opposed the Marshall plan , and other United States spending abroad .                     