@@712573

txt Letters to The Times School and Neighborhood Bonds To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Relations With China Hope Expressed That We Will Follow a Policy of Non-Intervention To ' THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial of Jan. 6 referring to the President 's statement on China was indeed excellent , and expressed with exactness the anxiety many of us feel in this connection . The portion of the statement which I noted with greatest interest , however , is : " * * * The United States will not pursue a course which will Iead to involvement in the civil conflict in China * * This , I assume , is our new policy ? the change which we have so long awaited in our relations with Nationalist China . If the implication is , however , that this has always been our policy , we again have laid ourselves open to severe criticism . During the spring and early summer of 1946 I was working with UNRRA in China , stationed in Southern Manchuria . The main job at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I so that our relief supplies could be shipped up from Shanghai and distributed by CNRRA in the interior . This small port was one of the busiest in the Far East at that time , for it was handling not only UNRRACNRRA cargoes but also Chinese Liberty ships loaded with Nationalist troops from the south and Lend-Lease shipments under supervision of the United States Army . Later on , the Lend-Lease shipments stopped and repatriation of Japanese from the interior commenced on a large scale . Everyone was interested in these Lend-Lease shipments ; the local Chinese , UNRRA and CNRRA personnel , and , above all , the Nationalist troops , for they consisted almost entirely of ammunition , rifles , gasoline , trucks and other war material . The only exception was an occasional crate of medical supplies . This was what we were sending Nationalist China on a large scale nearly a year after V-J Day  --  sending it to a portion of the Far East where the fighting never started until the Second World War was ended . Regrettably , we were not the only observers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all about us . Almost at will they would disrupt the rail connections between Hulutao and Chinhsien and Ivlukden . The retreat of the U.S.S.R. troops from Mukden in February , 1946 , to Harbin was by no means a complete withdrawal . We used to joke about the sudden disappearance one day of the Russian uniforms and the appearance the next day of a lot of new Russian civilians , all looking uncomfortable in their " civvies . " These fellows , too , knew what was happening at Hulutao . As suggested above , perhaps the President means that we have adopted a new policy ; perhaps we will no longer pursue a course which will lead to involvement in the civil conflict in China . Let us hope that the rest of the world sees it this way and chooses to forget our earlier involvement . H. F. BYRNE , Boston , Jan. 7 , 1950 . In the columns Education in Review of THE NEW YORK TIMES of Jan. 1 Benjamin Fine tells us of the New York City Board of Education 's program to bring its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reads this encouraging bit of news , which holds so much promise for civic growth , particularly for our lower economic areas , there come vividly to mind the names of two men who were outstanding in encouraging and fashioning the philosophy behind the program . The late Robert E. Simon of the UPA and Dr. Paul Mort of the MSSC were pioneers in advocating closer school and community bonds , and have been powerful Influences in molding lay and professional educational opinion to the point of acceptance . Between the conception of the idea and its fulfillment has been no short nor easy road , Their firm faith and patience saved the idea from the public indifference and opposition which new ideas so invariably meet . It needs to be acknowledged also that in recent years our Board of Education and our Superintendents of Schools have been increasingly receptive toward bringing school and community into closer relationship . They , too , are to be congratulated for bringing an enlightened program to reality . As the service is extended wet may confidently look forward to an era of increasing good-will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serve . A good dream come true . JACOB TIMBALE , . Assistant Superintendent of Schools , Retired . New York , Jan. 2 , 1950 . Competing With German Imports TO THE EDITOR Or TEE NEW YORE TIMES : Your reporter has given in THE TIMES of Jan. 1 the highlights of the interest4ng address of Benjamin J. Buttenwieser , Assistant High Commissioner for Germany , at the Harmonie Club on Dec. 31 . At the conclusion of Mr. Buttenwieser 's remarks the floor was open for a question period . Among other queries , there was asked : What are the average hourly wages of the German workman in the Western zone ? To this the reply was 1 mark 20 ( pfennig ) per hour . Mr. Buttenwieser hastened to add that this sum was enough to maintain a fair standard of living within Western Germany and that German labor was working sixty hours per week . Now , let us consider what this means . The German mark , as I understand it , is pegged at 23.85 cents , so in round figures the German workman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minimum wage is now 75 cents an hour . Will our economic theorists be good enough to explain how American industries manufacturing notions , pottery , leather goods , novelties , cutlery and a host of other useful items , will be able to compete in this country with the influx of imports which will occur as German industry regains its pre-war potential ? Here surely is something for Laierican working men and women to think about befote approving by their votes the silver-tongued generosity of lowering tariffs for those across the sea while there exists so great a disparity in wage rates and hours of labor . Let us be realistic about this and try to solve this problem in a more constructive way . The Marshall Plan is excellent and should be continued . There are other ways of helping Germany without destroying many worthy American industries and the capital , and labor invested therein for at least four decades . ALFRED B. KASTOR . New York , Jan. 4 , 1950 . Paring Political Jobs Tightening Up on City Expenditures Might Start Here , It Is Felt To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ column of THE TIMES of Jan. 4 there appears an announcement that the new Deputy Mayor , William Reid , is to start an ecohomy drive to see where the expenditures of the city departments can be pared . In another column Warren Moscow describes the efforts of Manhattan Borough President Robert F. Wagner Jr . to drop some of the political appointees he inherited from his predecessor and organize a staff which " he knew to be competent , " and the shuffling of exempt city positions in an attempt to " take care of " the Tammany stalwarts who do not meet Mr. Wagner 's standards . There seems to be an obvious connection between these two stories . Where could Mr. Reid better begin his paring than with the 400-odd exempt positions ? Some of them , it is true , are validly excepted from the requirements of civil service examinations . Some are essential to the functioning , of the departments . But many fulfill neither of these requirements and exist merely to furnish rewards for political services . Others could well be transferred to the competitive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fitness to perform the duties ostensibly attached to these posts . On Jan. 12 the Board of Estimate will vote on an appropriation for a thorough study of the duties and salaries of the 157,000 city positions . One subject 4 of the survey , it is hoped , will be the delicate one of the relationship of exempt and noncompetitive positions to the entire civil service of the city . The salaries of these positions , of course , is a drop in the bucket cornpared to the whole city personnel budget . But the prestige of many of ? them gives them an importance far outweighing their numbers ; and the principle of whether political service is to be rewarded by sinecures at the taxpayers ' expense is an important one . Now " ; that we have turned the half-century mark these relics of the4 political philosophy of Tweed and Plunkitt seem expensive anachronisms . JAMES R. WATSON , Executive Director , Civil Service Reform Association . New York , Jan. 4 , 1950 . Hazard of the " Moderate " Drinker To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motorists than that contained in your editorial " One for the Road " in THE TIMES of Dec. 31 . Nevertheless , your advice , " If you must have ' one for the road ' be sure that it does not contain alcohol , " probably caused eyebrows to be raised and lips to be pursed on the part of many of those motorists who think nothing of mixing drinking ( " moderate , " of course ) with their driving . Motorists have been taught , and generally recognize , the wisdom of keeping their cars in safe operating condition , but their education has been lacking as to the potency of even a little alcohol to impair their ability to drive them safely . While alcoholic beverages do not affect all people the same , nor affect each drinker exactly the same at all times , the fact remains , as you aptly express it , " even a little drinking is often enough to blunt the swift and accurate reactions necessary for safe driving at today 's car speeds and in today 's road congestion . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fact that it is the drinking driver  --  the " one for the road " " moderate " drinker  --  who constitutes the greatest highway hazard rather than the drunken driver . The data we have gathered indicate that possibly 50 per cent of all motor vehicle traffic accidents are caused by , drinking drivers , " legally " drunk or not . It does not seem quite rational for a man or woman to take " one for the road , " or for any reason , when there is driving to be done . Your editorial is timely and most commendable  --  its message merits frequent repetition . RAYMOND D. THOMAS , Director , Alcohol Facts , Ine . White Plains , N. Y. , Jan. 6 , 1950.                     