@@720387

txt The Soviet Union 's scientists were told today that mev possession of a doctor 's degree would no longer guarantee a lifetime of luxury in the nation 's top ? salary brackets . Drastic changes in the system of wages and payments to scientists , based on the quality of their work rather than on their doctorates , are being drafted . The announcement of these proposed changes culminates a controversy that has been sweeping Soviet scientific circles for three years . The measure promises to close the large gap between the sal- aries of academicians and others who teach and do research , on the one hand , and scientists and engineers who are directly connected with production . A secondary result , it is hoped , will be the elimination of the log jam of applications for advanced degrees that has kept scores of scientists bogged down in the bureaucracy of granting degrees . The proposed wage changes were announced briefly in Literaturnaya Gazeta by the deputy chairman of the State Committee on Labor and Wages . This official , A. Stepanov , announced that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the salary of a scientist would depend more on ins qualifications and on the results of his scientific work . " Furthermore , the official declared , the disparity in payments between certain categories of scientists " will be reduced . " Mr : Stepanov said his committee was taking into consideration " criticisms of shortcomings " in the system of payments to scientists that have erupted into public print . Three years ago , an article in Komsomolskaya Pravda , the Communist youth newspaper , complained that scientists who taught . or worked in research were getting two to three times as much salary as a chief engineer in a factory . At that time a member of the Academy of 4biences received about 5,000 rubles a month and the head of a research institute 8,000 rubles . The nation-wide average monthly wage in the Soviet Union is believed to be about 800 rubles . Added to this were royalties and other emoluments and prizes for books and lectures regardless of their value to Soviet production . These salaries and the disparity between them and the wages of others continues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personnel and researchers contend that hinging salary on the results of a scienr tist 's work would put hirh on a piece-work basis whereas it often takes ten years to prove the results of such work . The latest criticism appeared last month in Literaturnaya Gazeta . The paper Wild of the vast labyrinth in which applications for advanced degrees in science got lost in. the Higher Attestation Commission of the Academy of Sciences . Dozens of , subcommittees were formed and hundreds of persons were employed in going through thousands of applications . The chief cause of this unhappy state of affairs , the paper said , was that the present system of payments to scientists in the Soviet Union put a priority on their having a degaee.                     