@@713213

txt Letters to The Times For Voluntary Price Control Launching of a Program Advocated to Combat Increased Prices To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : One of the major problems now confronting our country is the subject of inflation . With war clouds hanging over us and the threat of shortages in certain types of material necessary to an all-out preparedness program , we have already had signs of hoarding and scare buying . The cost of living index has risen a few points and wage adjustments by large corporations are further indicative of spiraling price levels . As a remedy , , or rather as a preventive measure , the Congress has authorized the President to initiate price and wage controls . It seems to me , both from the viewpoint of an attorney and as a householder , that the memory of our latest national attempt at price control should be too fresh in the minds of us all to resort heedlessly to another such experiment . 0 . P. A. with all its attendant ills and inconveniences to the public and business alike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an equitable distribution of commodities of living . Wage-Earners as Victims The wage freeze did , however , freeze the wage-earners and make them the victims of the price rises which were not recorded in the index but which were the actual barometer of the cost of living . The price of steak might have been fixed at 85 cents a pound , but if you wanted to buy one you paid $3 a pound . Gasoline coupons , according to the individual 's need , entitled one to purchase a limited amount of gas at a fixed price , but the black market in coupons and in gas itself determined the real quantity available and the real price .. And now , from present indications , we are ready to rush headlong into the same thing again in the face of bulging granaries and crowded warehouses and government price supports for many agricultural products . Does it make sense that on the one hard we spend billions of dollars to keep prices up and then appropriate more billions to hire an army of regulators to keep prices down ? But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merchants to increase prices , I suggest a national voluntary price control program . Properly launched , such a program should have the Support of every medium of public communication in the country . Every honest manufacturer would be glad to pledge himself not to increase prices to the public unless his cost of wages and materials were increased beyond his control . Every merchant , would I believe , be glad to do the same thing . And I am sure that every citizen ' would be glad to resist price increases of every and any kind if the opportunity were presented to do so in an organized way . Pledge Suggested If , through a voluntary organization , manufacturers were given the opportunity , I believe they would sign and publicize a pledge somewhat along the following lines : " We , the X. Y. Z. Manufacturing Company , hereby pledge ourselves to do everything within our power to keep the retail prices of any or all products we manufacture or sell under rigid control , and to regard no shortage that may exist either now or in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pledge ourselves to resist every effort to increase prices on the part of those who sell to us any article or thing or service , knowing that should we not do so our prices must , in turn , reflect such increases . So long as labor costs and the cost of materials remain stable , we shall hold the line . " A similar pledge , I believe , would be welcomed and displayed by retailers , and then if the individual citizens were to pledge themselves not to hoard and to resist price increases , we would have price control in the American way , in the democratic way . Our country was founded by individuals who had faith in themselves ? faith in each other  --  faith to work together in their common cause . I believe that spirit still exists in the United States of America , and that we need only the leadership and the opportunity to prove it . LUCILLE PUGH . New York , Sept. 6 , 1950 . Resignation of Bishops Explained To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TINIER : In your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Press dispatch from London entitled " Bishops in China Resign , " with a subtitle , " Anglican Churchmen Quit in Face of Red Restrictions . " I am writing for the sake of keeping the records straight and to eradicate a serious false impression that " all European Anglican Bishops in China have resigned in protest ' against Communist restrictions . " The transfer of authority from Western Bishops to Chinese Bishops by the Chung-hua Slieng Kung Hui ( the Chinese name for the church established by the missionary work of the Anglican Communion in China , in which the Protestant Episcopal Church in this country has had a part ) commenced more than fifteen years ago when the Right Rev. Lindel Tsen was consecrated Bishop of the Diocese of Honan ( established by the Canadian Anglican Church ) . Since then down through the years other dioceses have had Chinese Bishops , the Church Missionary Society Diocese of West Szechuan being one of the first to elect such . The Protestant Episcopal Church established three dioceses along the Yangtze Myer . The Diocese of Hankow , the farthest west @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S. Tsang and he was consecrated in 1948 , a year before the area of Central China was liberated , For many years a number of the dioceses have had assistant Bishops who were Chinese . Some of these men were made Diocesan Bishops during the past year , as is indicated in the last paragraph of the article referred to above . In other words , the change was a natural and gradual one and in no sense a protest against the People 's Government of China . I write the above from personal knowledge , as I was in China during the entire period before Bishop Tsen was elected and only left at the end of May , of this year . CLAUDE L. PICKENS Jr . New York , Sept. 9 , 1950 , Dock Action Questioned Considerations Involved in Trade With Soviet Union Weighed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMER I am tempted to wonder why the action of the dockworkers in refusing to handle shipments consigned to or from the Soviet Union has not been more widely subject to question . The patriotism of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the light of their very evident desire to avoid helping an enemy or potential enemy of the United States in any way . It does seem to me , however , that the wisdom of the action can be questioned on two grounds . First , to what extent is it right for the dockworkers to determine the nature of America 's foreign trade ? It is not a prerogative of labor , it seems to me , to make a unilateral decision of this type under any circumstances . Labor , of course , has the right not to work on any job or operation for reasons which seem good to it . However , having determined not to work on a given shipment , are the dockworkers then right in prohibiting the owners from moving the goods in some other way ? In this connection it should be remembered that in none of the cases so far have the goods been owned by the Soviet Union or Soviet agents . Second , does labor have the information at hand which ' will allow it accurately to assess the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the United States , and if it does is It the proper body to make such a determination ? The United States ' has heretofore depended upon the Soviet Union for a significant , portion of vital alloying metals , manganese in particular . In all of the many ramifications of international trade are the dockworkers certain that the crab meat did not have to be taken from the Soviet Union in some kind of a package deal with vital raw materials ? Or will the dockworkers ' unilateral action in this case cause the Soviet Union to shut off a flow of materials which the United States finds valuable or vital to its own security and defense ? Furthermore , how can the dockworkers be certain that the British or Marshall Plan Administrator Hoffman is wrong in a belief that a maximum of non-war vital trade between East and West is a good way to ease international tensions ? LAWRENCE DAvsoN . Lake Forest , Ill. , Sept , 8 , 1950 . Soviet Indifference to Lives To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : One feature of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been shown in the consolidation of the Politburo 's power over both its own people and their neighbors , is the ruthlessness with which it expends human lives in forwarding its political aims . The hapless inhabitants of Northern Korea have been forced into the Soviet 's war machine , They are now being poured into the diminishing ranks of combat , troops in order to retain a numerical advantage over the slowly in ? creasing forces of the United Nations . So long as the supply of cannon fodder holds out the slaughter of North Koreans is a matter of as complete indifference to their Russian masters as are the losses of their South Korean opponents . Both have a claim on our compassion . The term " cannon fodder , " often indiscriminately applied to armies regardless of the cause for which they fight , has here its perfect application . There are those who condone the ruthlessness and cruelty of social revolution on the ground that any amount of suffering by the present generation would be justified by the achievement of Utopia for ' its successors . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , though it is but a mask on the face of despotism . ** D. GREENE . Peterborough , N. H. , Sept. 9 , 1950 , Crossword Puzzles Opposed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : . I would like to protest the inclusion of crossword puzzles in the daily TIMES . Having them in the Sunday edition is bad enough . Next you will be having comic strips and gabbling col ? umnists . THE TIMES is the best NEWSpaper in this country ; please try to keep it that way . CHAUNCEY B. DOWNES . Englewood , N. J. , Sept. 8 , 1950.                     