@@718118

txt Letters to The Times W. FRIEDMANN.H.G . ANDREWS.WILLIAM C. WHITE . Letters to The Times Nationalizing Suez Legal Aspects of Egypt 's Action in Seizing Canal Examined The writer of the following letter is Professor of Law and Director of International Legal Research at the School of Law , Columbia University . He is the editor of the recently published " Anti-Trust Laws : A. Comparative Symposium . " To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The understandable bitterness of the reaction against Egypt 's nationalization of the Suez Canal Company has tended to obscure the distinction between the political and legal aspects of the situation . Political apprehensions on the part of the Western powers are fully justified : by the abruptness of an action which it would have been in the interest of everybody to prepare gradually ; doubt in leaving the control of the canal to a highly nationalist country controlled by an ambitious and emotional ruler ; the lack of technical experience , financial resources and many other factors . Legally , however , Egypt 's action is not as clearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important that justified indignation should not lead the Western powers into a position where they . have not international law clearly on their side . Use by All Nations Under the Convention of 1888 , Egypt  --  which has succeeded to the Qbligations of Turkey  --  is under an obligation to keep the Suez Canal open for free use by the ships of all nations . But apart from the longstanding violation of this obligation in regard to Israel , Egypt has so far reaffirmed it . The status of the Suez Canal Company is not in any direct way linked with the Convention of 1888 . Although the majority of the shares are held by French citizens and the British Government , the company has always been operated as a commercial enterprise . It obtained its status from two concessions given by the ( Turkish ) Viceroy of Egypt in 1854 and 1856 . It has its domicile at Alexandria and its administrative seat at Paris . Egypt claims that the Suez Canal is a purely Egyptian company . This is very doubtful . The company has always been regarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Convention of 1949 between the company and the Egyptian Government . Apart from reaffirming the concession of the company until at least 1968 , this agreement accorded to the company several special privileges , such as a number of Egyptian members of the board smaller than that required for an ordinary Egyptian company . In turn , the company undertook certain , obligations in regard to the gradual Egyptianization of the company , the share of the Egyptian Government in the revenues , the development of technical and navigational facilities , etc . Recent Agreement According to the chairman of the Suez Canal Company , the Egyptian Government less than two months ago concluded another agreement with the company providing for further investments , in full awareness by both sides that the concession would expire in 1968 . The assertion by an official Egyptian spokesman that the company would never voluntarily have surrendered its concession is without foundation . These agreements are neither purely Egyptian transactions , as Egypt contends , nor international treaties . Foreign Governments are not directly involved . The fact that the British Government holds 46 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not make the British Government a party . On the other hand , this is not a matter of " domestic ' jurisdiction , " but clearly one of international political and legal concern , including the use of force . There is no doubt that any state can nationalize any enterprise on its soil , subject to fair compensation ? which Egypt has offered  --  in contrast to the Iranian Government when it expropriated the AngloIranian Oil Company . It is , however , very doubtful whether the Suez Canal Company can be regarded as a purely national enterprise . No direct violation of an international treaty on the part of Egypt has so far occurred , except that any prolonged forced detention of foreign personnel would be an international wrong against which the powers concerned could take legal action . Egypt 's Commitments There is , therefore , every reason for the strongest apprehension on the part of the Western powers not only about the timing of Egypt 's action but about her ability to live up to her professed commitments . Thus fair compensation for the expropriated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other hand , it is doubtful whether the Western powers would be justified in taking military reprisals at this stage , quite apart from the restraint which the United Nations Charter puts on them . There is everything to be said for using strong concerted political and diplomatic pressure to bring about a public international regime , possibly an international supervisory board ; and if necessary economic reprisals on the part of the states immediately affected and proportionate to the injury done , especially to British and French interests . But military reprisals at this stage would prejudice the strong moral position of the West . Nor is it advisable to use force until at least an attempt has been made to use the services of the United Naticns . The attempt to by-pass the United Nations through the London confers ence already seems doomed to fail ? ure . Of the nations which have so far accepted the British invitation , nearly one-third , led by the Soviet Union , are likely to support the Egyptian stand more or less unconditionally . Although neither the Security Council nor the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existing split , the mediatory services of the Secretary General may well prove once again at least the prelude to a peaceful settlement , W. FRIEDMANN . New York , Aug. 9 , 1956 . To Deal With Civil Rights Parties Urged to Draft Effective Platform Declarations The writer of the following letter is Speaker of the House of gore . sentatives of the State of Pennsylvania . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Leaders in both the Democratic and Republican parties have expressed the opinion that the civil rights , segregation and Supreme Court decision issues should be handled in " realistic " fashion . - If " realism " means simply that the planks should be a bridge which will enable the South to cross into the Democratic party and a bridge by means of which the Negroes in the North can cross into the Repub. lican party , the net result will be nothing more than a continuation of past political platform platitudes . The only way to go about handling these issues in effective fashion is for the respective party conventions to delegate to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerning civil rights , segregation , the import of Supreme Court decisions  --  a declaration to which their parties will be committed and the provisions of which they will be mutually pledged to implement and enforce . If , as the result of such a declaration of Democratic and Republican party policy , the South were to elect to function as a sectional party , such a decision would reveal the fact that the South , until it reorients its political thinking , has no place in a national party . Is it not in the interest of both the Democratic and the Republican parties that their thinking should be at the national level ? I speak as a delegate to the Democratic National Convention , knowing well that when I arrive at the convention city my small voice will not be heard in the midst of the din . The issues which civil rights and segregation present are moral issues which can not be served by political organizations minded to obscure moral issues in the hope of securing transient political advantage . H. G. ANDREWS . Harrisburg , Pa. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial of Aug. 5 titled " Wanted : More Scientists " raises an interesting possibility of a way to at least partially relieve the " shortage of scientists and engineers . " To materially increase their number takes years , but to increase the number of effective ones could be done in a matter of months . Many Government agencies finance in university , industrial and Government laboratories hundreds of research and development projects utilizing thousands of trained men . Only a small fraction of these contracts accomplish anything really worth while . Nowadays it almost seems to be taken for granted that any work called " research " and that costs a lot of money almost always leads to valuable results and will be a marked help to our country . This is a serious fallacy . Many of these projects could be germinated with little or no risk of losing any important results . It does , however , take a lot more courage to stop a research project than to start or expand " one . This is because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in starting it . Men . so released could be used to advantage on some more worthwhile work and probably be happier , as they would have a greater sense of accomplishment . A man or group with a record of accomplishment is a good bet on any project willingly accepted . Incidentally , such action would also save the taxpayers millions of dollars a year . WILLIAM C. WHITE . Schenectady , Aug. 5 , 1956.                     