@@712720

txt Sir Harry Lauder , worldfamed Scottish comedian , died tonight at his home in Lanarkshire after long months of illness . He was 79 years old . - Suffering from arterio-thrombosis ( an arterial blood clot ) complicated by kidney ailments , Sir Harry was near death last August but rallied and for weeks appeared greatly improved . Entertainer for Half Century Sir Harry Lauder 's songs and jests took him from the drudgery of flax mills to the excitement of music halls , from the obscurity of coal mines to acquaintanceship with Presidents and Kings . For half a century the stocky man with the kilt , tam and crooked walking stick was one of the most popular entertainers of history . Prime Minister Winston Churchill used a line from one of his songs as a slogan . The King of England sent him a letter of condolence on the death of his wife . So strong was the impression Sir Harry made on those who knew him that Mr. Churchill singles him out for praise in his memoirs . By coincidence the tribute appears in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says that the comedian , " by his inspiring songs and valiant life , has rendered measureless service to'the Scottish race and to the British Empire . " Allied troops of two World Wars were quick to join his burring baritone in choruses of " Roamin ' in the Gloamin ' " or " I Love a Lassie . " Audiences all over the world roared when- he swung the crooked stick and did a jaunty step or two with his bandy legs for numbers such as " Stop Yer Tickling , Jock " or " It 's Nice to Get Up in the Mornin ' but It 's Nicer to Lie in My Baid . " He wrote most songs in his repertory . Jaunty and effervescent , he had a perfect sense of timing learned in days when he played mining towns for virtually nothing . Even in his last years he disdained to use a microphone when organizing shows for schools , hospitals and community projects . There were so many reports of his retirement that he jokingly referred to one of his forty-five trips to this country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his feelings on retirement . " The one time I think I will retire , " he said , " and the next time I think , well , why should I ? When 9 or 10 comes at night and I do n't see the spotlight and I do n't hear the band playin ' why then I think I wo n't retire . I guess I 'll wait till I 'm kicked by a dead horse . " Once Highest Paid Star Like many great comedians , Sir Harry gibed at himself as part of his routine . Thus , when he was the highest-paid music hall star in the world  --  he received $7,500 for three short radio performances in 1930 ? he held himself up to ridicule as one of the stingiest men of his time . Sir Harry had his first heady taste of applause as a boy when he sang for shillings and pence at concerts and amateur recitals in the flax and mining towns in which he was reared . He was born on Aug. 14 , 1870 , at Portobello , near Edinburgh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Black Isle in the north of Scotland , and it was the tartan he usually wore as an adult artist . His father 's earnings as a potter were small and Harry , one of seven children , began working as a hand in a flax mill at . Arbroath when he was 11 years old . He worked half-time at the factory and attended school every ether day . He received each week two shillings and a penny , which went to the family . After working a year as a flax dresser the boy moved with his family to a colliery district and became a trapper in coal mines . For ten years he worked underground as a trapper , driver and hewer . During this period he was a popular singer and comedian at local gatherings . The demand for Lauder at these performances became so considerable that his price for an evening rose in two years from two shillings and sixpence to seven shillings and sixpence . In 1894 , four ; ears after he had married Annie Valiance , the young man decided to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entire working time to touring as a comedian with a Scottish company known as the Kennedys . After attracting considerable attention in Belfast by singing an Irish comic song entitled " Calligan , Call Again ! " he struck out for London . Lauder 's London debut was at Gatti 's Westminster in December of 1900 . He tried the same song and was immediately acclaimed . Thereafter he appeared with increasing fame and salary in London 's leading music halls as well as those of the provinces . Subsequent tours of the United States , Australia and South Africa were uniformly successful . In 1908 he appeared at Rufford Abbey before the late King Edward , who never , lost his enthusiasm for the chunky Scotsman 's robust humor and rollicking songs . When the first World War . started , Sir Harry was in his mid-forties and in a position to capitalize on his reputation as an entertainer . Nevertheless , he passed up enormous sums to entertain soldiers in France . During the conflict he retired for the first time . This was brought on by the death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . John Lauder of ? the Argyl and Sutherland Highlanders . Sir Harry for many months refused to appear on a stage , but when the war ended he and his wife decided it would be better for them both if he returned to the music halls . His popularity reached a new high not only in the British Isles , but on tours of the United States and Australia . ' In this country , in. particular , he was a tremendous box-office attraction . Knighted for War Work One of the comedian 's proudest moments came when he was in Australia on this ' 60,000-mile tour . Early in 1919 , while playing Sydney , he received a wire saying he had been knighted for his war services . Thereafter , there were many reports of Sir Harry 's retirement . None of these was taken seriously until his wife died in 1927 , after they had been married for thirtyseven years . He had married her when he was 20 and she was 18 . He had known her since he was 14 . When he decided to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accompanied him on his most arduous trips across continents . However , a year after her death , when Sir Harry came to this country he said he had left his sorrows behind and was determined to make people laugh . " The public , " he said , " wants music and song and healthy , innocent entertainment . They want to hem ' about love and they do n't mind shedding a tear now and then . It ' does them good . The theatres have ' many secret , quiet corners for shedding a tear . " Even after ' Sir Harry finally gave up the stage , he continued to perform at charitable functions . " My work , " he said , " has always been my hobby , and to stop work would be to stop living . "                     