@@720515

txt The first court case involving ? a bomb threat since the Junc 11 explosion at the North Station stop of the Metropolitan Transit Authority system today came before Judge Charles I. Taylor of Roxbury Municipal Court . John L. Hutchinson , of 26 Rosemary Street , Jamaica Plain , was charged by Boston police with making a false report of a threatened explosion . Judge Taylor postponed hearing the case until July 15 and set bail at $5,000 . Mr. Hutchinson is alleged to have telephoned a report yesterday that a bomb was about to go off in the Dudley Street MTA station . This is the latest of a rash of such threats made since the June 11 explosion , which injured 38 persons . Mr. Hutchinson was arrested by Boston police after an alert telephone operator . Miss Eleanor Doyle , contacted police and reported a bomb hoax call . Shortly after 6 o'clock last night , she heard a male voice telephone in. saying , " There 's a bomb ready to go off at the Dudley Street MTA station . " Instantly she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ locked the line . " This mechanical procedure held open the line after the caller had hung up . She reported the incident at once to Boston Police who authorized her to trace the call . The follow-up led to a two-party line located at a three-family dwelling on Rosemary Street in Jamaica Plain . At the suggestion of Police Lt. Cecil Lewis , operator Doyle then telephoned both numbers on the two-party line . First to answer was a male voice which Miss Doyle said she recognized as the same voice which had made the telephone threat . Police proceeded immediately to the Jamaica Plain residence and apprehended the young man . For three hours he was questioned by Police Capt . Joseph B. Fallon. head of the homicide squad , and Capt . James V. Crowley of the Bureau of Criminal Investigation . Con tin nonce Asked Francis E. Dooley , Jr. , counsel for Mr. Hutchinson , indicated he was asking for a continuance of the case in order that the " clamor " following the spate of bomb threats would not adversely affect the judgment of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said Judge Taylor . Mr. Dooley said the defendant denies ' having made any telephone call at the time alleged . He says his client has no previous record . John T. , special agent of the New England Telephone and Telegraph Company , told the judge that " the party who made this call dialed the operator . He did n't dial a number . He just dialed the operator and made the report to her . " " These are terrible things , " said Judge Taylor , referring to the bomb threats , which so far have proved to be hoaxes . " That is why I am trying to make certain there is sufficient evidence to give to a grand jury . " Miss Doyle , the operator who received the call last night , was in court today but was not asked to testify at this time . Safety Steps Taken In the meantime . Boston Police and Fire Department officials took no chances on this latest of a series of weekend hoaxes which have harried Boston since June 11 . On that afternoon some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ locker , demolishing the waiting station at the North Station stop of the MTA and injuring 38 persons . Since then telephone bomb threats have been reeeived from various parts of the city . All have proved to be hoaxes . Under Massachusetts law a person convicted of a bomb hoax may be sentenced up to 10 years in prison and fined 81,000 . Hundreds of travelers were cleared out of South Station by police early Saturday while a search was made . Two Europe-bound Trans World Airlines Constellations originating at Idlewild Airport in New York Saturday stopped as usual in Boston to take on passengers and fuel . But following a New York telephone threat , the planes were delayed until about 11 p. m. while an intensive search safeguarded the tights .                     