@@718494

txt There is a fine little baseball rhubarb going while most of the outfielders are hibernating up the weight they 'll have to take off in spring training , and as you might know the Dodgers are all mixed up in it . And as you might also guess , where there 's a Dodger rhubarb there 's also Jackie Robinson and the sporting writers . Robinson , a Dodger since he first broke into baseball as the first member of his race to make the Big Leagues , was traded to the Giants for $30,000 and a pitcher , Dick Littlefield , last month . Subsequently , Robinson announced his retirement from baseball in an exclusive article he sold to Look magazine . This sequence of events sent some of the sporting writers to their typewriters in as doleful a mood as baseball has encountered since there was no joy in Mudville . Mighty Jackie , some of the boys felt , had struck out . This mood was n't helped by Mr. Buzzie Bavasi 's mournful remark , " So that 's how he repays the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Eavasi 's concern is understandable ; as a Dodger executive he is faced with returning $30,000 and a pitcher to the Giants if Robinson 's retirement sticks . A bit more difficult to understand is exactly what Mr. Bavasi meant , and the reaction of those sports writers ? not all of them by any means  --  who seem to think Robinson has been less than ethical in what he did . As one writer put it , Robinson misled " the individual members of a press that had contributed largely to his fame . " Well , now . Robinson says he had promised to sell his " retirement " story to Look , that he had made up his mind to quit baseball before the trade to the Giants was announced , and that if he had told everybody else he was retiring Look would n't have had much of a story . Thus the reader has a choice between ethical attitudes toward baseball , which is a big boy 's game . The hero of today is the bum of tomorrow . Everybody gets paid . Highly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they 're through when they ca n't produce any longer . So a couple of questions seem in order . What does Robinson owe the Dodgers ? They traded him to the Giants . Before they traded him he produced , or he would n't have been there . What does Robinson owe the Giants ? He was traded to a team he had played against many times but never for , and nobody told him he was through at Brooklyn until the trade was a deal . Finally , what does Robinson owe the sports writers ? Baseball writers are supposed to report everything that goes on in baseball ? , the good , the bad , the indifferent .  --  and they are well paid to do so . This , . we would suppose , includes getting hold of a " retirement " story before somebody else beats you to it .                     