@@714588

txt In keeping with the disarmament directives of the General Assembly of the United Nations , the United States has submitted to the new Disarmament Commission a detailed plan for a comprehensive and deep-probing census of the world 's military forces and armaments , including atomic weapons . Such a census , based on progressive disclosure of all pertinent data and verified by an effective international inspection system , has been declared by the General Assembly to be the " first and indispensable step " in carrying out the disarmament program it adopted at the Paris session last year . That program , which Mr. Vishinskyottempted to laugh to scorn when first proposed by the Western Powers , but which found the overwhelming support of the whole free world , ( - Ails for the regulation , limitation and balanced reduction of all armed forces and all armaments to levels adequate for defense but not for aggression , with the prohibition of atomic weapons as the final goal . The American plan , which provides the Disarmament Commission with something concrete to work on in effecting the first step @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change . Indeed further discussion of the complicated problems raised by it may well suggest such changes , and the United States , in contrast to the take-it-or-leave-it propositions of the Soviets , not only welcomes amendments but reserves the right to propose some of its own . Nevertheless , even in its tentative form . the plan is an impressive demonstration of America 's good faith and determination to press for real armament reduction to make the world safe for peace . By the same token , it is also a challenge to the Soviets to display equal good faith and to cooperate in making the United Nations plan a success . Unfortunately , the first Soviet reaction , manifested even before they had read the plan , leaves little hope on that score . For to Mr. Malik any world-wide and verified armament census which would disclose the exact status of Soviet military power is merely an ' international spying service " in the interest of the United States and Britain . It does not matter to him that the same " spying service " would cover the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan , would disclose all their military secrets , beginning - with the less secret areas and proceeding to the most secret , including the - number , types and location of atomic weapons , for the benefit of the Soviets . The only thing that matters to him is that the plan would roll back the iron Curtain and expose Soviet-controlled territories-to effective international inspection , including on-the-spot investigation and aerial reconnaissance , and that it precludes any chance of cheating or sabotage by eliminating the veto from any Security Council determination of major violations , which would immediately free other nations to take counter-measures . This stand casts a revealing light on the good faith of the Soviets ' own proposals for international " control " and " continuous inspection " of armaments and atomic facilities which they have laid before the Disarmament Commission . The United States and all the free nations ask nothing they are not willing to accept themselves , in an effort to create an " open world , with no secret armies , no secret weapons , and no secret war plans . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are interested in is to disarm the free world and lay it open to conquest by arms and armies forged on their dark continent beyond effective inspection dr contra . As long as they persist in that stand the free world can not afford to disarm if it wants to survive . It can only arm to defend itself until the Soviets see the futility of their ways and become amenable to agreements that are self-executing and will not turn into scraps of paper whenever it suits Soviet purposes .                     