@@717616

txt None of the basic problems in Asia was solved during 1955 . There is still the division of countries such as Korea and Vietnam . There is still the threat of Communist expansion and aggression from without and of infiltration and subversion from within . There is still the crying need for more effective means to deal with poverty , ignorance , disease , superstition and fear . Nevertheless , some gains have been made during the year just ended . Several states in Asia go into the New Year in a better position than that which prevailed a year ago . These gains have been regional rather than general but they should not be underestimated . It is well to review them . In Japan there is a greater degree of political stability with the fusion of the major conservative parties . It should be possible , now , to deal with some issues , such as relations with Korea and with the United States , without the constant pressure of local politics . The economic situation is somewhat improved . The biggest problems have not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were hungry a year ago . In Korea the best that can he said is that we have held our own . The Republic of Korea is still free , albeit it is gravely threatened . Its economic recovery is not yet accomplished and 1956 will present a new challenge to our imagination and a rightful claim upon our aid . In Formosa there is also a situation that could be called static . Happily , the threat of war to the island bastion of the free Chinese that seemed so grave early last year did not materialize . The Philippines goes into the New Year in a much stronger position . Resounding electoral support for President Magsaysay has given the Government renewed strength . The revision of the Philippine Trade Act has provided for new economic opportunity . The Southeast Asia Treaty Organization has been an important forward step in security . Thailand 's position has also been strengthened by SEATO , and it may have a beneficial effect in Cambodia , Laos and'Vietnam . In these Indochinese states , however , there is still fearful outside pressure . Laos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts at disruption and Cambodia is politically stronger than it was . Vietnam , however , faces an intensely critical year . Domestically , the free Government of Vietnam Is stronger than it was a year ago . Its international position is yet to he assured . The collapse of the " truce " negotiations in Malaya bodes no good for the cause of peace . On the other hand , in both the federation and in Singapore theta has been substantial progress toward selfgovernment and it has been orderly . Indonesia has had , in the last part of 1955 , one of the best Governments that it has enjoyed since the advent of independence . It has held an election and is moving toward the framing of a constitution . If the machinations to undermine this newly won stability can be met , the archipelago could go forward both politically and economically in the coming year . In South Asia  --  Ceylon , Burma , India and Pakistan  --  there has been economic progress and a relatively high degree of political stability . The ? friction between India and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ international problem and until it is relieved there will continue ' to be trouble of one sort and another . Soviet manipulation has not improved the atmosphere . Finally , concerning the roughly half-billion persons who live under the Red Chinese regime it is impossible to suggest what a New Year will bring . The one that has passed has ' brought renewed hardship , more hunger , more truculence , more purges , and more systematic efforts to remove the good Chinese from the goodness of those who wish to be their friends . ' Asia 's New Year will be stormy ; of that we may be sure . Our interest in the Asian peoples can not diminish and they will be a part of our year as well . What has been happening should , at the very least , urge us to take up new situations with courage and patience , with hope and resolution .                     