@@718526

txt Former Senator Herbert H. Lehman declared last night that Democratic Congressional leaders were largely responsible for the defeat of Adlai E. Stevenson last November . He charged that the right to make party policy had been " preempted " by the Congressional leaders and he proposed that the Democrats hold a national convention once a year to decide policy and plan , , their legislative program , In expressing the belief that the majority in the party had a " liberal " philosophy , ho called for a decisive break with the conservative and the Southern elements . Mr. Lehman made his proposals in a speech at a dinner given in his honor by the Lexington Democratic Club at the Delmonico Hotel , Park Avenue and Fiftyninth Street . It was his first major public comment since leaving Congress . Now 78 years old , he decided against seeking re-election to the Senate last November and was succeeded by Jacob K. Javits , a Republican . In upbraiding his recent Democratic legislative colleagues for Mr. Stevenson 's defeat , Mr. Lehman said : " In my judgment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the campaign began ? before the conventions were held . Nothing we did or were abTe to do in the campaign really made a determining difference . " Although he did not mention by name either Senator Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas , Democratic Senate leader , or House Speaker Sam Rayburn , Democrat of Texas , Mr. Lehman said the main fault rested with the party 's leaders in Congress . He complained , that they had failed to make issues . He bharged that the Congressional leaders deliberately tried to prevent , controversial issues from being fought out . He 1. ccused them of imposing a " vii/nal blackout " on civil rights and foreign policy , which he termed ' the two main issues now . Party unity was maintained under such injunctions as " Do n't rock the boat , " and " Speak briefly and softly lest we wake sleeping dogs , " he said . He conceded , however , that some Democrats disagreed with his analysis of the Stevenson defeat and that they cited the Congressional victories and the majority the Democrats won @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But he doubted that the Democrats had won either effective control or effective power in Congress . All the Democrats can do is propose , he said , while the Republicans hold the effective authority through the Executive ' departments and the regulatory agencies . He said that some Democrats had not learned and some " can not arid will not " learn , the elec- , tion lesson that principle must be put ahead of " so-called party unity . " " For ' example , : ' he admonished , " the party must never again turn a deaf ear to the pleas for a strong civil rights platform ? and an ' adequate civil rights program  --  just to keep the Southerners satisfied . " In charging that the Democratic leaders of the House and Senate had pre-empted party policy-making , Mr. Lehman said he did not consider this " wise or well , " and he urged that policy be decided by an aenual party conference or convention . He suggested that the number of delegates might be smaller than for a Presidential convention and he acknowledged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he argued that it would be worth the cost . Mr. Lehman eliminated in delivery a statement in his prepared text that the main problem involved in establishing annual conventions would be the creation of machinery for choosing the delegates . Plan Applies to G. 0 . P. , Too A yearly representative and authorized party meeting was needed to speak for the party as a whole to increase party responsibility among legislators and to establish a closer relationship between the party and Congress , ' he contended . He said that this proposal could apply equally to the Republican party . Neither the Democrats in Congress nor the Democratic National Committee could serve this function , he . insisted . Mr. Lehman suggested that the proposal be submitted for study to the Democrats ' new National Advisory Committee . This group was proposed by northern and urban party elements and consists of high-level party members to shape legislative programs in conformance with a " progressive " party platform . However , both Mr. Rayburn and Mr. Johnson have refused to serve on ' it Thomas K. Finletter , former Air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Lexington Democratic Club is the regular Democratic organization in the ' Ninth Assembly District .                     