@@719219

txt The State Department replied as it did , the President told his press conference , after Mr. Dulles had warned him that " we have got to beware of bilateral talks when you have allies and comrades in very great ventures like N.A.T.O . and so on . " Mr. Eisenhower went on to explain that the visit might have been misinterpreted as an attempt by the two great powers to dictate to the world while the London disarmament talks were going on . Well , for one thing , disarmament talks have been going on for many years and it is difficult to see how a visit here by Zhukov would endanger them any more than if he stayed in Russia . For another thing , bilateral talks aren'taecessarily dangerous of themselves unless they produce bilateral agreements that affect other nations . Further , as we have said time and again in these columns , as a general proposition it is always better to talk than not to talk . It is when talk ceases among great powers that their misunderstandings increase their troubles . Now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense agreements with nations spread all over the globe  --  though we have sever been convinced of the ney.ssits- of them all  --  a respect for those commitments requires consultation with them concerning decisions that affect the agreements . But the primary purpose of any country 's foreign policy is , or ought to be . the interests of that country . And it is difficult to see how our best interests can be served if we insist that each one of these countries has a right to look over our shoulder about everything we do . - The reason we are in all these great ventures that Mr. Dulles spoke of is , as Ale understand it , that our leadership of the free world demands it . But it is hardly leadership when the leader hesitates to issue an invitation even an enemy seeks because some of our allies might misconstrue it . It is hardly a mark of trust in that leadership that an ally would misconstrue it . To be sure , there may have been great reasons why Marshal Zhukov should not have been issued the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he should never be invited here . But they are not the ones Mr. Dulles gave the President . The reasons Mr. Dulles gave are , indeed , a matter for wariness . For their effect could be to abdicate the conduct of Ame-ican policy to two-score foreign chancelleries.                     