@@716453

txt WASHINGTON , Aug. 10 ? The United States has asked the Soviet Union to give a final yes or no answer to President Eisenhower 's 8-month-old proposal for international development of atomic power for peaceful pm. ; poses . ' John Foster Dulles , Secretary of State , said today that he had made this request of the Soviet Union after having received from Moscow a " 99 per cent negative " note . " We have in substance asked the Soviet whether they wish it to be , treated as 100 per cent negative , " he said at his news conference . Meanwhile , the United States is making plans to carry out the President 's plan in association with other countries , without the Soviet Union , Mr. Dulles said . " There are several in a posi // tion to contribute material to the program and many which would like to benefit from the program in terms of exploring and developing the possibilities of atomic energy for peacetime , life-giving purposes , " the Secretary added . He mentioned no countries by name @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power said there were three groups of countries concerned : I. Britain , Canada , and France , each of which could contribute fissionable materials and has advanced atomic research programs . 2 . Other countries that could contribute fissionable materials or that have more or less advanced atomic research , in ... iuding Belgium , the Netherlands , Norway , South Africa , Australia . 3 . Other countries interested in benefiting from international use of atomic power . It has been suggested that atomic power plants could be set up at central points such as Geneva to provide power to a number of surrounding countries . Consideration of such questions in consultation with other countries has " not yet gotten into detail , " Mr. Dulles explained , adding " that would presumably come at an early stage . " Plan Studied by Others The original plan , which President Eisenhower presented to the United Nations General Assembly Dec. 8 , 1953 , was actively considered with those Allies able to contribute fissionable materials before it was submitted to the Soviet Union , the Secretary recalled . The countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At the time talks with the Soviet were begun " quietly and privately " because , as suggested by the President in his message to the United Nations , some persons felt private talks might be more effective than public diplomacy , Mr. Dulles continued . am sorry to say that the private talk method does not Seem to work any better than the public talk method , " Mr. Dulles observed . He feared that the difficulties in dealing with the Russians were so fundamenta that something more than change of method would be required to elicit positive cooperation . Mr. Dulles recalled that he had had several private talks with Vyacheslav M. Molotov , Soviet Foreign Minister , during the Berlin and Geneva conferences . On these occasions he said he had given Mr. Molotov " various notes which had been prepared in concert with some of our Allies who are principally concerned . " These notes " elaborated the President 's program , " Mr. Dulles said . The " 99-per cent negative " Soviet note to which Mr. Dulles referred was m reply to a note @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials said that in substance the Soviet note repeated the old Soviet point of view that the atomic bomb must be outlawed before any other kind of cooperation in atomic matters was possible . The United States , which has insisted since the beginning of international discussion of atomic weapons that a system of effective international controls must precede the banning of the bomb , had sought by means of President Eisenhower 's plan to bypass the insoluble problem of controls and bans . Apart from the hope that mankind would benefit from atomic energy , one of the ideas behind the President 's proposal was that a piecemeal approach to atomic problems might break the impasse that had been reached in attempts to find an over-all solution . The Soviet Union received this type of thinking suspiciously . A Soviet Government statement in the Moscow press May 30 explained to the Soviet public that the United States proposal for international exploitation of atomic energy was a facade behind which the United States was working out agreements with other countries for warlike use of atomic power . Secretary Dulles informed Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet Union were near to being broken off . President Eisenhower asserted at his news conference July 15 that neither he nor Sir Winston Churchill intended to let the atomic pool idea drop because of Soviet opposition . ? Detailed negotiations on an atomic pool with allies of the United States can not get under way until Congress has revised , the Atomic Energy Act of 1946 . This law restricts the exchange of atomic information with other countries and prohibits the export of fissionable materials . Action is expected within a few days unless the debate between proponents of public and private power is renewed .                     