@@717272

txt Secretary of State Dulles appealed anew to the world today to 0. void force in solving its problems . Mr. Dulles called for patience in South Korea , where violence has been directed against the presence on South Korean soil of Communist members of Unit-. ed Nations truce teams . While Mr. Dulles appeared confident that the South Korean situation would not get out of hand there was an undercurrent of concern among officials of the nations that joined in the Korean war effort of the United Nations . Members of the permanent committee representing these nations met in Washington today for a review of the situation . No action was taken , but there was general agreement that a close watch should be maintained . Secretary Dillies did not limit his remarks today to Korea . He applied them , at his weekly news conference , to other nations as well . In particular he mentioned divided nations such as Indochina and Germany . Nuclear War Risk Cited In a restatement of the dangers of war Mr. Dulles said the use of force almost inevitably would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the reunification of a country , but only for insects , not people , he added . The Secretary made his remarks primarily with regard to Korea but he emphasized that they applied to the world in general . He again took occasion to draw a clear parallel between the determination of the United States not to resort to force , even under such provocation as the plight of the detained fliers in China and the employment of forcible means as an instrument of national policy . He declared quite a few persons in the United States had felt the situation so critical that Washington should resort to forceful means to get the detained fliers out of China . But , he said , the United States rejected the policy of force ; it adopted a policy of patient firmness that finally produced the desired results and the men were released . It was the third successive week that Mr. Dulles had utilized his news conference primarily as an occasion for stressing his " no-force " doctrine as the basis of a rule of law and order in the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the 1South Koreans and for their annoyance over the actions of the Polish and Czechoslovak members of the truce teams . Dr. Rhee Kept Informed But he was firm in his declaration about the use of forceful means . He said that the attitude of the United States and the determination of the United States to fulfill its obligations to protect the United Nations truce teams had been made clear to Dr. Syngman Rhee . South Korean President , recently . Mr. Dulles indicated he felt there was basis for the charges of spying made by the South Koreans against the Polish and Czechoslovak truce team members but doubted that the Communists had obtained any information of significance . He also doubted that the future of South Korea was being imperiled by the continued presence on Korean soil of the Communist truce representatives . The Secretary said that there were divisions in many countries that were unfortunate but that the United States did not believe these should be resolved by a resort to force . The fact that war is put aside as an unacceptable means for resolving such injustices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both time ' and patience are required to solve such problems , Mr. Dulles declared . He said he was convinced that the unification of the divided countries would be achieved in the end . He added he was certain that it would occur under far happier conditions than if an attempt were made to do it by military means . The application of this doctrine of " no force " to th'e Geri man situation might provide a means for introducing a factor of increased stability into the European situation even if it proved impossible for the East and West to agree on terms for Germany 's reunification , the Secretary declared . As applied to Indochina the doctrine might assist in stabilizing the situation on the basis of a guarantee of ' the status quo if it proved impossible to unite the I nation on the basis of free elections or agree , on an election ( procedure , Mr. Dulles remarked . The Secretary added he understood that Ngo ? Dinh Diem , Premier of South Vietnam was not opposed to free elections in principle but was opposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which his government did not sign .                     