@@715748

txt Mayor Impellitteri said yesterday he was " still pondering " whether he would run for reelection as an independent candidate . Asked if he expected to make a decision over the weekend , he replied : " Not likely . " The time for filing independent nominating petitions will expire on Sept. 29 . There Were three indications the Mayor was still seriously considering a race for re-election on the Experience yarty ticket , on which he was elected in 1950 . They were : ti Saul S. Nevins , who was chairman of the Citizens Committee for Charles E. Keegan , candidate for the nomination for Controller on the rmpellitteri ticket in the Democratic primary , sent a telegram to Mr. Keegan , urging him to run for election as an independent. ? At his law office , Mr. Nevins said the Mayor had asked Mr. Keegan to run with him for Controller on an independent ticket . ClImpellitteri campaign headquarters in the Marguery Hotel , 270 Park Avenue , remained open , with three publicity men , a telephone operator and a typist on duty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jefferson Democratic Club of Flushing on Sunday at 2:30 P. M. at the Aqueduct race track . This is the organization headed by James A. Roe , Queens Democratic leader , who supported the Mayor in the primary campaign . Mr. Keegan was reported by associates to be on a trip that included a visit to his son in Washington , and he was not available for comment . During the campaign he said he would abide by the result of the primary election . At the campaign headquarters of Robert F. Wagner Jr . in the.BIltmore Hotel , it was said there was reason to believe Mr. Keegan ultimately would announce his support of Mr. Wagner . Tells of Conversation Mr. Nevins said he had heard Mayor Impellitteri ask Mr. Keegan , at 2 o'clock Wednesday morning , to run with him on an independegt ticket . At that time it had become evident that Mr. Wagner had defeated Mr. Impellitteri for the Democratic nomination . Mr. Nevins said he was in the Marguery Hotel headquarters at the time , , and added that Mr. Keegan had replied that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Nevins said at least 1,000 persons had written or telephoned him urging that he try to induce Mr. Keegan to run as an independent . " We want him to run as an independent on his own , " Mr. Nev-I ins saicl . " I will advise him to run by himself without the Mayor . " In his telegram to Mr. Keegan , sent to his home at 500 Trinity Avenue , the Bronx , Mr. Nevins pointed out that Mr. Keegan had obtained many more votes in the , primary than had Mayor Impel - Uteri , getting 45 per cent of the total vote and a majority in two counties . He also pointed out that 76 per cent of the enrolled Demo , cratic voters , who did not vote in the primary , had yet to be heard from . " I would therefore request that you consider the demands made upon you by all of your supporters and that you run as an independent candidate for Controller , " the telegram read . " Your past experience and your tremendous personal appeal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your record will undoubtedly result in your election as Controller . " Questioned by reporters at City Hall , Mayor Impellitteri said he had no recollection of having asked Mr. Keegan to run with him on an independent ticket . " I did say that I had an open mind and would not come to any decision until I had a chance to analyze the election returns , " the Mayor said . Asked if he would deny that he had asked Mr. Keegan to run as an independent , the Mayor replied : " I have given you my best recollection . " Mr. Impellitteri said he had discussed with Mr. Keegan and Assistant District Attorney Julius Helfand the subject-matter of a statement that he subsequently issued conceding the nomination of Mr. Wagner . In that statement , made at 2:08 A. M. Wednesday , the Mayor said he would study , the complete returns and then dis- ' close his future plans . Lester Martin , who is credited with having raised money I or the Mayor 's unsuccessful primary campaign , called on the Mayor in the afternoon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Impellitteri replied , " None whatever . " There was speculation , however , that Mr. Martin , a resident of Brooklyn , might have called on the Mayor to strengthen the advice previously given by Kenneth F. Sutherland , Brooklyn Democrati ' leader , that 1,1r . Impellitteri not run independently . Eligible for Pension The Mayor needs no further city employment to qualify him for a pension , it appeared yesterday upon examination of provisions affecting pensions . Section B 3-35.0 provides that a city official or employe separated from the city s " rvice for any cause other than fault of delinquency may apply for a pension after having completed twenty years of service . Mr. Impellitteri ' has had twenty years of such service with the aid ' of a year and a half in the Navy . Credit for military or naval set-vice was granted by a bill passed at this year 's session of the Legislature and signed by Governor Dewey . Wagner campaign headquarters made public a cablegram from James A. Farley , former Democratic national chairman , who is in North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morocco , read : " Dear Bob  --  Have been traveling in North Africa by auto and just learned of Tuesday 's primary results . May I extend my heartiest and best wishes for your success in ' November . " Meanwhile , Harold Riegelman , , Republican nominee for Mayor , backed up Stephen A. Mitchell , Democratic national chairman , by , saying that Rudolph Halley , Lib ? 1 eral candidate for Mayor , should : have been read out of the Demo-.1 cratic party in 1951 when he accepted the Liberal nomination for ; President of the City Council . " By indicating with impassioned . eloquence. that he was an enrolled ' , Democrat in 1951 and that he i &; now an enrolled Democrat , Mr. ' Halley was and is playing botli. political ends against the middle . " ! Mr. Riegelman said , " I feel quite : confident that the labor unions controlling the Liberal party were and are responsible for Halley 's continued enrollment as a Democrat ; and served to becloud the issue that they represent a ' splinter ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republican Columbian League , which called at his headquarters in the Astor Hotel , Mr. Riegelman asked for help in getting out a large registration for the Nov. 3 election . The Democratic judicial convention for the First District , comprising Manhattan and the Bronx , will be held next Wednesday evening at 8 o'clock at the Central Commercial High School , 214 East Forty-second Street . The convention will nominate two candidates for Supreme Court Justice to succeed Justices Denis O'Leary Cohalan and Louis A. Valente , who will retire at the end of ' the year . Justices Felix C. Benvenga , Morris Eder , Ernest E. L. Hammer and Carroll A. Walter are scheduled for renomination.                     