@@720364

txt ALLIES DISAGREE ON SOVIET INTENT TO SETTLE ISSUES British Said to Stand Alone in View That Khrushchev Seeks Summit Accord U. S. EXPERTS SKEPTICAL German and French Doubts on Moscow Concessions Supported in Capital By WILLIAM J. JORDEN Special to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , April 10-1 The Western Allies are sharply divided on the question whether Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev is serious about negotiating- a settlement of major East-West problems . Diplomatic sources here believe this may be the source of more difficulty in coordinating , Western views on a summit meeting than are some of the more highly publicized explanations . There are few diplomats here who do not think these other differences have been ex- ' aggerated . But there is no concealing the fact that the four big Western powers are split in their , answers to the question : Are the Russians prepared to get down to business and work out meaningful solutions for " cold war " problems ? British Expect Bargaining The British answer is " yes . " Prime Minister Harold Macmillan returned from his recent visit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business . Foreign Secretary Selwyn Lloyd confirmed that stand to-i in a political speech near Liverpool . While describing the Russians as " tough and realistic bargainers , " he said he was sure they really wanted to negotiate with the West . The Germans and the French take sharp issue with the British . The Bonn and Paris Governments are convinced that Mr. Khrushchev wants important concessions from the West but that he is not ready to pay the price such concessions would demand . It is primarily for this reason that West German and French diplomats advocate taking a tough attitude and insist that the West should get something in return for each step away from present positions . U. S. View Unclarified The United States ' position is not altogether clear . The ten- , dency at the top level in Washington has been to agree largely with the German and French analysis . But , President Eisenhower and his foreign policy aides have indicated their willingness to go along with the British in exploring Soviet intentions further . At the working level in the State Department , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German-French view that little can be expected from the wining gathering of foreign ministers at Geneva or at the siunmit session to follow . The reeling has grown , however , that it will be worth while to find out at a summit meeting just what Soviet intentions are . Reports from the United // States Embassy in Moscow favor this approach and suggest that the Russians may , in fact , be prepared to make genuine concessions . Most of the Western experts who specialize in Soviet affairs are in general agreement about what the Russians wart from a summit meeting . In their reasoning two primary objectives of Soviet policy stand out . Firrst , it is assumed , the Kremlin leaders would like to win an easing of " cold war " tensions and a respite from the present heavy concentration on arms production . That would enable them to concentrate much more of their capital investment , raw materials and labor force on attaining the ambitious economic goals they have set themselves in the present seven-year plan . Most Western economists agree that without such a development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their goals . Would Fix Status Quo A second major purpose for the Soviet Union is to win recognition of the status quo in Eastern Europe . After the experience of the Merlin riots in 1953 and the Polish and Hungarian rebellions against Moscow 's authority in 1956 , Premier Khrushchev , it is believed , would like to have the West promise to accept Moscow 's dominance in Eastern Europe as final . There appear to he other important but secondary objectives in Moscow 's eager campaign for a summit meeting . One is Berlin , the issue that was used to bring about the present talk of a summit meeting . If possible , the Russians and their East German followers would like to see the Western powers leave Berlin . They would like to be rid of what they have called that democratic " cancer " inside East Germany . They would like to make an arrangement that would weaken the Wests authority in Berlin , and if they can win recognition for the East German Government in the process all the better . But the feeling of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ target . Western diplomats believe Mr. Khrushchev chose to make threats about Berlin as a means of forcing the summit meeting he wants so badly . In that he has succeeded . A Question of Prestige Finally , there is the question of prestige for Mr. Khrushchev . He has pushed for a summit session for a long time . He is a vain man who wants recognition and respectability , some diplomats say . But most of the experts here discount the idea that Mr. Khrushchev needs a summit meeting to bolster his power within the Kremlin . Moscow 's goals are believed clear . The Russians would like to force the United States out of Europe . But they are not believed willing to pull their own troops out of the unstable areas they rule . The Russians want to halt the arms race . But they have shown no willingness to accept the adequate controls that would make it acceptable to the West . In each case there is a wide gap between what Moscow wants and what it seems ready to give . For this reason most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coming meetings can be more than a propaganda show . They , and some Soviet experts among the British as well , find little reason for the optimism that seems to prevail at the top level of the Government in London .                     