@@713913

txt CURB ON AID LEAVES ONLY TITO ELIGIBLE ; DELAY IN BAN SEEN Truman Opposition Is Cited ? Act Aimed at Red Bloc Could Hit Iceland and Brazil U. S. SUPPLY LOSS FEARED Official Report Notes Danger of Cutting Help to ' Our Most Important Sources ' By FELIX BELAIR Jr . Special to THE NEW YORK TIMES . WASHINGTON , June 10 ? Yugoslavia will be the only nation eligible to receive United States economic or financial aid after June 18 if the Kern amendment becomes effective on that date , according to an official analysis of the law . The law bars all such aid to countries unable to certify on June 18 that they are not shipping potential military materiel to the Soviet Union and its satellites . To be eligible for United States aid , recipient governments must repeat the certification at thirty-day intervals thereafter . The only reason Yugoslavia could make the required certification is that she has a complete embargo on exports to the Soviet Union and its satellites , according to officials who have studied the legislation . All other recipient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goods included on the " certified list " prepared by the Defense Department and embracing hundreds of thousands of materials and articles . President Truman is planning to delay enforcement of the ban , which was attached as a rider to a recent appropriation bill by Senator James P. Kern , Republican of Missouri . To do so he must find , as chairman of the National Se- , curity Council , that the postponement will promote the security of the United States . Would Cut Off Iceland While permitting continued loans , grants and technical assistance to Marshal Tito , the Kern amendment would cut off assistance to Iceland , where United States troops are stationed , because that country sends a few hides to Russia . Assistance to Brazil and India for development of additional vital manganese deposits would be discontinued for the same reason . Because about 10 per cent of the rubber and tin of Southeast Asia moves to the Soviet bloc as against 90 per cent to the Western free world , the law would require an immediate stoppage of United States-financed mosquito eradica // tion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic consequences of the law in this strategic area are enumerated in an official memorandum . On the Oasis of this memorandum President Truman recently said the legislation was " seriously defective " and called for an early revision . " The Kern amendment would force the United States to cut off aid to countries which are some of our most important sources of tin and rubber or , alternatively , it would force the Southeast Asian countries to cut off their trade with the Soviet bloc , " the memorandum said . Shipments from Soviet Bloc " In return for their rubber and tin shipments to the Soviet bloc , the Southeast Asian countries are receiving automobiles , trucks , tires , railway locomotives , freight and tank cars , electric generators , abrasives , zinc , manganese , copper , tractors , air compressors , hydraulic presses and other strategic goods . " Because of the short supply of most of these goods and the priority schedules for United States and Western European requirements , it is almost certain that the United States could not replace the goods received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The question posed by the memorandum is whether the 90 per cent of Southeast Asian tin and rubber would remain available to the Western world , including the United States , if American aid were terminated as directed by the Kern amendment . Law 's Effects Discussed Prepared prior to the submission of the Defense Department 's certification list of forbidden goods , the memorandum dealt separately with such areas as Austria , Berlin and Western Germany where the " cold war " against communism has been fought the hardest . The memorandum discussed the effect of the law on these strategic areas as follows : " AUSTRIA  --  Austria has always been treated as a national unit , a policy which has had very favorable results , as indicated by the fact that in the Soviet-controlled zone , the Communists polled only 5 per cent of the votes . " Nevertheless , since the U.S.S.R. controls the policies of the U. S. I. A. firms ( Soviet-controlled ) in the Soviet zone of Austria and the Soviet sector of Berlin , it is inevitable that some strategic goods are being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kern amendment would require that the United States cut off all assistance to Austria , thus nullifying all the achievements of the Marshall Plan and virtually guaranteeing the Soviet objectives in Austria . " BERLIN . The Kem amendment would require the end of all further assistance to the Western sector of Berlin , thus nullifying the great victory of the airlift and sealing off the Berliners to a fate of Soviet police control . Berlin is an island in the Soviet zone of Germany . Everything that is exported to Berlin can potentially be diverted to - the Soviet bloc . " Many of the raw materials which go to Western Berlin are manufactured into goods which are used in Eastern Berlin . It is impossible to provide complete controls over all strategic goods in a large city governed by four occupyin nations . " WESTERN GERMANY . The Kern amendment would cut off all aid to Western Germany . Considerable trade in strategic goods goes on between Western and Eastern Germany . The controls are improving , but it is very diffi ' cult to police the whole border without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by cutting off all assistance to Westers , Germany , would almost guarantee a tremendous expansion of trade with the Soviet bloc of strategic goods which would otherwise have remained in Western Europe for the benefit of North Atlantic Defense . " Following postponement by the President of the punitive provisions of the law , the Administration is expected to move for a re-definition of the legislative prohibited list . They have been encouraged in this by a statement Thursday by Senator Kenneth Wherry , Republican floor leader , that it had been his purpose only to induce friendly nations torefrain from sending the Soviet'bloc goods that are embargoed by the United States . The Kern amendment observed no such limitations but covered all goods that might go into military " materiel " and , that by the Defense Department 's interpretation , means virtually anything that moves in foreign trade .                     