@@719790

txt East-West nuclear technicians may get down to business July 1 in Geneva to try to hammer out an agreement on policing a nuclear test suspension . President Eisenhower so proposed in his latest letter to Soviet Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev on the subject . But there are still many complications in the way of even a meeting of technicians , not to mention a political agreement on suspension . Secretary of State John Foster Dulles pointed up some of these in his weekly press conference on June 10 . The President 's letter to Mr. Khrushchev , released just prior to the Dulles conference , identified others . One is Communist China . Is it to participate in the technical talks ? Must it be covered in any test ban agreement ? Will it cooperate in policing a ban ? Line-Up Surveyed As the line-up for the technical talks now stands , there will be the United States , Britain , and France on one side ; technicians from the U.S.S.R. , Poland , and Czechoslovakia on the other . But Moscow may still appoint a Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but it has n't said it would n't . Mr. Dulles has indicated that a Chinese Communist ? technician would not be eligible  --  but he has n't said flatly he would be ineligible . President Eisenhower tried in a not-too-subtle way to rule out such a development in his letter by assuming that the Soviet lists were closed . But at the same time he indicated that the West 's lists were not closed . Yet if the West is to add technicians " from other ' countries , " the Kremlin can be counted on to insist on adding technicians from other satellite countries . If the President had limited representation to Britain , France , and the United States , there would have been " balance " ? which has become a point of Soviet insistence . But now the composition of the conference could still cause real trouble . Geographic Claim President Eisenhower did try to rule out participation by neutrals , at least at the beginning , by suggesting that " experts of nationalities not identified with either side " could join later . Communist China @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so under this definition would not be eligible to join later , if not in at the start . Bid Communist China 's claim to participation rests more on its geography . The American technicians have already told Secretary Dulles that a workable inspection system can not be set up leaving out Chinese Communist territory . Inspection teams would have to be located there or be free to go there , they are persuaded , for a police system to work . Mr. Dulles ' concern , it appears , is not that the Chinese Communists might begin producing nuclear weapons and testing them in their own territory , but that the Soviet Union might use Communist China as a " privileged sanctuary " if a police system were set up including the U.S.S.R. Therefore , Communist China has to be included , Mr. Dulles suggested . But the problem . is how to get the political cooperation of Peking if it is boycotted in setting up the system . That is one that Messrs . Dulles and Eisenhower have not solved  --  or possibly explored . Another complication that Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system to other nuclear-weapons matters , It has been assumed , apparently wrongly , that the United States was ready to break up its disarmament package program and write a test-ban agreement by itself . That , it now appears , is not so .                     