@@719440

txt Secretary of State Dulles said today that Soviet consent to reunification of Germany might open the way to a new EastWest conference of heads of government . He cited reunification as the " most realistic and encouraging " token of good faith the Soviet Union might offer to show the sincerity of its inten-tions , But he added that he did not mean to establish reunification as an absolute prerequisite to highest-level talks with the Soviet Union . Substance of Reaction This was the substance of Mr. Dulles ' reply at a news conference to yesterday 's letter from Marshal Nikolai A. Bulganin , Soviet Premier , to President Eisenhower proposing another heads - of - government meeting . French and Atlantic alliance officials in Paris were not impressed by the latest Bulganin messages . A Bonn spokesman said the message to West Germany contained another military threat . Selwyn Lloyd , British Foreign Secretary , countered the Soviet move with a proposal for a Big Four foreignaninisters ' conference to break the procedural deadlock on dis-armament Points Made by Dulles The Secretary of State declared that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ channels of direct communication between heads of government for propagandistic purposes . He made these points : Premier Bulganin 's letter was merely a " massive repetition " of prior proposals intended to blanket President Eisenhower 's State of the Union Message on the same day . gThe Soviet proposals were " utterly barren " compared with // United States proposals for limiting the destructiveness of war . The Soviet Union might have initiative in terms of propaganda and " capacity to speak in different voices in different places , " but the United States held the true initiative of offering constructive proposals . qThe Soviet plan for a zone in central Europe free of nuclear weapons could lead to " total neutralization. " eThe Soviet Plan to ban use of nuclear weapons was futile because in time of war nations that had nuclear weapons would be sure to use them . Mr. Dulles recalled that the condition that made it " seem worth while " to hold the previous heads-of-government meeting in Geneva , in July , ' 1955 , was Soviet signature of the treaty that brought about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rejected But . that meeting produced m agreement to reunify Germany by free elections , which the Soviet Union did not honor , and which " cast doubt on the worth-whileness of these meetings , " he said . Mr. Dulles rejected outright the proposal Premier Bulganin made in his latest letter to hold in East-West meeting within two or three months . It would not be possible in so short a time to work out worth-while preliminary agreements , the Secretary said . In their absence such a conference would be foredoomed to break off withtut agreement or result in agreement " on words only and sot substance , " he remarked . A reporter suggested that Mr. Dulles showed " little enthusiam " for talks with the Soviet Union in any form . The Secretary replied that since World War II he had probably talked more with Soviet leaders than any other American outside the United Nations . Although the Soviet Union often does not live up to agreements , " I am not opposed to more meetings , " he said . While he has no Intention of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are areas where common interests could produce useful negotiations , he went on . He suggested that one of these might be in the field of exchanges of technicians , scientists , artists , and books , now being negotiated here . The Secretary said he was not taking anything for granted , but at least agreement in this field would not jeopardize the security of the United States . Without raising his voice , but with occasional touches of bitterness , Mr. Dulles unyieldingly rejected the array of Soviet proposals presented in yesterday 's letter from Premier Bulganin . He remarked that the Soviet proposal on disarmament seemed to boil down to this : " Stop testing . That is not moving forward a single inch in terms of limitation of armaments , not an inch ! All it would mean would be that you would go on piling up nuclear weapons and that these nuclear weapons , instead of being weapozfs which were tested to make them relatively clean weapons , relatively small weapons , would continue to be weapons of a highly devastating character . That is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet proposals he also did not give an inch to his critics in the United States . If disarmament negotiations are resumed , the United States proposals will remain substantially unchanged because they represent agreement among the fifteen North Atlantic powers , he asserted . " To reopen the common position which we found with difficulty on the mere speculation that we might be proceeding along a new course which might , of course , be acceptable to the Soviet Union , that , I think , would not be a course to recommend , " said Mr. Dulles . Stassen Case Discussed His words , seemed to be in particular a rebuff to Harold E. Stassen , President Eisenhower 's diesarmament adviser , iwho has been urging that the ban on nuclear tests , be separated front the interlocking Western disarmament proposals and offered to the Soviet Union separately , In reply to a question , he I said he did not know whether IMr . Stassen planned to leave his job . " I imagine the answer is between President Eisenhower and Governor Stassen , " the Secretary commented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had decided " to continue as Secretary of State . " This made Mr. Dulles smile . " Let me say that it is not a question of reaching a decision to continue , " he replied . " It would be a decision to discontinue , a decision either by the President or me . And there has not been such a decision in : either quarter that I am aware of . "                     