@@720030

txt Democrats and Republicans were both preparing yesterday for an exceptionally close state election tomorrow . At the same time spokesmen for each side were predicting victory by a wide margin . Governor Harriman , the Democratic-Liberal choice for reelection , and Nelson A , Rockefeller , his Republican adversary , are scheduled to bring their campaigns to a close tonight with last-minute television appeals . The Governor is to be on the air in New York City from 6:45 to 7 P. M. over WCBS-TV , Channel 2 , and over upstate outlets of the Columbia Broadcasting System from 11:15 to 11:30 P. M. Mr. Rockefeller 's final plea will be made over WRCATV , Channel 4 , in this city from 10:30 to 10:45 P , M. It will be carried over a statewide network , Predictions by Loaders Predictions yesterday on the outcome of tomorrow 's Vote included the following ; 914 . Judson Morhouse , Republican state chairman : " Nelson Rockefeller will be elected Governor by a margin of at least 550,000 votes . " ( Michael H : Pren4pagaK , p " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will give Governor Harriman at least a 440,000 plurality . " ( Bernard Katzen , downstate campaign manager for Representative Kenneth B. Keating : " Ken Keating will be elected to the United States Senate by approximately 350,000 votes . " ( Samuel I. Rosenman , campaign manager for District Attorney Frank S. Hogan : " My conservative estimate is that Frank S. Hogan will be elected to the Senate by 450,000 votes . " ( Alex Rose , vice chairman of the Liberal party : " The Liberal party will poll 400,000 votes ; this will assure the re-election of Governor Harriman . " Upstate Voters Prodded While these predictions . were being made , Guy Graves , Mr. Morhouse 's assistant , was tele ? phoning to all upstate Republican county chairmen , warning them that , the vote might be close and urging them to get every possible Republican vote to the polls . Monroe Goldwater , chairman of the Democratic state law committee , was equally busy on the telephone . He was urging all Democratic county chairmen upstate to make sure that Republicans were held to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sure that all Harriman votes , including those cast on the Liberal line , were included in the first night 's tally . Republicans were keeping a sharp eye on the weather . Some felt that the outcome of the Harriman-Rockefeller contest might be decided by it . A bad day upstate might keep large numbers of Republicans at home and throw the victory to ' Mr. Harriman , whose major support is found in New York and other urban areas . Some rural Republicans must drive fifteen miles to a polling place and then fifteen miles home . Some wet snow and rain was reported late last night in the southeastern part , of the state , according to the Weather Bureau , *The state police reported snow in Syracuse early today . The Weather Bureau , however , predicted mostly fair weather with seasonable temperatures over almost all areas of the state tomorrow . Four years ago , when Mr. Harriman was first ' elected , ' driving snowstorms swept large upstate areas in the afternoon . Figures issued by the Secretary of State yesterday placed the number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 2,695,111 are registered in this city and 4,092,155 elsewhere in the state . Of those registered in the city 1,330,739 are men and 1,364,372 women . Upstate the count - is 2,028,274 , . men and 2,063,881 women . For the entire state women outnumber men by 69,240 . All Voting on Machines All the voting in the state tomorrow will be on voting machines , as it was in 1956 and 1954 . This should make for a relatively quick tabulation after the polls close . New York City will have 4,613 polling places and the rest of the state 6,910 . Everywhere in the state the polls will be open from 6 A. M. to 7 P , M. Those standing in line at the closing hour will be entitled to vote , regardless of how long it takes them to get to the voting machines . But no one is entitled to get on line after 7 P. M. In j letters and telegrams to Democratic county law committee chairmen , Mr. Goldwater has urged that they insist on strict observance of the closing hour . He said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at upstate polling places after the closing hour had been permitted to vote in the past . While the polls are open , all liquor sales by package stores , restaurants , taverns or bars are forbidden by law . In this city and some other places beer may be sold by grocery and delicatessen stores for off-premises consumption . Neither Mr. Rockefeller nor ' Governor Harriman would publicly endorse yesterday the plurality predictions being made in their behalf . Asked what he expected his margin to be , Mr. Harriman re-I plied : " I do n't know . I 've said , we were going to do better in every single county of the state . " Mr. Rockefeller 's reply to the same question was : " That 's a tough question . I think that if all of us keep working and we get everyone possible ' to the polls , that I 've got a good chance of winning . And I think the whole ticket has a good chance of winning . Beyond that , I do n't think I can go . " Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Liberal party line took many Democrats by surprise . Some had been estimating that the Liberal vote for Governor this year would fall to 100,000 . It was 264,000 four years ago . Democratic state headquarters and the Citizens Committee for Harriman - Hogan were more confident yesterday than they have been in a long time . Their optimism ' sprang from reports of a last-minute swing to the Governor on the rent-control and transit fare issues in New York City . I At Republican headquarters confidence in a Rockefeller vic ' tory remained unshaken . Mr. Morhouse predicted that the Republican nominee would take up'state by nearly 1,000,000 votes , ' while holding Mr. Harriman to 450,000 in this city . Mr. Prendergast 's prediction contemplated a margin of 800 , - 000 for the Governor in New York City , while holding . Mr. Rockefeller to 400,000 upstate .                     