@@714064

txt With Poland 's closing of the United States information center in Warsaw , the last such center behind the Iron Curtain , Soviet-dominated Eastern Europe completed its isolation from United States news and culture . The Warsaw regime 's insistence that distribution of United States information films and books be immediately stopped is in sharp contrast to the present Communist propaganda theme of " friendship and good will " for the West . The State Department , which quickly retaliated by ordering the closing- of the Polish Research and Information Service Center in New York , pointed up the contradiction between Communist deeds and words in this latest Communist bid to isolate its peoples from cultural contact with the free world . Hardly more than 24 hours before Warsaw padlocked the United States information center in the Polish capital , the Kremlin , through the President of the Soviet Presidium , had claimed there were " no barriers " to intercourse between East and West . the arrest , trial , and imprisonment of newspaperman William Oatis . While such a final break has not been discarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an American representative in Prague who can work for Mr. Oatis ' release may be able to accomplish more than by pulling him out of Prague . Through delicate negotiations , it is pointed out , the United States finally was able to get the release in Hungary of American businessman Robert Vogeler . Contradiction Cited In its contacts with the Communist world , as was pointed out by State Department press officer Michael Aug. 9 , the United States is always confronted by this contradiction between words and deeds . President Truman stressed this point in his press conference comments Aug. 9 . He asked these questions rhetorically in connection with the letter he had received from the Soviet Government claiming there were no barriers to intercourse between Russians and Americans : What about Soviet restrictions against Russians traveling abroad or the travel of foreigners in the U.S.S.R. ? What about the rigid restrictions Moscow has put on the reading of western books and magazines ? Or its costly efforts to " jam " the Voice of America ? Or its preventing the departure from the U.S.S.R. of Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only when the Kremlin starts raising the Iron Curtain  --  not making it more solid  --  that the United States Government will be impressed by any Communist protestations of friendship and peace . Control Hastened It was held by State Department officials that by this precipitous action , the Communist leaders in the Kremlin were hastening to complete their iron control over their western neighbor . For it followed quickly on the heels of Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov 's visit to Warsaw and his warning to the Poles about any Titoist ambitions . It was preceded by the opening of a typical Communist spy trial in Warsaw  --  but this time involving several top Polish generals . Despite Soviet assertions to the contrary , closing of chinks in the Iron Curtain has been going on regularly over the past few years . The Communists have now closed all cultural and information centers the United States has maintained in Eastern Europe . ? Isolation Completed In two Soviet satellite countries all diplomatic contact has been ended : Bulgaria and Albania . In all the others there have been curtailments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Cchoslovakia the missions have been cut to 10 . The gradual Communist strangulation of all contact with United States thought and information frequently has raised the question in Washington as to the wisdom of trying to maintain any ties with these Soviet satellites . The members of America 's missions behind the Iron Curtain are regularly shadowed by Communist informers . They have little opportunity to learn about conditions at first hand because of restrictions on travel . It is the official view , however , that any contact with these countries is good , despite the restrictions and dangers that go with the job . For it is still possible for American officials behind the Iron Curtain to keep tabs in some degree on what is going on . Pressure Grows Therefore , a severing of diplomatic relations , though Washington has at times felt such a course would be thoroughly warranted by Communist actions and intransigence , would be done reluctantly . There is at present , for example , considerable pressure being put on the department to cut diplomatic ties with Czechoslo-1 vakia because of the Oatis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            