@@713420

txt Communist China 's first delegation to the United Nations , consisting of seven men and two women , arrived today . They may be heard tomorrow . Developments today included : 1 . By a vote of 30 to S with 32 abstentions , the general assembly 's political committee adopted a soviet motion inviting communist Chinese representatives to discuss a complaint accusing the United States of aggression against ? For-1 mosa. 2 . The assembly 's 14 member steering committee unanimously voted to postpone indefinitely complaint by Tibet accusing the Chinese Communists of aggression . Confer with Lie 3 . Trygve Lie , U. N. secrefary general , conferred with Gen. Wu Hsiu-chaun , leader of the Chinese communist delegation , and three of his associates , for 45 minutes . For almost a year , Lie has been campaigning for Red China 's admission to the U. N. 4 . It was unexpectedly announced tonight that the security council will meet at 3 p. m. , tomorrow , to take up both the Formosan and Korean questions . The meeting was called by Ales Bebler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reported that the council would not meet before next Tuesday or Wednesday . Red China 's delegation was sent here in response to a security council invitation to discuss a complaint accusing the United States of aggression against Formosa . The Peiping regime rejected U. N. invitation to discuss its intervention in the Korean war . " Demanded " to Be Head Today the Chinese Communists were invited to appear before the assembly 's political committee and discuss a second complaint accusing the United States of aggression against Formosa . Delegates of Thailand and several LatinAmerican countries opposed inviting the Chinese Reds because Chou En Lai , their premier and foreign minister , had sent a " demand " to be heard and had threatened the U. N. with rejection of any decision that might be taken in their absence . John Fos t e r Dulles , United States representative , who heaped scorn upon Britain and its commonwealth governments two days ago for appeasing communism in Asia , abstained from voting on the new invitation to the Chinese Reds . lie said the United States as the " defendant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain and India have been trying to appease Red China by creating a so-called buffer zone in North Korea , which would be at the mercy of communist invaders if American occupation forces should be withdrawn .                     