@@717924

txt The city of Athens is plasteied today with posters which have caused the citizens of this city to think back sadly to 12 years ago . For in 1944 the Athenian walls were suddenly covered with posters calling for greater resistance to Nazi Germany and praising Greece 's allies , mainly the British . Today , however , the posters are bitterly anti-British and anti-Western in a language just as harsh and vulgar as in 7.944 . They proclaim the British to be butchers and assert that the Greeks will revenge each Cypriote with 100 Britons . Others read " Death to Tyrant Harding " and " Eden Equals Hitle ? . " This outburst came as the latest reaction of Greek resentment over Cyprus where the British , on orders of Field Marshal Sir John Harding , Governor General of Cyprus , have executed two Cypriotes , Michael Karaolis and Andreas Dimitriou , on charges of killing a police officer in Nicosia and for firing at and injuring a British merchant in Famagusta . Emotional Symbol Karaolis has become an emotional symbol to Greeks and Cypriotes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assumed to be part of strong measures to suppress the union-with-Greece movement . After his conviction , 1,300.000 Greeks signed a petition to the British Government and to the United Nations asking for a pardon . During his trial , Karaolis admitted being a member of EOKA , the Cypriote underground organization , but answered not guilty to the charge of murder . During the long time that elapsed since his trial , many Greeks came to the conclusion that Karaolis was kept by the British as a bargaining point , and he was compared with all the martyrs of Greece 's struggle for freedom . Further indignation is aroused by the fact that Karaolis , being a civilian , was hanged , a fate reserved in the Greek view for only common-law criminals . Press Flays Britain Headlines of papers , competing in size and anti-British sentiment with wall slogans , declared the " murder " of Karaolis and Dimitriou will cut the bridges for further negotiation with Britain , while in their main editorials they condemned the executions as a " death blow " to any link of friendship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the government to reexamine Greece 's position vis-a-vis the Western alliances . Meanwhile , labor unions , student organizations , and organizationg supporting the struggle for Cyprus announced demonstrations all over Greece to protest against the British and the West in general . Although it is known from past experience that such demonstrations develop into mob scenes and street fighting between police and demonstrators , the government was not able to deny permission . A demonstration at Salonika resulted in injury to eight civilians and 35 gendarmes , while in Athens more than 30.000 persons gathered in Omonia Square to hear Archbishop Dorotheos charge the British with slaughtering the meaning of justice and emphasize the unbridgeable gap created between the Greek and British peoples . Stirred Up by Beds On May 9 big groups of demonstrators agitated by Communist elements marched toward the part of the city where foreign embassies are situated . In front of the United States information library and armed with stones and sticks , a mob attacked policemen who blocked their way , A fierce hand-to-hand tight developed . Outnumbered by the mob , the police gave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cornered nearby used their pistols . Both police and demonstrators suffered heavy casualties . Three civilians were killed , 59 policemen and 65 civilians wounded , and more than 100 were injured . Premier Constantine Karamanlis has announced that leaders of disorders who exploited a " sacred cause " for subversive purposes will be found and punished . The government of Premier Constantine Karatnanlis is debating what further action it can take to underscore its displeasure at Britain 's firm Cyprus policy . As of this writing , Athens had not gone to the extreme of breaking relations with Great Britain . although this step is demanded in certain influential Greek circles and can not be ruled out . Britain 's attitude toward the bitter anti-British ( and partially anti-American ) riots in Athens and Salonika and the Nicosia and Limmasol disorders on Cyprus meanwhile remained one of official quiet as of May 10 . But there seems little doubt that many British people arc deeply disturbed at the downward trend in Cyprus developments , even though they may not be convinced their government has done wrong . Tories Back Stand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not help wondering if the stern measures decided upon by Prime Minister Sir Anthony Eden , colonial secretary Alan Lennox-Boyd , and the Cyprus military governor , Field Marshal Sir John Harding , were the best that could be improvised . But as a people accustomed to backing what they think is right despite opposition and criticism , a number of Britons also could be expected to strenghthcn their convictions as a result of the violence in Greece and Cyprus . Conservative elements . , , here are clearly and strongly behind the government 's unequivocal stand on Cyprus . They declare that any weakness in the face of violence is not only not in the British tradition , but further endangers Britain 's position in the important Mideast . Having made that clear , how- ever , it is necessary to add that British Liberal and Labor voices are being raised in sharp criticism . These are minority yokes at present , but the socialists are a very large minority , and the Liberals usually exert more influence on British thinking than their small vote-getting capacity indicates . Although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Cyprus policy , there is a tooling that the Labor attack has been soft-pedaled -- perhaps due to conviction that Mideast oil considerations might put a Labor government in the same position Sir Anthony finds himself . T. S. Suggestion Hit Meanwhile , pointed questions arc being asked and answered in both houses of Parliament here , a full-scale debate on Cyprus is scheduled in the House of Commons May 14 , and an investigation of the situation on the scene by a nonparty group of members of Parliament is sugg " sted . The British are sensitive to what they regard as unjustified American criticism about Cyprus ? particularly comments from Secretary of State John Foster Dulles , who is by no means a popular figure here . An informal Dulles suggestion that the Cyprus executions be postponed in the interest of international relations has aroused complaints here , as did another suggestion that Cyprus concerns nations other than Britain . This called forth a sharp rebuke from Lord Beaverbrook 's London Daily Express against meddling in this country 's internal affairs . " Mr. Dulles should understand that Cyprus is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " said the Express , adding that the American Secretary of State " has no business to involve others in this British problem . "                     