@@715123

txt Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower returned to New York yesterday from his 22,000-mile visit to warravaged Korea and voiced confidence that a satisfactory solution of the struggle there could be speeded by taking measures that would " induce " Communist aggressors to want peace also . Looking fit and rested after his sixteen-day journey , the President'elect stepped from the Military Air Transport Service Constellation that flew him back from Hawaii at the Marine Air Terminal of La Guardia Airport at 2:03 P. M. He distributed a brief prepared statement on his trip to reporters who met the plane and supplemented it with a short extemporaneous talk for the *Penefit of those witnessing the- scene on television or listening on radios . Afterward he was driven directly to his home at 60 Morninkside Drive . He is scheduled to return to his desk in his headquarters at the Hotel Commodore today . Praises Troops in Horea In the prepared statement distributed at La Guardia Airport , General Eisenhower warned that there was no simple formula for achieving a " swift victorious end " to the Korean war . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the conferences held aboard the cruiser Helena , which took him from Guam to Hawaii , would prove very helpful in estab ? lishing a positive program to deal with the global struggle between communism and free governments . " This journey marks not the end but the beginning of a new effort to conclude honorably this phase of the global struggle , " the statement continued . " This is not the moment to state more than that resolve . For we face an enemy whom we can not hope to impress by words , however eloquent , but only by deeds ? executed under circumstances of ' our own choosing . " The statement reported that the American Army in Korea was " as fine a fighting force of its size as our nation has ever assembled . " It is well equipped for the Korean climate and possessed of high morale , his statement continued . Moreover , " the spirit of unification among the branches of our armed forces is superlative , " he declared . General Eisenhower 's prepared statement likewise had high praise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The statement said that General Eisenhower had returned with three main observations . They were : 1 . The training of Republic of Korea forces can and should be expanded and speeded . This was a point that the General made during the recent political campaign . It embroiled him in controversy with President Truman and others in the outgoing Administration . 2 . " Certain problems of supply " ? not further identified ? have reached rather serious proportions and require early correction . 3 . The Korean war must be recognized as a dramatic and painful phase of the world-wide struggle against Communist aggression . In his supplementary extemporaneous statement at the airport , General Eisenhower said that those who accompanied him on the trip and others with whom he talked regarded the possible benefits to be derived from the visit to Korea as enormous . It has provided a starting point for planning " positive programs " to be put into operation , he explained . " Because you know , my friends , just because one side wants peace does n't make peace , " he explained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ induce the others to want peace also . " Neither the prepared ' nor the informal statement furnished any clue to the measures he expected to employ to change the attitude of those directing the Communist forces in Korea . Nor was there any information in the statements or from the General 's staff when he would meet with General of the Army Douglas , who was relieved by President Truman as Supreme Commander in the Far East , and who said only last week that he had a new plan for ending the Korean conflict . On his way back from Korea , General Eisenhower sent General , once his superior officer , a message saying he would like to discuss the Korean situation with him on his ? return but fixed no date a meeting . Presumably the matter of arranging a time and place for his meeting with General will be one of the things to engage his attention when he returns to his headquarters in the Hotel Commodore today . In his informal talk before radio and television microphones , General Eisenhower remarked that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his World War II and World War I predecessors . Unlike the World War II Army it is not a wise-cracking force and unlike its World War I predecessor it is not a singing army , he observed . But , he continued , the men are doing a serious job without whining or complaining . John Foster Dulles , whom General Eisenhower has chosen to be Secretary of State in the new Cabinet , predicted that the trip would have invaluable dividends for the American people because of the opportunity afforded to the President- elect aboard the cruiser Helena to discuss major policy questions with his top advisers . Besides Mr. Dulles , Cabinet choices who took part in the discussions on the way back included Charles E. Wilson , who will be Secretary of Defense ; George M. Humphrey , who will be Secretary of the Treasury ; and Gov . Douglas of Oregon , who will be Secretary of the Interior . Among those on hand to greet the President-elect when he stepped from his plane were Gov . Sherman Adams of New Hampshire , who will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who will be secretary to the President , and Harold E. Stassen , who will become Director for Mutual Security . Also waiting to greet the party were Mrs. Dulles , Mrs. James C. Hagerty and Mrs. C. D. Jackson , whose husbands made the trip as part of General Eisenhower 's staff .                     