@@720044

txt President Eisenhower charted today the strategy for a " great peaceful crusade " to give the world 's under-developed areas vigorous strength to combat hunger and disease . He formally opened the minText of Eisenhower 's speech is printed on Page 14. isterial-level aspect ' of the annual Colombo Plan Conference with a pledge , an invitation and a challenge . The President outlined a fivepoint program of expanded trade , technical assistance and loans to help raise economic levels in needy regions . He pledged that the United States would press the program energetically and said ways should be found to bring more private investment into the picture . He invited " the free world as a whole " to join in creating an international development association to participate in financing sound projects for which borrower nations would Pay back loans in the currencies of the borrowers and under flexible terms . President Eisenhower challenged the developing countries to " explore the full potentialities of private initiative " and adopt " sound measures of selfhelp . " He suggested this was a prerequisite to creating a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must have assurance " that their capital will be re- spected and allowed to work productively . " Without any direct mention of communism , the President viewed the proposed " crusade " as one that would raise barriers " against tyranny and the war which tyranny breeds . " The right kind of cooperation , in his opinion , would make the Nineteen Sixties one of " unprecedented progress " for underprivileged areas . Address Is Applauded President Eisenhower addressed cabinet-level delegations of eighteen countries and three colonies participating in the first meeting in the United States of the Colombo Plan Consultative Committee . The organization , whose members represent more than a third of the world 's population , is committed to aiding the economic development of South and Southeast Asia , where communism has bid vigorously for the upper hand . The President came here from Tacoma , where he had spent the week-end at the home of his brother Edgar , an attorney , His address was applauded by the delegations and by about 300 representatives of the public , assembled in the flag-draped Spanish ballroom of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had thanked the Consultative Committee for its ap preciatioti , expressed through responding ' speeches by a half - dozen delegation leaders , President E*nhower shook hands with the ' top delegates and took off for the return trip to Washington . When the President reached the vicinity of the hotel from Boeing Field , he was greeted warmly by a crowd of about 2,000 and by Army bands from Fort Lewis , where he once was stationed during his military career . Mayor Gordon S. Clinton of Seattle greeted him when he landed at 9:25 A. M. At the hotel Mr. Eisenhower was welcomed also by Gov . Albert D. Rosellini of Washington , a Democrat , and Secretary of State Dulles . Before he headed - back to Washington in the . Presidential plane Columbine III at 12:02 P. M.- ( 3:02 Eastern standard time ) , the President took notice of Seattle 's plans for a Century 21 Exposition . He activated an electronic " count down " chronometer at the Boeing Flight Center that will count off the seconds , minutes , hours and days until the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Eisenhower landed at National Airport , Washington , at 1:50 P. M. President Eisenhower made no direct reference in his address to possible difficulties with Congress in pushing through an expanded foreign aid program . He did say the measures he proposed would be pressed energetically " consistent with the maintenance of a sound domestic economy . " " Our country 's outlays must never outrun the levels justified by the continuing growth in our economic strength if it is to sustain the long-term effect that is required , " he cautioned . ? U. S. Progress Cited However , he declared that " fortunately , the United States economy is forging ahead , as it emerges from a brief period of readjustment . " He said " its expanding resources should permit a vigorous prosecution of the program for progress I wish to outline today . " The program called " for expanded international trade , " " for technical skills , " " for private investment , " " for normal bankable loans " and " for financing to cover other sound projects which will afford the borrower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noted that measures to take care of the first two points , along with that dealing with normal bankable loans , already had been charted or were under way . These loans are of the type , extended by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and by the United States Export-Import , Bank , for projects like road systems that would not attract private investors . But " special and increasing emphasis , " President Eisenhower said , needs to be placed on encouraging private investment and initiative and on expanded development financing on f/exi- ' ble terms . The last point suggests an expansion , into multi-nation operation , of a type of instrument like the United States Development Loan Fund , It makes loans for projects considered sound but that would not qualify for bankable loans . Money is being spent through it at the present rate of $700,000,000 a year . The President said he hoped Congress " will from time to time provide adequate resources for the Development Loan Fund . " Secretary Dulles , presiding , called for responses from Prime ' Minister Walter . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister ; Sidney Earle Smith , Canada 's Secretary of State for External Affairs ; Dr. Subandrio , Foreign Minister of Indonesia ; Purenda Bikram Shah , Foreign and Defense Minister of Nepal , and Vu Van Nau , South Vietnamese Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs . Mr. Smith 's remarks were interrupted by applause when , addressing President Eisenhower directly , he said no country could have a better neighbor than Canada has in the United States . The President , in his response , asked every delegation head to " convey to your heads of state by personal felicitations and warm greetings " with assurance that the American people wished for all of the Colombo area countries advancement in levels of living standards and in the safeguarding of " freedom and the dignity of man . " This afternoon the ministerial delegations went to work in executive session assaying an annual Colombo Plan report drafted during the last three weeks . The conference ends Thursday .                     