@@720308

txt A troublesome problem has arisen ' between the United States and France over a project for an atomic power plant for a French submarine . It is understood that the Joint Congressional Committee on Atomic Energy has protested against a recent promise by Secretary of State Dulles to President Charles de Gaulle to make such a submarine plant available to the French Government . Meanwhile , the Joint Committee has approved the transfer of an atomic submarine plant to Britain . It is now under construction by Westinghouse Electric at Pittsburgh . I This has produced an angry protest by President de Gaulle and diverted the Western Allies from their efforts to establish a united front against the Soviet - Union during the Berlin ' crisis . In another aspect of France 's relations with her allies , Atlantic Alliance officials in Paris deplored her decision to withhold French naval forces from the alliande 's Mediterranean command . Meanwhile , the British have been urging the United States , 1 so far without success , to come , up with some basis for negotiating a settlement of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thursday for a series of conversations with President Eisenhower . Incidentally , It is thought likely that Secretary of State Dulles will be able to have a talk with Mr. Macmillan Friday morning before the British leader confers with President Eisenhower later that day at Camp David , in Maryland . Yesterday , the French Government confirmed that it had advised the North Atlantic , Council Wednesday that it hadl decided to withhold from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization command the third of ' its Mediterranean fleet earmarked for that command in time of war . French officials here said today that this decision had nothing to do with the United States ' refusal to go forward with its promise of the atomic submarine power plant , but Congressional ( sources said they had been informed there was a connection between the two . What troubled officials here even more than the French action on the fleet was General de Gaulle 's decision to take the action in the midst of the Berlin crisis and on the eve of the celebrations of NATO 's tenth anniversary . This crisis with General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He has taken the position that the United States could not expect to have the full support of France unless it was prepared to give its full support to France on such critical issues as Algeria . He also has insisted that France be treated equally with Britain in the NATO alliance and that the United States , Britain and France should form a kind of directorate to guide the destinies of the large alliance . ' This has been opposed by the ' smaller NATO powers , and also by Washington and London . Thus the atomic submarine issue is only one of many that have been harassing relations , but this one is particularly ! annoying to the French , who have tended to feel excluded from the atomic powers . The reasons for approving the atomic submarine plant for the British and withholding it from the French are adding to the French Government 's resentment . No official has given the reason , but it is known that a majority of the members of the Congressional committee had expressed doubts about the security of atomic information made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the missile - launching atomic submarine is the one modern weapons system in which the United States enjoys a wide advantage over the Soviet Union . The Administration does not doubt that the Soviet Union will produce such submarines on its own in time . For this reason President Eisenhower and Secretary Dulles were prepared to make plants available to Britain and France , but some members of the Congressionl committee said they believed any such move would result in a leakage of the plans from French Communists to the Soviet Union . All this has embarrassed the Administration , which already is badly crippled by Secretary Dulles ' illness . It has not been able to find ' any new basis for negotiations Ion the Berlin crisis , but it has been saying that the Western alliance is " united " as it ap , proaches a foreign ministers ' - meeting with the Russians . Officials here have about con : eluded that they will have VI agree with Prime Minister Mae ; millan that a heads-of-governi ment meeting probably is the only way to make progress wittc Premier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eisenhower ands Prime Minister Macmillan wile somehow have to leach an un- : derstanding not only on what , they are prepared to negotiate : with Mr. Khrushchev but on . how they are going to resolve : the difficulty with President de : Gaulle .                     