@@716204

txt Prime Minister Robert G. Menzies has emphatically rejected the contention of Soviet Ambassador N. L Generalov that the former MVD ( secret police ) chief in Australia , Vladimir M. Petrov , was " kidnaped " by the Australian Government . Describing this charge as " ludicrous " in his press conference , the Prime Minister added : " We do n't go in for that kind of thing in this country . " Earlier Mrs. Petrov , wife of the former Soviet official , told newspapermen in the presence of the Soviet ambassador that if the alleged kidnaping " was n't a lie he would be given permission to meet an official of the embassy . I am sure , " she said , " he wants to speak to officials of the embassy . " The implication was that Soviet officials also wanted to speak with Mr. Petrov . But Mr. Menzies denied there had been any official Soviet request for access to Mr. Petrov . No Soviet Request Yet " We were advised , " said Mr. Menzies , " through the External Affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for access to Mr. Pe/rov . We have received no such request . and the External Affairs Department is reminding the Soviet Embassy of that fact . " W  --  hen we receive the request , we will be able to consider it in the light of the terms of the request and the kind of access sought . " The people , " continued the Prime Minister , " who have thrown up that quick charge of kidnaping are overlooking the fact that Mr. Petrov brought with him hundreds of documents . " This was the first numerical indication of the extent of documentary evidence turned over by Mr. Petrov to the Australian Government . In his analysis of Mr. Petrov 's dash for freedom , the Prime Minister suggested that the Petrov couple apparently had disagreed on whether or not both should seek asylum in Australia . " Apparently , " said the Prime Minister , " his wife did not agree it should be done . " Leak in Plans Hinted In Kremlin eyes , Mrs. Petrov 's failure to denounce her husband before his dramatic walkout , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably makes her no less guilty . This , perhaps , would account for her rather vehement insistence in support of the Soviet ambassador that her husband had been " kidnaped " by the Australian Government . Some possible hint that Mr. Petrov 's plans might have leaked is suggested in the appearance here of two Soviet officials who boarded their plane at Rome April 11 . Their sudden appearance close on the heels of the former MVD chief has raised intense speculation as to whether they intended to head him off but arrived too late . In any case their arrival probably heralds some kind of shake-up in the Soviet embassy here . Whether Mr. Generalov will be recalled is open to speculation . Some sections of the Australian press are urging his recall following his alleged " insulting " reply to Mr. Menzies ' announcement of Mr. Petrov 's defection as simply an instance of Australian Government " kidnaping . " The Prime Minister cast new light on Mr. Petrov 's cooperation when he disclosed that the former Soviet official was busy helping decode and translate Soviet top-secret documents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In rejecting the.Soviet ambassador 's " kidnaping " charge , the Prime Minister declared he could have foretold it would be made when the Kremlin knew the worst . The Prime Minister alerted his press conference to be ready for the next Soviet charge of " drugging " Mr. Petrov , either to make him talk now or " confess " later in forthcoming public hearings of the special investigatory federal commission . Great public expectations are building up now that it is known Mr. Petrov brought such a great quantity of documents with him in his break for freedom . Some observers , accordingly , are inclined to think the Petrov disclosures will produce repercussions throughout the western world as great or possibly greater than those following the Gouzenko walkout in Canada In 1946.                     