@@715607

txt The House Un-American Activities Committee voted to grant a hearing to J. B. Matthews , ousted from a Senate committee job because of an article he wrote criticizing part of the clergy . Mr. Matthews had asked to be heard . Page 3 . President Eisenhower renewed his offer to send food directly to Soviet-occupied East Germany if the Soviets will consider their refusal of 10 days ago to permit it . Congress may soon launch an investigation of a reported shortage of Navy ammunition , Senator Margaret Chase Smith ( R ) of Maine has indicated . Senator Robert A. Taft " hopes to vote on any close party votes " during the remainder of the present session of Congress , it was announced at New York Hospital . Boston : Industrial Use of Atomic Energy Urged COngressional action to allow private industry to participate in the development of peacetime uses of atomic energy was urged by the New England Council Page 2 . A curious question arising from the Boston City Council is : " Does council business interfere with campaigning , or is campaigning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ East : Allied Craft Down 9 Enemy Planes Allied warplanes ran Communist combat losses to 1,008 planes in week-end actions that claimed nine enemy aircraft . Some 2,000 Chinese drove United States Marines off two key western front hill outposts , suffering extremely heavy casualties in the action . Europe : Farm Nationalization in Britain Hit Sir Hartley Shawcross , former Labor cabinet minister , spoke out against nationalization of farm land in Britain , asserting that it would cause social and economic chaos . The United States is ready to join in establishing German-Allied commissions to review war criminals ' sentences , according to German newspaper reports . Mideast : Only 19 Answer Mozami 's Call in Iran Dr. Abdullah Mozami , Speaker of Iran 's weakened Parliament , said " there is no hope for any more sessions of the Majlis " after calling a meeting at which only 19 deputies appeared .                     