@@718244

txt Representatives of eighty-one nations met last Thursday at United Nations headquarters in this city , and will continue meeting for another four weeks , to set up an international agency " to accelerate and enlarge the contribution of atomic energy to the peace , lealth and prosperity of the world . " This is not a conference on atomic disarmament , though the Russians tried to make it so during the preliminary twelve-nation conference held in Washington last February and March . Or one might say that its relationship with disarmament lies solely in its attempt to divert attention and effort from ruinous uses to constructive uses ; to make this attempt international in the broadest practicable sense , and proease international rivalries by promoting international cooperation . The International Atomic Energy Agency , modeled on the proposal presented by President Eisenhower to the U. N. General Assembly on Dec. 8 , 1953 , will be open to any nation in the world that can convince the existing members and their board of governors that it is able and willing to use atomic knowledge peacefully and constructively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in spite of Russian sponsorship . She will not be until the free nations are persuaded  --  as they are not now ? that she has turned over a new leaf . Yet eighty-seven nations were invited to the present conference , so that the agency can hardly be considered parochial . The nub of the agenda on which the conferees will work during the weeks to come is a so-called " draft statute " drawn up at the Washington conference and unanimously accepted by the twelve nations there represented . This statute  --  in effect a constitution for the proposed agency ? organizes the atomic program as F. A. 0 . organized the world food program , WHO the world health program and I. L. 0 . a world labor program . The difference is that the atomic problem is newer and its possible impact oni human welfare either more destructive or more beneficent than that of any other force we now know . Some details , having mainly to do with controls and safeguards , remain to be worked out . Whatever conflict the conference has will lie in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressed by Chairman Joao Carlos Muniz of Brazil that the document will not be amended to a point where it can not be widely ratified by the proposed member states . Certain facts of international life must , of course , be faced . The Agency will be in the hands of the great powers , plus countries with large supplies of fissionable raw materials , plus half a ' dozen others elected by the present conference . It will report to the U. N. Assembly , although U. N. , as such , adoes , not direct it . Under certain circumstances , not too clearly defined , it may also report to the Security Council . But there will be no arbitrary veto on what it does . What it will do will not be starUing in the early days . Last February President Eisenhower authorized the sale or lease of a billion dollars ' worth of atomic materials for use for peaceful purposes here or abroad . The new agency will be able to carry out a similar policy on a larger scale . Fissionable materials and what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nations , with what it is hoped will be adequate safeguards against diversion into military uses . Here , perhaps , is one road to peace , better than the most eloquent words . For surely a healing and enriching employment of atomic fission will make it infinitely harder to apply it to the requirements of aggression .                     