@@714392

txt TOKYO , Friday , Jan. ** Nations delegates at Panmunjom charged yesterday that the Communists were seeking an exchange of prisoners of the Korean war only on such a basis as ' would serve to increase their military strength in case of a resumption of hostilities after an armistice . A bulletin from the headquarters of Gen. Matthew B. Ridgway , United Nations commander , revealed authoritatively for the first time that " thousands of Communist soldiers " held in South Korea had begged not to be returned to Communist territory . The bulletin , based on broad'casts of the Void of the United Nations Command radio , said it was " certain " that the enemy would not agree to a United Nations proposal that prisoners be permitted to elect whether or not to return home after a cease-fire . In another broadcast , the Allied radio said that the Communists were stalling in the truce talks because they " have lost the battle for world opinion " and " want airfields more than they want an armistice , " The Associated Press said . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces through an over-all exchange of approximately 11,000 Allied prisoners for 132,000 held in South Korea was made in the communique of Allied Advance Headquarters last night . The United Nations delegates , ' headed by Rear Admiral Ruthven E. Libby , told the Communist repraffelitilltiVel Witte truce subcommittee discussing the fourth item ' of the agenda that opposition to the Allied plan for an exchange on a voluntary basis was founded on an intention " to denounce freedom of the individual and to advocate slavery . " - Analyzing in detail the objections the Chinese and North Koreans had put forward in nine days of debate , the United Nations representatives found them based " Wholly on their aim of improving their military manpower situation , " the communique said . The - indications were that the Communists hoped to force the United Nations to return all prisoners  --  whether or not they wished to be repatriated and whether or not they originally had been impressed into the North Korean Armyin order to be able to compel them to fight again . Summarizing the main points of enemy resistance to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas of disagreement . The Communists objected first to voluntary repatriation , second to an exchange of excess prisoners held by the Allies for displaced civilians , third to an inquiry into the status of South Koreans forced into North Korean units and fourth to a parole feature of the Allied proposal , which would pledge the liberated prisoners not to bear arms again in Korea . Talks Enter Seventh Month The Admiral told the opposing delegates that they favored only such measures of exchange as would enable them to increase their manpower or ? in the case of civilians  --  to enhance their " war economy . " As the truce conversations went into the seventh month , no signs appeared yesterday of a break in the deadlock over the third and fourth items on the ' agenda  --  conditions for enforcement of the armistice and an exchange of prisoners . However , with the United Nations session in Paris having turned down the proposal by Andrei Y. Vishinsky , Soviet Foreign Minlister , to shift the truce issue to the Security Council , the Communists might find it desirable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discuss ' ing truce enforcement , the Allied delegates rejected for the second time a counter-proposal put forward by the enemy . After having turned it down tentatively ; the United Nations group had promised to consider it further . The revamped enemy plan con ' sented to the Allied demand for rotation of troops and replenishment of supplies during the truce , which with one exception was the last topic of disagreement . The vital stumbling block still was the Communist insistence on construction of airfields in North Korea without limitation . From such bases , enemy planes now penned north of the Yalu River could pound United Nations lines at close range if new fighting broke out , and the United Nations delegates have declared , repeatedly that such a condition could not be accepted . There seemed little chance , however , that the Communists would give up the demand . The Communist proposal made ' some revision in the clause of a ' previous draft under which inspection would be condueted behind the lines to assure against a military build-up under cover of the truce . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by representatives of " noncombatant " powers , substituting the word " neutral . " There is some conjecture whether by this change the Communists meant to rule ( put all members of the United Nations , which itself is a belligerent in Korea , or only those that in any way directly contributed to the joint war effort . However , under the Communist proposal , it appeared that each side would have the power to reject as an inspector any nation that proved not " acceptable . " No formal agreement has been reached yet on what nations would be invited to assume inspe.ctoral duties . The Communists originally mentioned Poland and Czechoslovakia  --  members of the Soviet bloc , but also members of the United Nations who are not participating in the war . They tentatively indicated that Switzerland  --  a neutral  --  and United Nations members Sweden and Denmark might be accepted .                     