@@718868

txt The Massachusetts Port Authority said today in a report to Governor Furcolo and the Legislature that it would proceed " forthwith " with the long-awaited sale of its revenue bonds once certain changes are made in the law governing the authority . Changes recommended by the authority were : 1 . Freedom to build either a companion tube to the Sumner Tunnel or another bridge across Boston Harbor where and when it so decides ; 2 . An increase in the interest rate on its revenue bonds from 4 to 5 per cent or , alternatively , a removal of all limitation on the interest rate ; 3 . Authorization to pay to the City of Boston the interest cost on $7,919,380 , which the city had to borrow last year because the port authority failed to purchase the Sumner Tunnel as expected by the end of last year . First Report Issued This is the first report issued by the port authority , Which was set up last year to consolidate the operation of the Sumner Tunnel , the Mystic River Bridge , Logan International Airport @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hanscom Airport in Bedford . The report was issued after a long meeting held yesterday between Governor Furcolo , members of the authority , including chairman Ethraim A. Brest , and about two dozen civic leaders . The Governor also met yesterday with Mayor Hynes and a group of legislators . Following these conferences , he told the press that he expected to announce his stand on the port authority proposal in " about a week . " If the Governor backs the requested legislative changes and sends them to the Legislature , they are sure to come under heavy fire from the forces which opposed establishment of the authority last year . Senator John E. Powers ( D ) of South Boston , Senate Minority Leader , has announced plans to file legislation today calling for dissolution of the port authority if its bonds arc not marketed by Sept. 1 of this year . The authority 's report made no reference to a marketing date , promising only to go on the market " forthwith " if its recommendations are accepted . Meanwhile , a resolution filed by Senator Mario @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an investigation of the port authority , also is pending before the Senate . While the port authority 's willingness to pay the interest on Boston 's 57,919,380 temporary loan from Dec. 31 until the authority takes over the Sumner Tunnel may blunt some criticism , the recommended changes will probably stir some opposition from Boston . Mayor Hynes stated yesterday that he feels the requested increase of the interest rate to 5 per cent is " reasonable " but he has emphatically pointed out that the city regards the construction of a second tunnel-or bridge near the Sumner Tunnel to be of Dressing importance . City Council View This same attitude is held ny members of the Boston City Council who say that one of the principal reasons why the council went along with the sale of the Sumner Tunnel after only a single day 's consideration was the prospect of construction of a new harbor crossing to relieve the traffic- clogged but highly profitable present tunnel . The Sumner Tunnel earns about $1,500,000 a year profit . Commenting on the proposed harbor crossing , the Port Authority said : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conclusion that the Central Artery , Storrow Drive , and the surface streets of Boston are incapable of carrying existing traffic , plus the traffic being led into them by highway construction now approaching completion to the south and west of Boston . Uncertainties Cited " AU evidence which is available to us , although admittedly far short of what should be available for intelligent planning of facilities of this magnitude and importance , points inescapably to the conclusion that further harbor crossings to the north and east should be located to the northwest of the Mystic River Bridge and should be integrated with the proposed inner-belt highway . " To proceed with an additional harbor crossing in downtown Boston in the face not only of these uncertainties as to future state highway construction plans , but also of the obvious inability of existing Central Artery and surface-street capacity to handle the traffic now being channeled into them would ? in our opinion ? be folly . "                     