@@719055

txt $2,600,000 bond issue adopted in 1955 . Mr. Sheridan and Mr. Fraser announced that the bathhouse , now under construction , is scheduled for completion Sept. 15 . A snack bar , comfort station and other facilities are included . Delays caused by steel and cement shortages blocked plans for an earlier completion . However , the beach is open to public use , and up to 60,000 persons are using the beach daily on weekends. , with many visitors from Rhode Island among the crowds . Land Seized When the main bathhouse is completed , Mr. Sheridan and Mr. ' Fraser said , work will be started on two auxiliary bathhouses , one at each end of the two-mile beach . Thus far , they reported , the state has completed land takings on about two-thirds of the area . Already , land takings have cost 2 million dollars . A request for a $400,000 supplementary appropriation to complete takings is pending before the Legislature . In addition , plans call for future purchases on the western end of the beach area as a site for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public hearings will be held on Wednesday , Aug. 14 , in Westport on a proposed 13-mile road from Route 6 to Horseneck Beach . At present , the beach is mainly accessible via a road leading through a congested part of Westport . The proposed road will be located so as to require the taking of only one or two houses and generally will be over vacant land , the commissioner said . Popularity Cited Mr. Sheridan hopes to let contracts for building the road in 1958 . He said the route will be eligible for a 50 per cent federal aid grant . Mr. Fraser reported use of state-owned beaches has expanded one-third over last year , with particularly heavy increased patronage at Salisbury Beach and Provincetown . Indicative of the out-of-state attraction these beaches hold is Mr. Fraser 's report that on one day he saw cars from every state in the union , three Cana- dian provinces , Hawaii , and Alaska at the Provincetown beach . Mr. Fraser is particularly elated at the safety record established at the state-owned beaches . He said that the only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who walked into the water 200 yards beyond a warning barrier . Mr. Fraser and Commissioner Sheridan attributed the safety record in part to the use of surfboards by lifeguards in rescue work . Mr. Fraser said the safety program is constantly stressed and improved . Each year , he added , two of the best lifeguards from each beach are sent to a water safety school at Camp Kiwanis in Hanson . Under the direction of Gilbert Champagne , State Police water safety instructor , and Alec Houston of the American Red Cross , the lifeguards learn the latest safety methods . In turn these guards instruct the other guards at the beaches .                     