@@713056

txt The United States has asked the Chinese Nationalist Government to confer with Gen. Douglas before reaching a final decision on dispatching 33,000 seasoned troops from Formosa to South Korea . This country 's views on Nationalist offers of aid to the United Nations , made first on June 29 in general language and renewed the next day in terms of specific forces , was transmitted yesterday by the State Department , The United States note emphasized that further discussion was necessary in view of the repeated threats of the Chinese Communists to invade Formosa . It said that General 's headquarters would be in communication with Chinese military authorities with a view to sending representatives to Formosa for the discussion . The United States prefaced its advice to the Nationalists with an expression of " deep appreciation * * * for this prompt and substantial demonstration of support for the United Nations . " In making public the note and the aide-memoires from the Nationalists that prompted it , the State Department emphasized today that the United States was setting forth its own viewpoint " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations . " Lincoln White , State Department information officer , said he was sure President Truman had been consulted with respect to the note . He volunteered the information that the Department of Defense had been " informed imme- diately upon receipt of the Chinese communications and concurred in the United States reply . " The Department of Defense , he said , had " filled in " General on the situation . Returning to the Capital after a restful week-end cruise , Mr. Truman avoided reporters and photographers as he traveled back to Blair House and could not he questioned about the exchange of notes with the Nationalist.s In announcing last Tuesday that he was sending United States sea and air aid to South Korea to support the United Nations ' cease-fire order , the President revealed he was assigning the Seventh Fleet to prevent any attack upon Formosa . He called upon the Nationalist Government , as a corollary , to " cease all air and sea operations against the mainland . " He said the Seventh Fleet would " see that this is done . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an effort to isolate the warfare in Korea . Secretary of Defense Louis Johnson was on hand this afternoon to greet the President as the Presidential yacht , Williamsburg , docked at the Naval Gun Factory r 3 P. M. The Secretary brought with him all the latest reports on the situation in Korea ( No Conferences Planned Mr. Truman conferred briefly with Mr. Johnson , then drove off to Blair House with his daughter , Margaret . Charles G. Ross , Presidential press secretary , said that Mr. Truman , who kept abreast of week-end developments by news reports teletyped to his yacht , planned no conferences tonight . Reporters and photographers , on hand for his return from Philadelphia by sea , were barred from asking questions or taking pictures . The President , deep in war talks of last week , appeared more relaxed and rested than when he had boarded the yacht Friday night following a speech at the Boy Scout jamboree near Valley Forge , Pa . Mr. Ross was unable to tell the press when the President would sit down next with the nation 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since he ordered ground troops into action in Korea last Friday . Secretary of State Dean Acheson was at work in the State Department today but the President normally sees him only Mondays and Thursdays . Formosa Troops Moved TAIPEI , July 2 ( H ) ? Chinese Nationalist troops expecting to be rushed to Korea were moved by train today to the north coast port of Keelung . President Chiang Kai-shek and his top generals conferred for three hours Saturday on problems connected with the proposed dispatch of the Chinese troops . The feeling on Formosa today was that the Communists would not try to invade the island now that the United States Seventh Fleet was patrolling Formosan waters . The Formosan Provincial People 's Council has sent a message to President Truman thanking him for sending the Seventh Fleet " to help the Nationalist Government protect this island from Communi invasion . " The courici4 also exkended &yinpathy; to President Syngman Rhee of South Korea . Communist Moves Reported HONG KONG , July 2 ( 11h ? Large Communist troop movements on the Chinese mainland were reported today . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eastern border of Manchuria , adjacent to North Korea . Some 200,000 soldiers also were said to be massed along the IndoChina border and 40,000 more were in the area surrounding Hong Kong . Most of the reports were from Nationalist sources . Other large forces already were stationed on the southeast China coast , the staging area for the promised invasion of Formosa . Observers believed that the troop movements were precautionary ? that the Communists were posting troops to the areas from which an attack from the outside could be expected . But informed sources said they could not discount the possibility of Chinese Communist intervention in the Korean war on the side of North Korea .                     