@@714601

txt BRITAIN TO PLEDGE 111116ITARY SUPPORT TO EUROPEAN ARMY 6-Nation Defense Community Will Receive Guarantee of Automatic Help in Attack ANNOUNCEMENT DUE SOON London Commitments Will Be Extended to West Germany and Italy by New Step By C. L. SULZBERGER Special to THE NEW YORK Toms . PARIS , April ** British Government has decided to extend a precise and blanket guarantee to the six nations of the proposed European Defense Community , promising them automatic military assistance in the event they are subjected to armed attack . In effect , what London 's decision does is to pledge immediate unconditional aid to Italy and Western Germany should they be victims of aggression . Thus , Britain commits herself to an obligation to give effective protection to all of the central Continent west of a line running approximately from Trieste to Lubeck save for a small part of Allied-occupied Austria ! separating Bavaria from the ItalTyrol . The announcement of this decision by the British Cabinet , which is expected to create a sensation in Europe  --  above all Germany and Italy  --  is expected to be made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to set at rest doubts-that , Britain favors the project of an ! integrated supranational European army . Process of Ratification As a result , it is expected that when the conference drafting a treaty for the European Defense Community reassembles after an Easter holiday it may be able to complete an agreed text in fairly short order . There are some experts who now believe a draft can be made ready for signature within three weeks . After the Governments of France , Italy , West Germany , Belgium , the Netherlands and Luxembourg have signed the treaty , it will have to be ratified by their Parliaments  --  a process that may take considerable time and will inevitably be accompanied by sharp debate . Following weeks of debate in the British Cabinet , it has now been agreed to draft a special protocol granting Rome and Bonn the same privileges that the United Kingdom had already undertaken for France and the Benelux nations as a signatory of the Treaty of Brussels , March 17 , 1948 . Article 4 of this document states that " if any of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attack in Europe , the other high contracting parties will , in accordance with the provisions of Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations , afford the party so attacked all military and other aid and assistance in their power . " Outlines Rights of Members Article 51 of the Charter outlines the rights of United Nations members to " individual or collective self-defense if an armed attack occurs . " Neither Italy nor West Germany is a member of the United Nations . Italy 's admission has been blocked by Moscow and Bonn is not yet in a position to apply . By pledging the automatic protection of the two former Axis nations as members of the proposed European Defense Community , Britain now formally places them on a parity with that of her Brussels pact allies , France and the // Benelux countries , Belgium , the Netherlands and Luxembourg . This decision can be regarded as a personal triumph for Anthony Eden , British Foreign Secretary , who has been considered sympathetic to the Europe Defense Community project for some time but who ran into considerable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The United Kingdom remains entirely apart from the European Defense Community in the sense that it will not contribute manpower to the latter 's supranational armed forces . However , it associates itself directly with the defense of the area that the community embraces . This association is of a much more immediate and specific sort than that pledged by Britain and other members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to each other . Article 5 of the Atlantic Treaty pledges the signatories to regard an armed attack against one or more of them in Europe or North America " an attack against them all . " However , it commits them to " assist the party or parties so attacked by taking ? * ' * such action as it deems necessary , including the use of armed force . " No Binding NATO Pledge There is no binding automatic pledge that armed assistance shall be granted under the Atlantic Treaty . However , the new British protocol will grant such strong immediate assurances to the European Defense Community , including West Germany and Italy . Other members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As a result , an important missing link in the plan of defensive agreements being elaborated in Western Europe is now to be forged . A special accord agreed to at the Lisbon Council of the North Atlantic alliance promises that the eventual European Defense Community treaty will have inserted in it : " Guarantees between the members of the European Defense Community and to the parties to the North Atlantic Treaty equivalent to the guarantee contained in Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty . " To this accord was appended a protocol , also accepted by Atlantic pact members , which specified that an armed attack on either European Defense Community territory ( really referring to West Germany ) or the North Atlantic area " shall be considered an attack against all the parties to the North Atlantic Treaty . " Britain 's forthright pledge will be enthusiastically welcomed even though it does not completely meet the maximal desires of some European army nations . Parley Makes Progress During the past few days the conference working out the final details of the European Defense Community treaty draft has made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how the Bonn Republic will pay for its own troop contingents in the proposed integrated force . There is also some discussion stil concerning the manner in which " exposed areas " shall be delineated in the treaty . It was agreed when Dr. Konrad Adenauer , West German Chancellor , visited London before the Lisbon meeting that West Germany should be considered an " exposed area " and therefore the manufacture of certain heavy weapons and atomic fission materials would be banned there as too risky . All the forces will wear the same uniform regardless of nationality .                     