@@717971

txt Mayor Wagner said yesterday that the city 's economic health was good despite " a little fluctuation in some industries . " In one of his periodic reports to the people , televised over WCBS-TV , he said that there were fewer people working and that this was reflected in the welfare load . But , he declared , New York , unlike Detroit and some other " one-industry " cities , is fortunate in having a diversified economy . It is thus able , he said , to " withstand these minor recessions perhaps better than any other city in the country . " The Mayor pointed to the construction of new buildings as evidence of a healthy economy . He also cited as evidence the fact that business , particularly management , is coming here in larger numbers than ever before to establish the city as its base of operations . A more considered judgment , he indicated , would be had in the middle of June from a comparison of the Controller 's figures from sales and other taxes with earlier fikures . No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foresee any new taxes this year or next . In response to a question , he said he had heard nothing of the possibility of a city income tax . In fact , he declared , if the city gets its " rightful share " of state money it will be able to reduce or do away with one tax  --  the auto use tax . Other subjects discussed at the TV session were rehabilitation plans for the Correction Department , the Mayor 's hopes for the forthcoming metropolitan area conference , the question of the Port Authority 's taking over the city 's piers , the Tavern-on-theGreen parking lot controVersy , criticism of waste in Civil Defense and his preferences among Democratic Presidential aspirants . The Mayor said he hoped the conference of metropolitan area officials , which would take in transportation , transit , roads , school problems , water supply , air pollution and other matters affecting everybody who lives in the area , " would start a new spirit of cooperation all along the line . " The meeting is scheduled for the middle of June . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had faith in Commissioner Anna M. Kross and that she had made a " real start on a good program of prisoner rehabilitation . " He said he would make public the grand jury report that followed two years of investigation after a second meeting with the grand jurors tomorrow or Tuesday . There is a possibility , also , that two other reports on the department will be made public , he said . One is by Oity Inves- tigation Commissioner Charles H. Tenney on administrative ' , problems following an earlier preliminary report . The other is by Deputy Mayor John J. Theobald . The Mayor praised Mrs. Kross for the " great strides " she had made in " reorganizing " the department and said an advisory committee working in the prisons also had commended her . On the taking over of the piers the Mayor was dubious . He said he was always willing to " sit down and discuss " any offer that the Port Authority might make , but he pointed up the Controller 's view that a change over " could well add to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ budget in the years to come . " To Talk With Moses The Mayor said he would talk in the next two or three days with City Construction Coordinator Robert Moses , who is also Park Commissioner , regarding the Tavern-on-the-Green parking lot dispute . Mr. Moses returned yesterday from a trip to Spain . The Mayor commented that no one questioned the legality of creating a parking lot as an adjunct to the Central Park restaurant and that Mr. Moses , in his capacity as State Park Commissioner , had done the same thing " on such great projects as Jones Beach " in the last fourteen years . On the political side , the Mayor would not be pressed on what , substantially , he has said before : He had " great admiration and affection " for Governor Harriman and would vote for him on the first ballot if he was presented to the Democratic National Convention as a favorite son . He still felt that Adlai E. Stevenson was the strongest candidate the Democrats could nominate , but that much could happen between now and the convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not commit himself on a secondballot vote . The Mayor discounted as unwarranted , in the absence of something concrete , an investigation into charges of waste in Civil Defense administration made by an ousted Brooklyn alde . Mr. Wagner said he had hard in Washington that " we are far ahead of any other city in the country in Civil Defense . " Participants at the television press conference were Charles G. Bennett of The New York Times ; Vincent ( Doc ) Caso Sr. of Il Progresso , Italian-language newspaper ; Dominick Peluso of The Daily News and Bill Leonard , Columbia Broadcasting System commentator .                     