@@716474

txt Failure of France and Italy to ratify the European Army plan is the ' ' most serious single obstacle " to a successful European defense , President Eisenhower told Congress in a report on the government 's foreign aid program during the first six months of this year . He also said a firm defense of Western Europe against Soviet attack will be impossible without German troops to bolster the line . Page 6 . Senate-House Conference Committee reached agreement today on a compromise social security bill extending coverage to more than - 10 million additional persons , and raising benefits and the taxes to pay for them . The conferees settled their major difference by agreeing to put under compulsory coverage 3,600,000 farm operators as asked by President Eisenhower . Higher food prices due mainly to drought conditions sent the government 's living cost index up slightly in July . It was the third straight month of rising costs and will mean a pennyan-hour pay boost for about one million workers in the auto , aircraft , and farm equipment industries . The government tries again to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposal to put their flying time dispute before an arbitrator . The strike has grounded all of American 's flights . The Army is going to order an atomic power plant that can be knocked down and flown to remote bases for quick reassembly . The Army announcement said the plant would be the Arst  --  to produce heat and electricity . Asia : 50,000 Flee Communist-Held Area Almost 50,000 persons have fled the Red River delta area in northern Vietnam since the July 27 Indochina cease fire rather than accept Communist rule , French officials announced from Hanoi . Japanese police arrested a third government official on suspicion of passing secrets to Soviet spy Yuri Rastvorov , who fled to United States asylum in Tokyo last January . A crew member of the Soviet tanker . Tuapse , seized off Formosa in June by Chinese Nationalist naval forces , has asked for political asylum , Nationalist authorities in Taipeh said . Europe : Four Arrested in Ulster Disturbance Four men have been arrested by Ulster police on a riot charge following disturbances last night in which 500 men , celebrating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clashed with police at Pomeroy , County Tyrone . Boston : Police Hunt Missing Tennis Player Boston pollee are searching for Joan Ross-Dilley , tennis player from Berkeley , Calif. , who played a match at the Longwood Cricket Club , Chestnut Hill , Tuesday , and has been missing since then .                     