@@719505

txt in Africa , by the slowness of German rearmament and now by the dispute between Germany and Britain over a German contribution to allied troop support which might lead to further British withdrawals from the Continent . Nothing could please the Soviets more than a weakening of what they regard as the main obstacle to their further advance . That fact alone calls for renewed efforts to settle inter-allied disputes and to bring our Common defenses to the necessary strength to safeguard our lives and our liberties . FALSE ECCErAfk=102.7 Going to the heart of the issue dividing the world , President Eisenhower has rejected the false equation , launched by Soviet propaganda but also propounded in some quarters in the West , which puts Soviet ideology on a par with the Western creed . In a letter written on his behalf by Secretary Dulles and published in London , he points to one . basic difference of fundamental importance in world affairs . This difference is not so much a matter of political , economic or social organization . The difference is rather between a Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest of " world revolution " and the Western creed , which comprehends renunciation of force and violence . In other words , quite aside from all moral implications , the Soviets , by reason of their ideology , are inherently aggressive , as their record shows , while the West is following an inherently nonaggressive creed . The West . may not always live up to its creed , but there is still a great difference between a society whose creed at least puts moral brakes on force and violence and a society whose ideology not only removes all such brakes but even preaches force and violence . In practice this means that the West , contrary to Soviet assertions , does not and will not conduct a crusade to destroy communism . Indeed , we still regard Communistdominated Yugoslavia as a potential ally . But , until Communist ideology has renounced force and violence in doctrine and in practice and has embraced a more conciliatory creed which lifts the Iron Curtain and restores human contacts , the West has both the right and the duty to organize and arm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an atomic holocaust can be based only on a balance of power adequate to keep Soviet aggression in check . It is this basic factor of Soviet aggressiveness that dominates all other issues , including the talks about another summit meeting , disarmament , peace settlements and our alliances . This is the fundamental reason why the United States maintains alliances and other defense arrangements with more than forty nations in all parts of the world , why it spends more than $40 billion a year on its own defenses and those of its allies , and why it does not propose to surrender its best deterrent weapons in return for Soviet pledges that have always proved to be scraps of paper . In taking this position the United States is , despite occasional differences in emphasis , in firm agreement with its allies . We are at one with them in respect to the necessary conditions for a summit meeting . We are in basic agreement with them regarding the urgent need for strengthening the North Atlantic alliance with atomic and missile weapons , not to wage war , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ atomic weapons has proved so costly that it has had to be made at the expense of manpower . This iS especially true of the central front in Europe , which is far short of the minimum of thirty divisions needed . This shortage is further aggravated by the withdrawal of French troops                     