@@720646

txt Secretary of State Christian A. Herter left today for Santiago , Chile , with the expressed hope that a special inter-American conference of foreign ministers there would ease tensions in the Caribbean . In a statement before his departure by jet transport , Mr. Herter called for " candid examination " of the " poliitcal tensions " and an agreement on measures to deal with tile troubles , between the Caribbean nations . The meeting of the foreign ministers of the twenty-one American republics  --  the first of its kind called by the Organization of American States  --  opens in Santiago Wednesday . Unrest to Be Studied The conference , which will begin against a backdrop of new unrest in Cuba , was called after several invasions were attempted or threatened in the Caribbean area . Two invasions , staged in Cuba , were made against the Dominican Republic in June . There also have been rebel attacks , assisted by other Caribbean nations , against Nicaragua and Panama . The conference will consider two principal problems : political unrest in the Caribbean and " effective exercise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his statement , Mr. Herter offered no specific proposals on how the United States intended to deal with these deep-seated and historic problems . Rather his statement was one of generalities , extolling the principles and responsibilities for security and peace that had developed in the American community over the last half-century . Watchdog Unit Favored One specific proposal that Mr. Herter is carrying to Santiago , according to officials , asks the creation of a watchdog committee for the Caribbean that would be on the alert for military build-ups or threatened invasions . The committee will bel proposed jointly by the nations that proposed the special conference  --  the United States , Brazil , Uruguay and Peru . As conceived by the United ' States , the watchdog committee ' would be given authority to initiate investigations of threatened invasions . Under the present procedure , a nation believing itself threatened must appeal to the Organization of American States , which may appoint a special committee to investigate the charges . It is believed that a watchdog committee , by keeping the // public spotlight on the situation in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Caribbean nations . Cuba and Venezuela are expected to offer a resolution favoring democratic regimes and calling upon the Orgazilzation of American States to combat dictatorship . Officials said the United States was prepared to support such a resolution so long as it did not violate the traditional hemispheric policy of nonintervention in domestic affairs . Mr. Herter , who returned only last Thursday from the Big Four foreign ministers ' conference in Geneva , looked rested as he took off on the 5,000-mile trip to Santiago in a new Air Force Boeing 707 . He will stay overnight at Ramey Air Force Base in Puerto Rico and is to arrive in Santiago tomorrow afternoon . The State Department said he would remain in Santiago for the duration of the conference and not leave within a few days , as had been reported . Mr. Herter must be back in Washington by Aug. 26 to accompany President Eisenhower on his trip to Europe for conferences with Western leaders . TEXT OF STATEMENT Following is the text of Mr. Herter 's statement : I look forward with keen interest to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pleased to have the opportunity to meet with my colleagues from the other American republics . I have long felt that the Organization of American States has been a dramatic example of fruitful international cooperation designed to achieve security , peace and progress . This meeting of consultation is a good demonstration of the organization 's vitality in confronting problems that arise in the community 's relations . The principles and responsibilities that the interAmerican community has developed over the last fifty years represent the fruit of long ' experiences . Over the past several months we have been increasingly concerned with the political tensions which have been developing in the Caribbean area . By a candid examination of these tensions and the adoption of mutually agreed measures for dealing with them on the basis of these principles and responsibilities the meeting of foreign Ministers will fulfill the aspirations of our peoples . I am certain that the wisdom of this accumulated experience and the determination which characterize our intdr-American system will stand us in good stead in meeting the challenge and opportunity afforded by this meeting .    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        