@@719959

txt Senator William F. Knowland 's campaign for Governor of California was pictured today by the Senator and his wife as the target of " threats , intimidation and sabotage . " Senator Knowland , in a statement late tonight from Los Angeles where he was preparing for a week 's campaign , denounced what he called " smear tactics of the labor bosses . " He referred to " wild charges " made as a " red herring " to obscure the issues of the campaign . Mrs. Helen Knowland asserted that not only California but also the nation was in danger of capture by " the labor socialists through the thoroughly legitimate means of the ballot box . " The wife of the Republican leader made her accusations from her Piedmont home as an aftermath of the disclosure that a pamphlet bitterly attacking Walter P. Reuther , head of the United Auto Workers , had been prepared for distribution to aid the Knowland drive . Earlier , Attorney General Edmund G. Brown , the Democratic nominee for Governor , moved into action . Noting the revelation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dis- tribution of the anti-Reuther pamphlet in the California campaign , he issued a statement He said Senator Knowland and the Senator 's campaign organ , ; ization had been directly linked with " fascistic , anti-Semitic forces in the East , supporting his drive to take over the Gov , - ernorship of this state . " Mr. Brown denied that he ' himself had received a contribution of any kind from Mr. Reuther , the vice president of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations . He demanded an accounting from the Republican nominee of contributions from officers of " billion-dollar corporations . " Senator Knowland 's statement follows : " There is no question but that the nation 's labor forces are supporting my opponent . They are raising money both nationally and locally in his behalf in an attempt to take over California the same way as they have Michigan . " These wild charges are a desperate effort to draw a red herring across the path and obscure the facts of Brown 's domination by labor forces , his failure to handle the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year I received from the Congress the Anti-Defamation Award . I was the first in the Senate to speak out in opposition to United Nations sanctions against Israel . " I brought before the Senate the first and only civil rights legislation enacted in eighty years . " These smear tactics are typical of the labor bosses . My record of supporting the rank and file of labor against the abuses of bossism is a long one . My information about these abuses by the bosses came not from any pamphlet but from the official records of Senator McClellan 's labor committee hearings . " My opponent is not going to divert me from pointing out that California has become the No. 1 state in the nation in major crime while he has been the chief law enforcement officer of the state . " Although the California law does not require the filing of receipts and expenditures until after the general election I here and now challenge my opponent to file with the Secretary of State an interim statement as to receipts and expenditures and sources from the primary through Sept. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " There was much speculation but no very specific conclusion as to how the campaign disclosure and its aftermath would affect the California Gubenatorial campaign . Mrs. Knowland defended using the tract , as reported by The New York Times this morning , and said : " I am not attacking The Times , but I am attacking whoever gave The Times this material on our California campaign . " This obviously is another attempt to intimidate anyone active in this frightening , tremendoll. ; struggle against dictatorial labor tycoons . " Mrs. Knowland had endorsed the pamphlet , " Meet the Man Who Plans to Rule America . " She had said , however , that she was unaware of the background , of its author , Joseph P. Kamp , or of the fact that he had served a jail sentence for contempt of Congress . The extreme righta wing writer had refused to list contributors to his Constitutional Education League . Mrs. Knowland Seeks Aid Mrs. Knowland took the position that if her side were told widely enough so that people could " see the hundreds of instances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to , " then " perhaps some of these people unaware of the extreme pressures we are facing will come to our aid in this The New York Men SENATOR 'S " WIFE : Mrs. William F. : Knowland , who said husband 's campaign for California Governor was target of " threats , intimidation and sabotage . " time of what I believe is national danger . " " I 'm not even restricting it to the state , " she added . Mrs. Knowland related that , " like the McClellan committee the Select Senate Committee on Improper Activities in the Labor or Management Field , " the Knowland forces had received " thousands of letters from union people favoring my husband 's support of their democratic rights . " It was to those persons , Mrs. Knowland said , that her husband 's campaign managers in the spring primary had intended to send recordings of-one of his speeches on his attitude toward organized labor . The union members , she related , had planned to use them ' at neighborhood and club meetings in support of the Knowland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He had outlined his position to the California C. I. 0 . at a meeting in Fresno . " We were frantic because the records arrived nearly three weeks late , " Mrs. Knowland Said . " We mailed out , unfortunately , about 100 and in twentyfour hours postcards began coming in saying , our records were defective and asking for others . " We tested them all , " she declared , " and out of 6,000 we found three good records . As a result those records which would have gone into 6,000 union hands  --  hands Of leaders -- became unusable . " She emphasized that in citing this incident she was making no charge against the manufacturer of the record : Brown Counts on Labor ' The ' labor issue has been in the forefront of much of the Knowland-Brown campaigning . The Bioavn forces , confident of tha election outcome , Nov. .4 , are counting heavily on labor support . Mr. Brown is against Proposition 18 , a " right-to-work " measure that , if passed , would outlaw the union shop in California . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a union after a stated period to keep a job . Senator Knowland is supporting thismeasure . Each side has accused the other of seeking to raise enormous campaign chests  --  nationally as well as within California ? in a last-ditch effort to put over its nominee by distribution of literature and through billboard , newspaper and television advertising and other means . The disclosure of the existence of the anti-Reuther , pamphlet came with the campaign having two months to go . Attorney General Brown asserted that the disclosure showed " the Senator dealing hand-inglove with a bigot whose Writings smeared President Eisentowc and Gov . Earl Warren in the 1952 Presidential campaign . " He said Mr. Kamp got money in Senator Knowland 's name from " the highest VB. ( ers of billion-dollar Eastern corporations set on electing as Governor a man who will put their program into effect here first , and in Washington next . " 4 Questions of Knowland The Democratic nominee demanded the Senator answer these four questions : " 1 . Will be renounce his alliance with the forces of fascism and anti-Semitism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pamphet in California ? " 3 . How much money has he received to date from the top Eastern officers of General Motors , Gulf Oil , du Pont and Republic Steel ? " 4 . Will he stop Kamp , from soliciting additional funds in his name from these and other international corporations ? " Mrs. Knowland also said : " Some postcards mailed days befor ' the primary by Mr. Willard A. Yuna , owner of the Colonial Inn in San Francisco , favoring Knowland for Governor , were delivered late , after the primary , and some were never delivered at all . " I 'm told that we have been a-arned that the telephones in one of our . headquarters ' Mare been tapped . " I 'm toldJthat only this week , another recording , Sent by means of San Francisco delivery service , was : ' discovered days later hi ' the : , of -a truck , opened and-nnUgable : " ni informed wai r tresses , in a Southern , California city , were : threatened ' fiYatheir bosses that " theyadirould be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Money was raised to reimburse : those who did serve , I have been told . " " So I can- only conclude that this is another , attempt to frighten and intimidate me , and those who are working with us in this campaign : " This is , consistent with the activities against Robe , / t A. Taft in Ohio in 1950 , the same pattern being used right ' . against Senator Barry Gold-Goldin Arizona , and most certainly it is another ruse to hurt and if possible to destroy Knowland . " I think the result of this latest tactic might create a demand by people ta . read- ' Meet the , Man Who Plans to Rule America . ' Remember what happehed - to-  books13anned in Boston ? " . a By " the Knowland girls " Mrs. Knowland referred to the couple 's two daughters , who assisted in the primary campaign .                     