@@716493

txt The special Senate committee considering the censure of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy completed the formal presentation of evidence today . It will probably be ready next Tuesday to start hearing his defense . The witness chair was never occupied today . The evidence was entirely documentary , and all of it was drawn from the transcript of the Army-McCarthy hearings . This evidence was focused on the accusations that the Wisconsin Republican , in the televised hearings , incited Federal employes to violate their oaths of office , the law and Presidential directives and bring him confidential Government documents . Thus in mid-afternoon of the third day of its public hearings the special committee headed by Senator Arthur V. Watkins , Republican of Utah , had produced all the primary evidence it deemed necessary in connection with thirteen charges divided into five categories . What remains is the introduction into the record of some miscellaneous documents , including Presidential directives prohibiting Federal employes from disclosing to Congressional committees any classified information without White House clearance . The committee expected to complete this comparatively minor task Tuesday morning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the committee might enlarge the scope of the charges . It is continuing to study the final reports . of the Army-McCarthy hearings , issued last Tuesday . On . the other handy material from the reports might be used merely to document the present charges , as the transcript was used today . In any event , the committee had completed the first major phase of its task  --  to produce evidence both adverse and favorable to Mr. McCarthy . Next it will be up to Mr. McCarthy and his lawyer , Edward Bennett Williams , to present his case . Then the committee will draft its findings and submit them to the Senate for a , final floor vote on the pending censure resolution during the life of the Eighty-third Con/Tess , which will expire in January . The committee will not meet tomorrow in order . to permit its members to attend the funeral of Senator Burnet R. Maybank in Charleston , S. C. It will also be in recess on Monday , Labor Day . Meanwhile , its counsel , E. Wallace Chadwick , and his associate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on legal questions raised during the hearings , as well as assembling supplementary documents for presentation Tuesday morning . Senator McCarthy again was absent much of the time , and silent while present , but outside the hearing room he was active in a number of directions . He assailed Senator Watkins for saying in a film used on television last night that impartiality was not a requirement of the committee . Mr. McCarthy also maintained his barrage against Senator Edwin C. Johnson , Democrat of Colorado , who is vice chairman of the committee . But he failed to get a further explanation of a statement disparaging Senator McCarthy attributed to Mr. Johnson in The Denver Post March 12 . Mr. McCarthy also deplored the absence of radio and television in the hearings , declaring it made possible " completely false reporting . " For a few moments today a hippodrome atmosphere of noise and bustle flared in the famous marble caucus room of the Senate Office Building , where the hearings are being held . This was reminiscent of the lively days of the Army-McCarthy hearings . Senator McCarthy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sustained burst of applause , much of it from members of the Alfieriican Legion , who are in convention here . A. few hisses penetrated through the din of handclapping . Then in the main aisle before a full house Mr. McCarthy smilingly examined a button on the cap of a California legionnaire that bore the legend , " Gee , I like Joe . " After that Senator McCarthy posed for his picture with Louis Budenz , former Communist managing editor of The Daily Worker , who has frequently been a witness at McCarthy and other Congressional committee investigations of Communist subversion . What was different today , however , was that this incident occurred during recess , before the committee had convened for the afternoon session . While it was in session it did not allow itself to be diverted from the business of adducing evidence , read into the record by Mr. Chadwick and Mr. De Furia . These two lawyers went directly to the charges relating to the famous document of the ArmyMcCarthy hearings , which Senator McCarthy said had been slipped to him by a young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , stated that it did not believe an Army officer had done this and referred a report on the incident to the Department of Justice for action . The evidence covered Categories II and III of the charges and included these specifications : Under Category II : Senator McCarthy " openly invited and incited employes of the Government to violate the law and their oaths of office by urging them to make available information , including classified information , which in the opinion of the employes would be of assistance to the junior Senator from Wisconsin in conducting his investigations , even though the supplying of such information by the employe would be illegal and in violation of Presidential order and contrary to the constitutional rights of the Chief Executive under the separation-of-powers doctrine . " Under Category In : Senator McCarthy " received ' and made use of confidential information unlawfully obtained , from a document in executive files upon which document the ! Federal Bureau of Investigation had placed its highest classification ; and offered such information to a lawfully constituted Senate subcommittee in the form of a spurious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' a letter from the F. B. I. " As the Army-McCarthy hearing brought out , the original document was fifteen pages long , iri the form of a report , supplied by the F. B. I. to Maj. Gen. A. R. Bolling , former Chief of the Intelligence Division of the Army General Staff . What Mr. McCarthy presented , however , was two and one-quarter pages long , in ' the form of a letter , containing verbatim some of the material of the fifteen-page report . Williams and Chadwick The controversial document had been discussed extensively from many angles by Senator McCarthy and by the members of the Army-McCarthy committee . The variations and nuances of that previous testimony became apparent today as it was being extracted . At one point Mr. Williams complained that he was " disturbed " because he believed Mr. Chadwick was reading out of context . His point was that some aspects of the discussion about " inciting " Federal employes were not unfavorable to Senator McCarthy . Mr. Williams cited the passage he wished read , but it turned out that Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hadothe paging of the Army-McCarthy testimony wrong and Mr. Chadwick told him quietly but with a slight edge to his voice , " In the next succeeding page , which I will reach in a half a minute , is the material to which you refer . " At issue were two somewhat different statements by Mr. McCarthy , given here in their original sequence . Mr. Williams considered the second statement favorable to Mr. McCarthy because of its reference to graft and corruption : First statement : SENATOR McCARTHY ? Mr. Chairman , in view of Senator McClellan 's statement and , his request , I would like to make it clear that I think that the oath which every person in this Government takes , to protect and defend his country , against all enemies , foreign and domestic , that oath towers far above any Presidential secrecy directive . And I will continue to receive information such as I received the other day meaning the controversial document . In. view of Senator McClellan 's statement that he feels that it is a crime for someone to give me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to give the Senators the names of those informants . Second statement : SENATOR McCARTHY ? I am at this point deeply concerned to find my two Democrat colleagues in effect notifying the 2,000,000 people who work for this Government that they think it is a crime for those employes to give ' the chairman of an investigating committee evidence of Communist infiltration , treason . I think that will serve to discourage them . As far as I am concerned , I would like to notify those 2,000,000 Federal employes that I feel it ' is their duty to give us any information which they have about graft , corruption , communism , treason , and that there is no loyalty to a superior officer which can tower above and beyond their loyalty to their country . I may say that I hope the day comes when this Administration notifies all Federal employes that any information which they have about wrongdoing should be given to any Congressional committee which is emppwered to take it . The Aushot of the discussion on this and other passages was a reaffirmation by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excerpts that could be weighed-both for and against Senator McCarthy . Mr. Williams was invited to make contributions as he saw fit . Watkins Firm on Johnson Senator Watkins remained adamant in his refusal of Mr. Williams ' request that Senator Johnson confirm or disavow The Denver Post interview . The March 12 story , written by Robert , W. Lucas , editor of that newspaper 's editorial page , quoted the Colorado Senator as expressing the opinion that Democratic Congressional leaders " loathed " Mr. McCarthy and that most Republicans were " disgusted " with him . All that Mr. Johnson has said about this is that he did not say that he , personally , loathed the Senator . Unsatisfied , Mr. Williams issued a second memorandum to committee members objecting to the Chairman 's ruling that all Senators have positions on issues and that If they could not be challenged for prejudice in the Senate , they could not be challenged in the committee , either . He had also held that the committee could not change the members appointed by Vice President Richard M. Nixon . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up outside the committee room to assail Mr. Watkins on the Johnson issue . The chairman has been under severe criticism from the radio and television industry for barring them from the session and he has tried to accommodate them outside . Yesterday he stood before the microphones by request and was asked : " Is impartiality a requirement of the committee ? " " No , " was the off-the-cuff re ' ply by Senator Watkins . " The Senators who are committee members are the same Senators who are in the Senate and no one has ever required that the Senators be impartial . They do n't come here that way . They come here ordinarily having been com'mitted to programs , having made their own platform pledges and on many of the public questions they , of course , are committed . They have taken positive stands . " " Did you say it was n't important that committee members be impartial ? " Mr. Watkins was asked today by a newspaper man . " I do n't think I said that , " he replied . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fantastic , ' McCarthy Says Mr. McCarthy assailed Mr. Watkins ' television statement as " the most fantastic " ? he had ever heard , adding : " I saw Watkins smilingly saying that it was all right if committee members were not impartial . That does n't quite tie in with repeated assurances that this would be a'judicial hearing . " Mr. McCarthy also displayed a telegram from Mr. Lucas replying to the Senator 's request to confirm or deny the Johnson interview . Mr. Lucas 's one-word reply was , " confirmed . " Ordinarily he would not be satisfied with the answer , Mr. McCarthy said , because The Denver Post had been " viciously anti-McCarthy . " He added , however , ' that if Mr. Johnson kept silent he would assume that " The Post did correctly quote him . " Mr. Watkins said today that the issue on Mr. Johnson was closed as far as the committee 's record was concerned . Mr. Johnson was defended today by a Republican member , Senator Francis Case of South Dakota . " I think he is impartial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fellow as you can find , " he said . Serious issues of law and fact are still to be raised and argued by Senator McCarthy 's lawyer on the censure issue . but it was 1113-parent that the attack on the Democratic vice chairman of the committee was being built up into a major factor by him for possible exploitation later . The situation on the issue was this : On the eve of the open hearings , Mr. Williams and Mr. McCarthy raised the question of impartiality in a closed session of the committee and renewed it openly in the first public session on Tuesday morning . Mr. Williams has refrained from making a motion to disqualify Senator Johnson , but has persistently tried to lay at least the basis for it . He has stated that he can not advise Mr. McCarthy whether he should make such a motion unless Senator Johnson will say that the interview was true or false . Today Mr. Williams issued a second memorandum in which he said : " It may be , as the Chair suggests , that the committee does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in counsel 's judgment it certainly has authority to take judicial notice of an official protest by Senator McCarthy as to the qualifications of one of its members ? if such protest should be forthcoming . " If this is so , it seems to counsel that Senator McCarthy is ; entitled to information that is prerequisite to his decision as to whether or not to file such a protest . "                     