@@715020

txt Second only to the Presidency , the great cos-teat in this election was for control of Congress , particularly of the Senate . Despite the magnitude of General Eisenhower 's personal victory , the Republicans were barely able to win enough new seats in both bodies to be able to organize them . But they managed to do so , gaining a slim margin of about a half dozen votes in the House , while in the Senate they now hold exactly half the seats  --  forty-eight ? to the Democrats ' forty-seven , with one Independent . The balance in the old Senate was so close that nominal Republican control is assured even though the Democrats suffered a net loss of only two seats and the Republicans a net gain of two in Tuesday 's election . But the turnover in the Senate is actually greater than these figures would indicate . A number of familiar faces will be missing m January , including some members of both parties whom the Senate could ill afford to lose , as well as others whose departure is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newcomers . It is gratifying that the overwhelming Eisenhower landslide did not prevent the American voter from picking and choosing among the candidates for lesser office . Of course , some Republicans did ride in on the General 's coattails ; but there is ample evidence that in many instances the voters exercised commendable discrimination . For example , Eisenhower carried Missouri , but the citizens of that state had the good judgment to elect Stuart Symington , a Democrat , to the Senate instead of the isolationist incumbent , James P. Kern . Eisenhower carried Montana , but the Republican isolationist Senator Bales Ecton went down before one of the ablest Democrats in Congress , Mike Mansfield . Still a third member of the Republican " Class of ' 46 , " Harry P. Cain of Washington , was defeated by a young and liberal Democrat , Representative Henry M. Jackson . On the other hand , Senator McCarthy was , unfortunately , re-elected ; but at least it is a hopeful sign that he ran far behind the ticket , trailing the top five Republican state officers on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jenner of Indiana , the re-election of Malone of Nevada and the defeat of Benton of Connecticut , whose good legislative record was smothered in the Republican landslide . In each of these cases not enough voters split their ticket ; while too many did so in Massachusetts , where Henry Cabot Lodge , a valued and experienced member of the Senate , lost even though Eisenhower carried the state . No matter which party was to end up in control of the Senate it has been obvious throughout the whole campaign that the new Administration would have to rely ? as did the last one ? on a coalition of modern-minded Democrats and Republicans to carry out the legislative measures necessary for support of its foreign policy . This would have been true whether the winner was named Eisenhower or Stevenson . The American political system has developed in such a way that both parties contain leading members of widely divergent . views . The inevitable result is that when the parties are fairly evenly matched in Congress the Administration needs the help of some members of the opposition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faults of this system  --  and it has both ? it does require special talents on the part of the Chief Executive in his relations with Congress . President-elect Eisenhower has just the qualities to help him bridge the partisan gap , and we expect he will have to put them to full use before many months have passed .                     