@@718403

txt Letters to The Times LAURENCE J. , S.J. , ( Rev. ) EMERY J. KOCSIS , DOLORES KAZANJIAN.HERBERT H ... Letters to The Times To Aid- Higher Education Agreement Declared on Need for Strengthening Institutions in State ro THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The important and difficult task of providing maximum opportunities for higher education to the youth of New York State is the concern of all our citizenry and of all our educational institutions , whether tax-supported or not . By long tradition and legal process our state has achieved a unique organizational structure through which to insure the provision of these opportunities : the University of the State of New York , which , under the leadership of the Board of Regents , embraces as component members all institutions of higher education in our state  --  non-tax supported colleges and universities , the city colleges of New York , the State University . There is unanimous agreement among New York State educators that in the years immediately ahead both public and private components of the University of the State of New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There is , as there should be , free and frank discussion of the best ways to meet these needs : by strengthening existing institutions or erecting new ones  --  and the educational and financial implications of each step . A forum for open discussion of the differing viewpoints on the best ways to reach the common objective is provided by the Association of Colleges and Universities of New York . Like the legally constituted University of the State of New York , this voluntary association includes , without distinction , State University , city colleges and nontax supported institutions . During its annual meeting at Queens College on Dec. 6 and 7 a group of non-tax supported universities presented for discussion the program summarized in The New York Times article of Dec. 11 . Association Action That this program and the ensuing discussion should not be construed as " a major battle over higher education " between conflicting interests is evident , I believe , from the action taken by the members of the association themselves . In brief , this action was : to appoint a commission to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ non-tax supported institutions of the association and to refer to this commission for careful study the proposals discussed at the Queens College meeting . This action was taken by unanimous vote of all members of the association present , State University , city colleges and non-tax supported institutions alike . The areas of divergent views as to the best means of strengthening New York higher education are not unimportant . But they should not be so presented to our citizens as to obscure either the areas of agreement regarding means ( e. g. , increased state scholarship aid ) or the singleness of purpose and the common goal toward which all colleges and universities of our state are now effectively cooperating . LAURENCE J. , S. J. , President , Association of College : and Universities of New York , New York , Dec. 12 , 1956 . Treatment of Refugees To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK ' I ' less : For the past eight days I have had the opportunity to observe the procedures at Camp Kilmer and have found that the military is a most cooperative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only my opinion but . that of the many refugees whom I have interviewed . Their opinion was that the treatment that they received from the military was most cordial in every respect . I met Brig . Gen. Sidney C. Wooten , commanding at Camp Kilmer , on various occasions . I noted that many times he went out of his way to help out personally in matters concerning the welfare of the refugees . If any delay or inconvenience occurred at Camp Kilmer " mercy operation " it was not the fault of the military but rather of the private agencies , who accented purely social work in dealing with refugees . ( Rev. ) EMERY 3 . Kocsis , Pastor , South Plainfield Baptist Chu reit . South Plainfield , N. J. , Dec. 3 , 1956 , Cuba 's Young Men To Tile EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : With regard to the editorial on " The Violent Cubans " on Dec. 4 you are completely right in saying that the revolution is " mad . " I would like to take exception , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young men have nothing to gain , " thus implying that they are prompted by purely idealistic , causes and are willing to lay down their lives for these causes . Granted that this might be true in some few instances , for the most part these young men are decidedly not political idealists  --  they are prompted by the same motives as the " old political crowd " you refer to in your editorial . In Cuba today there are few jobs available for these young men , and those that are available pay about one-quarter of United States salaries ( with a cost of living that is higher than ours ) . For these strong young men , who have no other , , ... Anortunity to improve themselves economically , political rebellions provide their only other alternative . ( This is especially true among University of Havana students . ) Their interest in fomenting these rebellions is not solely , as most Americans might imagine , to over ? throw the present Government . One of the main purposes of this " mad revolution , " and also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , once Batista 's Government Is overthrown , these young men will be remembered by the next regime as fomenters of rebellions , and will be given a nice , soft job in the Government , the virtually unique means of earning a living in Cuba . You might ask : Would they be willing to die just for economic expediency ? The answer is that death , especially among the young men in Cuba , is not so feared , bee cause death brings the glory of dying as a hero and being martyrized by the Cuban people . ( Cubans have no respect for soldiers who do not die in battle . ) And , too , I sometimes wonder if these young men do n't feel that giving their lives for a cause which they believe is right is better than the abject poverty in which almost all of them are living now , thanks to Batista , whom you call a " good President . " DOLOREs KAZANJIAN . New York , Dec. 4 , 1956 . Louis Marshall 's Career His Labors in the Cause of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ YORK TIMES : I should like to call the attention of your readers to the centenary on Dec. 14 of the birth of Louis Marshall  --  one of the foremost constitutional lawyers of his time , ait outstanding civic leader , a statesman in Jewish communal affairs whose leadership was acknowledged the world over , and a fighter against all forms of discrimination and bigotry not only for Jews but for all groups both at home and abroad . Marshall 's greatness resided in his passionate belief in justice , in his conviction that the Constitution guaranteed complete equality for all and in the use of his great energy and legal talents to carry the fight against discrimination to the nation 's highest court , where he won many notable victories . Thus he defended the rights of Catholics to send their children to religious schools , the rights of Negroes to vote and buy property with . out restriction , the rights of Japanese residents in this country to own land , the rights of Socialists to sit in the Legislature , the rights of persons on trial for their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jews to complete equality of opportunity . Marshall likewise sought  --  for a time successfully  --  to prevent the enactment of the national - origins provisions of the immigration laws of the United States because they would introduce racist concepts which he considered repugnant to American ideals and violative of the spirit of the Constitution . His clear vision on this issue , as on many other issues where the question of constitutional liberties was involved , is borne out by today 's events . Accord With Czarist Russia As one of the founders of the American Jewish Committee and its president for many years Marshall 's first of many great achievements was his leadership in the movement which led to the abrogation of the Russian-American treaty of 1832 when Czarist Russia refused to accord to American Jews and to American clergymen of certain other denominations the right to enter Rumsia . One of Marshall 's most important contributions was made at the Peace Conference in Paris in 1919 when he was instrumental in shaping action which resulted in the inclusion of clauses in the treaties with Poland , Rumania , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , linguistic and religious minorities . At the time of his death in September , 1929 , Marshall had just completed another of his great labors which helped to make his name a byword among Jews throughout the world . He united both Zionists and non-Zionists in an enlarged Jewish agency for the upbuilding of the Jewish settlement in Palestine . Though three decades have passed since Marshall 's death , the principle of the indivisibility of freedom , for which he so valiantly fought , is as relevant for us today as it was during his lifetime . In some of the endeavors which he led I had the privilege of sharing in some small part . For all of us who worked with him his spirit has always remained an inspiration . HERBERT H. LEHMAN , United States Senator . Washington , Dec. 13 , 1956.                     