@@714037

txt It would cost the United States around $25,000,000,000 to provide its allies with the essential capital equipment for defense against aggression , Secretary of State Dean Acheson told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee today . This would mean hard work and sacrifice over a period of three years , he said , Mr. Acheson was speaking on behalf of the $6,300,000,000 of military assistance sought in. the pending $8,500,000,000 foreign aid bill for the current fiscal year that started July 1 . He predicted that similar sums for the military phase would be requested for the next two fiscal years , 1953 and 1954 . It had been indicated previously that the military program could Ina be completed this year and that it might not reach its peak until the end of the fiscal year 1953 , but it had not added up to $25,000,000 , - 1000 so bluntly before . Mr. Acheson estimated that there would be " very substantial " . reductions by the fiscal year 1955 . Former Lulls Cited This was the picture , the Secretary of State said , regardless of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armistice , he added , would make the over-all Idanger no less real . He recalled other periods of " relative quiet " ? after the Soviet failure to dominate Iran and after Russian success in Czechoslovakia , after the Communist defeat in Grebce , and after the lifting of the Berlin blockade . " We must recognize temporary easings of tension for what they are , as tactical moves intended to weaken and to divide us , " he said . Mr. Acheson 's testimony was given against ' a background of a movement within Congress to seek either to cut in ' half the $8,500 , - 000,000 authorization ? $2,200,000 , - 000 would be for economic assistance ? or to spread it over two years . The question of the effects of such a decision was taken to Europe recently by Senator Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. , Republican of Massachusetts , a member of the Foreign Relations subcommittee that visited seven countries for first-hand information on assistance needs . Senator Lodge put the question directly to Lieut . Gen. Alfred M. Gruenther , chief of staff to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Allied Forces in Europe . Mr. Lodge took the answer to the Senate floor as today 's hearing closed . " Severe Handicaps " Feared In summation , General Gruen. ther had said : " A severe crisis in confidence and a severe handicap , if not an actual undercutting of General Eisenhower in the accomplishment of his mission with respect to inducing full efforts from these countries , is the only consequence that can reasonably be expected . " Giving details of General Gruenthey 's reply , Senator Lodge reI ported to the Senate : " General Gruenther told me the effect would be to reduce by one quarter the number of divisions planned for the end of 1952 , which , according to my personal calculation , amounts to a fourteen-division loss . " Insofar as air units are concerned , such a proposed cut , General Gruenther said , would mean a reduction of 25 per cent in the number of air squadrons planned for the fiscal year 1952 . This , again according to my personal calculation , would mean a cut-back of from fifteen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ results than these , the Senator said , were I emphasized by General Gruenther . Effect of Reductions Explained " He explained , " Senator Lodge continued , " how American military supply to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization countries has been based upon what each of these countries is committed to contribute to the N. A. T. 0 . force . If we reduce our shipments of military material , this would obviously have drastic effects on the build-up which each country has already scheduled . " General Gruenther further said : ' Several countries have already indicated great sensitivity to possibilities of cutbacks of this kind . The European countries do not have the strength and resilience which the ' United States possesses to tolerate sweeping fluctuations in programs once established , to which their conscription and production efforts are geared . They can not stand the " feast and famine " to which the United States is accustomed . ' " General Gruenther is scheduled to fly home late this week for conferences at the Department of Defense . He was expected to testify before the Senate group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is holding hearings on the assistance program . Members of the Senate 's Armed Services Committee displayed resentment today that that group had been invited to participate in the not Foreign Relations Committee hearings . The Foreign Relations group expects to take its own hearings behind closed doors ? 1 next week because of the strategic nature of the military aid program . Invitation Predicted It was predicted that if the Foreign Relations Committee did invite the Armed Services group , in the light of the fact that the program is three-quarters military , that committee would ask the Senate to send the program to it for a beginning-to-end study after the Foreign Relations Committee finished its work . Senator Tom Connally , Democrat of Texas and chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , said tonight that the question of a formal invitation to the Armed Services group would be put before his committee and that he expected an invitation would be extended for attendance at all of the hearings . Senator Connally added , however , that he did not expect his committee to include in the invitation voting privileges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the Foreign Relations Committee , Secretary Acheson said that Spain was eligible for assistance under the program . He disclosed that funds to aid Spain , which reportedly is willing to provide 2,000,000 men for European defense and supply navel and air bases to the United States , were contained in the pending authorization measure . The Secretary did not disclose any sum of money for Spain , and Spain was not listed in available texts of the authorization measure . " As you know , " Mr. Acheson told ' the committee , " Admiral Forrest P. Sherman Chief of Naval Operations at the time of his b trao-ic death last week had gone to Spain and conducted some discussions . The results of his work are back here undergoing appraisal at the present time . I am not able to say just what will come out of it because we have not been able to go over in detail what is in the report . " Secretary Acheson went on record in opposition to the creation of a new , independent agency to handle the assistance program . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in military matters , was suggested recently to the House Foreign Affairs Committee by Paul G. Roffman , former Economic Cooperation Administrator . While he did not ask for a continuation of the Economic Cooperation Administration as such after next year , Secretary Acheson said that to disband its experienced machinery and personnel would be wrong . " On the military side , " he said , " there is no substitute for the Department of Defense . No other agency can perform its task . On the economic side it would be a great waste to sacrifice the trained and experienced economic assistance organization . No other agency should or could do the State Department 's work . The State Department is really a branch of the White House . It is the secretariat . "                     