@@718326

txt The battle of Budapest was . still in doubt early today , with Soviet troops on one side and a fiercely hostile Hungarian populace on the other . The insurrection had spread over a large part of the country . The desperate regime of Premier Imre Nagy was struggling to Maintain itself in a few scarred Government buildings along the Pest embankment with the aid of Soviet tanks and artillery . The bulk of the Hungarian Army had given up the fight , according to reports reaching Vienna , and thousands of officers and soldiers had joined the insurrection , now in its fifth day . The Budapest radio said at dawn Saturday that Soviet and Hungarian troops had launched new attacks throughout Hungary against the rebels , The Associated Press reported from Vienna . The broadcast said fighting must continue because rebel elements had defied an ultimatum to surrender . No further word had been received up to 4 A , M. , New York time . A Rebel Government Rebel forces , controlling the industrial town of Gyor in West Hungary , proclaimed their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ establish contact with this group from the Austrian frontier . The anti-Communist Hungarians said they were expecting an early attack on Gyor by Soviet Army forces . The rebels told newsmen they had a number of tanks some of them captured and the rest surrendered voluntarily by Hungarian Army units . The indication during the night was that Premier Nagy could count only on the support of the Hungarian Red Security Police and the Soviet Army . The weakness . of his three-dayold Government was plain . The Central Committee of the Hungarian Working People 's ( Communist ) party made a fresh appeal for peace and order yesterday afternoon after an emergency meeting under the few First Secretary , Janos Kadar , Communists ' Program The committee outlined a program virtually identical with that of the Polish United Workers ( Communist ) party led by Wladyslaw Gomulka . A new relationship with the Soviet Union will be worked out , the Hungarian committee promised , on the principles of " national independence , complete equality and non-interference . " The party leadership pledged that it would seeka withdrawal of Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and offered an unconditional amnesty for all insurrec // tionists who laid down their arms by last night . The Government under Premier Nagy would be reorganized on al ' broadly representative Popular ) Front platform , the Central Committee said , and the regime , would undertake , negotiations for a new military relationship with ) the $oviet Union " as the Polish ' Government had demanded . " I The party leadership acknowledged that " hundreds " had lost their lives in the warfare of the ' last four days . It called . for an end of the bloodshed and for a united attack on the wrongs of the old Matyas . Rakosi regime . Borrowing a leaf also from Yugoslav President Tito 's book , the Hungarian Central Committee said it would establish workers ' councils throughout industry with a voice in deciding wages and production . But the fighting went on . At one stage , it washed up to , but not over , the border of Austria . A Hungarian ambulance appeared near the Austrian frontier village of Nickelsdorf and requested medical aid for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Last midnight 's communiqu ? by the Budapest radio asserted that " several groups of rebels " had surrendered but acknowledged that fighting was still in progress after the 10 P. M. deadline for clemency . The people of the capital were warned once more to stay indoors . The broadcast ' said the curfew would be lifted between daybreak and 10 A. M. today so that food and other essentials could be purchased . As the fighting continued early yesterday , the tone of tile official pronouncements from Budapest became almost frantic . The regime 's reiterated threats to shoot on sight anyone caught in the streets with firearms were obviously empty words . In an effort to wring what persuasion it could out of concessions already made to the embattled rebels , the Budapest radio drew attention time and again to the removal of Erno Gero as party chief . Radio Pleads With Soldiers " Soldiers , remain loyal to your Government , " the radio pleaded . " Please help us . " Party members , say to the insurgents : ' Your demands are being fulfilled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new party leadership were in prison under Rakosi . ' " Hungarian youth , your wishes have been attained . Gero is gone . Nagy is back . He will create a new order . Why do you go on fighting ? " Workers , go back to your jobs . Help in clearing the ruins of our capital . Damage is increasing hour by hour . " Old Communists , everything now depends on you , you old proven fighters . " The party organ Szabad Nep , appearing in Budapest . for the first time since its plant was sacked by rioters Tuesday , joined the official chorus of condemnation for Mr. Gero . " A new national government will be formed within the next few hours , " the paper said . " The guilty man , Erno Gero , has been removed , and Janos Kadar , who under the Rakosi . tyranny was imprisoned for many years , has taken over the leadership of the ' party . " Kadar 's program calls for an independent Socialist Hungary , coalition of all national forces , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the living standards for our people . " The spread of the insurrection to the provinces was conceded by the official news agency M. T. I. Soviet army tanks were firing on Hungarian fighters in the cities of Gyor , Szeged , Pecs and Szolnok , according to the news agency . ? In the streets of Budapest , warfare between Hungarians and Russians was bitter and intense despite the Government 's proclaimed determination to crush the revolt at all costs yes= terday morning . ? . A Vienna business man who reached . the Austrian border from the Hungarian capital Thursday evening said the worst battle since the beginning of the revolt was in progress at 11 A. M. He described the qtalin Bridge over the Danube as a no man 's land with Soviet troops holding one end and Hungarian soldiers the other . Whenever Soviet , tanks appeared in the streets , they were fired upon from windows and roofs by Hungarian patriots , the business man said . He added that ' Russian tank crews did not dare show their heads above the turrets : Other travelers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , all towns they passed through in western Hungary were controlled by rebel forces . Along a 200-kilometer ( 124-mile ) drive from the Hungarian capital to the Austrian frontier village of Nickelsdorf , the travelers passed hundreds of . trucks loaded with civilians waving red-white-and-green Hungarian flags headed for . Budapest . A mass defection of Hungarian soldiers continued through the day . There was little evidence that Soviet forces were getting any help from the Rungarian ' Army in the struggle to put down the insurrection . Yesterday afternoon , the Buda-1 pest radio addressed a specific 1 appeal to " young soldiers " to lay down their arms . This was the bluntest indication from any official source that Army men were fighting on the side of the rebels against the Russians . Several eyewitnesses who reached Vienna yesterday said they had seen . Hungarian officers as well as enlisted menu with rebel bands . It Was ap-1 parent also that most of the equipment being used against the Russians had been turned over to the rebels voluntarily by Hungarian soldiers . Three Belgian diplomats who reached the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the battle for Budapest had become a matter of Hungarians against Russians . But confusion was complete in the Hungarian capital , they added , with shots being fired at random in all directions . The confusion was compounded by broadcasts monitored fleetingly ' in Vienna from lowpower transmitters in Wands of rebels . One calling itself Freedom Station of the Hungarian People proclaimed a general strike throughout the country . It called for the immediate release from imprisonment of Joseph . Cardinal Mindszenty and his restoration as Roman Catholic primate of . Hungary . Another rebel transmitter , which identified itself as broadcasting from Pecs , put out instructions to resistance groups using the code names of Kinizi and Zrimyi . A weak signal was also heard here from a rebel-controlled radio at Miscolz , but its wavelength was so close to that af the Budapest radio that the message could not be distinguished clearly . Communications Are Cut VIENNA , Oct. 26 UPI  --  Hungarian telephone and telegraph communications with the outside world were cut today , The Government 's Budapest radio still broadcast , but monitors said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? no explanation . Travelers leaving , Hungary said rebels were circtilating mands of a new " Hungarian revolutiona:cy government . " They brought rebel .. leaflets listing such demands . as : a democratic socialismwith - the Hungarian Army taking over authority , withdrawal of Russian troops and amnesty.for political prisoners . American , Dutch and German travelers from the Hungarian capital also told of Soviet troops in farm villages mowing down rioters who had been marching and shouting " Out with the Russians ! " and " We want freedom ! " ?                     