@@718962

txt Talk of ultimate modification of the civil-rights bill by amendment grew here as a southern leader , Senator Richard B. ' Russell ( D ) of Georgia called at the White ' House to lay his case before President Eisenhower . The Chief Executive , noted for his skill as a conciliator , and Senator Russell , leading defender of southern rights , met face to fade for a 50-minute interview . " We both have a " much better understanding of each other 's views , " Senator Russell said after the conference . Senator Russell declined to say whether the meeting had made a civil-rights compro- ' mise more likely . He said that he had emphasized to the President some implications of the pending measure which Mr. Eisenhower " had n't considered . " The President 's mind is " not closed " to an amendment which would " clarify " the measure , Senator .. Russell continued . He said he found nothing in the President 's attitude which would favor " any punitive legislation . " Drama attended the private White House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for his ability to reconcile differences and harmonize conflicting viewpoints . Senator Russell is widely regarded as the ablest of the southern speakers . His speeches have been . emotional and opponents call them " inflammatory . " The senator apparently has wanted both to rouse the . South and at the same time make the North appreciate the weight his section attaches to the debate . Eisenhower Goal To most observers , the Eisenhower-Russell discussiOn seemed inevitable after Mr. Eisenhower at his July 3 . press conference , expressed uncertainty about the pending measure : and reaffirmed that his primary goal is to see a law protecting Negroes in their right to vote . It is now agreed by ? both sides that the present bill goes substantially beyond this and that an executive . could use provisions against refusal to integrate public schools . The administration has indicated that it ' has no intention to apply force in the battle over schools , but the situation is one -that-produces-talk- of --  amendments and on all sides senators are privately discussing the matter . ? Senator William F. Know-land ( R @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the civil rights fight , after . seeing president . Eisenhower July 9 , merely , said that it is too ? early to discuss amendments yet . He said he opposes restrictingthe measure solely to voting . rights , but added that he would be willing to accept " clarifying " changes if they did not nullify it . It is assumed that the Know-land comment.expresses the view of the White House : . It leave 's ' a flexible situation in which some concessions can be made in the four-part billlater on . It is not - believed that any concessions will : satisfy the Southern bloc , not even the inclusion of an amendment to provide jury ' trial for enforcement procedure . Senator . Russell and his supporters frankty. want no civil rights legislation at ? all , but there are degrees . of opposition , and they will fight to get all the limiting amendments they can . Bill in First Stage It should be emphasized that no filibuster has begun yet . The fight is on the first - of a twepart stage , to pass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the civil rights bill the " pending business . " As of now each senator may speak twice . The speeches so far have been lengthy , but germane and not obstructive . Advocates of the bill have mostly saved their breath ; it is the Southern bide which Is laying the groundwork of its arguments . Galleries are jammed but the Senate floor has elapsed back to normal sparse attendance . Senator Knowland takes . the position that the time to consider amendments is after the measure has passed its first hurdle and has become the Senate 's unfinished business . The difficulty of getting the ultimate 64 votes to apply cloture , if a filibuster develets , is patent to all . At a Republican Party luncheon , conservative Senator Milton R. Young ( R ) of North Dakota flatly stated that he would not support a cloture motion . The Southerners need 32 votes in a present chamber of 95 senators to kill the drive to shut off debate . They start with about 20 Dixie senators plus half a dozen conservatives like Senator Young who oppose cloture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extremely uncertain and talk of compromise proposals inevitable . Politics are important in the situation . The big stake outside of the South is to win the . large bloc of Negro voters congregated in big cities . These votes gravitated to the Democrats in Franklin D. Roosevelt 's time , but have wavered since . In the 1956 election , some swung to the GOP while statistics also indicate that many Negroes stayed away from the polls altogether . Now the Republicans seem to have identified themselves firmly with ? the civil-rights ' issue whatever the ultimate Senate outcome . It is noted , too , that Senate Knowland and Vice-President Rchard M. Nixon  --  both of whom are regarded as contenders for the GOP 1960 nomination  --  have played active parts in the fight , Senator Knowland as the actual leader , Mr. Nixon is giving a couple of important procedural decisions crucial to the civil-rights cause .                     