@@719979

txt CAIRO , Sept. ** offer to stop the killing and terror and negotiate a , peaceful settlement with France was made today by the Provisional Government of Algeria . A declaration of principles made public at the temporary , headquarters here said , however , that " Algeria is * not France " and that Algerians never would submit to integration . The negotiations , therefore , would be for independence . The declaration was read by Premier Ferhat Abbas at a press conference in the ballroom of the Continental Hotel . He was flanked by ten of the eighteen ministers named with him as the Cabinet when the Provisional Government was proclaimed Sept. 19 . These in cluded Belkacem Krim , Vice Premier and Minister of War who has been the active head or the rebel troops . Five others of the Cabinet are in French custody and three are in Algeria . No mention was made at the conference of the selection of a // more permanent headquarters than ? that already established here nor of intent to apply for membership in the League of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ predictions that decisions would be announced on all those points today . Mohammed Yazid , Minister of Information , declined to comment on the failure to do so . It is believed the new Government does not wish to link its own future too closely with that ' of the United Arab Republic and President Gamal Abdel ' Nasser . The declaration spoke of a North African Federation of Algeria , Morocco and Tunisia . That is believed to be the most active hope . Both protectorates I have recognized the Provisional Government , which would prefer either Rabat or Tunis to Cairo , as a temporary seat , it is believed . Mr. Yazid said a decision on where the Government would settle would be made later . U. N. Principles Endorsed The declaration pledged its framers to the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and of the Bandung Conference in 1955 of Asian and African states and said it " will make its own " universal ' declaration of the rights of man . " In this domain , the Provisional Government of the Algerian Republic will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ application to the Algerian war of the humanitarian disposition of the Convention of Geneva covering the treatment of prisoners of war , " the declaration said . When Mr. Yazid was asked by a French correspondent whether the rebels would apply the Geneva Convention to the terror campaign in Metropolitan France , he said : " That depends on reciprocity , but as of now no civilian has been attacked as such . " On the question of negotiation , the declaration said this : " We have always affirmed our desire to bring to the Algerian problem a peaceful and negotiated solution . Only the obstinate refusal of French governments to accept negotiation is at the base of the prolongation of the war . The Provisional ' , Government is , for its part , ready to negotiate . To do so , it is prepared at any moment to meet with representatives of the French Government " " The independence of Algeria is in no way an obstacle to the establishment of new relations between France and Algeria , " the statement said . " These relations will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the sovereignty of each of the two countries . " Communist China is the only non-Arab state that has formally recognized the new regime and notice was taken of that recognition in the declaration . It will be followed , the declaration predicted , by recognition from other Asian and African states . The Provisional Government intends to press its campaign for recognition particularly among neutralist states such as Indonesia and India in Asia and the Scandinavian countries in Europe . It has gone through the formality of seeking recognition from Western powers , including the United States , but it has little hope now of any success in those quarters . Mr. Yazid , who has been the Algerian rebels ' spokesman at the last three sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations , is returning to New York in a few days to continue his campaign for a hearing of the Algerian case .                     