@@715386

txt Opponents of the bill to confer on coastal states title to the submerged lands seaward to their historic boundaries blocked efforts today by Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio , Republican leader of the Senate , to bring the pending measure to a vote next Friday night . It has been under debate since April 1 . Mr. Taft asked unanimous consent to limiting each Senator to a half-hour speech , starting next Wednesday , and on Friday dividing six hours of debate equally between proponents and opponents , with a final vote that night . Senator Lister Hill , Democrat of Alabama objected , thus defeating this proposal . The Ohio Senator accused the bill 's opponents of a filibuster that was holding up all business of the Senate . 20 Ask Bill Be Put Aside Senator Taft had asked limitation of debate in response to a letter sent him by twenty of the Senators opposing the submerged lands legislation . They proposed , that the pending bill be laid aside temporarily so that the Senate could proceed with consideration of a bill to extend Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration , and to grant stand-by authority to President Eisenhower to freeze wages , prices and rents for ninety days in an emergency . Mr.-Taft Was , not ' to be tempted ' by such ' bait : Recalling that . Fed -- era ' rent ceilings - would expire on April 30 unless extended , he told the Senate , " I do n't care if rent control expires or not . " He reminded the twenty Senators that he had the support of the Republican Policy Committee in refusing to put the offshore lands bill aside for any other legislation . Senator Hill interpreted Mr. Taft 's observations to mean that he would invoke the closure rule , although the Republican leader denied any such intent . Under existing Senate rules , sixteen Senators must join in a motion to limit debate , and their motion must be approved by sixtyfour Senators to put a maximum of one hour on the time any Senator may hold the floor until the pending measure is disposed of . A Compromise Arrangement This system is known as the " Wherry rule , " for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ floor leader . Mr. Wherry obtained adoption of the rule as a compromise plan intended to prevent filibusters , or time - killing talk to prevent a vote . Southern Senators would have filibustered against any stronger rule , on the theory they might be kept from unlimited debate some day when a civil rights bill was before the Senate . Today , Mr. Hill held the floor the better part of an hour by reserving his right to object to Mr. Taft 's request . The Alabama Senator previously had spoken more than sixteen hours against the pending bill .. He has offered a plan ' under which the Federal . Government would lease .. the submerged lands for oil and gas exploitation , the proceeds to be spent on Federal aid to the public schools of the various states . Senator Russell B. Long , Democrat of Louisiana , interrupted Mr. Hill at one point to observe that a limitation of debate such as proms posed by Mr. Taft was far from closure . Mr. Hill replied that " heaven forbid a Federal padlock should ever be placed on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Louisiana . " Taft Objects to Pat on Head Expressing his respect , admiration and friendship for Mr. Taft , Mr. Hill strode down the center aisle at one point and placed his hand on the Ohio Senator 's shoulder . Later , in a similar passage , he started down the aisle a secorkl time , and Senator Taft raised a point of order . " Mr. President , " he said to Senator Dwight Griswold , Republican of Nebraska , who was in the chair , " the Senator must speak from his chair . He can not approach me and pat me on the head . " Senator Paul H. Douglas , Democrat of Illinois , one of the opponents of the bill , denied that he and his colleagues were conducting a filibuster , but he conceded they were speaking to a larger audience than the Senate . He said that , for seven years , there had been " mists of misinformation through which the sun of truth is now trying to shine . " " If the public comes to realize this gigantic giveaway , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known . " Finally , Mr. Hill entered formal objection to Mr. Taft 's request , and Senator Estes Kefauver , pemocrat of Tennessee , obtained the floor . Mr. Kefauver told the Senate that , in his campaign for the Democratic Presidential nomination last year , he entered the California Democratic primary against the wishes of his political advisers in the state . They told him , he said , that he would have no chance in view of his stand on the offshore lands , California being one of the three states expected to benefit most from the proposed legislation . An opposition slate of uninstructed delegates was entered in the primary , he said , and opposed him almost entirely on this one issue . He said he obtained more than 1,000,000 votes to the other slate 's 450,000 . The Senate recessed at 5:17 P. M. until 11 A. M. , Monday .                     