@@720414

txt Premier Fidel Castro of Cuba proposed today that the United States provide $30,000,000,000 in public capital over the next ten years to make Latin America safe for democracy . " The political instability of the Latin-American governments of our time is the result of ecoH nomic under-development and ! not the cause of under-developthent as some maintain , " Dr. , Castro said before a meeting of the Inter-American Committee of Twenty-one in an impassioned and at times dramatic speech . Dr. Castro announced tonight that he ' was cutting short his Argentine . visit because the local climate " is not the most propitious ' ' for his staying here . Dr. Castro said he saw " tension in the atmosphere , " ap- parently referring to the police clashes with Peronist and Communist groups at the May Day labor meeting yesterday . In a tumultuous press conference , Dr. Castro denied that any difficulties in Cuba required hisl presence or that Argentines had ) asked him to leave . He will fly to Uruguay tomorrow . Dr. Castro and President Arturo Frondizi of Argentina talked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Olivos . Afterward Dr. Frondizi told newsmen they had discussed general problems of the Americas . Dr. Frondizi said Premier Castro 's speech today had expressed " some of the anguish and problems which are common to all Latin-American countries . " At the Inter-American Committee meeting , Dr. Castro , in his green field uniform , sat two seats away on the horseshoe table from the United States delegate , Thomas C. Mann , Assistant Secretary of State for Economic Affairs . The Cuban revolutionary leader drew applause from some , but not all the delegates and the public as he tied the success of democracy to the solution of the urgent economic problems in Latin America . " We all know the efforts of some Of our countries in the last ten years to free themselves from military dictatorships and the hopes this has , awakened in America that tyrannies are ending , " he said . " But what life span is given this new democratic era if the representative governments are cornered by misery and backwardness and the ambitions of , those who would seize power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his preoccupation over the Cuban situation since his revolution triumphed Jan. 1 with the overthrow of the regime of President Fulgencio Batista . He recalled the 70,000 unemployed and the pressures encountered from labor , although he said most Cubans , including the business interests were behina the Government . A lack of capital , Dr. Castro said is creating a real danger . The 31-year-old Cuban Pre'Tiller was easily the most unusual speaker to address any of the numerous post-war in'ter-American economic conferences , dominated by black homlburgs , pinstripe suits and dispatch cases . He brought to this meeting security police , kleig lights , pretty girls and cheering in the conference room . From the moment he entered the paneled meeting chamber in the Ministry of Industry and Commerce and took seat at the head of the Cuban delegation Dr. Castro 's every move was the focus of attention . He nervously jiggled his legs , stroked his moustache , chewed at the end of his pencil and made asides to photographers and the delegates of Ecuador and Columbia who flanked him . The first three statements of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Honduras passed almost unnoticed . The Venezuelan Foreign Minister , Ignacio Arcaya , then proposed that the United States grant Latin-American exports preferential treatment over ' those from other world areas.l He paid tribute to Dr. Castro as a " man who is an expression of the hope of liberty of our peopies . " The delegates of Paraguay ) land the Dominican Republic abstained from the general I applause . As Dr. Castro began speaking lin a soft voice into the microphones for radio stations covering half of South America , the room hushed , He half apologized as a newcomer to the eceI nomic conference but said he would talk frankly . " I am. a man who firmly believes that there is no obstacle and no difficulty that can not be overcome if approached with a real desire to conquer it , " he said . He indicated that with the tools of democracy alone he could not see a way for the economic development of Latin America unless the United States provided loans . He recalled Mr. Mann 's speech I on . rising United States capital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 000 Inter-American Develop-1 ment Bank . " This is all true , but it has not been enough , " Dr. Castro said . As for sacrifices by the United States taxpayers , he recalled the Marshall Plan and aid to the Middle Eastern countries . He said these sacrifices should now be oriented toward the " family of this hemisphere to which the closest ties lie . " Dr. Castro said that during his recent trip to the United States he had found comprehension of Latin America 's needs and willingness to support greater aid . " What will happen if Latin America does not get public capital aid ? " he asked . " The reason under-development conspires against democracy is that governments of force suppress liberty and maintain order by blood and fire , accumulate resentment and anguish , and imprison hope . When a revolution comes there are not enough goods to satisfy the many who seek them . " After Dr. Castro 's speech Mr. Mann said the United States delegation planned to make a new statement , probably Monday , when it will comment on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We share the same interest as Mr. Castro in economic development , " Mr. Mann commented .                     