@@714456

txt Michael V. DiSalle , retiring Director of Price Stabilization , set up a seven-man committee today with orders to begin an immediate study of the advisability of ending price ceilings on some consumer goods such as shoes and clothing . He indicated , however , that no decontrol action was likely for several months . His move was designed in part to head off efforts by Congress to write mandatory decontrol provisions in the next controls law . At the same time Charles Sawyer , Secretary of Commerce , said that " not too long from now " the nation should " begin to expect an over-all reduction and elimination of controls . " In a radio interview Mr. Sawyer declared he believed controls still were needed " in certain areas " so prices would not rise further . He added , however , that such areas " grow smaller and smaller as time goes on . " Charles E. Wilson , Director of Defense Mobilization , has expressed Fthe hope that controls could be ended in about two more years . Secretary Sawyer said a Korean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation 's economy but that he did not foresee any major recession within several years . Mr. Sawyer also asserted that the " guns and butter " defense pro gram oTam had been handled " excellentily . " He said Americans should be able to buy just about all the automobiles and other consumer goods they wanted this year if they were willing to pay the price . Meanwhile the Agriculture Department reported that production of major civilian appliances ? radios , washing machines and refrigerators  --  would be about as big Lduring the first six months of this I year as during the comparable period of 1947-49 despite defense cutbacks . The department 's January price and outlook report said radio and television set makers would turn out about one and a half times as many receivers during the first six months of this year as during the pre-Korean war years . Commenting on the reports , Government economists said they merely underscored what had become increasingly apparent  --  that the defense drive was not disrupting the civilian economy as much as had been feared . While Detroit expects to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1952 and about 900,000 in the second quarter , one price official said he believed auto dealers would have to use all their salesmanship to sell available cars . The situation is roughly comparable in the housing field , where only about 800,000 new nonfarm homes are expected to be built this year . Many experts question whether more than 600,000 to 700 , - 000 units can be moved at present prices . Mr. DiSalle named Edward F. Phelps Jr. , assistant Director for Price Operations , as chairman of the new decontrol committee . Its six other members all are officials of the Office of Price Stabilization . Mr. DiSalle said it would submit its recommendations to Roger L. Putnam , Director of Economic Stabilization , who will determine the over-all effects of any decontrol action on the economy and on defense production . Mr. DiSalle declared that one of the questions to be considered in any price decontrol move was whether wages of workers in those industries also should be freed from Government regulation . He cautioned that appointment of the committee " should not be taken to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important segment of the economy . " Mr. DiSalle , who is quitting Feb. 15 to run for the Democratic United States Senate nomination in Ohio , has said publicly that clothing , shoes and textiles were among the top items to be considered for decontrol action . Price officials have predicted elitnination of ceilings on those products sometime next summer unless their prices rose sharply in the meantime . They have said the pattern might be : First , suspension of ceilings on some items if prices stabilized at lower levels over the next two or three months ; then , after another waiting period , decontrol if prices still had not risen substantially . Other products also are selling below ceilings and presumably will come in for study by the decontrol committee . Among them are wool , leather goods , furniture and , to some extent , meats , dry groceries and household appliances . One function of the new committee would be to help Mr. DiSalle 's successor , former Gov . Fllls Arnall of Georgia , to fight ' off any Congressional effort to re'quire decontrol @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South Carolina , chairman of the Senate Banking Committee has said he might ' recommend that his group write ' a mandatory decontrol provision when it approved an extension of the present controls law which will expire June 30 . His committee is slated to begin public hearings March 4 on new controls legislation . It may give the decontrol issue an advance airing when it questions Mr. Arnall this week in hearings on his nomination . Other members of the decontrol committee and their titles are : Joseph Freehill , Acting Chief Counsel ; Gardner Ackley , Assistant Director for Economic Policy ; Tom Karsten , Director of the Consumer Goods , Distribution , Textile and Apparel Divisions ; George Mehren , Director of the Food and Restaurant Division ; Robert V. Faragher , Associate Chief Counsel for Legal Review , and Franz Wolf , Director of the Research andl Statistics Division of the Office of Economic Policy . Meanwhile , Representative Wesley , A. D'Ewart , Republican of Montana , accused the Truman Ad'ministration of a deliberate at'tempt to reduce farm income Ithrough price and materials allocations controls . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resistance to socialist Government controls , which they will have to accept in exchange for a Federal guarantee of subsistence level income . "                     