@@714924

txt A research committee of six . nationally known medical experts has completed a report rejecting any claims of beneficial results made for krebiozen , the controversial cancer drug , Tun TRIBUNE learned yesterday . The report was subCole mitted to Dr. George D. Stoddard , president of the University of Illinois . Dr. Warren H. Cole , head of the department of surgery in the university 's medical school and a past pres ' : ent of the Chicago Medical society , served as chairman of the fact finding group appointed by Dr. Stoddard early this year . Examine Clinical Results The committee based its findings on the examination of clinical results obtained in some 500 cancer patients treated with krebiozen . The records of these cases were compiled by Dr. Andrew Conway Ivy , vice president in charge of the university 's professional colleges in Chicago . Dr. Ivy had come under the fire of both the American Medical association and the Chicago Medical society for the part he played in introducing krebiozen to the public last year . The committee declared that it was entirely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sincere " and recommended further biological study of the drug . The committee in its report held , in substance , that : 1 . It could find no acceptable evidence that krebiozen ever has cured any malignant tumor and noted that Dr. Ivy made no such claim for the drug in his report . 2 . It found no evidence that the drug prolonged the lives of cancer patients . Other Findings 3 . It could find no histological microscopic study of minute tissue structures proof , that krebiozen caused cancer cells to regress or undergo degenerative changes . One research physician , the report related , interpreted certain tumor changes as degenerative , but this observation was not concurred in by other members of the committee . 4 . X-ray studies do not disclose the drug is able to prevent cancer from spreading to the lungs or bones . Dr. Ivy , the report related , made no claims for any of the above benefits with the exception of the drug 's partial effect in shrinking the size of tumors that could be seen and felt . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ series of 67 patients , whose cases he had studied . As part of its conclusions , the committee said it believes that " krebiozen has no curative value in the treatment of cancer on the basis of the evidence . " To this it added : " We can not state it is entirely devoid of biological effects on living organisms activity . " Prompted By Idealism The committee said further that : " We are keenly aware of the idealism which has prompted Dr. Ivy to interest himself in the evaluation of this Krebiozen product . We are entirely satisfied that his motives are entirely honorable and sincere . " xrebiozen derives its name from Greek words meaning the " creator of a biological force . " Dr. Ivy , a world famous physiologist , anpounced its discovery on March 26 , 1951 . On that date , he Invited approximately 100 physicians , research workers and newspaper reporters to a specially summoned meeting in the Drake hotel to hear about the preparation which Dr. Stevan Durovic , 47 , r e f u g ea Yugoslav physician , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the blood serum of horses in Argentina . Dr. Durovic said he was able to do this by stimulating what is called the reticUlo-endothelial cell system of horses . This network of cells is found in all animals , including man , and is believed to be a part of the mechanism of immunity by which the body com bats disease . A. M. A. Wrath Stirred The announcement stirred the wrath of the A. M. A. , which named a research committee to evaluate the results allegedly achieved in using the drug on 100 cancer patients studied by seven research and medical institutions . This committee subsequently reported that the drug had proved ineffective in 98 of the patients and that its value was doubtful in the two others . In addition , the cancer diag-1 nosis committee of the National Research council in Washington also condemned the drug as worthless . So did ' the Chicago Medical society , which adjudged Dr. Ivy guilty of unethical conduct for using a " secret " remedy and suspended him from membership for three months for the part he played in bringing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Ivy asked for and received a two month leave of absence from his duties at the university to devote his entire time to an independent investigation of the 500 cancer cases on which he reported to Dr. Cole 's committee . Disagrees with A. M. A. He said he did not subscribe to the A. M. A. 's adverse findings and wanted to continue his study of the drug to make sure that " all of the truth " regarding its possible efficacy had been uncovered . Last June he submitted the results of his findings in the 500 new cases to the Cole committee and it is upon the evaluation of these cases that the committee made its report , representing the fourth time krebiozen has been held to be ineffective by a recognized medical group . Dr. Cole 's committee pointed out that krebiozen has not been identified chemically and is now available only in an oil suspension , a difficulty which precludes laboratory experiments and raises important questions regarding the manner in which the substance has been prepared . Secrecy Interferes Because the nature of the drug's1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Ivy , this ignorance of its composition interferes with any attempt to make a sound evaluation of its therapeutic properties , the committee said . A further statement in Dr. Ivy 's repoitt that a large majority of cancer patients experienced a reduction in pain after being treated with krebiozen was not supported by investigators at Lankenau hospital , Philadelphia branch of a nationally famous cancer research facility , the committee noted . " In our opinion , " the committee told Dr. Stoddard , " it would be inconclusive , if not futile , to conduct further clinical investigations unless it is first possible to dispel the mystery which surrounds the nature of the krebiozen material . In default of this step , no further consideration should be given the problem . " Suggests Next Step The committee then suggested that an attempt be made to reprodate krebiozen in Chicago under supervised auspices in the university 's medical school to determine its chemical composition . If this plan is consented to , it recommended , the financial and scientific interests of Dr. Durovic should be protected while the investigation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until the completion of further chemical and biological studies of I the drug , it was of the opinion that no additional patients be given krebiozen by staff members of the university . The drug , it said , should be administered only to patients already under treatment if physicians so recommend . From a source on the university 's Urbana campus , it also was learned that Dr. Stoddard is contemplating the appointment of a group of three physicians , as managers , to carry out the committee 's recommendations . Will Seek Funds ' Dr. Stoddard , it was reported , intends recommending to the university 's board of trustees that they provide funds to carry out the chemical and biological examination in the school 's own laboratories or hire the work done by outside scientists . It also was reported that he will insist that the school drop all further interest in krebiozen unless Dr. Durovic and his brother , Marko , a lawyer , cooperate fully with the university in disclosing all their methods for producing the drug and extracting it from the horse serum . Shortly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large midwestern pharmaceutical house offered $1,000,000 for exclusive rights to manufacture and distribute the substance if its worth could be clinically established to the satisfaction of the medical profession . Aided by Boyle Meanwhile , Dr. Durovic and members of his family who maintain a home in Glencoe were granted permanent residence in the United States under a special bill signed into law July 18 by President Truman . The bill was introduced in congress by Sen. Douglas D. , Ill. ) at the suggestion of State 's Atty . Boyle , one of a number of influential persons who have aided the Durovics since they came to this country in 1949 . Dr. Ivy has been reinstated in the Chicago Medical society but has not paid his current dues in the organization . Unless the dues are paid by Dec. 31 , he will be dropped from the society 's rolls . This loss of his C. M. S. membership also will cause him to be dropped from the lists of the A. M. A. , a spokesman said . Other members of the committee besides Dr. Cole were Doctors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ widely known diagnostician and medical educator ; ? Fred Hodges , University of Michigan radiologist , Robert W. Keeton , 8 S. Michigan ay. , professor emeritus of medicine at the U. of I. ; Paul Steiner , University of Chicago pathologist , and Owen H. Wangensteen , cancer expert and surgeon in chief at University hospital of the University of Minnesota , Minneapolis .                     