@@715986

txt Americas : Another Economic Union Pact ? The Argentine Government has announced that President Peron soon will visit Colombia . The purpose of the visit was not disclosed , but its announcement stirred immediate speculation that the two countries are readying an economic union pact , possibly similar to those Argentina signed recently with Ecuador and Chile . Details of the pacts never have been disclosed . Washington : T-H Amendments Hearings Set The Senate Labor Committee agreed to hold two weeks of public hearings , starting Jan. 25 , on President Eisenhower 's proposed amendments to the Taft-Hartley Labor-Management Act . The House Armed Services Committee approved a bill forming a separate Air Force academy and authorizing an outlay of S26,000,000 to start work on it . The measure , approved by a 26-0 vote , may go before the House next week , No opposition has developed . Nvw Enciland : Tobev to Disclose Probe Data Charles W. Tobey , Jr .. New Hampshire attorney , says he will reveal in New York tonight over a radio program " undisclosed information " concerning investigations made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) of New Hampshire , while the latter was a member of the Kefauver Crime Investigating Committee . In Europe : 700 Rescued From Snowslide Trap Speedy action by rescue workers in the Austrian Soelk River valley appeared to have saved some 700 persons who had been trapped by snowslides and a rising lake of ice water ; but at Blons a blinding snowstorm cut off 400 rescue workers and posed a threat of new avalanches . Far East : French Units Speed Airfield Defense French Union forces in Indochina strengthened their defense of Seno airfield in central Laos . as a regrouping of about eight Communist Vietminh battalions indicated an imminent rebel attack . UN : British Pounds Used in Soviet Payment The Soviet Union used some of the British pounds bought last December for gold to pay off the balance of its United Nations budgetary assessment  --  close to $3 million ? it was disclosed .                     