@@714041

txt Letters to The Times Curtailing ' Agency Budgets Detriment to Work of International Organizations Is Feared To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Timm : I was delighted with your editorials of Aug. 2 and Aug. 9 protesting against the 10 per cent appropriation cut which the House of Representatives made in the budget for the United Nations and other international agencies . It is to be hoped that President Truman 's call for reinstatement of this cut will be supported . At present there is terrific pressure on the United States to solve all the problems of the world and to underwrite most of its financial needs . No one country can or should do this job alone . The only way out of the dilemma is to promote joint responsibility and cooperation among many nations . International organizations provide the framework for working together and they must be used and supported . Only in this way can we invite the participation of others and promote a sharing of the heavy burden placed upon us . The budgets of international organizations for 1951 were pledged some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries . Projects have been undertaken with the expectation that the money would be forthcoming . Now that a slow-moving Congress has finally gotten around to action , the House has cut the appropriation . Unless public feeling is expressed , the Senate may do likewise . Sabotaging the work of international organizations is a sure way for the United States to lose both friends and influence . The amendment to limit all United States contributions to one-third of the budget of international organizations is both arbitrary and mischievous . In the case of the Pan American Sanitary Bureau , where our quota is almost 70 per cent of the cost , a sudden cut to 33 1/3 per cent would cause havoc in the administration of the bureau and stir up needless antagonism throughout Latin America . In the United Nations itself the General Assembly voted that in normal times no one country should pay more than one-third of the costs . This means that as new members come in to the United Nations and as other countries can increase their quotas the United States ' share Will automatically drop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Actually this amount is roughly 10 cents per person per year . The per capita contributions of such countries as Canada , New Zealand , Iceland and Sweden are approximately the same as ours . Therefore in proportion to its resources the United States is not being stuck with excessive payments . Furthermore , we must always remember that although our quotas to international organizations may seem high to some people , if it were not for these organizations we might be paying 100 per cent of the costs . ZELIA P. AUER HAUSEN , Observer at the U. N. for the League of Women Voters of the United States . New York , Aug. 9 , 1951 . State Payroll Reports Criticized To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : On behalf of ourselves and other accountants who service small business men too poor to afford a full-time bookkeeper , we wish to protest against the burden placed upon us and the many small entrepreneurs who keep their own books by the recent amendment to the New York State Unemployment Insurance Law requiring continual reporting of the earnings of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ filed quarterly , simultaneously with those made up for Social Security . Now , we are besieged with calls from clients who request our assistance in completing the new forms . Even permitting quarterly totals would help ; but under the present law figures on weekly earnings , down to the detail of indicating how many weeks produced less than $15 in pay , are required for the current week and for fifty-two previous consecutive weeks . When an employer discontinues business , a copy of the individual earnings record is required , not for a calendar year , but for a split year , the date of termination of business and the fiftytwo weeks preceding . To top it all a fine of $10 per employe may be imposed for noncompliance . Are all employers to set aside their income-producing time to devote this time to record keeping and reporting or else be judged a criminal ? MICHAEL COHEN . New York , Aug. 2 , 1951 . Symbolism in , Action To THE EDITOR OF TILE NEW YORK TIMES : Commenting on " Disgusted 's " letter re the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which he feels so strongly that said beans should have been contributed to worthy orphanages , rather than wasted , I wonder if he feels the same about wastage of all that tea at the Boston Tea Party . Have we been wrong all these years about the action standing for , something ? W. New York , Aug. 8 , 1951 . Liabilities Seen in Satellites To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your exceedingly interesting dispatch from Paris reporting the arrest or liquidation of eight prominent Bulgarians , published Aug. 1 , also cited recent instances of similar . Communist disturbances in Rumania , Poland and Czechoslovakia . " It is now amply evident , " said your correspondent , " that Moscow is supervising a new series of purges among its satellites in Eastern Europe . " This good news strengthens this writer 's suspicion that in taking on its satellites the U. S. S. R. acquired more liabilities than assets , all things ? including politics  --  considered . Recently President Truman and Secretary of State Acheson each expressed concern about reports of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be indulging in wishful thinking , but I wonder if our authorities have carefully , weighed the possibility that these military developments may be due to difficulty in maintaining Coin . munist domination of the satellites instead of to preparation for war against countries not yet within the Russian Politburo 's orbit . CAUTIOUS READER . Greens Farms , Conn. , Aug. 1 , 1951 . For Middle East Stability Scope of Refugee Problem , Economic and Social Needs Discussed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Turn : It is to be regretted that TIM NEW YORK TIMES in an otherwise opportune editorial on Middle East tensions should lend its authority to a wildly inflated estimate of the number of Arab refugees from Palestine . The problem is serious enough . It Is not , however , as your editorial suggested , the crucial problem affecting American relations with the Middle East . The existence of Israel is a convenient scapegoat for all the calamities that have befallen Western Asia in recent years . It obscures a continuing unprincipled struggle in that region between the Great Powers , harsh tribal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ royal houses of Egypt and Saudi Arabia , and an unresolved social conflict between palace and street , pasha and effendi throughout the Arab world . American initiative in the Middle East is to be welcomed . It will have greater chance of success if it is based on an accurate appraisal of the difficulties and needs of the area . The facts concerning the Arab refugees are simply these : At no time under the British mandate did the Arab population of Palestine exceed one million . Of this number a considerable proportion was nomadic , shifting seasonally across the lightly patrolled frontiers of Transjordan and Syria . Since the conclusion of active hostilities in Palestine the Arab population of Israel has grown to 150,000 . Some 500,000 Arabs have been annexed , but not absorbed , as the assassination of King Abdullah indicates , by the new ? ly created Hashimito Kingdom of Jordan , a forced union of Transjordan and eastern Palestine , for which no historical or traditional precedent , and certainly no political or economic raison d ' ? tre , can be maintained . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by decree rather than choice , are no refugees , but indigenous residents of Samaria and southern Judea . At the most there are some 350,000 Palestinian Arabs who can be legitimately termed refugees . Over 100,000 of these are in the Gaza strip of southern Palestine forcibly annexed by Egypt and administered virtually as a concentration camp , No attempt eof any kind has been made to absorb them into the Egyptian economy . Like their brethren in Lebanon , Syria and Iraq , they miserably subsist on international charity , which , when administered by Arab Governments , is too frequently the object of misuse , diversion and outright peculation The problem of these unhappy vlI ? tims of the Arab adventure and cats , , trophe of 1948 will continue to beset the Middle East as long as the Arab states make no serious effort to rehabilitate them and give them the chance to start a new life . Refugee despair will provide a motive force for political fanaticism and assassination and eventually encourage another Arab adventure against Israel . At a time when the United States is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Middle East to the free world , it could do no better service to the Arab peoples themselves than to deploy all its force of moral suasion toward a lasting peaceful settlement with Israel , which would speedily create the conditions , for economic and social betterment throughout the Middle East . JACK WINOCOUR . Bedford Village , N. Y. , July 28 , 1951 , New York 's Needy To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I have just read with appreciation Emmett Dalton 's letter , critical of New York . His feeling is mine whenever I am able to escape after twenty-two years of it . The elementary courtesies , and even decencies , which are commonplace in the United States appear unknown to a large proportion of the people of New York . But Mr. Dalton should be told that the city at least collects money to help the needy . I am in no position to say what becomes of this money , only to say that some of it comes from me . For years , 2 per cent of whatever I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ summer I made a special contribution . When I had an accident and an operation that cost me , over and above the generous help of Blue Cross and Blue Shield , more than $1,500 , the city took a 2 per cent tax on an $85 hip brace ? in order , I suppose , to relieve the able-bodied young men who ask me for money when they pass me , still carrying a cane . ADELINE COURTNEY BARTLETT . New York , Aug. 4 , 1951.                     