@@715697

txt City Council President Rudolph Halley and Harold Riegelman , Liberal and Republican designees for Mayor , respectively , have decided also to seek independent nominations to bolster their chances of winning , it became known yesterday . Mayor Impellitteri , whose nomination as the Democratic candidate to succeed himself is being contested in the Sept. 15 primary , is likewise reported to be considering reviving the independent Experience party , under whose banner he was elected as Mayor in 1950 . ' What names will be chosen for the Halley and Riegelman independent parties have not yet been degided . When he ran for his present office in 1951 , Mr. ** was the candidate of the Independent and Fusion parties as well as the Liberal . He received 54,138 votes on the Independent line and 20,997 on the Fusion . Mr. Riegelman is known to be angling for the City Fusion nomination as well as the Republican , but he is prepared to accept another if the City Fusion endorsement goes to another candidate . Mayor Delaying a Decision Mayor Impellitteri and his advisers are delaying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of the possibility that it could adversely affect his chances in the Democratic primary . But one of his associates pointed out yesterday that there would be ample time to obtain the necessary signatures in the two weeks between Primary Day . and the last date for making independent nominations . The election law requires the filing ? of petitions containing the names of at least 7,500 qualified voters to make an independent nomination for Mayor . The last day for filing is Sept. 29 . Borough President Robert F. Wagner Jr . of Manhattan , Mr. Impellitteri 's principal rival for the Democratic nomination , said yesterday that he had given no consideration to obtaining an independent nomination . " I wo n't need it because I am going to have the Democratic nomination , " he asserted . Pointing out that the late Mayor Fiorello H. LaGuardia had started out as a Republican and won three times in a row , and that Governor Dewey in 1946 and 1950 had received more votes on the Republican ticket than his adversaries polled on the Democratic , Mr. Riegelman told @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Women 's National Republican Club , 3 West Fifty-first Street , last night that the Repub-1 licans could win this election . " We have all watched with disgust how bookmakers and criminal and racketeering waterfront union officials have had the inside track with Tammany whether of the Tiger or Experience variety , " he went on . " As for the Halley hallucination , I can imagine no worse fate for organized labor in this town titan to have a Mayor who is the political property of a single ambitious labor czar who could use the city 's authority to raid rival unions or to support his struggle to control all of the labor unions in this fair city . " Blaikie Warns on Port Strike Robert B. Blaikie , West Side Democratic district leader who is running against both Mayor Impellitteri and Borough President Wagner for the Democratic nomination , issued a statement warning that the Port of New York would be tied up by another waterfront strike starting around the end of next month . The real cause , he said , will be an effort by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for their licensing and barring the issuance of licenses to those with criminal records . Mayor 1mpellitteri will be helpless to deal with the situation , he went on , because of his association with William J. McCormack , who has been referred to as " Mr. Big " of the waterfront . Mr. Wagner , if he were Mayor , would be no better because of his association with Joseph P. Ryan , president of the International Longshoremen 's Union , Mr. Blaikie added . He said that Mr. Wagner had served as chairman of the arrangements committee of a testimonial dinner given for Mr. Ryan at the Commodore Hotel in 1952 . This was categorically denied later by Mr. Wagner , who said that if his name had been used in connection with the dinner it was without his consent . Blaikie Charges Assailed Walter V. Bonner , labor relations director of the Lewyt Corporation and industry member of Mayo ' Impellitteri 's special mediation committee in the strike of truck drivers hauling cement , sand and gravel , took Mr. Blaikie to task yesterday for his charge that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ronner declared that the Blaikie charges were fantastic and that " it is viciously absurd to charge the employers with any desire to delay settlement . " Mayor ' ropeRifted will start ' carrying his campaign to the Democratic voters of the city tonight when he is to address five Democratic rallies in Brooklyn . It will be his first appearance of the campaign in district clubhouses.                     