@@716618

txt Congressional elections in non-presidential years are generally governed more by local issues and personalities than by national issues . On the other hand , over-all national trends do play a part in the outcome . It is on this basis that Republican and Democratic leaders are battling for gains in Massachusetts , where 14 members of the national House of Renresentatives in Congress are to be elected on Nov. 2 . Democratic leaders are driving to pick up two additional seats  --  those in the 8th and 10th Congressional Districts . The GOP is pulling out all stops in an effort to return the 2d and 4th to the Republican column after several years in Democratic hands . Curtis Running Most observers believe the strongest Democratic prospects lie in the 8th District , where Representative Angier L. Goodwin , Republican incumbent , is seeking a seventh consecutive term . It is felt that only if the Democratic tide is running very strong will the 10th District drop into Democratic hands . The GOP incumbent , seeking a second term , is Representative Laurence Curtis . The best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the 4th District , in central Massachusetts , in which Representative Harold D. Donohue , Democratic incumbent , is serving his fourth term . As for the 2d District , it appears that a strong Republican movement statewide will be required , if the GOP is to recapture it from Representative Edward P. Boland . Democratic incumbent , seeking a second term in the ? I.vestern Massachusetts district . However , many political surveys have indicated a Democratic victory in the 8th District as the only Nov. 2 change from the present line-up . Four incumbents are unopposed for reelection . They are Representative Philip .1 . Phil-bin ( D ) , 3d District ; Edith bourse Rogers ( R ) 5th District : Thomas J. Lane ( D ) , 7th , and John W. McCormack ( D ) 12th . In six other districts , the incumbents are expected to be reelected . The 8th District , probably presents the most intense battle . Conservative Republican Representative Goodwin . who has fashioned a stanch Eisenhower supporting record in the past two years , is opposed by Torbert H. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a former Harvard . football and baseball star , is a liberal Democrat . He has been a close associate of Senator John F. Kennedy ( D ) of Massachusetts . Small ' 52 Margin Two years ago Mr. Goodwin won by only 3,804 votes . it is this narrow 1952 victory margin in a GOP year which gives the Democrats real hope this year when they feel a Democratic trend is under way . The 4th District contest is being watched closely . Representative Donohue , since wresting it from Republican hands in 1946 , has been building up a strong margin in the district . His victories are based on his heavy Worcester pluralities . This year Republican leaders prevailed upon Andrew B. Holmstrom , former Worcester Mayor and present city councilor as well as successful industrialist , to run against Mr. Donohue . Long a powerful vote attraction in Worcester . Mr. Holmstrom is counted on by the GOP to cut down Mr. Donohue 's plurality in Worcester sufficiently to gain a district Boland vs . Bradley While Representative Boland in the 2d District , carried the district @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by many observers , including some top Republicans , as stronger this year than in 1952 . His Republican opponent is Vernon E. Bradley , chairman of the Springfield Board of Assessors and a real estate man .. In the 10th District a shifting population , which has resulted in more Democrats moving into the area , and a powerful candidate , give the Democrats a real chance to win . Representative Curtis . battling for a second term , is opposed by Jackson J. Holtz. former assistant United States Attorney . A major campaign advantage enjoyed by Mr. Holtz is the fact that he is expected to poll a very substantial vote among the Jewish-American ethnic group . which bulks large in the district . This is the fifth of a series of articles covering major election contests in New England . Further details : Page 2.                     