@@715503

txt Small firms consuming synthetic rubber urged Congress to make sure their future supplies are safeguarded m any legislation for selling the Government rubber plants . Charles F. Johnson . president of Endicott Johnson Corp . and spokesman for a group of small and medium-sized concerns using synthetic rubber , told a House Armed Services subcommittee that acquisition of most of the Government plants by the major tire companies " would be a serious blow to the American economy . " He said it would be very " dangerous " to have the synthetic rubber supply field dominated by the " big four " rubber companies  --  Goodrich , Goodyear , Firestone and U. S. Rubber . Mr. Johnson declared it would be highly important that other synthetics consumers , needing rubber for heels and soles , mechanical goods , wire and cable and paint , be given ample opportunity to acquire some of the U. S.-owned plants . The pending disposal bill sponsored by Rep. Shafer ( R. , Mich ) , if enacted into law without change , could " well result in a devastating shortage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Johnson said . This would lead to inflated prices and might force many small rubber fabricators out of business , he asserted . Among changes that he urged in the Shafer bill were these : That no company be allowed to buy more than one butadiene plant and one copolymer plant ; that the plants sold be required to produce 650,000 tons of synthetic a year rather than 400,000 tons as in the bill ; that the bill include a provision requiring purchasers of petroleum butadiene plants to apportion their production for 10 years equitably among the various copolymer plants : that proof of " technical competence " need not mean actual operating experience in synthetic rubber plants . thereby not restricting purchasers to present operators , that bidders be given more time to prepare their bids and that deposit requirements be lowered . A similar stand was taken by Robert A Winters . executive director of the Rubber Heel &; Sole Institute , composed of 13 independent producers of soles and heels . " Our industry can continue to meet the demands upon it only if it has adequate supplies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Moreover , he declared , these supplies must be obtained at prices competitive with the supplies obtained by the major rubber companies , which also have heel and sole divisions . " We strongly believe , " he declared , " that a strong effort should be made by the Government to get most of the general purpose ynthetic plants into the hands of non-big four rubber companies . or non-rubber goods manufacturing companies . We respectfully urge that the disposal law be worded so that a large percentage of the production can not be captive . " Among Mr. Winters ' specific suggestions were these ? That no rubber goods manufacturing company be allowed to purchase mole than one GR-S plant ; that if more than one plant is sold to the big four companies . that for 15 years they be required to allocate at least 257 , , of their synthetic production to the free competitive market at competitive prices ; that the big four companies be barred from selling synthetic produced by them to any of their divisions or subsidiaries at less than the open market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . continue to operate any non-sold plants . L. S. Buckmaster , president of the C.I.O. United Rubber Workers Linton , said he thought the disposal law should include a specific clause requiring the purchaser to maintain in good working order , capacity at least equal to the amount being pioduced at the time of sale . With the Industry 's curt ent level of operations . he declared , this would mean production close to maximum capacity . Mr. Buckmaster also urged the subcommittee to make sure the disposal plan did not increase the dominating position of the big four rubber companies nor give any oil or chemical companies any position under which they could control supplies or prices . A. L. Freedlander , president of the Copolymer Corp. , urged that the legislation give present operators of the Government 's plants preference in buying the plants and the opportunity to meet the highest bonafide bid . The Copolymer Corp . is made up of eight rubber companies and operates the Government 's synthetic plant at Baton Rouge , La . Mr. Freedlander asserted present oper atora of the plants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ synthetic rubber . However-0.o prevent " possible monopoly , " he also proposed that the law provide that no one purchaser be able to purchase more than a certain percentage of butadiene or synthetic facilties . The Copolymer Corp . official also urged that companies be given more time than provided in the Shafer bill for submitting bids and that the required deposits be trimmed . William P. Dee , assistant to the president of the Texas Co . warned the subcommittee that unless purchasers are given reasonable assurance of protection against future antitrust suits , " it may be difficult to obtain the full fair value of these plants . "                     