@@717643

txt BERLIN , Jan. 18 ? The East ' German Parliament approved , today the creation of a Defense Ministry and a " People 's Army , " Presumably this will lead soon to the redesignation of the People 's Police in Barracks as Ian army . These forces have been openly referred to as the nucleus of a new army ; they are believed to consist of about 95,000 foot soldiers and 15,000 male men in air and sea units . Their size has been more or less constant in recent years . Today 's action probably will lead to a limited expansion . It will mean the outfitting of the East German forces with modern weapons . The conversion of the forces into a People 's Army is the chief step necessary to bring East Germany into the military structure of the Warsaw pact . The pact was Moscow 's counterpart of the Atlantic alliance . It embraced all - East European satellite states , but East Germany could not participate in the military program since officially it had no army . Stoph Offers the Bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creation of an army and a defense Ministry has been approved by both houses of the legislature . Nevertheless , a number of signs point to the selection of Willi Stoph , a member of the East German Communist Politburo and a leading architect of the cadre forces , as the probable defense minister . He presented the army bill today wearing the uniform of a three-star general of the People 's Police in Barracks . It was the first time that such a uniform had been worn by a ranking Government official . Herr Stoph is a Deputy Premier . ? In Bonn , the West German Government issued a statement describing the action of the East German Parliament as a pure formality . It asserted that the armament of East Germany had begun long before similar moves had been made in West Germany . The steps taken today were the natural consequence of efforts to turn East Germany into a Soviet satelite , the Bonn statement added . The East German Government // introduced its army bill with little warning . Parliament con-II vened in the morning with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the army legisla- ' tion was introduced . The first indication that such a step was in the offing came last Sunday when marchers in a militant East Berlin demonstration carried a large slogan demanding the creation of a " people 's army . The operative part of the bill was brief . It said there would be a " National People 's Army " made up of land , sea and air units . " The numerical strength of the armed forces will be limited in accordance with its tasks fort the protection of the territory ' of the East German Demo- , cratic Republic , the defense of its borders and its air defense , " ' the bill added . The defense ministry is to be under the control of the council of ministers and parliament . Herr Stoph told Parliament that there was no need for - conscription " at present " because the size of the army was to be " limited . " One of the chief obstacles to any great expansion of the armed forces is the severe manpower shortage in East Germany . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Premier , renewed his proposal for talks with West German ofifcials . This was dismissed by West German officials as a propaganda gesture designed to divert attention from the creation of an East German army . Herr Grotewohi also rephrased earlier Soviet proposals by suggesting an East-West German efofrt to obtain a reduction in the number of foreign troops on German soil . He also suggested a declaration condemning the use of atomic weapons . Parliament also approved the appointment of several new deputy premiers but notably absent from the list as reported by A. D. N. official East German news agency was Fritz Selbmann , who was included when the names originally were published Nov. 24 . No explanation I was given for the omission of his name .                     