@@719928

txt Twenty Negro boys and girls peacefully joined 161 white youngsters today in formerly all-white Fulton High School here in the southwestern tip of Kentucky . The newly integrated classes resulted from a Federal court order in Paducah last Oct. 4 . The Fulton City School District will save $800 a year it formerly paid for transporting Negro high school students twenty-one miles by bus to a Negro school in Hickman , the Fulton County seat . Fulton is a twin city to stillsegregated South Fulton , Tenn. , just across a street . Fulton 's peaceful integration was ascribed by Mayor Nelson A. Tripp to " a great deal of effort " through churches and other agencies to prepare white youths for the change . The city has about 3,500 inhabitants , of whom about 10 per cent are Negroes , he said . One other Kentucky county ? Nelson , in the central section ? had its first racial mixing in // high schools today by voluntary action . James B. Graham , county school superintendent , said eleven Negroes bid ' begun class work in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Still farther north , Owen County is to integrate its formerly all-white high school at Owenton next Monday by order of the Federal Court in Frankfort , issued last spring . Howard C. Smith , county superintendent of schools , said that this would involve the eight or nine Negroes who otherwise would have been sent to a state boarding school thirty-five miles away . Grade ' school integration has also been asked in the Owen County suit , but judgment has been deferred on a school board plea to await outcome of a November referendum on a bond issue to improve elementary schools . In Louisville , James Crumlin , president of the Kentucky chapter of . the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , . said : " I think we have gained some integration in practically every county where we . have a large concentration of Negroes. " 150 Districts Integrated Mr. Crumlin , who , with Joseph Freeland of Paducah , was counsel in the Fulton case , said that the state had 120 counties , of , which forty or fewer had no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which about 184 have some Negroes , he said , and of the 184 , about 150 to 160 have some integration although sometimes only , in token form . The N. A. A. C. P. in the past aided Negro plaintiffs in obtaining integration orders in five Kentucky counties in addition to Fulton and Owen . Mr. Crumlin listed these as Webster , where trouble occurred in Clay in 1956 , and ' where he said no Negro still dares to enter a white school ( the Negro population is less than 500 ) ; Union County , where violence broke out in 1956 and 1957 at Sturgis ; Adair , Hopkins and McCracken Counties . Twentyfive Negro students peacefully attended Sturgis High School today . Fulton is a city seeking inIdustry . A billboard on Lake Street proclaims " We Want More Industry for Our Twin Cities . " A thermometer shows that more than $30,000 has been reached toward a $100,000 fundraising industrialization goal . The city is an important railroad junction , manufacturers men 's clothing and soon win have a Detroit seed concern brought here with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a dirt road area called the Bottoms . By custom rather than law , segregation goes on in churches , parks - and . restaurants . The school integration suit was filed in 1956 , alleging that sixteen Negroes had been denied admission to Fulton High School that February . Under Kentucky law , no school district is required to set up a high school unless it has at least 100 students ; Fulton has never had enough Negroes for a Negro high school here , although it has separate Negro and white elementary schools , with seventy-eight and 290 students respectively . On Sept. 10 , 1957 , Judge Roy M. Shelbourne issued a default judgment calling for integration at that time . The school board later obtained a year 's delay on the ground that difficulty would occur because students had already begun work in separate schools . Seeks to Avoid Malice The N. A. A. C. p. ; greed and Mr. Crumlin told the court : " We do n't want the people of Fulton to feel that we are pushing this thing with any malice I at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prepare the ground for integration , passing word that it would be foolish to make a battleground of the children 's playground . This morning , three Negro boys showed up in warm , sunshine at 8:07 A. M. , fifty-three minutes before the formal start of classes . They found themselves standing before an inadvertently locked main door for about a half hour . White students diplomatically chose to enter by a side entrance . Parents of both races stayed away . Mayor Tripp and Chief of Police Rex Ruddle rode by several times in a patrol car . So did state highway patrolmen , who normally would have been on traffic duty . Two members of the state police bureau of investigation watched from a parked car . The Negro students agreed that there had been no trouble .                     