@@714717

txt Driving rain and rolling thunder all but drowned out Gen. Eisenhower 's plunge into the 1952 Presidential race in a carefully staged first political address in his boyhood home . Damp but undaunted hundreds of home towners cheered Eisenbower 's attack on the Roosevelt ' and Truman administrations which gave him the five star general rank . Eisenhower assailed the Democrats as beset by evils as the result of being too long in power . Ile said free government in America is threatened by disunity , excessive taxation , and burocracy of Democratic rule . Asks Continued Aid He called for continuance of aid to Europe to guard against the threat of communism , but at the same time called for lower taxes . Ho said the peak of aid had passed , altho as recent supreme commander of North Atlantic treaty forces in Europe , he protested against the billion dollar cut made by congress of White House requests for 7.2 billion dollars of aid for the current fiscal year . Eisenhower made no mention of the war in Korea where American boys are dying in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where he is interested in preserving the victory he won in World War II . The crowd was enthusiastic but not tumultuous . Some of their ardor was taken out by the weather , but considerable was lost by the failure of a fighting soldier to make a fighting speech . Blend of Appeals The frankly political speech was well delivered by Eisenhower despite the elements , but the crowd had been keyed to expect a great oration to launch the personal Presidential bid . They got good but uninspired oratory , which was a blend of familiar Republican and Democratic appeals . As a Republican , he criticized the administration . In Democratic overtones , he defended aid to Europe . In a blend of generalities common to both camps , he affirmed his belief in America , paid tribute to the faith of founding fathers , invoked religion a n d urged contemplation of basic Americanism in the Declaration of Independence , the Constitution , and the Bills of Rights . He closed by saying he believes we can have peace with honor and reasonable security with national solvency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he declared he has faith ' in the United States of America . Rain threatened before the arrival of Eisenhower to participate in ceremonies which transformed him from a five star general to a private citizen and finally into a Presidential candidate . In addition to rain the close race with Sen. Taft FL , 0. in the South Dakota primary marred the celebration which was pitched to the theme that everyone wants Eisenhower . Lays Cornerstone Eisenhower left his special train shortly after noon to lay the cornerstone of the Eisenhower Memorial Foundation building behind the white frame family home . Eisenhower returne4 to his boyhood home by way of a palace at Versailles , which he enjoyed as supreme commander in Europe , in order to launch his Presidential nomination boom as a farm boy . Rain sprinkled lightly as the general in a graceful and friendly speech paid tribute to his parents , who raised six sons , five of whom are living and were on the platform . He also recalled the deeds of his comrades in arms , extolled the virtues of simple , pioneer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ youth to whom he dedicated the memorial structure . The building will house Eisenhower 's war trophies , family relics , and souvenirs of Abilene service men . The Eisenhowers have deeded the family home and the building plot to the foundation , which has received contributions from around the nation , Rain Delays Parade A downpour held up the parade which was to have followed lunch . Eisenhower refreshed himself by napping as officials waited for the weather to clear . His life from boyhood to the bid for the Presidency was depicted with floats of the old swimming hole , his mar-riage , his entrance into West Point , his war service , and the presidency of Columbia . Surviving members of his high school foot-1 ball team were on one of the floats . Heavy rain fell just before the major political address in Eisen-1 hower park . The ceremony had to go on because of television and radio commitments . Only a hardy few braved the rain . Most of the spectators settled for seats in their autos which they drove into the playing field of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a raincoat and rain hat . He doffed his hat after being introduced by Gov . Arn of Kansas . Rain eased somewhat as Eisenhower began his address . However , the platform was almost bare of political celebrities , including senators , governors , and par t y leaders . Eisenhower read his speech without glasses . His manuscript was prepared in extra large type so he would not appear with his horn rimmed reading glasses on television . Most of Abilene and its visitors heard the speech by radio . Television reception was not good here . Television emphasis was on large cities to the east and west . ? Attendance Falls Off Attendance for the Eisenhower ceremonies here failed to live up to advance notices . Eisenhower supporters had predicted that 75 , - 000 to 100,000 would arrive in this town of 7,000 . Actual attendance was estimated at less than 25,000 by state police . The turnout w a s smaller than for the welcome home which Eisenhower received at the end of the war in 1945 . Weather was responsible in part , but arrivals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Only 6,000 turned out for the cornerstone laying . Far fewer were on hand for the big speech . The route of the parade was not dense even at the Sunflower hotel , where Eisenhower reviewed the marchers with his wife , members of his family , and his chief supporters . Curbs on TV Parley Eisenhower will be asked tomorrow to define his views on national issues more sharply when he faces a press conference in a local theater . Several hundred news and radio men expect to get more explicit delineation of Eisenhower 's position on national affairs in an open question session . While the press conference is catch - as - catch - can , restrictions ? smacking of censorship are thus far in force for a television conference to follow the meeting with the press . Only authorized questions by authorized spokesmen are to be permitted before tele vision cameras . Eisenhower reportedly does not like television . After the speech , Eisenhower had the evening free for meetings with convention delegates for questioning on his policies . Delegates were in no hurry to advertise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announced plan to invite delegates to such meetings with expenses paid . Democrats and opposition Republicans said the plan smacked , of bribery . ? Eisenhower spokesmen said some 150 delegates were due from Kansas , Colorado , Iowa , Nebraska , and Wyoming . Delegates were not registered at the hotel or with the housing committee which placed visitors in Abilene homes and in neighboring towns . Delegates on Train Some delegates were aboard the Eisenhower train from Kansas City . The general flew from Washington to Kansas City yesterday and spent the night in that city before boarding his special train this morning . Political personages aboard the train included Sen. Carlson R. , Kas . , Sen. Seaton R. , Neb . , Gov . Atm of Kansas , Gov. of Oregon , Gov . Peterson of Nebraska , and Gov . Thornton of Colorado . All are Eisenhower supporters . Also aboard were Jeff Robertson , chairman of the Kansas State Corporation committee ; Walter Fees , former state G. 0 . P. chair- , man ; John Murray , state representative , and C. I. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All are Kansas delegates for Eisenhower . Cheered at Train Eisenhower 's special train stopped near the memorial museum . The general was cheered as he left his private car with Mrs. Eisenhower and headed for a stand built for the corner Stone function . Several thousand persons stood on the prairie around the museum for the ceremony . Taking note of lowering , clouds and rain , Eisenhower noted that just eight years ago to the day he , was - called on to make the most important decision of his life  --  the postponing . of ' , the ' Normandy invasion for 24 hours . The postponement brought bad weather which saved many lives by masking the invasion , He intimated he regarded the bad weather as a favorable omen . The general recalled the old saying that there are no atheists in foxholes and added there were no atheists ' at SHAEF allied headquarters , when God smiled upon the decision tO postpone the invasion by bringing unfavorable weather . He paid tribute to the courage and simple virtues of his parents , especially their Bible reading . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at 10 a. m. tomorrow Chicago time in Abilene . The announcement , coming unexpectedly tonight , caused both NBC and CBS to make a sudden switch in their regularly scheduled telecasts . Both networks will televise the interview in its entirety . Officials of the two companies said  --  that they did not know how long the interview would last but that they were arranging to make any necessary cancellations of other programs in order to carry the Eisenhower interview from beginning to end . Radio stations also were preparing to broadcast the gist of the interview .                     