@@719538

txt G.O.P. Congressional leaders and key Cabinet officers agreed that business can snap itself out of the current slump without either a tax cut now or a big program of public works spending . But they conceded this idea could be quickly reversed should the predicted mid-year business pickup fail to materialize . The Democrats , however , are sure to keep Up the pressure on the Administration to do more to counter the recession . Sen. Core ( D. , Tenn. ) opened hearings of a Senate Commerce subcommittee he heads with a statement he intends to push for more speed on highway construction . He said he wanted to see " the maximum amount of construction this spring , " and promised to " push the states and the Federal Bureau of Roads to find out where . . . obstacles ( to a speedup ) are " The Democrats are generally including the highway program in their anti-recession drive . Senate Minority Leader Nnowland ( R , Calif. ) told reporters , after a White House ' meeting with Treasury Secretary Anderson , Labor Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other Administration officials , that both a tax cut and increased public works spending should be considered next summer if there is no midyear economic upturn . Both-these topics were thoroughly discussed during the ' morning meeting , he indicated . Mid-Year Upturn Expected But the California Senator prefaced his comments on both the tax cut and increased public works spending by saying there was the general feeling in the meeting that a mid-year business upturn would eliminate the need for either of these actions . At the same time , another White House official told the Joint Congressional Economic Committee the Administration is ready to move in quickly with new public works projects ? but is not going to be stampeded into action by pressure from Congress . Maj. Gen. John Bragdon , President Eisenhower 's special assistant for public works planning , in effect rejected a committee request that he lay out the Administration 's plans for " jobcreating " public works and told the lawmakers the White House would do the proper thing when it became clear what the proper thing was . " The backlog of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The status of planning is such that considerable increments can be put under way quickly , if funds are made available . " At another point , the White House aide said , " The matter of accelerating Federal public works , as well as any other steps which the Federal Government might take to provide additional opportunities are under constant consideration , and action will be taken promptly when deemed advisable . " He cited the recently-announced $2 billion post office construc- tion and modernization program as an example . Public works projects already authorized , Gen. ** said , " will get actively under way as soon and as fast as conditions and available funds warrant . " As for additional projects , he continued , " it can be expected that requests will be made to the Congress as and when it becomes desirable to extend further the various fields of public works and other related types of Government activity " Gen. Bragdon said that in addition to possible Federal programs , " There is a heavy backlog of needed public worts w:ilch could be undertaken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ analysis in May , 1955 , he said , showed a backlog of needed public works of some $200 billion . " This backlog is probably larger today , " he added , Present thinking among the President 's top economic adviseis is that a tax cut would take preference over a huge public works program . Despite Administration statements that the time is not ripe for a tax cut ? Mr. Knowland told new smen the general feeling at the White House meeting yesterday was , " It is not wise at this time " ? there is considerable top-level discussion of such a reduction . March Is ' Crucial Month While the President has predicted the " beginning of the end " of the z ecession in Aid 2 Ch Administration officials concede this would n't be evident until the Minch figures are available in April If the Pi esident 's economic aides ca n't see the upturn by then , Administration thinking goes , it 's time for more drastic action . Experts say the President 's prediction could be helped by the fact that March should mark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warn that it will be tough to distinguish between a real upturn and merely a seasonal pickup that might fall flat during the summer Between now and then , however , the Administration must face some more bad news . Unemployment , which jumped by double the seasonal amount to 1,500,000 for January , normally reaches a seasonal high in Feb/nary . Government officials say a further rise in Joblessness can be looked for in the report for the current month and probably more in March But Administration officials have declared that March will be the high point in unemployment . This was reiterated by Mr. Knowland after the White House meeting . White House officials have looked to in ? creased highway construction and the upturn in private home building to help pull business out of the slump . Rousing Starts Prediction Federal Housing Administrator Mason , testifying before a House Appropriations subcommittee , said he thought housing starts for 1958 would total " 1,100,000 or 1,200,000 The 1957 rate was 937,000 Mr. Mason made the prediction in testimony , just released , asking authority for the F II A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help in processing the backlog of mortgage insurance applications . Mr. Mason also said the agency does not intend to lower its ceiling on mortgages from the present 5 , , V2 : , " until ample money is flowing in the market . " Despite the general easing of interest rates , Mr. Mason indicated he did n't think the slackoff had been great enough to warrant this move .                     