@@720862

txt President , Charles de Gaulle announced today that Premier Khrushchev would arrive March 15 for his visit to France . This implicitly ruled out East-West summit talks before April at the ; earliest . At a news conference in Elysee Palace , his second since assuming the Presidency last January , the 68-year-old President spoke for an hour and five ) minutes before 700 French and ) foreign correspondents . General de Gaulle said the rebel leadership in Algeria . would have the right to partici- ! pate fully in future politicall life , including discussions of the conditions for an eventual referendum on retaining or rejecting ties with France . Rebels Said to Be Losing He made this comment to remove conflicting interpretations of his offer of a cease-fire to the rebels and of political selfdetermination to Algeria . He ! also cited figures to show that ) the rebellion was losing ground militarily . Before a top-level East-West , conference can be held with a chance of success , the President said , there must be clear signs of an improved international at- mosphere. there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agenda of questions for discus-1 sion and he himself must have the meeting with Mr , Khru-1 shchev . General de Gaulle maintained ? that the meeting of the heads of ; , government of France , Britain , West Germany and the United ! States scheduled for Paris Dec. ' 19 probably should be repeated , in the spring before a summit , meeting . There are signs of a morel conciliatory attitude on the part ! of the Soviet Union , he said . ; Khrushchev Called Realistic He attributed them to the personality and political realism of Mr. Khrushchev , taking account of the Soviet peoples ' demand for liberty and a better life , and to a realization that the Soviet Union had common interests with the rest of the white peoples of Europe in the face of a threat by " the yellow masses of China . " General de Gaulle emphasized that there was no chance that France would accept an agreement to suspend nuclear weapons tests under conditions that would leave her in a permanent condition of inferiority . As a justification for his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evoked ' the possibility of some distant political upheaval that would , leave Europe prey to the two ' super-powers . President de Gaulle said his ' first condition for holding a summit conference  --  consolidation of a better international atmosphere  --  could be met initially through moderation in the current United Nations sessions . Adequate Preparation Noted The second , adequate preparation of a common Western position , will get under way with the meeting here Dec. 19 with President Eisenhower , Prime Minister Harold Macmillan and Chancellor Konrad ' Adenauer , he said , and should be pursued at a second meeting in early spring after consultations with the Atlantic allies , " especially Italy . " The third condition , General de Gaulle remarked with evident satisfaction , will be met by the visit by Mr. Khrushchev , who , it is hoped , will stay in France two weeks . The French leader found positive evidence of a relaxation of tensions in Moscow 's abstention from " adding fuel to the fire " in the Middle East , India , Laos , Africa and Central America . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and United States forces from West Berlin is another favorable sign , General de Gaulle said . He also cited Soviet abstention from a campaign of ill will and demagogy against France , and the increase in East-West exchanges on political and cultural levels . Discussing reasons for the changed atmosphere , General de Gaulle observed that the Russians realized as well as anyone that war today meant total annihilation . Undoubtedly , too , he said , the Communist regime , after fortytwo years in power , " is losing some of its sting under the influence of the deep-rooted striving of the people toward man 's natural aspirations : a better life and freedom . " The same pressures came from the Soviet satellite states , whose peoples would reject communism by enormous majorities in a free test , the President said . General . de Gaulle made absolutely categorical his refusal to permit France to be bound either by the current debate in the United Nations seeking to halt a forthcoming French atomic explosion in the Sahara or by talks by the three existing atomic powers in Geneva @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the future , who could say , he asked , that the two powers monopolizing atomic power ( Britain and the United States counting as one " Anglo-Saxon " power ) might not decide to divide the world between them . France would agree at once to complete elimination of nuclear arms and the means of their delivery , he said , but meanwhile she believed she was serv- , ing the stability of the world inl obtaining nuclear armament.                     