@@717353

txt WASHINGTON , Sept. 14 ? Ezra Taft ' Benson entered a new political farm fight today with ' a promise to give Congress something " very specific " to ease sagging farm incomes . But he emphasized that the Administration would hew to its basic farm policies . Recommendations to Congress will be " something of an addition " to the present farm program rather than a " change in direction , " the Secretary of Agriculture said . Mr. Benson talked with reporters on his return from a two-week tour of Europe . He left the impression that he already had heard from Republican party leaders on the need for countering Democratic political blasts . Democratic leaders saw the continuing drop in farm incomes and prices ds a possible key issue in the 1956 Presidential // election . At Democratic National Headquarters the issue was looked upon as " developing faster than our fondest hopes . " " Something needs to be done to ease the farm price squeeze , " Mr. Benson said . " Anyone who is sincerely interested in agriculture can not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " , Weighs ' Several PyopoSals He declined to say what the Administration might propose to bolster farm incomes , which have sagged 31 per cent since 1917 . About half of the drop has taken place shiee , the Ad , ministration took office in 1953 . Several proposals will i : ; 4 considered , Mr. Benson said , ' incfnding one for payments to farmers who take crop land out of production to help beat surplus production . Mr , Benson said a.land rental program posed difficulties in administration and a simpler way might be to use the present agricultural conservation payments program . This program provides subsidies to farmers who install soil conservation and fertility-building practices . on their farms . Land rental and Incentive payments are ideas of long-standing among farm planners . During the dust bowl of the Nineteen Thirties the Government bought drought-stricken western land and reseeded it to.grass to save the soil and the farmers . But Mr. Benson emphasized that any actions to supplement , farm incomes in an effort to , adjust supply to demand would not mean abandonment of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said the flexible farm price supports that went in effect on this year 's crops were in - no. way- responsible . for the farm situation . He still blamed : the old rigid supports for the pile-up of surplus prod-nets . Foresees Expanded Markets He said that after talks with farm officials in Denmark , France , the Netherlands , Italy and . Great Britain he was " much encouraged " about expanding American farm markets abroad . He was confident that his visit gave the European countries a better understanding of United States . farm . problems and also helped to understand ' more fully their problems . As he returned , Senator Paul H. Douglas , Democrat of Illinois , accused the Republican party of trying to Prewrite history " by denying President Eisenhower ever had promised high price supports to farmers in the 1952 Campaign . In a letter to Leonard W. Hall , Republican national chairman , he wrote : " May I suggest that - the Republicans face up to the real facts of declining farm income and to the promises on which they secured votes in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these facts and promises. , ' The people can have no confidence in a party that tries to rewrite history and ignore the real world . " Senator Douglas quoted President Eisenhower as promising 90 per cent and 100 per cent of parity price supports in farm speeches at Kasson , Minn. , and Brookings , S. D. , in 1952 , . Parity is-a Government standard designed to assure farmers a fair return on their poducts in relation to farm costs . The present flexible system of 823 to 90 per cent of parity support , ranging up or down on a supplydemand basis , replaced the rigid r90 per cent props on the major surplus crops of wheat , corn , cotton , rice and peanuts . The Douglas-Hall exchange started when Mr. Hall labeled as " just a lot of bunk " Senator , Douglas ' earlier contention that , l-G. 0 . P. had violated a edge to farmers on price supports .                     