@@714300

txt Political leaders on both sides of the Atlantic are coming to recognize that great spiritual issues are at stake in what is going on in the world today . There is increasing awareness that the leadership of the free world will not be equal to the test , either in insight or endurance , unless it acquires spiritual vision and is supported by spiritual steadfastness . This means it is recognized that more is in jeopardy than security or national independence or economic stability or standards of living . It is important , therefore , that we bring into focus what we mean when we talk about the spiritual issues which are at stake in waging and winning the cold WO r . I am persuaded that if the present strife is seen only as a struggle for territory , for power , for political domination , we will be missing its underlying nature , its real objective . ? Threat to Free Religion I believe the central fact is that aggressive nations and aggressive mentalities are the means through which antispiritual forces are seeking to arrest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I believe the central - fact is that , wielding the weapons of force , conquest , persecution , and attempted domination . this attack is concerned not merely with consuming nations and peoples ; it is concerned primarily with destroying Christianity and all other free religion and in suffocating the human rights needed to practice and preserve religious freedom . At the very minimum it can be said that Christianity and all free religion require three basic , indispensable rights , that these rights belong to man , not to government , and that when human government attempts to usurp these rights , Christianity must act in its own defense . These rights are : 1 . Religious freedom , the untrammeled right to profess , practice . and propagate Christian faith or other religious faith . 2 . Democratic government , the right to choose and change government by ballot in order that religious freedom may be secure . 3 . Legal safeguards , that is , the right of man to trial by jury of his peers as an essential guarantee that the rights of men , provided in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alertness Imperative Human government which practices and protects these vital freedoms deserves the support of people who understand and want religious freedom . Human government which rejects and denies these vital freedoms is acting to undermine Christianity and other religion , whether it knows it or not , and demands the alert opposition of those who want to preserve and practice religious freedom . Any dictatorship or any law or any coercion which would rob man of these rights is evidence that the enemy of religion is at work in political affairs and will rightly be resisted by all who understand spiritual law . Wherever such an attack starts , whatever its ostensible objectives , it is headed ultimately at spiritual revelation and at the security of Christianity and all religion which rests upon the spiritual individualism of man . Whatever its avowed objective , its real end is to deny the rights essential to preserve and practice Christianity and , if Christianity is to prevail , it can not be allowed to prevail . Religious Obligation To protect political and civil and human freedom in the world is not just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Christian and religious obligation . From the standpoint of religious freedom , it is not just nice to have these rights , it is a spiritual necessity to maintain them . The crux of Christianity 's lifeand-death concern in the present world struggle of Soviet communism versus human freedom is this : When human government acts . to abrogate the rights of conscience , it is not merely committing an offense against man , it is committing an offense against God . When the end of the war left Western Europe and Asia a moral and political vacuum , Soviet communism , with the overhanging threat of the Soviet Army , leaped to impose its iron rule upon heretofore independent nations . Soviet communism has spread its grip upon nations and peoples by force and threats of force . It never has been elected to govern any country anywhere at any time by the free choice of the people . Wherever Soviet communism has extended its sway , there civil liberty and human freedom have been suffocated . Soviet communism has two principal weapons in its hands . It is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a powerful philosophy . It is , in effect , a " church state . " Its " religion " is antireligion , its god is anti-God , its faith totally materialistic . Dual Challenge What challenges Christianity and freedom of religion today is not the atheistic doctrine of communism alone or a powerful Soviet state alone , but a combination of the two . The inalienable rights . which belong to men and not to government , essential to preserve and practice Christianity  --  or any free religion  --  and the democratic and legal rights needed to secure these freedoms are absent in the Soviet Communist philosophy , are denied in the Soviet Communist state , and are being suffocated in the Soviet Communist conquered lands . This is the reason there are great spiritual issues at stake in the world today . This is why the present world conflict deeply concerns Christians not only as citizens but as spiritually minded thinkers and why it is the unneglectable duty of those who understand spiritual law to see that aggressive Communist dictatorship shall not succeed in the attempt of evil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   