@@715766

txt An exchange of letters yesterday between the United Nations Command and the Neutral Nations Repatriation Commission reflected the tension in the camps in the neutral zone in Korea in which prisoners of war refusing repatriation are confined . Following attempts at mass break-outs that resulted in the death of one North Korean and two Chinese anti-Communist prisoners in two days , a protest by Brig . Gen. A. L. Hamblen of the United States , chief of the Allied repatriation group , against rules promulgated by the neutral commission for explanations to the prisoners , was made public . General Hamblen lodged the protest with Lieut . Gen. K. S. Thimayya of India , chairman of the neutral commission . The United States officer said the explanation regulations included almost all of the proposals submitted by the Communists , while " practically none of the recommendations made by the United Nations Command " had been adopted . Later , Gen. Mark W. Clark , the United Nations commander , rejected a proposal by the Indians that the ninety-day period for explanations to the unrepatriated prisoners be extended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the date of the actual start of the explanation sessions , which is now likely to be Monday at the earliest . " We can not be a party to breaking faith with the anti-Communist // P. 0 . W. 's , " said General Clark , in regard to the reply on this point that he directed General Hamblen to send to General Thimayya . On the present basis , the period will expire Dec. 24 , at the end of ninety days from the day the last of these prisoners had been turned over to the Indian Custodial Force . Thereafter , for thirty days , the issue would rest with the projected Korean peace conference ; then a still unrepatriated prisoner would be free to say , himself , where he would go . General Clark is now on a tour of Allied installations in Korea with Gen. John E. Hull , who next week will succeed to the United Nations and United States Far East commands . General Clark will return to the United States for retirement . In the matter of the objections to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explanation procedure , an Allied spokesman said that the United Nations Command felt they were specific encouragement for prisoners to seek repatriation , rather than permitting them fully to exercise a free choice . Neutral Board 's Stand For his part , General Thimayya said that patterns of organization among the prisoners who , he thought , were responsible for current acts of violence in the camps had been established before the Indian troops took custody of the prisoners . In another statement sent to the United Nations Command , the Neutral Nations Commission rejected an Allied protest against a letter that had been distributed by the commission to the prisoners . The statement added that the prisoners " appeared to be misinformed by some interested party about a number of matters . " The message added that the controversial letter was " a perfectly correct " interpretation of the terms of reference of the neutral commission . In another United Nations protest , General Hamblen told Maj. Gen. S. P. P. Thbrat , commander of the Indian Custodial Force , that some prisoners had been in custody of the neutral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as is required by the Geneva Convention on treatment of prisoners of war . General Hamblen suggested that Buddhist , Protestant and Roman Catholic chaplains be made available in the neutral camps , as they had been available in United Nations prison camps . Yesterday for the second straight day there was fatal violence in the camps . A spokesman for the Indian Army guards said 500 Chinese attempted a mass escape after being stirred up following an apparent suicide attempt by one prisoner . Two of the Chinese were killed and five were wounded when Indian troops opened fire to restore order . Thursday one North Korean prisoner was killed and five P. 0 . W. 's were wounded . The Indian Army Command said yesterday , over the loudspeakers in Korean and Chinese that it " regretted " the death of the North Korean the day before . General Thorat , as commanding officer of the guards , added : " We are consistently avoiding opening fire , but if you force us to do so , the responsibility is entirely yours . I appeal to you to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so we shall continue to remain as friendly as before . " General Hamblen 's Protest Less spectacular but certainly indicative of growing ' discord between the United Nations Command and the Neutral Nations Repatriation Commission were the public statements . General Hamblen in his formal protest regarding rules said that , nevertheless , the Allies would participate in explanation sessions , but the United Nations Command would reserve the right to make further complaints " when in our opinion such action is justified . " Twenty-three Americans , one Briton and 335 South Koreans are in the Indian Custodial Force 's care as Allied personnel from the Reds ' P. 0 . W. stockades who have refused repatriation . The antiCommunist Chinese and North Koreans out of the United Nations prison camps number about 22,600 . General Hamblen said the recommendations made by the United Nations Command to govern the explanation sessions in which each side will try to get anti-repatriation prisoners to change their minds were largely ignored in ' the rules for the explanation . The Allied repatriation group chief said bluntly that the rules , as they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the armistice agreement of July 27 , " since they depend upon forcing a P. 0 . W. , regardless of his desires or his . rights . under the terms of reference , to submit to procedures involving coercion if not force . " Among the rules to which the United Nations Command seriously objects are those granting permission for individual interviews , requiring a prisoner to attend an explanation session and the long eight-hour-day schedule .                     