@@717510

txt The latest British Hamlet has walked onto the stage of the Moscow Arts Theater , and produced a heartening demonstration of friendship between the Soviet and British peoples . This demonstration deeply moved the distinguished company acting the play , and all British visitors and residents who could get in to see the performance For this presentation was the first offering of a British play by a British company to be seen in this heart of the Communist world since the Russian Revolution nearly 40 years ago . The company , led by Paul Scofield and Diana Wynyard , and directed by Peter Brook , had been officially invited as guests of the Soviet Government . A certain amount of ceremonial welcome was , therefore , to be foreseen . Crowds lined the pavement under a lightly falling curtain of snow to watch the audience enter the theater . Brilliant camera lights played on the clothes of the playgoers . The Red Flag and the Union Jack decorated both sides of the proscenium . Enthusiastic Acclaim M. Ophlopkov , the director of a celebrated Soviet production of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the company on the stage before the curtain rose , to which the English director , Mr Brook , replied in a fluent Russian that equally surprised and delighted the crowded house . Then , just before the play began , a group of trumpeters on the stage played " God Save the Queen " and the Soviet National Anthem . All this was impressive , but it might have been expected . What took the company by surprise was the enormous enthusiasm at the end of a performance which had lasted for three hours and a half . In the audience were Soviet Government officials , members of the British Embassy , and Moscow folk , including hundreds of young people . They lined the three galleries of the theater , and then when the curtain same down , they leaped to their feet as though they were one person , applauding and cheering . Twelve ' Curtains ' The applause went en and on . Twelve times the curtain rose and fell , and three times Mr. Scofield came before it to acknowledge what was an undoubted triumph . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet people to their British visitors was the more touching because the performance of " Hamlet " they had just seen was by no means , apart from Mr. Scofield 's Prince , an example of the best that the British stage can offer . There followed a magnificent reception given by the British Ambassador in the Embassy overlooking the snow-covered banks of the Moscow , a reception which lasted till the early hours of the morning , and to which the entire company came . Although there were many expressions of polite appreciation , British and American guests expressed some reser. e of admiration . The production was in the main thought to be too drab , and the lines were considered to have been spoken at too breakneck a speed . The first Soviet reviews were , however , tactful and even warm . Mr. Scofield 's Hamlet is thought to be vigorous and attractive , though the critic of Pravda said that he might have put even more energy into the sarcastic passages in his part . At the same time Pravda praised Mr. Scofield for the positive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Production Ernest Thesiger 's Polonia 's also is highly commended . Indeed , from what I hear from ordinary Russians to whom I have spoken , I should say that after Mr. Scofield , Mr. Thesiger is the great success of the British company . After the first-night jollifications , the British company was taken at 11 o'clock the next morning to see a performance at the Arts Theater of Tolstoy 's " The Fruits of Enlightenment . " This was arranged especially for them and for an invited audience . It was given by a company consisting in large measure of actors and actresses who have won particular praise in the Soviet Union ; and the British players were enchanted with the perfection of the production and the superb interplay of every member of an outstandingly talented company . Here , again , good will was overwhelmingly manifest . Crowds of young people flocked round the British players during the interval  --  and even my wife and I came in for some attention . Hearing us speak English , a young man near us spoke to a group of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then said to us on their behalf , " We like you . " He asked for my program ; and when he gave it back I saw that he had written on the top left comer the two words , " Remember us " It is indeed unlikely that we or Mr. Scofield and his colleagues will forget the spontaneous friendship with which we have been received .                     