@@714707

txt France will ask for assurances of United States material and diplomatic support in Indo-China and North Africa in addition to the military guarantees already agreed on after the signing of the European Defense Community Treaty in Paris tomorrow . In talks beginning Wednesday , French Foreign Minister Robert Schuman is expected to ask Secretary of State Dean Acheson for additional arms aid in France 's war in Indo-China , for a more sympathetic attitude in her troubles with Arab nationalism in the French Protectorates of Tunisia and Morocco and for a definition of the extent and timing of United States spending in France for aims purchases for the North Atlantic Treaty Allies . To Meet in Foreign Office The foreign ministers of France , West Germany , Italy and the Benelux countries will meet at the French Foreign Office tomorrow to sign the European Defense Community treaty , a product of fifteen months of arduous negotiations in military , political and economic spheres . The signing of the treaty , like that of the contractual accords between the Western Big Three and the German Federal Republic in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incorporation of West Germany into the Western defense system . The treaty to be signed tomorrow would pool the defense forces of the six continental nations in a common army of forty-three small divisions of 12,000 to 13,000 men  --  about 500,000 combat troops plus supporting units  --  common air and naval units and all under a miffed command and political control organs . France is to provide fourteen groups and West Germany twelve . The European Defense Community was drawn up on French initiative to provide international control for the German rearmament that was so strongly urged by the United States to help coun- I ter Soviet military power . But the defense community treaty , like the contractual accords can take effect only after ratification by the signatory powers . French spokesmen have stated that the interval between signature and ratification should be used to explore the possibility of reaching an accord with the Soviet Union on a general settlement of the question of German unification . The French Cabinet and press ' have displayed increasing concern over what they consider to be United States interference in France 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rule demands and with the rates of deliveries of United States arms to French Union forces in IndoChina . An understanding reached in the Schuman-Acheson talks would greatly ease the passage to ratification through the French National Assembly . Although neither the United States nor Britain is a participant in the European Defense Community , both Mr. Acheson and the British Foreign Secretary , Anthony Eden , will play important roles in the ceremony tomorrow . Both will join with France in a Three Power declaration pledging British and American support for the defense community in terms hammered out in the past three days to meet the eleventh-hour French hesitancy over rearming the West Germans . Will Pledge Aid to NATO Representatives of the six defense community members will sign a protocol pledging them to aid any member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in the event of an attack . Permanent ' representatives of the fourteen NATO members will sign a reciprocal pledge to the six-nation continental force . Finally , Anthony Eden , the British Foreign Secretary , and representatives of the six European nations will sign a special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military aid provisions of the Brussels Pact covering France and the Benelux countries to West Germany and Italy in case of an armed attack on them . In last minute negotiations , the United States and Britain have agreed to maintain troops in Europe and to regard disruption of the defense community as a threat to Western security . A declaration to this effect will be made upon the signing of the treaty . In the case of the United States , this guarantee will take the form of a Presidential declaration . This declaration and text of the European Defense Community treaty wil require no Congressional action but will be forwarded to the Senate for its information at the same time as the contractual accords with Germany and the protocol linking NATO to the six-nation continental force are submitted for formal ratification . It will be indicated to Congress that the four instructions form parts of a single integrated United States policy . M. Schuman has been directed by the French Cabinet to pass on to Mr. Acheson French dissatisfaction with United States policy with respect to France 's North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by an Asian-African bloc of states to raise questions concerning her stewardship of Morocco during the last United Nations General Assembly and her administration of the Tunisian Protectorate before the Security Council in April . On the other hand , in the Cabinet 's view , the United States has given comfort to extreme nationalist elements in Tunisia by letting it be known that the State Department was urging France to speed a settlement of the Tunisian dispute .                     