@@715121

txt portion missing program of action ready when he takes office . This was indicated in his observations : That the training of Republic of Korea forces can and should he expanded and speeded . That certain problems of military supply " have reached rather serious proportions and require early correction . " That the American people must recognize " that the Korean war is but the most dramatic and most painful phase for us at this moment of our worldwide struggle against Communist aggression . " Fearlessness and determination characterized the general 's statement . It was peppered with such straightforward statements as : " A free citizenry , expecting its soldiers honorably to face the enemy , must itself honestly face reality . " " I return . ? with renewed confidence that a satisfactory solution in Korea can be speeded . " " No more in Korea than anywhere else in the world is honorable peace beyond the power of free men to achieve when they pursue it intelligently and energetically . " " I believe that the architects of aggression can be made to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conflagrations like &ft; Korean conflict elsewhere in the world . " Given Warm Reception In an off-the-cuff talk as he alighted from the Military Air Transport Service Constellation that flew him back from Hawaii , the President-elect said : " Every one of us thinks we have learned something to make this expedition a sort of starting place from where we are going to plan the programs we are going to adopt . And we expect them to be positive programs . Because , you know , my friends , just because one side wants peace does n't make peace . We must go ahead and do things that induce the others to want peace also . " The President-elect 's reception back in New York 15 days after he stole away in the darkness of night under tight security was a warm one . This was evidenced not only in newspaper editorials excoriating President Truman for his classification of the Eisenhower trip last week as " demogoguery , " but in the spontaneous Christmas carol serenade given the general by Barnard College students outside his window at 60 Morningside Drive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general recalled : " The night before last I was in Honolulu . I was sitting in a yard when a group came and sang all about the beaches and the moon and not one Christmas song  --  and I missed it . " Returning on the same plane with General Eisenhower was the future Secretary of State , John Foster Dulles , who reiterated to newspapermen his conviction that the top-level conferences held aboard the cruiser Helena in mid-Pacific last week laid the foundation for policies which " should pay dividends for many years to come . " Eisenhower statement : Page 10 $12 billion item eyed : Page 10                     