@@715657

txt Dave Beck , president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters , has assured the American Federation of Labor that he intends to stay in the federation , it was learned today . As he took his new seat on the A. F. L. executive council a.J thirteenth vice president , Mr. Beck informed federation leaders that at no time had he had any intention of teaming up with John L. Lewis , president of the United Mine Workers , in a third labor federation . There have been reports in recent months that Mr. Beck , Mr. Lewis , David J. of the United Steelworkers of America , and other labor leaders might form their own united front in opposition to the anticipated unity of the A. F. L. and the Congress of Industrial - OrgPni7ntions . Mr. Beck admitted to the council that he had talked with Mr. Lewis  --  as reported  --  but said the matter of an alliance had never come up . In support of his statement of unity with the federation , Mr. Beck informed the council that his union would now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Its entire membership of 1,250,000 . Before it had paid for 650,000 members . By a coincidence , the additional per capita dues to be paid by the teamsters union will just about make up- for the loss of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters , which withdrew unexpectedly from the A. F. L. earlier this week . The carpenters , with an actual membership of 822,500 , were paying for 600,000 . George Meany , A. F. L. president , said today that other federa- tion affiliates had promised to abandon the practice of paying for fewer members than were actually on union membership rolls . Roughly , A. F. L. unions pay the federation 50 cents a year for every member . With the A. F. L. 's actual membership  --  even without the carpenters  --  now nearing the 10,000,000 mark , the annual income of the organization is almost $5,000,000 a year . Among the unions that have agreed to raise their per capita dues are David Dubinsky 's International Ladies Garment Workers and the Hotel and Restaurant Workers . Mr. Dubinsky already has begun to pay for 380,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its coverage to include 350,000 instead of 150,000 . Other unions are expected to follow suit . The seating of Mr. Beck as Thirteenth Vice President of the federation and his voluntary remarks to the members were reported to have encouraged the Council that the A. F. L. was still a going concern . In fact , after his remarks , the feeling began to develop that the federation might be in better health unity-wise than it had at the start of the council meetings , even with the secession of the carpenters . Some of the council members , it was indicated , are now inclined to dismiss the carpenter withdrawal as a move without basic significance . Withdrawal Puzzles Meany At a press conference today , Mr. Meany said he could not see any reason  --  even a weak one  --  for the withdrawal of the carpenters . The reason given by the union was that instead of making a no-rading agreement with the Congress of Industrial Organizations , the council ought to be more concerned with settling jurisdictional disputes between A. F. L. members . Mr. Meany said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them in the Carpenters Union  --  asking for information and indicating surprise at the break . He added that so far as he knew he had received no requests from carpenters ' locals asking for the issuance of direct charters that would permit them to stay in the federation , He explained that in accordance with the federation constitution he had drafted a letter to all A. F. L. state , central and trades bodies , ordering them to disaffiliate carpenters from their lists . If these bodies refuse to obey the directive ' , the A. F. L , could lift their charters and expel them . No Trouble Is Expected However , Mr. Meany said he anticipated no trouble . He said he thought members of A. F. L. building trades Union would still be able to work alongside carpenters , but he acknowledged that the absence of carpenters from building trades ' councils could impede the settlement of on-the-site disputes and collective bargaining with . employers . There was some talk here today that the Carpenters Union would " declare war " on the A. F. L. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But by far the most general feeling was that the carpenters would not be out of the federation for long , and one source predicted they would be back within a year . There was no doubt among the A. F. L. high command that the man really behind the carpenters ' withdrawal was William L. ( Big Bill ) Hutcheson , president emeritus of the union . The union 's president is his son , Maurice A. Hutcheson . It was the withdrawal of the carpenters that permitted Mr. Beck to find a seat on the council . When the carpenters seceded , that left vacant William L. Hutcheson 's First Vice President seat at the council table . The council at once moved all other vice presidents up a notch , leaving vacant the thirteenth vice presidency . That where Mr. Beck came in.                     