@@716459

txt The existence of a dental laboratory racket which grosses millions of dollars each year in the Chicago area was disclosed yesterday . Dr.S.R.Kleiman , president of the Chicago Dental society , Xteinlan estimated that dental laboratories operating in defiance , , of state laws are making 3 to 4 million dollars annually in the area . He said also that Chicago Is serving as the center of a world-wide " mail order " dental laboratory racket . Prospective customers are bombarded with high pressure literature quoting low fees for services supposed to be done only by licensed dentists . Concerned with Dangers " Aside from the ethical considerations of such practices . we are concerned about the serious danger to public health , " said Dr. Kleiman . He reported many laboratories are soliciting business from the public , making impressions for dental plates , and , in some instances , even extracting teeth  --  all violations of the Illinois dental practice act . Some of the dangers involved are pre-cancerous conditions resulting from irritations from poorly fitted dentures , damage to delicate mouth tissue and bone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ materials , Dr. Kleiman said . Trouble Caused Easily " A tooth a fraction of an inch too high in a denture can cause bruises and sometimes throw the entire biting mechanism out of balance . " In several years of investigating , the dental society has compiled complaints concerning 120 laboratories in the area . There are about 400 laboratories in the Chicago area . " It 's a lucrative operation , " Dr. Kleiman said . Leo Lowitz , supervisor of complaints for the state registration and education department , said the state is attempting to fight the racket thru criminal prosecution in County court . " While we 've been successful in getting fines and jail terms for some illegal laboratory operators , the owners seem to consider fines as an item of overhead , " he said . The state official said he plans to file a test case seeking an injunction against a laboratory in a civil suit next month . If the suit is successful , he said subsequent violations would place the operator in contempt of court . The dental society already has proceeded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Judge Frank Padden naming more than 30 laboratories as defendants . It seeks a permanent injunction to prohibit the laboratories f r om practicing dentistry . Jailed for Pulling Tooth In one recent criminal case , Lomita said an operator was fined a total of $500 and sentenced to two months in county jail for extracting a woman 's tooth . Martin Clyde of the TruTone Dental Plate laboratory , 127 N. Dearborn st. , is appealing the sentence . Another case involved II . W. Carter of Watkins Dental laboratory , 11550 Watkins ay. , who was filled $200 and given one year 's probation for making a $40 upper ' Ate for a state investigator . Lowitz said the state is hampered by the fact it has only two investigators it can use full time on dental investigations in the Chicago area .                     