@@718800

txt DULLES SEES PERIL IF ATOM PACT DIES Asks Senate to Ratify New International Agency for Peaceful Development Text of Dulles ' statement will be found on Page 2 , By JOHN W. FINNEY Sneetal to The New York Times , WASHINGTON , May 10 ? John Foster Dulles , Secretary of State , warned the Senate today that rejection of a proposed international atomic energy agency would be disastrous for the United States , Mr. Dulles appeared before two Senate committees to open the Administration 's argument for United.States membership in the agency . Eighty nations , including the five leading atomic powers , participated in drawing up the statute . The agency , an outgrowth of President Eisenhower 's Atomsfor-Peace program , would vide for international pooling of atomic material and technology to advance the peaceful uses of atomic energy . The statute establishing the agency has been submitted to the Senate in the form of a treaty for ratification . Senate Fight Expected The treaty faces considerable opposition in the Senate , particularly from the conservative wing of the Republican party . It is expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examination . It was against this background of Senate opposition that Mr. Dulles spoke to the Foreign Relations Committee and Joint Committee on Atomic Energy . He told the Senators that the United States should not reject an agency it had first proposed . Rejection , he said , would be , " certain to have a very disastrous effect on the prestige and influence of the United States in the world . " The agency , he continued , is " a native American product " that has " caught the imagination of the world . " Mr. Dulles expressed . doubt that the agency would . survive if rejected by the United States , although he said the Soviet ' Onion undoubtedly would try to step into the leadership role in the international endeavor to turn the atom to peaceful purposes . He urged approval of the agency on the principal ground that it would result in " a dramatic speeding-up " of peaceful atomic development and help toward control of atomic armaments . " This agency , " he said , " pro // WAYS ARE PREPARUD by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day of the Skate , world 's third nuclear subtharine . The scene is the Electric Boat Company at Groton , Conn. , where hulls of two other nuclear submarines can be seen in background . qwq beginning of cooperation which could have a favorable impact on the climate of international relations . The splitting of the atom might conceivably lead td a unifying of the now divided world . " The agency , Mr. Dulles said , has a " great potential " for economic development of large areas of the world , for reducing international tension and promoting constructive collaboration . Mr. Dulles emphasized repeatedly that the agency Would have " an effective system of ' safeguards " to insure that development of atomic energy Would " be along peaceful lines in nations receiving aid from the agency . " We must realize , " he said , " that atomic energy materials ' and know-how will spread , agency cr no agency . " But a rapid and unsupervised development of atomic energy without an effective safeguard system raises the specter , he said , of nuclear Weapons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power plants " throughout the world . Mr. Dulles did not advance the agency as a disarmament device in itself .. He said , however , that the agency " can help , in moving toward ? control of nuclear weapons " by demonstrating " the feasibility of controls in a way that will have a constructive impact on negotiations for the regulation and reduction of armaments . " Geie Mixed Reception Mr. Dulles received a mixed reception from the dozen members of the two committees attending the opening hearing . ' From some Senators came outright support for the agency . From others cape skeptical questioning , foreboding potential oppositions A key opposition argument that emerged at the hearing was thet the Atoms-for-Peace objective could be achieved through the present system of bilateral atomic agreements between the United States and foreign nations , without an international agency . This point was raised by two Republican Senators , William F. Knowland of California , minority leader , and John W. Bricker of Ohio . Mr. Dulles ' rebuttal was that the bilateral arrangement was but a " short-term solution " since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turn to only one nation for nuclear materials and technology . Furthermore , he said , a system of bilateral treaties would lead inevitably to competition among the participating nations that would reduce safeguards against military diversion of atomic material . In answer to prospective opposition arguments , Mr. Dulles made these points : IlThe agency will not become a " give-away " organization ' for United States dollars or atomic secrets . The United States will be obligated to pay only its share of the administrative expenses of the agency  --  about $2,000,000 ? in the first year . fliThere is " no appreciable danger " that Communist China will become a member of the agency , since China already is represented by the nationalist Government . cThe control and inspection provisions will . provide safeguards that atomic materials furnished by the United States and other nations will not be diverted to military uses . The fuel distributed by the agenty will not be usable for nuclear weapons To turn the material into weapons Would involve an elaborate and difficult operation that could be detected by agency inspectors . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will be interested in carrying out the control provisions because it is to their mutual interest to prevent atomic ' weapons fibre spreading throughout the world . In view of the uprisings in Poland and Hungary , the " last thing " the Sovia . Union would want is to have nations in its bloc acquire an atomic- military capability . flAtomic materials could , be supplied to Iron Curtain countries , although the United States would have ' " a great deal to say " about which countries received materials and on what terms . If they did not obtain these materials through ? the  --  agency , - the Iron Curtain countries could:get them from the , Soviet- Union : without internationq inspection . gIf amendments are adopted that are objectionable to the United States ; this country can always withdraw from ' . the agency . Amendments can be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the agency 's members .. This provision seemed preferable to allowing a veto by an individual Eighty Nations Signed nation The treaty before the Senate would provide for an . . international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . purposes . The agency was proposed by President ! Eisenhower in his Atoms-for-Peace speech before the United Nations General Assembly on Dec. 8 , 1953 . After nearly three years of negotiation , which ' at first met serious opposition ftom the Soviet Union , the statute creating the agency was agreed on last October and signed by eighty nations . The statute Is before the signatory nations for ratification . It already has been ratified by the Soviet and six other nations . The agency will come into being when the statute has been ratified by eighteen nations , provided three of the five leading nuclear powers are included . These are the United States , Soviet Union , United Kingdom , France and Canada . The ' objective Is to hold the first general conference of the agency this August ' in Vienna , its future headquarters . The agency would provide for neernational sharing , information , skills and maerials for peaceful atomic projects . To drevent , the assistance from be , ng diverted to military pur ' loses , the agency would have a ystem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the United Nations . At first the agency would probably be limited to serving as an exchange house for information , research and training on atomic energy . Eventually it ( might become a world atomic , bank , buying and selling fuels ' for atomic-power plants . Mr. Dulles remarked that the Soviet Union , after an original " negative attitude " toward the agency , was hastening to compete with the United States . for leadership because of the worldwide acclaim that greeted the proposal . At the same time , Mr. Dulles needled the Soviet to increase its material contribution to the agency . The United States has offered to make 5,000 kilograms of uranium fuel available to the agency , while the Soviet has offered only fifty kilograms.                     