@@717758

txt New England Republican leaders , faced with several close November election contests , would eagerly welcome a limited New England campaign appearance by President Eisenhower but generally expressed the opinion , such a visit would not be mandatory to guarantee party success . These views were voiced today following the plea by Senator William F. Knowland ( R ) of California that the President make limited campaign visits to key areas , including New England , in the interest of electing a Republican Congress . An Organizing Job ' Most GOP leaders contacted in New England expressed confidence the party will win several key contests for congressional spots , with President Eisenhower on the ticket . Of course , they were quick to say a presidential campaign visit would enhance the election prospects but they did not wish to press the President to do any barnstorming . Elmer C. Nelson , chairman of the Massachusetts Republican State Committee , said " it will not be necessary for President Eisenhower to leave the White House to assure victory for the party . He can do more right from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be arranged . " Mr. Nelson said so far as the congressional contests are concerned " that is largely an organizing job . " " We know the voter sentiment is for Mr. Eisenhower , " he said , " and our pitch to the voters should be ' if you want Ike , you should be willing to give him a lift by electing those candidates friendly to him . ' " Capital Conference The Massachusetts GOP chairman said he planned to go to Washington next week to confer with Republican representatives in Congress from Massachusetts on the proposal that the congressional campaign be pushed on that basis . At the same time Mr. Nelson said he hoped it could be arranged for President Eisenhower to close the campaign , as he did in 1952 , with an appearance at a Boston Garden rally . In Connecticut , a key New England state , Clarence E. Baldwin , chaiiman of the Connecticut Republican State Central Committee , today said , " Of course , we would always welcome a visit from President Eisenhower but we do not think it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We certainly will not ask him to vary the campaign policy he outlined in his statement explaining his candidacy . " Bush Victory Seen In 1954 Connecticut Republicans retained the 5-to-1 advantage in congressional seats they had fashioned in 1952 . Besides the six House seats at stake in Congress , Senator Prescott Bush ( R ) of Connecticut will also be up for reelection . Mr. Baldwin reported Senator Bush 's popularity ? had been strengthened considerably , due in part to his work in connection with the 1955 floods . Like many other Republicans , as well as many impartial observers , Mr. Baldwin believes the Eisenhower decision to run insures Senator Bush 's reelection . The latter is a strong Eisenhower internationalist . The Connecticut party chairman also asserted the Republican Party has a fighting chance to capture the First Congressional District , now held by Representative Thomas J. Dodd ( D ) of Connecticut , particularly if Mr. Dodd is the Democratic nominee against Senator Bush . Faced with determined Democratic bids to capture two of Maine 's three Republican-held congressional seats , John F. Weston of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said an Eisenhower campaign appearance " would be greatly appreciated . However , I certainly would take no part in any effort to have the President undertake campaign appearances he felt unwise . " Rhode Island View Democratic leaders in Maine are hopeful of capturing the Pine Tree State 's First and Second Districts , and of reelecting Gov . Edmund S. Muskie , Maine 's first Democratic Governor in 20 years . Republican chairman Weston said the outcome would largely depend on the candidates Maine Republicans nominate at the June state primaries . In Rhode Island , Herbert Carkin , GOP state chairman , said " it would be wonderful if President Eisenhower could come here during the campaign . But that is up to the Republican National Committee and chairman Leonard Hall , to be worked out in consultation with President Eisenhower . " " I feel it would be an imposition to ask him to come to Rhode Island . It would be an imposition to ask him to go anywhere if he felt it unnecessary or unwise . " With President Eisenhower on the national ticket , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in many years " to capture one or Rhode Island 's two congressional House seats . These have long been in Democratic hands .                     