@@720028

txt Democratic candidates were reported leading yesterday in twenty of the nation 's thirtytwo gubernatorial elections to be decided Nov. 4 . These were the findings in a I survey of political conditions , as of now , by correspondents of The New York Tines from coast to coast . Several of the races were reported quite close and the indicated leads of individual candidates were regarded as subject to change in the final hectic week of the campaign . If present trends hold , the Democrats would emerge with a net gain of one Governor to snake their strength nationally thirty Democrats to eighteen Republicans . Maine stayed in the Democratic column in its September election . Alaska to Vote Nov. 25 Alaska , soon to be the fortyninth state , will choose its first elective Governor on Nov , 25 . The Democrats appear to have their best chances of put-1 ting new Governors in office in the Republican-held states of California , Ohio and Maryland . The best opportunities for the Republicans to take over gubernatorial chairs occupied by Democrats are in New York and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governorships in Wisconsin , New Hamp. : shire , South Dakota and New Mexico , and for Democraticheld Governorships in Kansas , Iowa and Oregon . The races in New York and California , where switches seem likely , are holding intense national interest because the results well may have a bearing on the 1960 Presidential election . Rockefeller Edge Seen In New York , the signs are that Nelson A. Rockefeller , millionaire Republican making his first bid for elective public office , may displace another millionaire , Governor Harriman , a Democrat completing his first term . If Mr. Rockefeller were to win by a comfortable margin , his leadership of the nation 's largest state with the biggest bloc of votes in the next Republican National Convention inevitably would project him into the limelight as a contender for the Republican nomination . Vice President Richard M. Nixon , for months , has seemed the odds-on favorite to lead his party in the next Presidential contest , but his stock may take a nose dive if the Republican ticket is beaten badly , as seems likely , in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidates is widely scattered  --  with no single outstanding star  --  and it is not impossible that the election in California of Edmilud'G ' ( rat ) Brown as Governor Would make him an attractive possibility , for a top place , on the Democratic ticket . Effect On Knowland By the same token , a victory for Mr.'s:Brown Would wipe out the lingering Republican Presidential hopes Or Senator William F. Knowland , The Senate 's Republican floor leader gave up what looked like almost certain re-election to the Senate to gamble that he could make a better bid for . high , national office from the Governor 's office at Sacramento than from the Senate floor in Washington . Another.G6vernor with Presidential hopes up for re-election this year is G. Mennen Williams , a Democrat heading for a rec ? ord sixth term in Michigan . ' His feat is the more remarkable because Michigan is a , former Republican stronghold that had failed to re-elect any Democratic Governor between the Civil War and the emergence of Mr. Williams on the political scene , The Democrats figure to pick up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State I Controller for ? sixteen years , appears , to have a runaway advantage over a Representative James P. S. ? Devereux , retired Marine Corps brigadier general and hero of the short-lived United States defense of Wake Island against Japanese invaders in the early days of World War II , Michael V. ? DiSalle , picturesque phrase " - making former Federal Price .. Administrator , appears to have the edge ' over Ohio 's Gov . C. William O'Neill , Republican , in another contest likely to add to Democratic strength . Race in Rhode Island Besides New York , the Republicans ' next best chance to replace , a Democratic Governor is in Rhode Island where Christopher Del Sesto , Republican , is challenging the fifth term aspirations of Gov . Dennis J. Roberts . This is a repeat battle from two years ago involving more than the usual bitterness because Governor Roberts 's election in 1956 depended on a Supreme Court decision outlawing certain absentee ballots that had given an unofficial victory to Mr. Del Seat ? , Democratic . incumbents are believed to be ahead , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Iowa and Oregon where Republicans still hope to come from behind , Democrats hope to spring upsets in Wisconsin , New Hampshire , South Dakota and New Mexico , all with Republican Governors at present , The Times correspondent in New Mexico said that the race was too close to indicate a favorite between Gov . Edwin L , Mechem , Republican , and his Democratic challenger , John Burroughs . But Republicans were believed ahead in the other three states in this category . Republicans also were reported ahead and expected to win in Vermont , Nebraska , North Dakota , Idaho , Nevada and Wyoming . Times correspondents ? reported Democrats ahead and likely to win in Connecticut , Pennsylvania , Massachusetts , Colorado , Oklahoma , Tennessee , Arizona and Minnesota . Democratic victories were considered certain in Arkansas , Alabama and Texas , In Georgia and South Carolina , the Democratic candidates were unopposed . Tomorrow : A. national report on the labor vote .                     