@@713369

txt Harold E. Stassen , answering Truman 's campaign speec h , blames slaughter of American service men by Chinese Communists an blunders of Truman administration . Details on page 3 . BY LAURENCE BURD Chicago Tribune Press Service St. Louis , Nov. 4 ? President Truman tonight asked the nation 's voters to elect a Democratic congress Tuesday to insure " peace , progress , and prosperity " and to escape the " disaster of Republican isolationism . " Mr. Truman denounced certain Republicans . without naming them , President Truman and his sister , Mary Jane Truman , after his arrival at Scott Field on way to St. Louis . tame telephoto as " vote hungry politicians " campaigning on a " scare " platform of " lies and tommyrot " about his administration . lie denied G. O. P. charges that the administration is communistic or harbors disloyal officials . The President 's speech , which he delivered at a Democratic rally at Kiel auditorium , where he wound up his 1948 Presidential campaign , harped again on his 1948 theme that the G. 0 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests . " He pictured the Democratic party as the friend of the farmer , the working man , and the business man . It 's $100,000 Speech The Truman speech was broadcast and telecast over an major networks under Democratic party auspices at a cost to the party of about $100,000 . The President , introduced by Democratic National Chairman William M. Boyle Jr. , predicted Missouri will elect Thomas C. Hennings Jr . to the senate and a Democratic delegation in the house . Kennings , who was on the speakers ' platform , seeks to unseat Sen. Donnell , a Republican . Auditorium officials estimated the crowd at 11,000 . The hall was set up to handle more than 13,000 , but 2,000 balcony scats remained empty , Before flying here this afternoon , the President was flanked in Washington bp an unusually heavy guard of secret service agents and local police as a result of the attempt to assassinate him Wednesday in his Blair house residence . 600 St. Louis Guards About 600 guards were assigned to protect him during his stay here , which ends tomorrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day visit . Mr. Truman landed in the White House plane " Independence " at Scott air force base in Illinois at 3:55 p. in . He was welcomed by Joseph M. Darst , St. Louis mayor ; John J. Dwyer , St. Louis Democratic chairman , and Rep. Melvin Price D. , Ill . . About 500 air force men watched the arrival from behind a steel fence . Passes were required for admittance to the field . Plans for Presidential inspection of the field were canceled after the Blair house shooting The 20 mile route from the field into St. Louis was lined with uniformed police , and Mr. Truman 's closed car was sandwiched between carloads of guards . Boyle Delayed at Hotel At the Jefferson hotel , reporters and others ' were barred until Mr. Truman had been escorted to his suite . Among those left standing outside was Boyle . Mr. Truman was a guest of local party officials at a reception before dinner . The President in his speech contended that his program of internationalism , including armed intervention in Korea , is the road @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ambition . " " Our victory in Korea , " he said , without referring to recent reverses there , " is the greatest step toward world peace that has been taken in my lifetime . " The President said what he called isolationism and prosperity are the main issues in the election . He reported that some Republicans have supported his " bipartisan " foreign policy , but that others have tried to make foreign affairs a " partisan political issue . " " One of Them In Illinois " Mr. Truman , in calling for defeat of isolationist candidates for congress , departed from his text to remark that " one of them is right over here in Illinois . " Aids said he apparently referred to Everett M. Dirksen , Republican candidate to unseat Sen. Lucas . Continuing his attack on isolationists , he said : " They have dragged our foreign policy into polities . They want us to shut ourselves off from the rest of the world and abandon our friends and allies . Any sensible man knows that such a course would be an open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world . If that should happen , tha United States would be eft alone to face the threat of communist aggression . And the forces of communism would have the man power and resources of all of Europe , Asia , and Africa to use against us . Warns of " Suicide " Vote " That is the kind of disaster the isolationists would lead us into . A vote for isolationism in this election would be a vote for national suicide . This is the time to stand up and let the whole world know that we are going to stick with the other free nations in the struggle against communism . " Mr. Truman said the Democratic party deserves credit for what he called the " greatest period of prosperity the world has ever seen " and for fighting . the corn : munist menace at home . " It is the Democratic party that has prosecuted communism under the law and now has the communist leaders on the way to jail , " he said . " It is a Democratic administration that has strengthened and united @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fight against communism  --  to stand up and fight in Korea , and to win a smashing victory over communist aggression . " None of these plain facts has any effect on certain vote hungry Republican politicians . They go right on with their campaign of lies . Of course , they do n't believe it themselves . " Party of the Peqple " " These Republican . politicians have maliciously and falsely made charges of disloyalty against some of our finest public servants ? in congress and in the executive branch of the government . These Republican politicians have been willing , in their desperate pursuit of this false issue , to undermine their own government at a time of great national peril . They have been willing to destroy the United Nations . They have attacked the bipartisan foreign policy . They have lost all proportion , all sense of restraint , all sense of patriotic decency . " I say to you that politicians who are willing to do that  --  politicians who are willing even to condone such disgraceful acts  --  are not to be trusted with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going to be fooled . The American people know the Republican party has been taken over by the special interests . They know the DeMocrats are the party of the people . " Mr. Truman accused the Republican party of fighting " every step of the ' Fay " ' against Democratic moves to make the nation prosperous . He said the farmers should thank the Democrats for farm conditions today , as contrasted with those of 1932 . He said the Demo &zits; have brought farmers higher prices , saved their lands and homes , and brought them electric power thru federal projects . Using his favorite tag for the 80th congress as the " Republican , no-good , do-nothing " congress , Mr. Truman accused that body in 1947 and 1948 of trying to " tear down what we had done for the farmer . " Cites High Employment He said the workingman , like the farmer , has profited under Democratic administrations . He said empleyment is high , wages are up , and the administration is working for strong labor unions . He said the Republican " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , unemployment , - and weak unions . " " The 81st Democratic controled congress raised the minimum wage from 40 cents an hour to 75 cents an hour , " the President continued . " The 81st congress put a stop to the Republican effort to undermine the labor unions . And , just as sure as I am standing here , we are eventually going to get rid of the union busting provisions of the Taft-Hartley law . " Hits Claims on Business The President said the Republican party long has claimed it was " good for business . " He called this a false claim and said business profits under the Democrats have advanced to a rate of more than 40 billion dollars a year , compared with an aggregate net loss of 3 billions in 1932 . " Now the Republicans are facing an impossible task , " he said . " They are trying to win an election with a record they are ashamed to admit and a program they want to conceal . " What the Republican leaders ' ealry want to ' do is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fair Deal . Therwant to turn the country over to the special interests te-nin as they please . But , of course , the Republicans do n't dare to tell the people that . " So they have been trying to scare the people  --  to scare the.1.10 so they wil ) forget the terrible record of the Republican party . " As usual , they are trying to scare us by saying that the country is oh the brink of . disaster ? that the end is in sight . But nobody is going to fall for that line of tommyrot at . a time when the country is more prosperous than it has ever been and 62 million men and women have jobs . "                     