@@717089

txt President Eisenhower disclosed today that Mrs. Oveta Culp Hobby might have to quit his Cabinet soon for personal reasons . He emphasized her decision was unrelated to criticism of her handling of the Salk anti-poliomyelitis campaign . The President at first declined at his news conference to discuss Democratic criticism of his Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare for her part in the lagging program of mass inoculation against infantile paralysis . His disclosure of her possible resignation came in a different context . But he was unstinting in his praise of her direction of the anti-polio effort . " I think she has done a mighty magnificent job , " the President said . " If she has to go , I will be very , very disappointed . " New Suspension Foreseen The President asserted that Mrs. Hobby had put him on notice weeks before the furor over the distribution and testing of the Salk vaccine that her husband 's failing health might necessitate her resignation as a member of his official family . William P. Hobby , former Texas Governor , was recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President was praising Mrs. Hobby , Federal public health officials foresaw another suspension in the mass vaccination of school children unless additional vaccine was cleared soon . No more vaccine will be released until some time next week , the Public Health Service said . The decision to withhold further release of vaccine was made in order to permit teams of scientists now studying two commercial laboratories to get together over the week-end and review what has been done to date . The scientists will return to the National Institute of Health at near-by ' Bethesda , Md. , to study the vaccine and the manufacturing and testing processes of Wyeth Laboratories of Marietta , Pa. , and the Pittman-Smith Company of Zionsville , Ind . Further Review Slated A spokesman said that tills , action meant only that the Health Service desired that the scientists compare notes on problems uncovered to date and review findings . In Pittsburgh . Dr. Salk said that cases of polio reported after inoculations were " coincidental , " according to The Associated Press . " Expectations about the vaccine should be adjusted to its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Scheele , Surgeon General of the United States Public Health Service , said that the new delay " should not be inferred as reflecting in any way on the vaccine of the companies whose manufacturing and testing processes are under study . " " Nothing has been found wrong with any vaccine from Wyeth , " it was said at the National Institutes . The action in no way affects the vaccine released after double-checking the laboratories of Parke , Davis &; Co. of Detroit and the Eli Lilly Company of Indianapolis , a spokesman said . These two laboratories were cleared on some 7,850,000 cubic centimeters of the vaccine . Much of this amount already has been injected in the mass immunization program . The fifth laboratory producing vaccine , Sharpe &; Dohme , Company of Glen Alden , Pa. , also must Ve checked . No date has been set for refi sumption of Federal testing of vaccine produced at the two lab-I oratories already cleared in the current reappraisal of manufacturing processes and tests . Another suspension would set back further the inoculation of first and second grade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Infantile Paralysis . The ' Federal officials were hopeful however , that sufficient vaccine  --  would be- , gin to flow freely by at least June 1 . President Eisenhower confirmed that plans were under way in some states for summer clinics to try to assure that the , first and second graders received second shots before the height of the polio season , in mid-August A report he received today said there was sufficient vaccine on hand for first shots , he said . That was the only supply estimate he had , he added . ' Incompetency ' Charge Raised President Eisenhower 's defense of Mrs. Hobby was made when a reporter asked him for comment on an accusation by Senator Wayne Morse of " gross incompetency " against the Secretary , coupled with a demand that she be removed from office . " Mrs. Hobby placed me on notice some months ago that conditions might arise that would compel her to leave Government , " the President said . It was understood that Mrs. Hobby had talked with the President at least two months ago about the condition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announcement of the Salk vaccine 's early success in 1954 . She was said to have told the President that despite her desire to stay she would have no other recourse if her husband 's condition became worse . The President was understood to have expressed appreciation of her position and to have said that he would have to bow to her wishes . Friends said that she would not quit under fire from Capitol Hill and that she wanted to see the polio program through the present crisis . The length of her continuing in office , however , depended upon her husband 's health and his wishes . Friends said her resignation was not imminent but that perhaps a final decision might be made in a month or six weeks . President Eisenhower viewed Mrs. Hobby as " a symbol of something in which I deeply believe : that properly trained women of this country are just as capable of carrying heavy executive jobs as men . " She proved as Secretary , he said , " all of the good opinion that was built up about her in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ WAAC was fully justi'fled . " Her " counsel in the places of Government has been eagerly sought a person of great character , " he concluded . Morse Assails President He dismissed Senator Morse 's charges with " I do n't think I would waste , my time " ' on them . Senator Morse retorted with a statement that " it is to be expected that President Eisenhower would defend . Secretary Hobby 's mishandling of the Salk vaccine program because he too is implicated in her gross negligence . " The Oregon Democrat reiterated his criticism of the safety tests on the vaccine and said that the President " can not excuse his failure to see to it that his Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare did a competent job . " The President also asserted that " in this whole Salk vaccine business he thought Americans were forgetting one thing : " The thanks we owe to tremendous groups of scientists , devoted doctors , people that have worked night and day , including the people in the Public Health Service to bring us this great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Mrs. Hobby , he said , was " merely the agent of these great scientists and doctors " in working out the voluntary Federalstate plan to see - " that those people who need it first , the children , would get it first . " The scientists , he continued , always have maintained the standard of safety to make certain they would protect the lives of children . In commenting on the problem of carrying out the first and second shots for children after schools recessed for the summer , he said : " If some of the shots are not given by the time school is out , particularly in the South , their plan is to set up days for meeting , either at the school houses or other places where these shots will be given . " Dr. Scheele and other officials testified before the Senate Labor Committee . They said there might be a sixty to ninety day delay in fulfilling the national foundation 's contract for 18,000 , - 000 cubic centimeters or enough for two shots apiece to 9,000,000 children . Generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might be late fall or early winter before all of the 5-through-9 age group of children who have top priority could be vaccinated . The voluntary Federal-state distribution plan becomes effective after the national foundation 's program is completed . The states then will try to complete the 5-through-9 age children not included in the foundation 's first and second grade program . This timetable would put the start of inoculations for the next priority group , age 1 through 4 , almost at the end of the year . The Public Health Service added three to its list of confirmed polio cases among vaccinated persons , This brought to seventy-seven the number of confirmed cases . Two new cases were reported from Pennsylvania in those who had received vaccine made by Wyeth Laboratories . The other case was in Loigsiana after vaccination with the product of the Eli Lilly Company . The health service now has fifty-nine confirmed cases in persons who received the vaccine of the Cutter Laboratory of Berkeley , Calif. , thirteen after use of Lilly vaccine and five after use of the Wyeth product . An @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 