@@715068

txt Alger Hiss was denied his request for release on parole . ? * : ; z , , i today . H i s s , former state department official and former president of Carnegie Endowment for In ternational Peace , is serving a five year term in the federal Hiss prison in Lewisbur g , Pa. , for perjury to conceal Russian espionage . Hiss has served one-third of his sentence . Denial of his parole application means he probably will remain in prison two more years . He can renew his application for parole every six months . Hiss has been in Lewisburg a year and eight months . He can be released automatically for good behavior after serving three years atri eight months . One Sentence Decision The decision of the five member parole hoard today was unanimous . The boare 's action was made public in a one sentence announcement by Dr. George G. Killinger , chairman . " In the matter of the application for patole for Alger Hiss , the bond of parole , after a careful consideration of the official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said . Dr. Killinger conducted a hearing on the Hiss petition at Lewisburg 1.3 days ago . Hiss made his plea in person at a session which last ed an hour . The hearing came after Hiss had been an issue in the Presidential campaign . Gov . Stevenson of Illinois , Democratic Presidential candidate , had been a voluntary character witness for Hiss at the latter 's first trial . President Elect Eisenhower had served with Hiss briefly on the board of the peace foundation . John Foster Dulles , state secretary designate , had been instrumental in getting Hiss the foundation post . All Deny Intimacy In the campaign all denied in , timacy with Hiss , who was the political protege of Supreme Court Justice Frankfurter . Hiss began his government career in the agriculture department in 1933 where Stevenson served . He rose to sit beside Franklin D. Roosevelt at the Yalta conference in 1945 . Dulles and Hiss became acquainted when Hiss was secretary general of the United Nations founding conference in San Francisco in 1945 . During his service with the endowment , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ un-American activities . Whittaker Chambers , a confessed courier for a communist spy ring , testified Hiss gave him secret government documents to forward to Moscow . First Trial Falls The congressional investigation was marked by dramatic confrontments and by sensational charges and denials , Hiss was charged with perjury . The drama continued in two trials . The first ended in a jury disagreement and accusations that the presiding judge had favored the defense . The second ended in conviction . Hiss became eligible for parole Friday . The hearing was held at the prison in advance of that date . Since the hearing the members of the parole board have received more than 50,000 letters and tele. grams . It was understood most of t e communications insisted that serve the maximum time .                     