@@719838

txt A number of developments have occurred which seem to be encouraging a mild , very cautious optimism among Poles that the Kremlin would like the tension between East and West to subside . Among these developments they list : The Soviet proposal to Belgrade for talks over Yugoslav objections to Moscow 's cancellation of investment credits promised for Yugoslav industrial projects . If Agreement between the East Germans and Yugoslays to increase trade between the two countries from 50 to 68 million dollars . 1j The joint ? Bulgarian-Hungarian statement that in spite of ideological differences , Hungary and Bulgaria favor good neighborly relations with Yugoslavia . 11 The fact that Soviet experts are in Geneva discussing nuclear test detection with Western powers as a prelude to an agreement on banning further tests . If The simple enough but in this modern world possibly significant fact that the Soviets have just opened up a second tourist route into the Soviet Union from Finland via Leningrad . Studied With Caution Some of these are not insubstantial things and the Poles , without overestimating them , are nonetheless pondering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the first swallows of a more propitious summer . The Poles refuse to believe that the Kremlin authorized the trial of former Hungarian Premier Imre Nagy in order to wreck the prospect of a summit conference . They think the Kremlin still wants one . Their belief seems also to be that this desperate measure was determined by compulsive forces inside the Soviet Union itself . It is too incredible , they say , to assume that the Soviets were content to risk so much in diplomatic gain and standing in the uncommitted world and in large sections of the Western World , too , for an act which they knew would set the free world in an uproar . Something else forced Premier Nikita S. fthrushehev 's hand . It appears that Mr. Khrushchev retains much Polish confidence as advocate and architect of relaxation both inside the Soviet Union and its adjacent Eastern European bloc . But the Poles believe there are other forces and groups by no means limited to the frequently cited " conservatives " which sometimes support his opponents in sufficient strength to push him to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Nagy case perhaps was one of the latter occasions when pressure from Peking in the campaign against " revisionists " and against Mr. Khrushchev was added to that of his adversaries in Moscow . Meanwhile , rumors here of a week ago have collapsed . Reports of Soviet troop movements related to pressures on the position of Polish Party Chief Wladyslaw Gomulka have been scouted by Western observers , who are allowed the free run of this country but who noted nothing beyond the normal of ordinary summer training exercises . And Mr. Gomulka is still the undisputed leader of party and country . The consensus here on his speech of June 28 , in which he categorically and unreservedly reaffirmed Poland 's place inside the " socialist camp " and asserted Mr. Nagy 's responsibility for the threatened disruption of the Hungarian Communist state , did not cause the acute disappointment here some had foreshadowed . For all its sharpness against the West and its rebuff to the Yugoslays , his speech is regarded as having cleared the air and satisfied the Soviet Union without identifying Poland in any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Responsible Poles with whom this writer has spoken at length do not deny the existence of a certain Soviet " pressure " on Poland , but claim that as in the Nagy case , for example , it is of a psychological nature and not in the shape of a political or military threat . Dependence Noted They declared that none  --  the West and President Tito included  --  should be surprised that Mr. Gomulka took so definitive a stand inside , the Soviet bloc . He did so , they insist , because he . is genuinely convinced that therein lies Poland 's interest and that . this country can not overlook , its dependence upon the Soviet Union both for economic support and for the security of its Western territories which the Soviet Union alone among a all the powers has guaranteed against a Germany which the Poles still distrust . Equally they assert that Mr. Gomulka will stand as firrmly on Poland 's internal reforms established after October , 1956 , from the same deep conviction that these are what the country needs . They denied that Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mere tactical maneuver in order to keep the Soviet hand off internal changes which have brought the Poles a restricted freedom and permits them to voice their deepest opinions with an intelligent and frank forcefulness unknown elsewhere in Eastern Europe or even in Yugoslavia . It is not complete freedom which , at this juncture in Poland , would be anarchy . But it is enough to give this city and its people a vitality which is the most encouraging and hopeful thing I have seen after long observation of Communist-governed societies . Related stories : Page 4                     