@@713873

txt The Truman administration today was preparing to ask congress for a new 10 billion dollar foreign aid program aimed at bolstering the lagging military machines of the nation 's Atlantic pact partners in western Europe . The request for the new grant , expected to go to Capitol Hill within a week , is expected to touch off a new congressional debate on the administration 's strategy of pouring thousands of troops and billions of dollars into the 12 nation Atlantic alliance framework , Senators have expressed concern during the hearings on the ouster of Gen. that President Truman and his adviser : z have committed a strategic error of global proportions by following a Europe-first defense policy instead of going all-out to win 1 he Korean war and build up home defenses . Blame British Influence Senators have charged that the European pact partners , particularly Britain , have sold Mr. Truman on giving Europe priority for American arms and troops with the resulting danger of inadequate tomes in the far east , where the actual fighting is taking place . Support for these charges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admitted they orposed the strategy for a knockout blow against the communist enemy in Korea . Some members of congress and military experts fear that the administration is playing into Russian hands by bowing to the British demands that Europe be garrisoned by the United States . These authorities fear that American troops and arms being shipped to Europe under the Atlantic pact will be swallowed up by the soviet army if and when the Kremlin chooses to march thru Europe . The failure of pact allies to match or even approach American defense efforts , even to defend their native soil , is creating increasing concern on Capitol hill . European Efforts Lag Altho the Atlantic pact , pledging each of the 12 nations to increase its military might for mutual defense , . went it:to effect nearly two years ago , the European members have lagged so far behind that Gen. Eisenhower found only eight divisions available when he took over the pact army command this year . The Eisenhower force includes two United States divisions , two British , three French , one Belgian , and one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pledged four more divisions , and additional units have been promised , but are yet to come , from other pact partners . At best , Gen. Eisenhower hopes to build an army of 50 divisions by 1953. from the pact nations which include , besides those mentioned , Canada , the Netherlands , Luxemburg , Iceland , Ytaly , and Portugal . Military authorities have estimated that Russia could roll across western Europe in three or four weeks against the present forces assigned to Eisenhower . These authorities say Russia could send 83 division into the battle within a month , and could double that force in a few additional months . Western Europe Disheartened Faced with this Russian strength , the continental nations of western Europe have become discouraged and have shown an unwillingness to go all-out to arm against the Russian threat , a special senate subcommittee reported , recently . The report of the subcommittee headed by Sen. McCarran ED. , Nev. conflicted sharply with claims by Gen. Eisenhower and the administration that Europe was enthusiastically joining the defense buildup as pledged under the Atlantic alliance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survey of Europe , found that most of Europe , while enjoying a boom sparked by American dollar aid , was not giving top priority to defense production as Americans have been required to do by the Truman administration . Warns Against New Outlays The report warned against substantial increases in United States military aid to Europe unless and until . European nations/show a will to match American efforts for defense . The survey , which covered all European pact partners except ' Britain and the Scandinavian countries , said : " There is no avoiding the fact that none of these countries has felt sufficient determination to defend itself , regardless of the action others might take ; to undertake an economic mobilization in its own interest without waiting for a master plan or assurance that its neighbors would do likewise . " Altho Europe has been reluctant to rearm and has looked to the United States to take the lead in her defense , Gen. Eisenhower has surrounded himself with a predominantly European staff of top aides in the spacious estate outside of Paris he selected for the pact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of lire pact force Eisenhower has installed British Field Marshal Montgomery , whose generalship against the Germans in World War II was widely criticized . For 20 other high staff posts , Eisenhower has named five British , five French , one Italian , one Norwegian , one Danish , and seven United States officers . This gives Europe a 2 to 1 predominance over the United States on the staff of the international army . Eisenhower , as head of a 12 nation force , occupies a position never before held by an American general . He is subject to a supranational authority vested in the pact governments , rather than to the United States government . He has described himself as " onetwelfth American " under this arrangement . The 12 pact nations will sit as bosses over Eisenhower with a bewildering array of boards and advisory committees under plans announced earlier this month by the treaty nations in London . Four Boards Proposed The plan calls for a supersupreme headquarters , called the North Atlantic council , to consist of the presidents and prime ministers or any ministers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planning board , The council 's full time agent will be a group of 12 permanent deputies sitting in London . Four other boards , for military planning , defense production , finance and economics , and shipping will serve under the council . Gen. Eisenhower and his command fall under the jurisdiction of the military planning board , two steps down the ladder from the top council . The council and its various branches plan to hire a London staff of several hundred persons to make studies and handle paper work . It plans to get funds for this work from an international budget to which the 12 pact nations will contribute . The Atlantic pact was ratified by the senate July 21 , 1949 , after extensive hearings in which State Secretary Acheson assured congress that it would not involve substantial American troop commitments to Europe . Deny Need for 0 . K. Less than two years after this assurance was given , President Truman , Acheson , and defense chiefs announced plans to send at least four divisions to Europe and contended troops could be sent abroad without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his position was that the Korean war and other world events had created a new situation . The key portion of the 12 nation agreement is article 5 , which commits the United States to defend Europe if Russia attacks . This article says than an armed attack on any pact nation shall be considered an attack against all , and pledges each to take action , including the use of arms , to restore security in the North Atlantic area .                     