@@713169

txt For more than an hour today United Nations delegates met in private with Jacob A. Malik and tried without any success to convince him he should change Soviet tactics in the Security Council . The private meeting , held here behind guarded doors , was the majority 's last effort to try to persuade Mr. Malik that he was blocking the council 's machinery by refusing to rule on the seating of a South Korean representative . The delegates went into the meeting with little hope and came out with none . Mr. Malik was quite jovial and more pleasant than he has been in public . But over and over he gave the same answer he was in " no position " to rule on the seating of the South Korean . Some United Nations sources took that as a hint that new Soviet instructions were on their way from Moscow , but as he left Lake Success tonight Mr. Malik refused to confirm that idea . The net result of the private meeting of the Security Council was that the non-Soviet delegates resigned themselves to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procedure . But the United States and other Western delegations were reported planning on switching the emphasis from legalisms by making a series of strong speeches on the Korean war and the Soveit role in it . On the procedural side , Western strategy was said to be to press Mr. Malik time and again to make his ruling on the South Korean representation . The Soviet delegate is avoiding the ruling because he knows a challenge will defeat it . His plan of operation is to force a vote on the Soviet move to give a hearing to North and South Koreans or to force the majority to present their own motion for hearing South Korea alone , a motion he has said he has the right to veto . Today 's first move in the Council 's battle of procedure came in the morning when nine Council delegates met , for the second time in two days . The meeting place was the small office of Sir Gladwyn Jebb , British delegate , in the United Kingdom delegation 's headquarters on the sixty-first floor , of the Empire State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council members but Russia and Yugoslavia  --  talked some more of possible courses of action against the probability that Mr. Malik would stand firm . Five ideas were put forward yesterday by the United States , with the suggestion that the other delegates present their own . The more drastic ideas  --  electing a new president by changing the rules , calling a special General Assembly session , adjourning for all of August  --  were said to have met little approval . Other Projects Weighed Other ideas still being considered  --  although the final decision may be against any of them  --  include a call for the appointment of a special Council committee on Korea , which would not be under the Malik presidency . After the meeting in the United Kingdom office , the nine delegates left for Lake Success , where they had asked Mr. Malik to meet with them before the regular 3 P. M. Council session . The - idea of the request was to see if Mr. Malik would prove more amenable in private than he had been in public . The informal meeting here was held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Council chamber , which was already beginning to fill . Guards were posted at the door ; the blinds were drawn , and the hallway was cleared of everybody but photographers and newspapermen . The meeting was not listed as a regular Council session and aside from Secretary General Trygve Lie , only two Secretariat members were allowed in  --  both interpreters . Mr. Malik presided and away from the kleig lights and television cameras the meeting went a good deal faster than usual . Sir Gladwyn , British delegate , was a sort of unofficial majority spokesman . He told Mr. Malik that the delegates felt that the Soviet was acting against the rules by refusing to make a decision on seating the South Koreans and summed up all of the majority 's arguments . Malik 's Position Given Mr. Malik gave his answer . He said that the Soviet Union considered the June 25 decision to seat the South Koreans illegal since Russia had not attended that meeting ; therefore , he was not in a position not to rule on it . He added that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and South . And he said that if the majority wanted to act on its own to present a motion to hear just South Korea , that would be all right . Implicit , though , was the threat to veto such a move . That showed where things stood , but Warren R. Austin , Vermont Republican who represents the United States , made one more plea o make the ruling demanded by the majority . When delegates left the room , they said the same thing in a variety of ways : " No progress . " Dr. Ales Bebler , Yugoslav delegate , startled one questioner by announcing : " We agreed . " But the Yugoslav clarified things by adding : " To disagree . "                     