@@720122

txt Argentina is passing through a moral crisis that may be even more serious than its financial dilemma , in the view of many observers here . As is internationally known , this country faces major economic and financial difficulties . The government is seeking dollar loans to recuperate , and President FrOndizi will travel to the United States  --  the first Argentkne chief executive to do so  --  this coming January to set the seal on this expected cooperation . The national affliction , wounding pride as well as pocket , is clue basically to the mismanagement and corruption of the decade of PerOn dictatorship . It is doubtful if anyone will ever be able to compute the material damage perpetrated during that . tyranny . Suffice it to say that the nation was convert ed from a state of affluence to virtual beggary . Corrupt Practices But this is a familiar story . The unwritten story is that of the untold damage to the moral fiber of the people through the corrupt practices which were almost openly encouraged by the ruling gang of the dictatorship . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of illicit , corporate or personal enrichment , Only men and women of stout character survived in public office at any level without succumbing to what became the common practices ? not merely the temptations  --  of the clay . Corruption was also synonymous with survival in many , many departments of private ac-tivity , Mo  --  arlity did not fade away altogether , of course . Otherwise there would have been nn revolution , with liberating leadership found in both military and civil quarters , and there would be no constitutional restoration today . But it has to be related that corruption still persists and permeates national life at all social levels . It is the moral crisis of Argentina  --  the confession of the government itself and defined in a form that leaves no doubt it is more serious in many ways than that connected with the imbalance of foreign payments or of the national budget . Many observers believe the gravity of this moral crisis lies in the fact that . the people themselves seem to have lost their power of initiative , their capacity to recuperate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living on or by a government which was never worthy of its name . improvement Sighted Latin America , of course , has not a good record , but , with the advance of education , it is steadily improving in the matter of eublic and private corruption . Foreigners , whethel ' they be businessmen or journalistic observers , do not care to refer to the painful subject unless on the basis . of official statement or irrefutable proof . Seldom , however , has a nation been more conscious of its evil presence than in the case of Argentina today . The occasion for plain speaking about it today is the inauguration of the official program of economies and austerity . The newspapers are full of budgetary and import slashes , telling of sacrifices reaching into all businesses and homes . Twenty million people , temporarily at least , have to switch from the easy to the hard ways of living . But , difficult as the task is in the fiscal sense , it , is nothing compared with the moral problem , This is a rich country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as domestic money available for cooperation in a sound recovery program . There is a natural sympathy with . and disposition to aid , the new and democratic government as it struggles in the financial morass left by the dictatorship , But only the people themselves can surmount the moral crisis . ? owever , let the government speak for itself in this Matter : " The country is suffering from a grave moral crisis . As a result of long years of departure from the fundamental standards community association and of abusive practices which are contrary to social ethics , an atmosphere has been created of general indifference to the duties of the individual toward the community . " This indifference is expressed in many ways , from lack of respect for democratic rules to the taking of unlawful advantage of public office , which threatens to be converted into an endemic evil of our administration . " These deep-rooted evils will take time to eradicate , but it is imperative and vital , for the health and the very future of the nation to begin the coM- ? bative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : be . carried into all places and . con-. ducted at all opporttlnitics to inculcate the ' idea of duty : to a society which has no con. ; sciousncsS of the gravity of the situation . Example Eat pha.sized ' ' ' rhe example should come from above  --  from the govern-. ment itself . This should . impart the necessary moral and effective power to ensure taking the right path and to apply the . corresponding sanctions . " By its own action and its spreading influence , the regener- .. ation of the public office will be transmitted to the schools , the trade unions , to the business sutlers : ' and to every channel of social life . " There can not be the slightest doubt regarding the final result because the majority of Argon-tines fervently desire to live ac-Cording to these ethical stand- , ards . With this faith and security the executive will see through to the end the plan of rationali , zation and austerity , These are the carefully chosen words of the government President Fronclizi as it ? intro ... @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the ' Many citizens and : residents the country who arc conscious . of this moral crisis which y the regime is deterMined , to ? re solve thrciugh its own exiiniple.                     