@@713473

txt President Truman will turn the country toward total mobilization tomorrow and will appoint Charles E. Wilson , president of the General Electric Company , as supreme director of the vast war production effort . Mr. Wilson has agreed to take the post . The President will talk to the people of this country and of the world tomorrow night , telling them he will proclaim a state of emergency . He will also outline a mobil. ization effort designed to cope with the most formidable aggression that may develop out of the world crisis . Tomorrow promised to be the historic turning point in this country 's policy of seeking to prevent World ' War III by building up our sinews at home and creating situations of strength wherever aggression appears . Drastic Actions Planned The speech tomorrow night and drastic acts that will follow on Saturday and ensuing days will be Mr. Truman 's answer to those critics at home who have complained that the mobilization effort is too feeble . The talk will be at least as harsh as any of his others in putting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war . The proclamation of a state of emergency forecast earlier this week will be issued by the President Saturday . After that will come economic controls more drastic than anything yet predicted . Mr. Wilson will be the man who will tell the blunt story of the requirements after he takes over as head of the mobilization effort . All control units now dispersed in several Government departments will be centralized in the war production agency that will have the scope and powers of the War Production Board of World War II . Mr. Wilson will head this agency and only President Truman will be his boss . Authoritative sources said tonight that the application of controls on a selective basis would begin immediately . Apparently only the lack of administrative and enforcement machinery stood in the way of a total freeze of prices and wages , and complete controls of raw materials . Truman Plans Heavy Wallop Intimates of the President predicted that he wanted more than the psychological effect of a declaration of emergency . They said that he wanted to pack a heavy wallop against the Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of automobiles , refrigerators , radios , washing machines , television sets , and the conversion of the raw materials for such goods into great stockpiles of munitions . Behind-the-scene moves in the last few days brought Mr. Wilson forward as the topmost mobilizer of war production . Hitherto it had been said in high Administration quarters that W. Stuart Symington , chairman of the National Security Resources Board , would sit as an umpire between the head of the central production agency and the President . He was viewed as holding the role of James F. Byrnes when the latter headed the Office of War Mobilization in World War II and also was known as the " Assistant President . " When the production job was of ? fered to Mr. Wilson , however , he said that he would take it on condition that he would have no assistant chairman and that he have direct access to Mr. Truman . He was said to feel that if he were to operate the program he could noil work effectively otherwise . The President agreed to this , and it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Security Resources Board and in the planning and advisory role he now has on Mr. Truman's.White House staff . Thus Mr. Wilson will have the dual role of being the Donald M. Nelson ( chairman of the War Production Board in . World War II ) and the Byrnes of the new crisis . In World War II-Mr . Wilson was executive vice chairman of the War Production Board and was credited with a leading role in mobilizing industry . Wilson Appointment Hailed The report of Mr. Wilson 's appointment was hailed in the business communities here and in New York . It was said that the effect of his appointment , ' plus the declaration of the emergency , would now make it easy to get industrialists and other skilled men to take the many key mobilization jobs that have to be filled . The organization of the new production agency was still unan nounced . However , the National Production Authority under William H. Harrison is expected to become a part of it . The Economic Stabilization Agency , headed by Alan Valentine , which is concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ separate agency , ? following the pattern of the Office of Price Administration of World War IL The National Production Authority is now ' in the Commerce Department for houlekeeping purposes . Similar units in the Agriculture Department now working on the control and allocation of foodstuffs and agricultural machinery also will be transferred to the central agency . Likewise the defense administrations dealing with fuel , power , petroleum and metals will be taken out of the Interior . . Department . Mr. Truman will announce tomorrow night that Mr. Harrison and Mr. Valentine have been directed to apply whatever controls they deem necessary and as soon as possible . The President already has authority to do this under the Defense Production Act of 1950 , and he will gain even more after he issues his emergency proclamation Saturday . Among the new powers under the proclamation will be the right to recapture any of about 400 World - War II war plants sold to private industry and the letting of contracts by negotiation rather than bidding . As he prepared for the momentous actions , Mr. Truman was reported to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Judge Justin Miller , who called on the President today with a large delegation of the Broadcast Advisory Council of the National Association of Broadcasters , was asked how they had found him . " I 'd say he was in a very optimistic mood and , in a courageous mood , " Judge Miller replied . Mr. Truman also told the broadcasters that the world situation was " very serious " and reiterated that the United Nations forces in Korea would not leave that peninsula unless they were pushed out . The President continued today his consultations with national leaders , seeking their views and giving some indications of what was in store . tomorrow . Mesta With Capitol Leaders He began the day with a long session with Congressional leaders  --  Republicans as well as Democrats , the chairman of key committees and the ranking Republicans of such committees . Administration officials were there , too , including Gordon Dean , chairman of ? the Atomic Energy Commission , whose program for producing atomio and hydrogen bombs is being accelerated . The members of Congress expressed a variety of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and it was . apparent that Mr. Truman had not told them all that he planned to say tomorrow . Some , like Senator Burnet R. Maybank , Democrat of South Carolina , chairman of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee , said that he hoped the President would declare an emergency and apply as many controls as could now be administered . Senator Charles W. Tobey of New Hampshire , ranking Republican of that committee , urged on the other hand the application of complete wage and price controls , putting the people and industry on their honor to observe them pending the organization of the administrative machinery . In meeting the members of Congress , Mr. Truman had on hand Mr. Symington , Mr. Valentine , Leon H. Keyserling , chairman of the - Council Economic Advisers ; W. Averell Harriman , his special assistant , and Dr. John R. Steelman , assistant to the President . Then in the afternoon Mr. Truman , at a meeting of the National Security Council , reviewed all aspects of the world situation and the production and military effort that has to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             