@@712790

txt The FBI file on the man whom Senator Joseph McCarthy ( R ) of Wisconsin has accused of being the " top Soviet espionage agent " in the United States has been shown to thelTydings subcommittee . Its contents , according to well-informed sources , do not support the sweeping charge made by ? Senator McCarthy . They do , it is understood , contain some unfavorable information on the individual , but nothing that could reasonably be interpreted as showing him to be a Soviet spy , much less the " top Russian espionage agent . " Senator McCarthy has said that he was prepared to " stand or fall " on this case in his campaign to show that the State Department was a nest of Communists or pro-Communists . Rejection Expected The expectation now is that the subcommittee , which looked at the data in the private office of . Attorney General J. Howard , with FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover present , shortly will put out a report rejecting the validity of the McCarthy charges . In naming this man to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ top Soviet espionage agent " in the United States . had claimed that he was Presently or very recently " connected with the State Department . " To this the State Department , which is aware of the individual 's identity , as is most of Washington . has replied that the gentleman in question worked for the department only once  --  on a four-month overseas mission five years ago . Named Previously While the senator named the man in closed session , it is recalled that he also said that he had previously given the committee the man 's name when charging him with much lesser offenses than being " top Soviet espionage agent . " What keeps the , press from publicly naming the man they recognize as the target of Senator McCarthy 's attack is the fact that as the charge was made in Fecret session , newsmen do not have privileged immunity from libel which they would have if his name had come out in public congressional session . The attorney general 's decision to let the subcommittee see the FBI file on this one case does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ files on the 115 or so persons Senator McCarthy has on his list . Mr. and Mr.- Hoover are scheduled to testify before the subcommittee March 27 " to give their views on matters before the committee . " It is taken for granted that they will refuse to open up all their files . The " complete analysis " of the files on the one man , according to the attorney general , was given to the subcommittee with the full knowledge of President Truman . The reason why the file on this one case was open to the subcommittee , with requests that its contents be kept in " strictest confidence " was presumably to call the senator 's charges in the one case on which he-has publicly declared he would let his accusations against about 115 " stand or fall . " Refusal Explained - The reason why Mr. Hoover is expected to refuse to open all files , it is understood , rests on a feeling that to do otherwise would be breaking faith with his informants , who provided information for the files on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ files before the subcommittee . his job of collecting information in the future would be immeasurably more difficult . Thus the administration 's policy still is expected to be a refusal to let Congress have private administrative loyalty data . The " one principal case , " the file on which the subcommittee has seen , might be considered the exception that proves the rule . The committee members present when the data was presented were : the chairman , Senator Millard E. Tydings ( D ) of Maryland ; Senator Brien ( D ) of Connecticut. ; Senator Theodore Francis Green ( D ) of Rhode Island , and Senator Henry Cabot Lodge . Jr. , ( R ) of Massachusetts . Senator Bourke B. Hickenlooper ( R ) of Iowa was the only absentee.                     