@@717558

txt The Administration announced today a broadening of its surplus disposal program to make wheat and corn available to needy persons in foreign countries through church and private welfare agencies . Heeding the pleas of church and other leaders , Ezra Taft Benson , Secretary of Agriculture , said the program would continue in effect " until such time as any or all of the commodities can be disposed of in normal domestic channels or until they can be sold abroad . " Mr. Benson said the Commodity Credit Corporation , Federal farm price support agency , would bear the cost of packaging , transportation to shipside , handling and other charges . This has been the procedure on other surplus products released by the Government for overseas relief purposes . These other products have been dried beans , rice , butter , dried milk and cottonseed oil . A part of the overseas shipping charges will be advanced to the relief agencies by the International Cooperation Administration . Political Pressure Factor Wheat and corn , two of the major surplus crops , will be turned into flour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ additional plans for distribution of surplus farm products would be announced in the near future . In addition to the pleas of religious and private welfare leaden , the Administration has been under political pressure for , wider distribution of the surplus . Democrats have promised a prompt disposal program by legislation unless the Administrationmoved faster to dole out surpluses to keep them from depressing farm prices further . The surpluses come from stocks acquired by the Government to support farm prices . The Federal investment in farm commodities has reached a peak of more than $7,000,000,000 . Secretary Benson made today 's announcement at a special ceremony in the patio of the Agriculture Department where a wheat exhibit has been on display . He was surrounded by representatives of Roman Catholic , Jewish and Protestant and private relief organizations . Wheat and corn will be added also to the list of surplus foods available to domestic relief agen-I cies and to the Federal-state school program . R. Norris Wilson , executive di-1 rector of Church World Services , and Msgr . Edward Swanstrom , executive director of Catholic Relief Services @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distributing food in sitxy-seven countries . Mr. Wilson estimated that these agencies could handle be-11 tween 750,000,000 and 800,000 , - 000 pounds of wheat and corn in 1956 . This is double the present overseas relief program . Msgr . Swanstrom said the wheat shipments probably would be about 500,000,000 pounds , or 8,000,000 bushels . The shipments of wheat and corn " will give us an opportunity to help feed millions of people who sorely need our surplus food , " he added . They are expected to start Jan. 1 . The agencies can have all the surplus foods they want . The only limit is their funds available to finance actual distribution of the food . Mr. Benson expressed pleasure " that we have been able to complete the lengthy arrangements leading to this announcement during this appropriate period between Thanksgiving and Christmas . " ' To Benefit Farmers ' at Home " Increasing distribution of these products will serve to provide needed food to the hungry throughout the world from our United States surpluses , " he added . " This is a further important step @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country , as well as help our friends overseas . " The foods will be distributed with " full recognition of their American origin , identified as ' gifts of the people of the United States ' , " the secretary said . Those attending today 's ceremony included Gilbert E. Blackford of the National Council of the Churches , of Christ in the U. S. A. ; Edward Kinney , director of purchasing and shipping , Catholic Relief Services ; of CARE ; Mrs. Raymond Clapper of CARE , and Mrs. Denise Tourover , Washington director of Hadassah.                     