@@713254

txt Behind the capture of Wolmi Island in 38 minutes by United States marines lies the story of a gallant , daring action by a small group of American destroyers which contributed to a great ex ! tent to the success of the landing . vvitn . u-Day still 48 hours away , the mission of the destroyers was to sail to within 1,000 yards of Inchon at high noon , anchor , and sit there in plain view of the enemy , waiting to see what he would do about this bold challenge . Six American destroyers and four cruisers  --  two British , two American  --  comprised this reconnaissance in force sent to measure the enemy 's defense in preparation for Gen , Douglas 's magnificently conceived bid to seize Seoud , But to us in the destroyers , the cruisers seemed far away , riding at anchor eight miles out as our six little ships headed in for Inchon in a brave line before noon on Sept , 13 . Lonely in Front For that matter , riding in the lead ship as I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although it was only 700 yards behind us . In war it always is lonely out in front . The destroyers ' mission was to anchor in a rough semicircle around Wolmi Island ( a small man-made isthmus linked to Inchon by a half-mile causeway . As the lead destroyer , we were to proceed clear past the island on the north , taking a station practically in the main street of Inchon . We were to stay out there for at least an hour looking down the barrels of enemy guns while we rode at anchor  --  surely the sort of situation a destroyer skipper trained to rely on speed and maneuverability would expect to see only in a nightmare . It was a long , tense ride . At 11:30 when Wolmi and the drab brown hills surrounding Inchon still were little more than blurred humps on the sunlit horizon , the lookout repotted something black floating off our port beam . Rifles and 40-millimeter cannon were brought into play . There was a shuddering explosion , and a densely black column of smoke , shaped in a contour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had mines to contend with . Mines Blown Up One of our little fleet veered out of line to hunt mines and blew up several more during the next half hour . Then , three-quarters of an hour out , the Korean interpreter aboard picked up a broadcast from somewhere ashore that detailed our strength , warned of our approach , and ordered coastal defenses manned . According to the interpreter the broadcast was in Russian and Korean , and it was repeated over and over . Soon in the bright , clear sunlight we could easily make out the features of Wolmi , consisting for the most part of a tree-clad hill with buildings near the water front at the northern end . There were several fires burning in this vicinity , and even as we approached Navy Corsair planes dived steeply on the island . Those planes looked very , vex-3n good to 302 dry-mouthed men on the destroyer .                     