@@717722

txt If President Eisenhower does seek a second term , it is not wholly certain that Richard M. Nixon will be his running mate . There is sentiment among some of the " Eisenhower Republican " leadership , particularly on the East Coast , for urging Mr. ' Msg. ? ) ower to seek a different vice-presidential partner . The switch could be accomplished , it is argued . by appointing Mr. Nixon to- a Cabinet seat . such as the critical post of Secretary of Defense where an able trouble shooter is required . It is even reported that Republican intimates of this persuasion have spoken their mind to Mr. Eisenhower . The crucial question is , how has the President responded to such a proposal ? No one seems to know the presidential reaction , if indeed there has been one . The arguments made for replacing Mr. Nixon can be quickly ticked off : The Democrats are all set to tee off on Mr. Nixon , it is said . He is far more vulnerable than Mr. Riconhower . He made divisive extremist charges in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as " a great Republican Chief Justice . " He has not yet learned to avoid remarks which are " politically in bad taste . " The Democrats . malting the most of the health issue . will point out that this is the man who would succeed Mr. ' Figenbower in the White House . His presence on the GOP ticket would alienate many independent voters who otherwise would support the President . Public - opinion polls show him dropping further behind AdLai E. Stevenson . the - leading Democratic contender . On the other hand . Mr. Nixon 's supporters adduce these arguments on their side : The Vice-President is thoroughly experienced in the routine and problems of the Cabinet and the National Security Council . He has proved to be a faithful congressional expediter , political trouble Nixon , that will indeed settle it . No one will dispute the President 's wishes . But some of those who have doubts about Mr. Nixon do dispute the idea that Mr. Eisenhower has indicated that he is irrevocably " for " Mr. Nixon this time . " Of course Ike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coast Republican comments . " But he was praising him as Vice-President . He was n't Thinking of him in terms of being President of the United States . That 's a very different role . I do n't mean merely the chance of presidental incapacity. which I do n't expect to happen . I mean the fact that if Dick Nixon carries through as Vice-President for another four years . he is going to be the top contender for the presidential nomination in 1960 . " President Eisenhower . at a recent press conference , referred to his admiration and appreciation for Mr. Nixon and went on to say that he would n't make any move " that affected his future until I knew his desires . . " This statement sounds like another endorsement of Mr. Nixon , but there are Republicans who regard it rather as an example of Mr. Eisenhower 's astute method or technique of clearing the way . by a seemingly offhanded remark , for a new solution . " Sure he will consult with Mr. Nixon . " says one , " but he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seasoning in a really administrative post , like a Cabinet job . When the President introduces a new element into the picture , such as saying he wants to know what Mr. Nixon has in mind for the future , he is thinking along new lines , you can be sure . " It is just possible , then . that Mr. Eisenhower might not be " determined " on Mr. Nixon . He might  --  as he did in 1952 ? write down a list of several running mates who would be acceptable to him . On such a list would almost certainly be Gov . Christian A. Herter of Massachusetts , Henry Cabot Lodge , Jr. , perhaps Harold E. Stassen . On the other band , the party professionals  --  as distinct from Eisenhower Republican leaders  --  may well figure that " if Ike runs " it will do the party no serious harm to have Mr. Nixon as the vice-presidential candidate . The President 's tremendous popularity will carry the day anyway , they say , whoever the vice-presidential choice may be . And the difficulty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is never good politics to admit you 've got to change horses is another politically persuasive reason for keeping Mr. Nixon at his present post . All of which adds up to the fact that no one will know the answer to this riddle  --  any more than the answer to the presidential riddle  --  until Mr Eisenhower speaks .                     