@@717633

txt A telephoned tip of a threat to bomb Middlesex county jail tonight was branded a hoax by officials after a thoro search of the institution housing about 100 prisoners , including Joseph Specs O'Keefe , key witness in the reputed solution of the Brink 's robbery . Sheriff Howard Fitzpatrick said the " thing appears to be a complete hoax . " He told that to reporters after scores of police searched the building and area for more than 90 minutes . Nevertheless , he ordered increased watches in the building and surroundings . Area Cleared Out Police shut off the area around the building , ordering traffic and pedestrians out of the congested section . The telephoned tip was made by a man to Boston police . He told police Lt. Herbert F. Mulloney : " I 'm going . o give you a little information . I 'll say it once and I wo n't ? repeat it . Do n't interrupt me . " They are going to plant a bomb on the roof of Middlesex jail . It will be a big one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon tonight . " Then the man hung up . Calls Voice " Precise " Mulloney said the man sounded " rational . " He described the voice as " precise and distinct in talk . " He said he sounded like " someone trying to do Coughlin a favor . " The man first asked for Sgt. Henry Coughlin . As . soon as the man hung up , Mulloney called the Middlesex jail in East Cambridge . Jailers immediately summoned police . The 11 men were indicted in the Brink 's robbery yesterday after O'Keefe appeared before a Suffolk county grand jury and gave details implicating them in the theft . After his grand jury appearance , O'Keefe was taken to the East Cambridge jail . The other six of the seven in custody are lodged in Suffolk county jail , about a mile away in Boston from the Cambridge lockup . Under Constant Guard The guard over O'Keefe in Cambridge jail is especially heavy . He is lodged in an isolation cell . Only his sister , Mrs. Mary A. Hooley , is permitted to visit him . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assigned to watch his every move . He is allowed to exercise in the jail yard only under the closest watch . Meanwhile , another witness before the grand jury , James C. Allen , Brink 's assistant manager , reported receiving two threatening telephone calls . A police guard was placed at the Allen home and other details were sent to watch the homes of other Brink 's employes who testified before the grand jury .                     