@@720438

txt The Soviet Union proposed tonight full participation of Communist East Germany , unrecognized by the Western powers , and West Ger.1 many in the foreign ministers ' 4conference scheduled to open tomorrow . Foreign Secretary Selwyn Lloyd of Britain firmly rejected the proposal when it was put to him by Andrei A. Gromyko , the Soviet Foreign Minister , British officials said . Acceptance , it was felt , would have been tantamount to Western recognition of the Communist regime in East Germany . Mr. Lloyd , Secretary of State Christian A. Herter and Maurice Couve de Murville , France 's Foreign Minister , will meet at 10 A. M. tomorrow to discuss a joint , formal Western answer to the Soviet proposal . U. S. to Resist Maneuver In Mr. Herter 's view , the United States could not agree to any Soviet maneuver to get a kind of official recognition for East Germany through procedural devices . A French . spokesman declared that France was absolutely opposed to any full participation of the East Germans at the conference . The first Western reactions to Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet maneuver . British officials conceded that , if Mr. Gromyko continued to push the proposal , tomorrow 's - opening meeting of the conference could be postponed : British officials said the next twenty-four hours would show whether Mr. Gromyko 's move was intended to sabotage the authority of the conference in German eyes by evoking a Western refusal or whether it was an inconsequential tactical maneuver to provide the Soviet Union with a grievance before the meeting began . Allied Leaders Meet However , until it is known whether the Soviet Foreign Minister is prepared to face only the United States , British and French foreign ministers at 3:30 o'clock tomorrow afternoon , the opening of the conference is in doubt . Mr. Gromyko 's proposalicaMe at the end of a day of intensive Western preparation for the talks . The most important meeting was one held this afternoon and attended by Mr. Herter , Mr. Lloyd , M. Couve de Murville and Heinrich von Brentano , the West German Foreign Minister . This ' session and earlier discussions disclosed an easing of the West German position on the negotiation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mr. Herter 's talk with Chancellor Konrad Adenauer at Bonn yesterday , West Germany has shifted its position on two points . These are : 1 . West Germany now will accept individual negotiation on the future of Berlin if the Western package proposal in which it is tied to German unity and European security is rejected by the Soviet Union . 2 . The West Germans are now prepared to allow the East Germans jurisdiction on access to West Berlin up to the point of the existing jurisdic tion of the Soviet Union . Concessions Called Big These were regarded in the United States , British and French delegations as important concessions . But they were overshadowed by Mr. Gromyko 's proposal to Mr. Lloyd . The British Foreign Secretary visited Mr. Gromyko for two hours at the latter 's invitation , extended some weeks ago Air . Lloyd will act as chairman of tomorrow 's opening session , a role that rotates daily among the participating nations in alphabetical order . Britain was next in line when the last foreign ministers meeting ended here in November 1955 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet Union appeared to have agreed to their view son German representation at the conference . Advisory Role Asked Last Feb. 16 , in notes to the Soviet Union , the Western powers notified the Moscow Government that , in the words of the British note , " it is suggested that German advisers should be invited to the conference and should be consulted . " On March 26 the United States asked if the Soviet Government agreed with its proposal that German advisers should be invited and consulted at the conference . The Soviet reply on March 30 was conclusive , in the view of the United States and British delegations . To the United States the Soviet Union said : " As follows from the exchange of opinions which has taken place the question about both German states ? German Democratic Republic East Germany and Federal German Republic West Germany ? being represented at the Council of Foreign Ministers can be considered agreed . " The Soviet reply to the British was almost identical . Early Move Made The Russians began working for German representation on a lower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ met to arrange details of the conference . The Soviet representative , Vladimir M. Bendryshev , told the group that the Soviet Union wished East Germany to be seated at the conference table as a full participant from the very beginning of the conference . The United States reaction to this , a spokesman said , was that East Germany could not be accepted as a full participant at any conference table . The principal reason for this rejection on the part of the United States , British and French delegations is that the seating of East and West German representatives at tomorrow 's opening meeting before hundreds of cameras could be represented to the world by the Russians as Western recognition of East Germany . Three Were Soviet Citizens Beyond this is the knowledge that three of the four leading East German representatives here were Soviet citizens at one time in their lives and for considerable periods . The British objected that the Soviet proposal would transform the foreign ministers ' meeting from a four-power conference to a six-power meeting . Mr. Lloyd told Mr. Gromkyo that Britain wanted the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ According to officials , Mr. Lloyd said that , although it might be difficult for the Soviet Foreign Minister to attend if the Germans were not seated , the West would reject any action even remotely connected with recognition of East Germany . The representatives . , f West Germany remained on the sidelines when the row broke out between East and West . A spokesman for Herr von Brentano 's delegation said that the West Germans " almost certainly would not attend " tomorrow 's opening session . None of the Western delegations was prepared to stifle the conference over procedural matter . However , the proposal to seat the East Germans is far more than procedural matter , the United States spokesman insisted . It affects the entire Western approach to the German problem and this must be made clear to the Soviet Union , he held . The dispute over German parmore than b. procedural matter , WEST TURNS DOWN MOVE BY GROMYKO Allies View Suggestion as Effort to Win Recognition of Communist Regime ticipation may be followed by another over representation . The United States , Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Soviet Union , that the participation of Poland and Czechoslovakia was to be discussed . at the first meeting . But since , in the Western view , Mr. Gromyko 's proposal ' on East Germany clearly contradicts past Soviet statements , an equally surprising Soviet maneuver on the participation of the two satellite states can be expected . On his arrival this morning , Mr. Lloyd defined three purposes of the conference . These were : 1 . To see whether agree ' ment can be reached on any points . 3 . To prepare constructive proposals that could be put to a meeting of heads of govern11 ment at the summit .                     