@@712724

txt Reading the reports of Drew Middleton in THE NEW YORK TIMES of March 4 and 5 , I Can not conceal my astonishment " that the danger of rising nationalist feelings in . Western Germany is recognized only now and not fully . For all those ' who lived those last years in Western Germany it must be obviously clear that the elections in autumn 1949 did not show the real political trend in Western Germany . In most Laender only the three or four major parties hold state-wide licenses . Most of the.new groups  --  especially the refugee parties  --  were not admitted at all or only in limited areas . Some of those candidates managed , however , to be put up as independents . A large number of persons have therefore cast their votes to a party which they would not have backed otherwise . Economic Problems Political development is linked with economic and ' psychological problems in this country . Currency reform has been without doubt a necessary step . The advantages and the normalization thus obtained have , however , been very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lack of money . Social differences have sharpened to a large extent . Reading the files of the meetings of the Wirtschaftsrat or the declarations of leading political personalities in Western Germany leaves a very sad impression of political propaganda and emotional speeches . Nothing has changed since . On the contrary . The uprising of new nationalistic groups has forced the leading parties of today ' to fall in with these criticisms and emotional appeals . Actually the Western German Government seems stable owing to the particular construction of the Constitution . However , it is clear that collaboration of the coalition Parties becomes more difficult as the nationalistic trend grows . Even if elected with only one voice majority , any opposition which would want to replace the present Government must present a new Chancellor and must secure . for his election more than 50 per cent of the total votes in Parliament . That seems almost impossible to achieve . The Socialists will never join ' the Communists . The votes of the Communists and of the parties of the extreme Right are not sufficient to trouble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sufficient to find the thirty votes necessary to back any such demand . If it is unlikely that the Bonn Government will have any serious crisis in the near future the coming elections in the Laender may show quite another trend . Changes Foreseen This time a great part ' of the new groups will be licensed . They will attract a large part of the ten million refugees ( out of forty-five million inhabitants ) , all middle and lower middle class voters , whose savings have been lost in the currency reform . They will , together with the Communists , attract some of the jobless and those who , without being refugees , were victims of the war and.have not made a living since . They will attract , too , a great part of the former members of the National Socialist party who , although cleared by the denazification courts , have formed a new group of perser cutees . Their influence in public and economic life is again very important . Those vital changes , which will certainly ? come , will be noticed not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose representatives are appointed by the Laender . ' At present , apparently , not very much can be done to diminish the trend to nationalism . ' Whatever decisions and advances the High Commission may take in favor of Western Germany or of its Government , it would never be enough and would rally provoke new demands . It is obvious that the inertia of the Government regarding the two million jobless is , partly at least , a trick to force the Allied authorities to reconsider their decisions regarding German steel capacity and the shipbuilding . program . Western Germany has been spoiled in the last years by the attention and the help received from the Allied authorities , Furthermore , a large part of the population and of the administration are convinced that the Russian threat is sufficiently severe to maintain foreign assistance : It would , per-haps , be useful to revise to a certain extent the present policy and to face the trend as it is now . HAMS EPHRAIMSON-ABT . New York , March 6 , 1950 , Need for Traffic Czar Stated To Tan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayor will at last - wake up to the necessity of appointing " Traffic Czar " to put an end to our traffic snarl , we can forgive him his earlier temporizing sins . In a letter which THE TIMES printed Sept. 11 , 1948 , and in a protest at the hearing which preceded , the appointment of the Traffic Commission , the writer - predicted exactly what has happened under the commission 's regime  --  nameIy , futility . ? ? Lest the . present storm blow over , and the Mayor yield again to unwise counsel , it is vital to reiterate : We . , do not need traffic consultants or experts to give us any further advice . We do need a first-class administrator , an executive beyond the reach ' of influence or pressure ( like Robert Moses or Howard Cullman ) ? in short , an " autocrat of ? the traffic table " ? to take , hold of our traffic control with sweeping powers . *hat this Traffic Czar must do , immediately ; is. ban.a11 ' parking in ' the congested heart of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ section to ' absolutely urgent classes of traffic , and control truck movements by stringent regulations . The longer this is delayed , the worse the mess will become and the greater our losses . If the plan is put into effect and rigidly enforced , our worst traffic headaches will disappear in thirty days . HERBERT ASKWITH . Larchmont , N. Y. , March 10 , 1950 . Animals for Research Campbell-Ten Eyck Bill Upheld as Aid to Medicine To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I trust that Amelia Levitt Hill was innocently misinformed with respect to the Campbell-Ten Eyck bill when she wrote the letter published in THE NEW YORK TIMES on March 11 . Her letter states that the Campbell-Ten Eyck bill " provides " that all animals in the pounds shall , be " turned over to the experimental laboratories . " The above bill states : " Stray cats and dogs not licensed pursuant to the provisions of this act shall be seized and , if within forty ? eight hours thereafter they be not claimed , redeemed or requisitioned by the Departments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City of New York- for the allocation to scientific laboratories which have been inspected and approved by the Departments of Health for animal experimentation in accordance with Section 185 as amended in 1947 , may be destroyed . " According to figures in The New York Journal-American of March 11 , 70,000 unclaimed dogs and 150,000 unclaimed cats are annually ' destroyed by the S. P. C. A. in New York City . If 10 per cent of these animals that would otherwise meet death in an inhuman gas chamber could be made available as contemplated in the Campbell-Ten Eyck bill , the needs of the medical schools and research institutions in the entire state could be met , not just the needs of those in this city . Thus , not all dogs but only a small fraction would find their way into experimental use , and the sheltering of animals by the S. P. C. A. would continue much in the same manner as it does now . Under Penal Code Furthermore , even this small number of dogs would not be indiscriminately " turned over to the experimental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commissioner of Health , who could allocate them only to those laboratories specifically approved by him in accordance with other provisions of the Penal Code , and they could be used only for those experimental procedures approved by him in accordance with the same statute . Miss Hill is correct when she states , " If it ( the Campbell-Ten Eyck bill ) is defeated , the laboratories will continue to obtain animals at any time as they do now . " I am confident that the medical schools and medical research institutions will , ? under any circumstances , continue to do all they can to prolong the human life span and to prevent and cure disease . Moreover , Miss Hill is significantly correct when she states , " Making . animal supply a state contribution makes the process easier and less expensive for the laboratories . " At present costs from out-of-state dealers , those 7,000 dogs needed by the institutions in this state cost approximately $100,000 and the 15,000 cats ; cost approximately $75,000 . This total of $175,000 is sufficient to pay an annual salary Of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as cancer , infantile paralysis , cardiovascular disease , tuberculosis , arthritis , etc . Impeding Medical Science However , Miss Hill is wrong when she states that " it ( the Campbell-Ten Eyck bill ) has nothing to do with what mild possibly be considered as the progress of medical science . " The progress of medical science is very definitely being impeded as described above by the diversion of research funds from salaries and research facilities . Moreover , the progress of medical science is being hindered by the fact that present sources of these animals are unreliable with respect to delivery and the fact that such animals as are so obtainable frequently arrive at our laboratories in a state of health that prevents for months their use in research investigation . I agree with Miss Hill that there should , be public interest in this bill . The residents of this state should be informed that opposition to the Campbell-Ten Eyck bill will continue to impede medical research . They should also recognize that of the money they pay in taxes to support two state medical schools and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are frequently a necessity , part is diverted to neighbdring states while 70,000 dogs and 15,000 cats are annually put to death in this city by the S. P. C. A. W. PARKER ANSLOW JR . Assistant Professor of Physiology , College of Medicine , New York University-Bellevue Medical Center . New York , March 13 , 1950.                     