@@718619

txt Letters to The Times Nationalizing Suez Legality of Egyptian Move Said to Be Supported by Record The writer of the following letter is author of " The China Story " and , other books about the Far East . TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Timm : Henry Hazlitt in his letter published ' in your Feb. 26 issue says that the Eisenhower-Dulles Middle Eastern policy is based on " untenable " legal grounds ; and that the United States " should have denounced Nasser as a treaty-breaker and a violator of international law on the day he seized the canal . " A study of the relevant documents and of the historical record , however , affords no basis for the accusation that the Egyptian President violated any treaty or international law when he nationalized the Suez Canal . Nasser 's nationalization decree , providing for compensation to the shareholders at the price of their shares on the Paris Bourse on the previous day , would seem to have been just as legal as the British Labor Government 's nationalization of Britain 's mines and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bears no resemblance to the expropriation without compensation of foreign properties in China by the Communist Government , accepted without cavil by the British Government , which has for long been urging America to follow England 's example by recognizing the Peiping Government . Since many Americans are as misinformed as is Mr. Hazlitt concerning the legal aspects of the Suez Canal controversy , permit me to cite some of the facts which disprove his thesis . Paragraph 16 of the 1866 Concession to the Suez Canal Company by the Egyptian Government states that " the Suez Canal Company is an Egyptian company subject to Egyptian laws and customs . " Article 8 of the 1954 Anglo-American agreement states that , the Suez Canal is an integral part of Egypt . Previously , in a memorandum submitted to the Mixed Courts in Egypt which pronounced judgment in its favor in February , 1940 , the British Government maintained that : The Suez Canal Company is a legal person in accordance with Egyptian law . Its nationality and character are solely Egyptian . It is , therefore , subject to Egyptian law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name of " The Universal Company of the Maritime Suez Canal " but this designation can not deprive the company of its Egyptian nationality . The company - is Egyptian in accordance with the established general principles of law and in particular with the principles of private international law and the company 's organic law . The Constantinople Convention of 1888 guaranteed that the Suez Canal is to remain " continuously free and open in time of peace and also in time of war to all vessels whether commercial or military without any discrimination between nationals . " President 's Policy But the convention also contains an escape clause in Article 10 which states that its provisions should not " conflict " with the right " to defend Egypt . " Otherwise England would have been guilty of violating the treaty when she prevented the passage of enemy national ships through the canal during both World Wars . We ca n't have it both ways . If Egypt as the legal owner of the Suez Canal during the years When Britain ruled over her was entitled to bar it to enemy shipping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obviously been within her rights to bar the passage of Israeli ships pending a peace treaty with the State of Israel . Until I visited Lebanon , Jordan and Egypt last December , on the last lap of an eight-month tour of Asia , starting with the Philippines and Formosa , Japan and Korea , my interest and studies had been confined to the Far East and Europe . Today I am convinced that unless America supports President Eisenhower in his endeavor to be just to both sides in the Israeli-Arab controversy , as also in the conflict between Arab nationalism and France , the result will be as tragic and dangerous for the Western World as their former policy toward China . Three decades ago Sun Yat-sen unwittingly opened the door for the Communist conquest of China a quarter of a century later when he turned to Moscow because he despaired of Western aid in the liberation and unification of China . Let us not force the Middle East to take the same course as the Far East by refusing to back President Eisenhower 's wise and courageous policy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Increasing Telephone Rates To THE EDITOR OF T HE NEW YORK TIMES : In a news release Kent H. Brown , counsel to the Public Service Commission , charged that chambers of commerce were " confused " by the activities of the New York Telephone Company and these chambers had been unduly influenced by telephone company pressure . The Empire State Chamber of Commerce is opposed to the Milmoe bill and we are not confused . We are amazed that an agency of state government created to administer the law should be so active in influencing legislation it is supposed to administer without prejudice . We are concerned lest the telephone company be squeezed out of the capital market and not be able to meet its responsibilities to its customers as business grows in New York arid the communication needs of our members expand . New York has suffered in the past by its unsympathetic attitude toward business . That record has been and is being written in the industrial development statistics currently available . We are losing out in the competition for new jobs . If the legislation sponsored by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notice that New : York prefers politics to progress . Incidentally , we are not a special pleader for the New York Telephone Company . They are not members of the Empire State Chamber of Commerce . WILLIAM A. Mims , Executive Vice President , Empire State Chamber of Commerce . Albany , March 4 , 1957 . Hospitality to Students Entertaining of Youth Here Under Exchange Program Asked To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Taus : Tens of thousands of students from other lands have come to the United States since 1945 . Each year there are several hundred in New York Cit ' alone . These young people come here to study in our universities and colleges , often seeking instruction not obtainable in their own countries . They are sponsored by government and private agencies , and frequently by their own families . All who participate are agreed that " educational exchange " provides one of the most effective and lasting opportunities to strive for mutual understanding , respect and friendship among nations and peoples . The cost of educational exchange is fantastically low by comparison with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same purposes . The majority of the large foreign student population in New York City , however , does not realize many of the benefits other students are more likely to enjoy at centers of education away from the congestion and confusion of metropolitan areas . One of these benefits is the opportunity to meet American families and be invited into American homes . Several agencies in New York , such as the Greater New York Council of Foreign Students , do an outstanding job of making the visiting student 's stay here more pleasant and memorable by providing hospitality . Such efforts are greatly handicapped , however , by , a shortage of families in the New York area able and willing to act as hosts to students . Certainly we ourselves fail to obtain the full benefits of educational exchange when many students return to their homelands possessing only knowledge gained as a result of their study here . If these students have been deprived of the chance to visit American homes and to establish lifelong friendships with American families , then their reason for being here is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effective in operation as it is in concept . It is a privilege to have these students with us in America , for in the not too distant future their generation will be making foreign policy , teaching in their native schools and making bold new experiments in science and medicine . There is a critical need for many more Americans to throw open the doors of their homes to theca visitors . MALCOLM F. REED . Westfield , N. J. , March 3 , 1957 . Newark 's Water Supply To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The survey in the March 4 issue of The New York Times of areas in the United States that are facing critical water shortages for human and industrial consumption was both timely and comprehensive . In your all-inclusive reference to " public apathy and politics " in New Jersey forestalling any action on New Jersey 's water program , I would like to point out that the City of Newark , thanks to farsighted , long-range planning of our city officials in the early Nineteen *Twenties , is very well supplied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Newark 's low cost water of excellent quality and quantity is not only important to our residents and expanding industry but it is equally important to neighboring communities to whom we sell our surplus . LEO P. CARLIN , Mayor . Newark , N. J. , March 8 , 1957 . To Fight Nephrosis To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : March , 1957 , has been proclaimed Childhood Nephrosis Month here in New York City and throughout the nation . This is the month when all of us are asked to join the nation-wide fight against childhood nephrosis , nephritis and allied kidney disorders . These kidney ailments , as a group , , constitute a major cause of untimely deaths and they will continue to be too ( ) hen fatal until research has developed a cure . The Nephrosis Foundation of New York , Inc. , supports clinics and research projects at five major metropolitan hospitals . The last week in March brings the Neighbors March for Nephrosis , which is a house-to-house campaign for funds . You will see coin cannisters everywhere . Please @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your conTo Study Discrimination Tampering With Bill to Examine Civil Rights Program Charged To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES The Civil Rights subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee has engaged in pointless tampering with the Administration 's civil rights proposals in reporting the bill to the full committee . Particularly objectionable is its decision td exclude discrimination based on religion from the area to be studied by the proposed Commission on Civil Rights . One of the four points in the original bill was the establishment of a temporary bipartisan commission on civil rights to investigate charges of denial of voting rights or the imposition of " unwarranted economic pressures " on citizens because of race , color , religion or national origin . For no apparent reason the Civil Rights subcommittee has voted to drop the word " religion . " The full Judiciary Committee must now decide whether to approve the bill in its altered form or to return to its original language . The attack on racism that has achieved so many successes in recent years has been firmly based on the principle that all forms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as one thrives others are encouraged , and that as one is curbed all Americans move closer to full equality . Accordingly , the fair employment and other antidiscrimination laws adopted in many Northern and Western states , as well as the anti-bias Executive Orders issued by President Eisenhower and his predecessors , have uniformly applied to discrimination based on race , religion or national origin . Further Bias The validity of this principle is illustrated by the very situation which has ' prompted introduction of the Federal civil rights bill . While the predominant form of racism in the South today is directed at Negroes , there has been a distinct tendency within the White Citizens Council movement , to say nothing of the rejuvenated Ku Klux , Klan , to spill over into anti-Semitism and anti-Catholicism . Organized economic boycotts and other " unwarranted economic pressures " against Jews and Catholics have already been threatened . It would be most unfortunate if the commission , once established , found itself empowered to investigate charges of discrimination against Negroes but not against religious minorities . The proposed change in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The House Judiciary Committee will ? clo well to decide the important civil rights issue before it on the basis of tested principle . SHAD POLIER , Chairman , Commission on Law and Social Action , American Jewish Congress . New York , March ' 7 , 1957 . Diplomats ' Linguistic Lack To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Traits : James Reston 's March 5 column on the President 's shifts of our Ambassadors is both interesting and instructive . He notes the wholesale nature of these changes and remarks that they occur " during the period of the most lively diplomatic negotiations since the war . " At the same time he remarks that our new Ambassadors to France and West Germany suffer from the handicap of not being able to speak the languages of those countries . It seems that this handicap has not amused French officials , and one suspects that German officials , too , will be disappointed by our new representative 's monolingualism , especially after Ambassador Conant 's ready German . Indeed , it is likely that many people in our own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the men selected to fill these key posts . The time is past when the United States can safely continue its long-standing but shortsighted practice of sending large numbers of men to foreign posts who have little or no knowledge of the language spoken by the nation in which they represent our interests . Can one imagine the Russians , for instance , sending tonguetied Ambassadors to foreign countries ? In the selection of our diplomats heed should be paid to the following cogent and appropriate remark of Secretary of State Dulles : " Interpreters are no substitute . It is ? ot possible to understand what is in the minds of other people without understanding their language , and without understanding their language it is impossible to be sure that they understand what is in our minds . " ROBERT G. MEAD Jr. , Associate Professor of Foreign Languages , the University of Connecticut . Storrs , Conn. , March 5 , 1957 . Fnr Interest in Public Affairs TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES " All that is necessary for the triumph of evil is that good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our troubles , both at home and abroad . They explain why political corruption in high places of labor unions and government here at home and loss of American dollars and prestige abroad have gotten so much worse in recent years . R. BLAGDEN.                     