@@712932

txt Speaking of President Roosevelt , Republicans used to say : " You ca n't shoot Santa Claus . " Today it should be rephrased to read : " Nobody boos the town booster . " That is , I think , the most accurate way to describe the Harry S. Truman who has joined forces here in Chicago with the big and little leaders of his party for the openly " political " climax of his cross-country tour . Victor A. Johnston , official Republican observer of this tour . has labeled it a " traveling medicine show . " Mr. Truman himself invariably has called it a " report to the people . " A A A Those designations best suit the views of the individuals making them . But they equally miss . or obscure , what actually has happened . Mr. Truman tarted the trip preaching " growth , expansion . and progress . " In varying forms . he has preached it all the way across the country and back here to Chicago . He has made himself the " town booster " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ count put together . And there has n't been a boo ill the whole trip  --  with one exc ? . Ilion. to his advantage . That was in Madison . Wis. , wilere a dozen shabby and ob. % lou7,1y very left-wing pickets paraded in front of the University Field House . where he was speaking , with placards Reproduced with permission of the objecting to Mr. Truman 's foreign policies . It has been an exercise in town boosting from cold war victory without war and . endless prosperity without lass of freedom to protection of pitchfork handles from grasshoppers . It has been one of the smoothest dress rehearsals of all political time . The train has been on time at every stop . A smooth-working presidential staff , which makes it a business to know the interests of every community before it is reached , has a speech ready and keyed to local interest . As the train rolls on the mimeograph machines do too , and within an hour every correspondent has a true copy of what the President had said , including the extemporaneous remarks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boosters ' control for drought turned into rain and winter into spring in the path of his progress . The Truman manner is easy and natural . At Spokane , a prize-winning 4-H sheep waiting to be beribboned by the President made loud disapproving noises . " That must be a Republican sheep . " said Mr. Truman ; and everyone laughed . Harry Truman is the genial town booster . He is Rotary , Kiwanis. and Lions Club rolled into one . He preaches progress like a man who believes . He preaches it in the vernacular . " That 's a mighty pretty pig you The Christian Science , fonitori raised . " And when he says reservoir it comes out reservoy . He does n't high hat anyone . He does n't show annoyance , if he ever feels it . but he can be firm . At Great Falls , Mont. , the train pulled a car 's length beyond the band and reception committee . It was ordered back , and went back . How does one campaign against the town booster ? A A A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " America is made up of Rotarians , Kiwanians , and Lions ? of people who make a religion of preaching a better and safer and more prosperous tomorrow and of going out and trying to do something about it . Mr. Truman has tuned himself to the gospel of every chamber of commerce in the country . You ca n't be against what he is for without being against the chamber of corn- , coerce and the American dream of wider horizons and happier people . You can call it " pie in the sky " and a " traveling medicine show . " but you ca n't be against it . And it would be hard to preach it with more conviction or confidence than does Mr. Truman . At Pasco . Wash .. Vic Johnston watched the crowd watching Harry Truman . " Nobody hates him , " he observed . That 's about it .                     