@@716053

txt Disturbed at ? paying SI or more for that pound of coffee you carry home from the store ? Then consider the plight of a group of gentlemen here who deal in 32,500 pounds at a crack . They 're the members of the New York Coffee and Sugar Exchange , who trade in coffee " futures : : A single purchase represents coffee valued at more than $23,000 ? and they 'll likely never see or taste any of the coffee they 've bought . Trading in these futures contracts takes place on the second floor of a. building on Pearl Street , close to the tip of Manhattan . The 344 exchange members can trade in either coffee or sugar . The active brokers on the floor conduct their business standing in a circle around a " trading ring . " In shouting aloud the price at which they 'll buy or ? sell a contract for delivery of coffee beans , they reflect what informed opinion thinks the value of coffee will be some months hence . The prices the traders are willing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judgment of a good many factors that may enter into the price picture in coming months . " The Exchange has no more to do with establishing prices Shan a thermometer has to do with establishing the weather , " says Gustavo Lobo , Jr. , the current Exchange president . " Each merely records the actual condition . " Exchange Members Find Probe Ironical With a spate of investigations on coffee prices now under way in Washington , Coffee Exchange members find it a bit ironical that they 're charged with helping " control " coffee pi ices . Just 72 *years ago , they recall , the Exchange was set up to provide an orderly market for dealing in the beverage bean . after the collapse of a syndicate that had controlled the market and prices in pretty tight fashion . The main purpose of the Exchange is to provide a tot in of insurance protection against price risks for dealers who actually buy and sell the bags of green coffee that are roasted for the breakfast beverage . This insurance system is known as " hedging . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of coffee for future delivery as traded on the Exchange , and the price of the actual commodity in the spot market follow , similar trends . Here 's a sample of a typical trans-action : Suppose a coffee dealer in New York buys green coffee from an exporter in Brazil at , say , 70 cents a pound . At the same time , the dealer will sell a futures contract on the exchange at about that same price . Assume that a month later , when the dealer has received his coffee by ship from Brazil , the market has dropped and he can get only 68 cents a pound for his coffee when he tries to sell it to a roaster . He stands to lose two cents a pound on the deal . But , meanwhile . the futures market has also dropped to reflect the decline in the spot market . So the dealer can buy back his futures contract at a low enough price to offset his loss on the resale of the actual coffee to the roaster . One . Market Cancels Result of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such mathematical precision , they provide protection to importers , roasters , and other handlers of coffee . The loss or gain on the actual commodity tends to cancel out the corresponding gain or loss in the future operation . While the importer of coffee may want to hedge his coffee purchase from Brazil as insurance against price changes , sonic one must take the risk . That 's where the speculator fits into the picture . He is willing to take his chances that in the various price swings of the futures market he will come out with a net profit as a result of his buy or sell operations . Speculation tend. - , to broaden the market and make price changes less violent than they otherwise would be , say dealers The speculator renders a service to the importer and roaster of coffee by providing the insurance protection they want against the vagaries of price changes .                     