@@716647

txt President Eisenhower said Nov. 10 he still favors the controversial Dixon-Yates power proposal . He said no better way has been offered to provide power for areas needing it . Committee blocks Dixon-Yates curb : Page 7 . With the Democratic return to congressional power the Dixon-Yates row could lead to major changes at the Atomic Energy Commission . It is well known in 0x-ernment circles that the AEC has been surrounded by turmoil for months because of the Oppenheimer case , and then the Dixcn-Yates power dispute . One commissioner , Democrat Thomas E. Murray , charged before the Congressional Atomic Energy Committee in connection with Dixon-Yates : " No one will ever be able to estimate the degree to which top-level commission attention has been diverted from its grave primary responsibilities . " Mr. Murray was referring to weapons production . And while his statement was made in connection with the Dixon-Yates contract , it reflected a view often expressed in government circles that the Oppenheimer case , likewise , caused great distraction in the AEC , as well as among government scientists everywhere by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Helm ? If the Democrats take control of the Senate in January as well as the House , much more may happen in regard to the AEC than an effort to prevent the Dixon-Yates contract from being carried out . In that event , Senator Clinton P. Anderson ( D ) of New Mexico would become committee chairman . Already he has disclosed , In the Dixon-Yates hearing , that he is not sympathetic to the way things are now going at AEC . At every turn in recent weeks the Dixon-Yates affair has become more and more controversial , Things can not be said to be going well for the administration , While it is charged that President Eisenhower is personally involved , having directed the AEC last spring to sign and carry out the Dixon-Yates contract , he has remarked that the chairman , Rear Admiral Lewis L. Strauss , is at " the focal point " of this affair , Admiral Strauss likewise was at the focal point of the Oppenheimer case . Several recent developments illustrate the AEC difficulties , centering on Chairman Strauss . On Nov. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have the contract to build the new power plant at West Memphis , Ark. , signed by Nov. 8th . That day passed , however , with Admiral Strauss rushing to the committee at the last moment to report that one or two details still remain unresolved ; and a supplementary memorandum of understanding was likewise uncompleted . No Signatures This sort of situation , Representative Melvin Price ( D ) of Illinois promptly pointed out , has been going on for the seven months that the AEC has been working on the contract  --  with one disagreement or another , but no signatures ' to the contract . This could be explained , of course , by the normal arrangement of the usual " fine print " in any contract . On Nov. 8 , President Eisenhower nominated Joseph Campbell , currently a member of the AEC , to ho Comptroller General of the United States . Mr. Campbell is , except for Admiral Strauss , the only member of the AEC who has voted for the Dixon-Yates contract . If he became Comptroller , he would pass upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter , were the contract carried out . Immediately this nomination raised Democratic voices of protest , Representative Chet Holifield ( D ) of California , another member of the committee , giving notice that the Democrats would fight this nomination . Campbell Pondered Shortly thereafter , the Senate Democratic Policy Committee decided to bar action at this session of any controversial nomination . Nominating Mr. Campbell for this important post , at this awkward juncture , when Democratic passions are mounting daily in opposition to Dixon-Yates , could not have had any other result than this given the political atmosphere . Mr. Campbell , ' a former executive at Columbia University , when Mr. Eisenhower was its president , is reported to be very close to both Admiral Strauss and the President . In the same period , articles began appearing in newspapers , particularly the normally Democratic New York Times , in effect warning the administration that affairs at the AEC should be improved , and soon . In addition , Commissioner Murray 's statement , previously quoted , was given great prominence in this newspaper , and many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Senate , Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas , forecast that if the Democrats take control in January , they will see to it " that the AEC functions as it should . " This statement is interpreted for the most part as warning the administration that the AEC should shake off the turmoils and controversies in which it has to some extent become involved , and place all of its attention on the business of developing weapons and atomic power . Mr. Murray 's statement observed that the AEC is a nonpolitical agency dedicated and devoted to a professional task in a nonpartisan atmosphere . Both he and Senator Johnson warned the administration that , in their view , this is not now the case .                     