@@713484

txt At the moment , the army that Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower will command when he gets to Europe will be 90 per cent on paper . It will be quite incapable of defending western Europe at the Rhine or the English channel . It will ' take a year or two before there is much prospect of holding anying east of the Pyrenees . The question of German troops and their participation in an Atlantic army is important because without them the western Allies would have to premise their defenses on the Rhine . Only with German troops does the Elbe eventually become the frontier to be defended . Negotiations , it is understood , are beginning this week between the three Allied high commissioners in Germany and representatives of the Bonn government to find a basis on which German units can be put into an allied army . Bonn Seeks Equality There is some reason to believe that before the talks are over , and over a period of months , the occupation restrictions that bind Bonn will be untied almost completely . The goal the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equality with the Atlantic Pact members . The West has said it will not accept reestablishment of a German army or a German chief of staff . But that does not preclude an end to the occupation statute , presence of German units ( along with American , British , and French units ) in an integrated European army , German members on General Eisenhower 's supreme command , West . German membership in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . In Washington , the emphasis of those planning western Europe 's defense is : on an expanding , not a blueprinted , army . The figures of 55 to 60 divisions , of 6,000-man German units , mean little at this juncture . If postwar events have proved anything to Washington officials , it is that specific blueprints that go beyond six months or so are invariably outmoded by events . Therefore Washington 's present worry is not whether there eventually should be 60 divisions and German units of only 6,000 , but hOw to get 15 or 20 or 30 divisions into Europe , armed and battle-ready : how to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the military training of 50 , - 000 or fewer . There are theoretical goals the West is working to achieve by 1952 and 1953 . But that does not mean that come those dates the West 's defense posture or Germany 's contributions will be frozen at those levels . One thing Washington has not overlooked is the matter of Soviet reaction . Officials here are quite aware that Moscow twice recently has warned the Atlantic community that it would not allow the rearming of West Germany . In spite of these warnings , however , the NATO powers have gone ahead with ' plans to put German units in a common army . Propaganda Blast Due The argument has been raised that this is daring ? in fact inviting  --  the Soviet Army to move west . Certainly the West 's action will touch off a Soviet propaganda blast that can be counted on to go beyond anything yet unleashed . But whether Moscow will do more is uncertain . However , Washington feels certain that doing nothing to build up the West 's defenses would be the worst @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and armed East Germany  --  while demanding that the West keep West Germany unarmed , Best information available in Washington puts the size of Moscow 's East German army at about 75,000 men , possibly as high as 100,000 . This is no " police force , " as the Soviets have contended , for reliable information shows that it is armed with tanks , heavy artillery , and other equipment foreign to normal police forces ,                     