@@715836

txt A quiet , orderly election is in prospect for today , when New York 's . voters go to the polls to select a new Mayor , a new Board of Estimate and a new City Council . The voting follows a campaign in which apathy was more cone ? spicuous than at any time in the last twenty-five years . Elsewhere in the nation , voters will be choosing new state administrations for New Jersey and ginia , picking a Representative in Congress in a New Jersey by election and filling local offices in hundreds of municipalities scat ? tered across the country . Fair skies and warm weather were forecast for the New York metropolitan area , a factor that normally influences the size of the vote cast on election day . In accordance with state law , all liquor sales either by bars and grills or package stores are barred during the hours the polls are open . Groceries and drug stores that have licenses to sell beer for off ? premises consumption are permit ? ted , however , to continue sales in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at 6 A. M. and close at 7 P. M. Voting machines , which automatically tally the votes as they are cast , will be used in all districts . Therefore the headquarters of the rival contenders expect that a clear and unmistakable trend will be established within an hour and a half after the close of the polls . Many on Guard Against Fraud The entire police force of 19,904 men and women will be on duty throughout the day to make certain that the voting is orderly and the results properly tallied . Attorney General Nathaniel L. Goldstein has sworn in 1,286 special deputies to supplement his regular election frauds bureau and guard against voting irregularities . In addition , each of the District Attorneys of the five counties within the city will have special staffs at work during the day . Mr. Goldstein forwarded yesterday to the Police Department a list of 5,482 voters to be challenged if they attempt to vote today . It is one of the largest challenge lists ever drawn up by the State Law Department . In addition he gave , the police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they try to vote . Those on the challenge lists will be permitted to vote after a warning that they will be subject to arrest later if they are found unqualified , but the nine will not be permitted to vote at all . In all 2,396,099 voters are elig-i ? ble to participate in the choice of a new Mayor and other municipal officers in New York but it would occasion no surprise if the total vote was less than 2,100,000 for the first time since 1933 . Robert F. Wagner Jr. , the Democratic candidate , was favored by most political observers to win the Mayoral contest but those dir ? " . ting the campaigns of I Riegelman , Republican , and 41 ; dolph Halley , Liberal-IndeRendenti talked hopefully about a surprise outcome . Mayor Impellitteri was minated from contention in the midst of the campaign when the courts held that his independent Experience party nominating pet= tions lacked the number of valid signatures required by the election law . He had lost the Democratic nomination to Mr. Wagner , the present Borough President of Manhattan in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or television can be reasonably certain that Mr. Wagner has won if he gets an even split or better in Queens , which normally returns the heaviest Republican vote of any of the five boroughs . On the other hand they can be equally sure he is losing if he gets no better than an even break in early returns from Brooklyn or the Bronx , where Democrats normally pile up their biggest majorities . Should Mr. Halley take the lead in Brooklyn or the Bronx his election would appear probable . He carried both boroughs by a threeto-two margin when he Was elected President of the City Council in the 1951 by-election . The new City Administration chosen in today 's voting will have responsibility for raising and spending upward of $6,000.000,000 in The next four years , exclusive of amounts that are borrowed and expended for capital improvements . Whatever the results ' of ' the voting , half of the sixteen votes in the Board of Estimate will be in ne ( v hands as a result of the election . Only five of the present members , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election to their present offices . If all of these are returned and either Mr. Wagner or Mr .. Halley is chosen as Mayor the new members viould still represent eight votes . Jersey Polls Close at 8 P. M. In New Jersey where voting machines are also in wide use , the polls will be open from 7 A. M. to 8 P. M. Normally , except when the voting is very close , early returns give a good indication of the outcome within an hour and a half after the poll closing hour . The general belief this year is that the winner of the race to replace Alfred E. Driscoll as Governor will be decided in three pivotal counties  --  Essex , which includes the city of Newark ; Hudson , which includes Jersey City , and Bergen , which takes in the commuting area in the north . The general belief is that for Paul L. Troast , the Republican candidate , to win will have to get pluralities aggregating at least 50,000 in Essex and Bergen , combined . Both are normally Republican . Robert B. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will have to pie up a plurality of 40,000 to 50,000 in Hudson County to win . The New Jersey campaign has been fought almost entirely on local issues , chiefly the disclosure of Republican associations with underworld figures in Bergen County and a letter Mr. Troast wrote to Governor Dewey of New York asking clemency for Joseph S. Fay , convicted labor union extortionist . Nevertheless . when viewed from afar , particularly from Washington , an attempt undoubtedly will be made to read national significance into the returns . Mr. Troast got a belated inclusion in a general endorsement by President Eisenhower of all Republican candidates after reports had been circulated that the White House had declined to endorse him specifically . Court Posts to Be Filled Besides voting for Mayor and other city officials , voters in New York will be called on to choose a Chief Judge of the Court of Appeals , to fill a number of other approaching vacancies on the Supreme Court and lesser courts , and to pass judgment on nine proposed amendments to the State Constitution . Local county , town @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suburban counties of the metropolitan district and in up-State areas . Forty-two cities in the up-state area , including most of the larger ones , are picking mayors and other municipal officers . Chief Judge Edmund H. Lewis of ' Skaneateles is virtually certain of election to his present office , which he has held by designation of Governor Dewey since the death of Chief Judge John T. Loughran of Kingston earlier this year . Judge Lewis has the Republican and Democratic nominations . One of the constitutional amend-. ments being voted on . y . the voters of the entire state tedav has , particular interest for Newt York - CityIt increases the Maximum tax tile city can levy on real . estate for operating expenses , eXclUsive of . ine terest and redemption of , outstand. ing debt , from 2 to 21/2 ' per centIof assessed Valuation , . ? Because of a. statutory restriction only half the increase can he used by the Oty without further legislation if the amendment is , tip nroved . This half would increase the real estate levy by about $50 ' , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city is authorized by existing legislation to levy and collect a separate $50,000,006 tax on New York City real estate fel. " county " purposes , as ? distinguished from city purposes . Other amendments up for decision provide for increasing the salaries of the Governor and Lieutenant Governor , for choosing the Governor and Lieutenant Governor jointly by a single ballot , for broadening powers of up-state municipalities with respect to water supply and schools , and for " depriving river regulating districts of the right to use part of the state forest ' preserve lands in the Adirondacks for flood control and power gen1eration purposes .                     