@@712855

txt The United States charged flatly today that the Navy patrol plane missing since April 8 with ten persons presumed lost had been shot down over the open Baltic Sea in an unprovoked attack by Soviet fighter aircraft . A note to this effect , sharp and unequivocal , was delivered to the Soviet Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Moscow this morning by Admiral Alan G. Kirk , United States Ambassador . Ambassador Kirk was further instructed by the State Department to protest " in a most solemn manner against this violation of international law and the most elementary rules of peaceful conduct between nations . " On the assumption that the aircraft and ten airmen were lost in the Baltic Sea , over which the plane was due to pass on a routine training flight to Copenhagen , Denmark , the United States demanded that the Soviet Government pay " appropriate idemnity for the unprovoked destruction of American lives and property . " The note also said this Government was expecting an apology from the Soviet Union and prompt and severe punishment of the persons responsible for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took this uncompromising position after a week-long Investigation had been completed by the Defense Department and a final report of its findings sent to the State Department over the week-end . The Defense Department began looking into the matter last week after the Soviet Union , in a note April 11 , had protested to the United States that a B-29 bomber had passed over Soviet-controlled Latvia , fired upon a Soviet fighter plane , and then had fled after one of the Soviet planes had returned the fire . An investigation , said the State Department in its note handed to Andrei A. Gromyko , Soviet deputy Foreign Minister , proved all these allegations false : the plane was unarmed and it was not over Soviet or Soviet-controlled territory . Rather , it was " fired upon " by the Soviet planes over the open Baltic Sea , and is now considered lost , the statement added . The note positively identified the plane involved in the attack as a Navy Privateer , a disarmed and converted B-24 bomber , which had been missing over the Baltic area since April @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ week , long search for the plane ended at sundown last Sunday . Assails Russians The public release of the United States note at 10:40 o'clock this morning , shortly after Ambassador Kirk had been due to deliver it , was accompanied by an oral statement by Michael J. , the State Department 's chief press officer . Mr. 's remarks , minus the conventional niceties of diplomatic language , were harsher even than the formal note . Neglect of the Soviet Union to take part in the search for the missing plane , he declared , or to exhibit the " slightest evidence of concern , " showed " an astonishing lack of common international courtesy and an unusual disregard of the loss of human life . " Mr. accused Moscow of " using an aggressive tone , " having made " impossible allegations , " and having confused the issue with " false propaganda claims and diatribes against the United States in the Soviet-controlled press . " " This attitude of the Soviet Government shows clearly the insin // cerity of its oft-proclaimed desire for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in general , " the State Department spokesman continued . " The cause of peace is not furthered when the U.S.S , R. ostentatiously decorates Soviet airmen in a manner calculated to give the impression that they are being rewarded for shooting down a defenseless American plane . " Neither the note nor Mr. 's statement contained any of the details on which the State Department based its counter-pro-I test to the Soviet Union . This information is top secret . The firmness of the note and the seriousness of its charges reflected the considered judgment of the highest United States Government officials after a week of investigation , deliberation and conference . Defense and State Department officials had been in consultation most of the week . And it is understood that Secretary Johnson talked the matter over with President Truman as the note.was being prepared yesterday . The next move is clearly up to the Soviet Union , officials pointed out . Having charged the United States with having violated Sovietcontrolled territory , and then in turn having been accused of having shot down a defenseless United States plane @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reply eventually to the demands of the United States note , these officials added . The ultimate outcome , if the two Governments can not reach an understanding by themselves , may be the introduction of the case into the United Nations . There it would consider those facts of the world 's attention and governments other than those directly involved woudl consider those facts of the case made available . Birk Sees Gromyko Alone Special to Tax Naw YoRx Trans . MOSCOW , April 18 ? Ambassador Kirk went to the Soviet Foreign Office alone at 5 o'clock this afternoon to deliver the United States note protesting the shooting down of a United States Navy plane over the Baltic to Deputy Foreign Minister Gromyko . Admiral Kirk 's meeting with Mr. Gromyko was limited to the delivery of the United States note . Mr. Gromyko asked not questions concerning its contents . Liferaft Flown to Wiesbaden WIESBADEN , Germany , April 18 ( UP ) ? A yellow rubber liferaft that might throw light on the fate of ten United States airmen who disappeared April 8 in a Navy Privateer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A Navy plane awaited it and will fly it tomorrow to United States Navy Headquarters at Port Lyautey , French Morocco , sealed in a mail bag . Port Lyautey was the home base of the missing plane . The raft was brought . here from Kastrup Airport , Copenhagen , in a C-82 transport plane , with weary ground crew men who had taken part in the search for the Privateer as passengers .                     