@@719622

txt Governor Furcolo returned to his State House duties today after nearly three weeks in Puerto Rico ready to tackle the unemployment situation as his first order of business . Tanned and rested after his Puerto Rican stay to recover front an illness , the Massachusetts chief executive was interviewed at hts Newton home a few minutes after he arrived this noon , He had flown to New York from Puerto Rico last night , motored to New Haven , and then drove to Newton this morning . In a matter of clays , the Governor said , he will send a special message to the Legislature outlining proposals to meet the unemployment situation . Although he refused to disclose contents of the message , it was indicated he would propose extension of the maximum duration of unemployment compensation benefits beyond the present 26 weeks . The Governor indicated that it would be several weeks before he submits to the Legislature a special message on the Massachusetts Port Authority . He said he was more convinced than ever that the Port Authority should take over the existing bonds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present rate of interest rather than float authority bonds to pay off existing bonds which would cost much more in interest . He said that surveys have proved that the authority . could take over the existing bonds and still protect the bond holders . He told the press there was no , need for rush on the program because the state could still continue to anticipate as revenue for the budget payments due from the authority . He said that . this was a practice which had been followed to date ' and could be continued in the , next fiscal year . Governor Furcolo said he planned to sit down with Democratic Senate leaders in connection with the House-passed withholding tax now in the Senate Committee on Ways and Means , They will seek ways to gain Senate passage of the controversial measure . The Governor said he expected it would be another month or six weeks before he announces his politiCal plans for the future . However , all observers anticipate he will seek a second term , A special message , the Governor disclosed , now is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ higher-education system . He said the message will be sent to the Legislatuie very soon .                     