@@720243

txt President Eisenhower , responding to a Mexican fiesta welcome paved with red carpets and red flowers , joined President Adolfo Lopez-Matees Thursday in pledging even stronger bonds between the two friendly countries . The two presidents , who had never met , shook hands and clasped shoulders in a warm embrace in the midmorning , 80 degree sunshine at ' the Acapulco airport after Mr. Eisenhower arrived for a two day good will visit . The ; ' stood on a plush red carpet in military posture as two bands played the United States and Mexican national anthems and a 21 gun salute boomed out over the blue water of Acapulco bay , one of the world 's finest harbors and re , sort areas . Way Strewn with Flowers From the airport , where Mexican girls had strewn the exit road with a blanket of red carnations along the road into the city , Mr. Eisenhower got an exuberant welcome from thousands of Mexicans and thousands of American tourists . Many who lined the route were clad in shorts , swimming togs , and sports clothes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and informal tone of the two presidents ' conference . - Mr. Eisenhower grinned as his eye caught the greeting on a red , white , and blue streamer from the Acapulco Country club , which was on the route he and his host took into the city . A Bid to Golf The streamer said , " Let 's . play golf , Ike ; we 'll expect you . " Almost every telegraph pole and lamp post on the 20 mile route from the air field to town . carried an amistad friendship sign with the red , white , and blue American flag and the red , white , and green Mexican . ensign side Mt side . Before Mr. Eisenhower 's arrival policemen rounded up a handful of communist sympathizers reported to have planned anti-American demonstrations . No such demonstration took place . The two presidents clasped hands again before a gay street crowd of thousands as they stood on the balcony of the federal palace , which was decked with huge American and Mexican flags fashioned from flowers . Discuss Four Issues From the public welcoming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 68 , to the presidential landing , where they boarded a launch that took them to the Mexican leader 's luxurious yacht , the 188 foot Sotavento . The presidents and small groups of aids lunched on the yacht and held informal talks as the craft cruised the bay . James C. Hagerty , White House press secretary , said the two Presidents discussed reproduced with permission of the copyright owner . Further reproduction prohibited without permission . four topics . One was the Diablo dam project , which envisions a 100 million dollar United States-Mexican venture to build a flood control and irrigation dam on the Rio Grande near Del Rio , Tex . The others were coffee , lead and zinc , and cotton . Lopez entertained Mr. Eisenhower at dinner Thursday evening in the Mirador hotel . Divers Perform Anthony Eden , former British prime minister , who is resting in Acapulco , was a guest . The post-dinner program featured Mexican folk dances and high diving exhibitions in which divers plunged from cliffs 135 feet high into a 15 foot cove . Mr. Eisenhower , who visited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few hours , got an early start Thursday . He took off in the Whtie House plane Columbine at 6:30 a. from Bergstrom air force base , Austin , Tex. , where he spent Wednesday night . Border of Friendship In welcoming Mr. Eisenhower at the air field , Lopez said their meeting symbolized the friendship of two old neighbors with " unshakeable decision " to mutual respect , independence , and fruitful understanding . Mr. Eisenhower responded that the 1,900 mile common border of the two countries must be guarded always by friendship , never by guns . The American President plans to leave Acapulco by plane Friday ' light after a second day of talks and banquets . He hopes to fly to Augusta , Ga . for a week-end of golf be f or e returning to Washington .                     