@@714691

txt Congressmen and Taxes  --  Voters will be interested in this : The House of Representatives has just surreptitiously " voiced through " a piece of legislation which gives members of Congress special tax exemptions not available to other citizens . This bill , which now is before the Senate , where at least it may be looked at a bit before it is put into law , would make it legal for representatives and senators to deduct all their Washington rent and living costs , all their Washington expenses , plus travel to and from their states and districts , from their income before taxes . A A A I report that this measure was put through the House of Representatives surreptitiously ? as far as the public is concerned ? because the voters were not allowed to hear about it until it was all signed , sealed , and slyly delivered to the door of the Senate with the suggestion : " Come on , boys , your move next ! " " What do you mean ' surreptitiously ' ? " some congressman may ask @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House , was n't it ? " Yes , it was , but the measure never was referred to committee for inquiry ; there were no hearings ; no witnesses were allowed to testify for or against . There was no debate allowed on the floor of the House , no arguments were advanced pro or con , and the vote which rushed it through was not- recorded . Those who voted for this special class of tax exemption were not willing to stand up and be counted ; those who were against it , if any , were not called upon to do so . Under this special provision there are members of Congress who , in the judgment of the tax experts , quite possibly could charge off their entire government salary ? make it all tax free . I am not arguing that . congressmen are either overpaid or even adequately paid . I happen to be one who believes that congressional salaries have not fairly been kept within sight of inflationary costs during the past decade . A L But there is a difference between a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a hidden , now - yousee-it-and-now-you - forget-  it device to up congressional pay without admitting it . Any law which gives special tax exemptions to one group of taxpayers and refuses them to others is deceptive , dangerous class legislation which comes with special ill grace at a time when Congress is investigating the conduct of federal revenue officials and when the Treasury Department is making a genuine effort to plug tax-exemption loopholes . If it is proper for congressmen  --  most of whom live here 10 months out of 12 and many of whom spend most of their adult lifetime in Washington  --  to charge off their Washington expenses from their taxable income , what about thousands of other , federal workers who come from their home states to devote a ' few years of public service to the government ? The proposed congressional tax-exemption bill simply creeps with inconsistencies and discriminations . I do n't think the voters would object to giving representatives and senators . better salaries , but I suspect they will object to giving congressmen special tax-exemption privileges . That prospective sign over a window in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : politicians only " wo n't set very well . It will be interesting to see what the Senate . on reflection . decides to do about it . Congress and news sources ? Senator Guy M. Gillette ( D ) of Iowa has just filed a legal brief with the Senate contending that congressional committees can force newspapermen to disclose their confidential sources of information . His memorandum , prepared by his staff , states that a Corresppndent's.refusal to name a confidential informant for a congressional committee " constitutes contempt , " though , he says , it would be a matter of discretion whether the committee or the Congress should prosecute . A A A Personally , I never have felt that a newspaperman possessed any inherent legal rights not possessed by all other citizens ? nor should he claim them . But many a correspondent , in the interests of his profession , will accept prosecution willingly rather than destroy the confidence of his sources . What is interesting in the present case is what Senator Gillette is trying to get at . He is trying to get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accurate dispatches on discussions and decisions which have taken place inside the executive sessions of the committee , of which Senator Gillette is chairman ; investigating Senator Joseph ( R ) McCarthy of Wisconsin . Where does this confidential information come from ? Obviously  --  and I say this with knowledge  --  from a member , of Senator Gillette 's committee . Who is this correspondent 's " confidential source " whom Mr. Gillette would compel the correspondent to disclose ? Obviously one of Senator Gillette 's committee colleagues . Why does n't Senator Gillette go after his fellow committeeman or , if ' necessary , cite his whole committee for contempt ?                     