@@715710

txt President Eisenhower has granted the new Government of Iran $45,000,000 ' in emergency economic aid in an obvious move to prevent any Iranian alignment with the Soviet Union . The President acted just 10 days after Premier Fazollah Zahedi appealed to him for swift assistance , saying Iran 's treasury was empty and that money was needed urgently to enable the country " to emerge from a state of economic and financial chaos . " On Sept. 1 , Mr. Eisenhower made public a reply assuring General Zahedi the United States would give " sympathetic consideration " ' to his appeal . . On Sept. 5 the Summer White House issued this statement : " In response to a request for urgent assistance from the new Government of Iran , the President has made available on an emergency ? basis $45,000.000 which will be used for the immediate economic assistance of Iran in accordance with the procedures of the Foreign Operations Administration under the Mutual Security Act . Additional Grant " This amount is in addition to existing United States technical assistance and military programs in Iran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restore a measure of stability and establish a foundation for greater economic development and improvement in the living standards for all the people of Iran . " It is hoped that with our assistance there will be an increase in the internal stability of Iran which will allow the development of a healthy economy to which an early effective use of Iran 's rich resources will contribute . " That was a clear reference to Iranian oil and the dispute with Great Britain which has shut off the supply despite United States efforts to help arrange a settlement . Appeal by Zahedi Shortly after Iranian royalists overthrew the government of Premier Mohammed Mossadegh Aug. 17 and returned Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlevi to power , the Shah said Iran was broke , had to have immediate financial aid , and was willing to accept it from any country , including the Soviet Union . A few days later General Zahedi appealed to Mr. Eisenhower for aid . The promptness with which the President responded underscored the importance this country attaches to keeping Iran and its rich oil deposits out of the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? lar grant as an emergency allocation appeared to indicate that additional United States assistance may be forthcoming if Iran makes an acceptable set tlement of its dispute with the British . In his Aug. 26 appeal to Mr. Eisenhower . General Zahedi promised the new Iranian Government would " pursue a policy 1 of eliminating such differences as may exist or which may develop between other countries and itself . Plus $23.1.00.000 Iran now is receiving $23 , - 400,000 in technical assistance in addition to the new grant of 45 million dollars in emergency economic aid . On Sept. 2 the Iranian Finance Minister publicly Called for outside help of around 300 million dollars to replenish Iran 's nearly bankrupt treasury . No such large-scale aid appears in prospect for the immediate future . American officials are putting together the aid program with the view that a modest sum should be extended to Iran to help pay its . most pressing bills while it works out a settlement of its bitter oil nationalization dispute with Britain . Officials reportedly felt that any big aid grant from the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement indefinitely . They were confident the Zahedi government , which came to power after a bloody revolt against D.r. Mossadegh 's regime , intends to reach a settlement with Britain . but thought the Iranians might move slowly to avoid charges by opponents at home that they ' ' sold out " to foreigners . Britain reportedly has urged the United States to avoid being too generous with its money at this stage .                     