@@717531

txt In a sharp rejoinder to Messrs . Khrushchev and Bulganin , Secretary Dulles has rightly denounced the Soviet leaders for their fraudulent campaign to stir up Asia against the West , As Mr. Dulles said , this is certainly no way to ease international tensions or to save whatever is left of the " spirit of Geneva , " to which , incidentally , the Soviets still pay lip service for their own purposes . At the same time , taking note of another development in the new cold war launched by the Soviets . Mr. Dulles served notice that Moscow will be held responsible for any new blockade of Berlin , whether imposed by Soviet Russia or by its East German agents . It is regrettable that the effect of this rejoinder , which is in line with Asia 's own concern over the Soviet leaders ' abuse of oriental hospitality , has been impaired by Indian resentment concerning a reference in a joint communiqu ? issued by Mr. Dulles and Portuguese Foreign Minister Cunha to " Portuguese provinces in the Far East . " This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the challenged reference is , of course , technically correct . But the Indians have interpreted it to mean that the United States sides with Portugal in the dispute over Goa and thereby backs " colonialism " in Asia , on which the Soviet leaders have been harping . That interpretation is wrong . As Mr. Dulles emphasizes , the United States Government takes no sides in this dispute . All it is trying to do is to encourage a settlement that will avert violence , which is also Prime Minister Nehru 's aim . But the reaction in India demonstrates again the perils of the peacemaker , and it would be wiser to restrict such efforts in future to cases of absolute necessity . At the same time it is obvious that the new Soviet campaign can not be countered by words alone . What the situation demands , and what the Western leaders must consider in reviewing their strategy , is a new Western initiative , especially along the exposed fronts , which at the moment would seem to lie not so much in Asia as in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Dulles last week when he again urged the " European idea " and called upon the European nations to move not only toward military unification but toward a " more perfect union " that would end ultimately in a United States of Europe . Such a. development has long been recognized both as an essential condition for Europe 's ultimate survival in freedom and as the key to a solution of the German problem that now impedes a European peace settlement . The " European idea " suffered a serious setback in the French defeat of the European Defense Community , But it has now been revived by the new " Action Committee for a United Europe " headed by Jean Monnet and consisting of leading political and trade union leaders from six West European nations , who between them command substantial majorities in all the Continental Parliaments concerned . Under the impact of this new unifying force the Governments themselves have been giving increased consideration to the unification of Europe through the development of common . agencies , the progressive merger of their econo mies and the creation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along this line is a European atomic energy . pool comprising the six nations which are ' already in the European Coal and Steel Community . The details of this plan must still be worked out , including the ques7 tion of whether it is to be based on mother supranational authority or merely on international cooperation . But it has already been approved by a ' technical committee as a European economic necessity , and the United States is supporting it with promises of atomic technical and material aid . Like the Paris pacts , it would help to set the " European idea " on the march again and thereby frustrate Soviet designs , to the benefit not only of Europe but of the whole free world .                     