@@714263

txt Prof. Martin P. Catherwood of Cornell University , long identified with state industrial iiffairs and planning , has been named chairman of the new citizen fact-find ? ing board to act in the waterfront strike . Edward Corsi , State Industrial Conunissioner , announced selection of the educator and two other members of the board last night . The others are Msgr . John P. Boland of Buffalo , a member of the State Mediation Board , and Dean Alfange , a member of the liar and the American Labor party candidate for Governor in 1942 . George J , Mintzer , a New York attorney and chairman of the State Advisory Council on Une -- ployment Insurance , will be coun ? sel of the board . The chairman is dean of the New York State School of Industrial and Labor Relations at Cm ' . nell and was formerly State Com . missioner of Commerce and chair ? man of the New York State Plan . ning Council . In another development yesterday , a second threat to the port 's economic welfare , a proposed walk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mates and Pilots Union was removed wlim the officers ' negotiating committee postponed action , Complaint by Ship Lines Studied In Washington , meanwhile , Charles T. Douds , New York regional director of the National Labor Relations Board , conferred with George J. Bott , the board 's general counsel , on the status of a complaint filed by New York ship lines charging the striking locals with unfair labor practices . The nineteen-day old dock strike , the longest New York Port has ever had , has cost shipping and foreign trading millions of dollars in delayed cargoes and vessels made idle by parading picket lines . Bitterness in the long walkout is growing and civic associations have urged action on the part of State and national authorities . On Thursday Merlyn Pitzele , chairman of the Stale Mediation Board , after a futile attempt to bring together an insurgent faction of dockmen of the International Longshoremen 's Association ander John J. Sampson , and the international officials ' of the union headed by Joseph P. Ryan , president , certified the dispute as a public emergency , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ins advisers had been wonting all day on the selection of a factfinding panel , and Mr. Corsi made his announcement after 6:30 P. M. yesterday . Board has Subpoena Power In doing so he said he had " full confidence in the impartiality , integrity and ability of the members of this board to effects a fair adjustment of this dispute . " Mr. Sampson had already served notice that he would not recognize the board , but it has powers of subNem. and it was considered likely . hat he would appear . The board will be sworn in Mr. Corsi 's office on Monday and will then hold its organizational meeting , thereafter having " a free hand " Mr. Corsi said . The strike started on Oct. 15 as an uprising sparked by the traditionally rebellious Local 791 , of which Mr. Sampson is a business agent , The strikers have pulled out thousands of unwilling longshoremen who hesitate to cross picket lines . The issues make the dispute a family affair within the American Federation of Labor dock union , with the strikers charging fraud @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York Shipping Association . They de ? mand reopening of the contract , but both Mr. Ryan and the employer association have refused . In addition to the cost of delayed , spoiled and diverted cal go that is making the strike one of the most serious experienced Der the nation 's lar , gesl shipping center , forcfgn mails ale piling up on docks at an alarming rate , it was aid . Shipping operators protested the failure of postal officials to arrange removal of a mounting count of foreign mails , with sacks piling up on some piers to the point where no more room is available . A spokesman at the office of Postmaster Albert Goldman said outgoing mail was kept moving , chiefly through the use of the port of Philadelphia , to which much of it is being rerouted . As for incoming mail , he mininiized the seriousness of the condition as stressed by industry spokesman , saying that there was a backlog of only 9,000 or 9,500 sacks on the liaeq paia.rea uaaq , sat ? auoj to foreign ports as far as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are obliged under the contract to deliver the mail to the Post Office , " he said . " In the strike , with pickets at the piers , the truckmen will  --  not go through to pick up this mail . " A private canvas of shipping lines showed that at least 15,000 sacks were lying on the docks , with several major trans-Atlantic lines reporting accumulations , of 3,000 to 4,000 sacks , some of the mail is two weeks old . More is coming in over the week-end . The industry protest was sent to Mr. Goldman by John V. Lyon , chairman of the New York Shipping Association , who said failure to move the mail " seems inexcusable . " An estimated 25,000 tons of cargo was being diverted from the port to Atlantic and Gulf areas where dockers are still working . Shipping executives said that probably as much cargo was being sent back to its destination , including consignments of critical materials needed in the defense effort . Much Needed Metal Goes Back The liner Stavangerfjord of the Norwegian America Line sailed yesterday after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sixty tons of nickel " absolutely essential to the defense program " according to the National Production Authority . A city-wide police emergency call went out during the morning in an attempt to get Mr. Sampson to a telephone so the Government authorities could request lifting of the strike ban . He was not found in time , and officials of the Norway line said the nickel was underneath a considerable quantity of other cargo and could not be taken off at the last minute . State Mediation Board officials said there was some copper and cobalt on other vessels in the port . When Mr. Sampson was reached and questioned about this cargo he said ' the committee would not touch and considered it commercial cargo . One way to get all such cargo removed , he added , was to get the I. L. A : officials to reopen the disputed contract . Other strike developments were : Process servers succeeded in serving orders on half a dozen pickets along the New Jersey waterfront . Twenty steamship lines and terminal operators obtained the order on Thursday in Superior Court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invading New Jersey illegally . The orders are returnable next Thursday , at which time Judge Thomas J. Stanton will decide on issuing a temporary restraining order . Percy C. Magnus , chairman of a strike committee of the New York Board of Trade , sent a strong protest to Mayor Impellitteri objecting to the Mayor 's silence in the strike emergency , " which is crippling the city . " He expressed amazement and mystification at the Mayor 's failure to utter a word . A bomb scare sent extra police hurrying to the French liner Liberte at West Forty-eighth Street for a search that disclosed nothing untoward . More than a hundred longshoremen , remaining on the pier all night to evade pickets , worked the Liberte , and the big ship sailed just after the noon hour , anchoring down the bay to take on foodstuffs before leaving port . A group of members of Local 791 , saying they had asked strike leader Sampson to hold a. local meeting to vote on a return to work , have appealed to the New York District Council , headed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ union laws the council can call a meeting of the local if properly petitioned , provided the regular local leaders refuse . Mr. Gannon and Jeremiah J. Callaghan , secretary of the council , told the men to deliver the petition to them today . They expressed the hope , however , that the local 's officials would call the meeting . Anti-Sampson men in .791 have complained that they have been " railroaded " into the present strike , with no opportunity to vote on the action . 