@@717114

txt DETROIT , June ** United Automobile Workers , C. I. 0. , appeared today to have gained a concession from the Ford Motor Company on the question of pay for laid-off ' workers . The new Ford offer to the union this week , according to qualified sources , would provide for company payments to supplement unemployment compensation when workers are laid off . The new proposal was reported to include a plan to build up a $55,000,000 " job security " fund over a three-year period . Pay-f ments into this fund , it was said , would be made as a percentage of each weekly payroll . Neither company nor unioni sources would comment regard-I flg , the new offer , which was made by Ford yesterday . But observers interpreted the reported concession by the company as a hopeful sign in the crucial negotiations . Monday has been set as a date for a strike unless an agreement has been reached . Secrecy Continues The lid of secrecy on developments in the negotiations was continued today by mutual agreement of the company and union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' were met with the standard and saver of " no comment . " The union 's major demand in the current talks has been for what it calls a guaranteed annual wage for workers laid off their jobs . Under terms of the union 's proposed plan laid-off workers would be guaranteed 80 per cent of their gross pay for a limited period . Employer liability for such payments would be reduced under the union plan , by the amount of unemployment compensation for which a worker was eligible . The Ford offer was said to be unsatisfactory to the union in the form it was originally presented . Nevertheless , the re'ported willingness of the company to discuss ways of supplementing unemployment compensation , was regarded as a major step toward closing the gulf that has separated the parties during nearly two months of negotiations . There were other reports // here that the payments to laidoff workers , as proposed by the company , would not begin until unemployment compensation benefits were exhausted . Such an offer , observers asserted , would be meaningless during periods of high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the time of model changeovers and are of relatively short duration . The company spokesman said that there had been no layoffs of entire plant forces for longer than four weeks ' duration since World War U. Complications Are Noted Details of the company offer were said to be complicated , providing considerable work for union economists and researchers as they attempted to break down the cost and determine the applications of the proposal . Nevertheless , there were indications from some union negotiators that they were not satisfied with the progress in the current talks . Regulations relating to unemployment compensation might provide further complications for any union-company plan providing for guaranteed wages supplementing unemployment compensation . Most states prohibit payment of unemployment compensation benefits to workers who are still getting pay from their employers . The union has displayed little concern on this point , however , and has suggested that the U. A. W. and the company would probably unite to have such regulations changed , if an agreement was reached on the guaranteed annual wage issue . Bargaining Continues Meanwhile , Ford bargaining continued throughout the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. Negotiations between the union and the General Motors Corporation were also in progress today . There were reports of isolated walkouts by Ford workers in some sections of the country today . But union leaders here said they had not been authorized and took steps to get those who were out back on the job . Most Ford locals were reported to have extensive plans ready for a strike if no agreement is reached by Monday . The big Ford Local 600 , composed of 48,000 workers employed at the Rouge plant in Dearborn , has announced detailed picketing plans and committees for a strike if one is called . Ledders of the local suggested that rank and file members take a vacation and go fishing for the first week . In the meantime , the union said , local officers and other leaders of the local would man picket lines .                     