@@719074

txt We need to be particularly clear and thoughtful about the frontal assault which Soviet Party Chief Nikita S. Khrushchev delivered from East Berlin , and which the chief Soviet delegate to the Disarmament Conference , Valerian A. Zorin , supported from London , against the Western position on disarmament and German reunification . The Western position is that German reunification is the price the Soviets must , and should , pay for any form of disarmament beyond a system of early warning against surprise air attack . The Soviet position . as presented by Messrs . Khrushchev and Zorin , is that if German unification is the precondition for substantial arms control and f'eduction , then there will be no treaty and no agreement and we will have to go on as we have with the arms burden and the arms race unmitigated by contract . A A A This does not necessarily mean that the extreme dangers of the cold-war period will be resumed . As Walter Lippmann has pointed out , there has existed ever since President Eisenhower met the Soviets at Geneva in 1955 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general war between the world 's two greatest physical powers would be so mutually destructive as to be unthinkable , There can be a failure to write the tacit agreement into a formal treaty without of necessity a return to the pre-Geneva condition . However , it probably would be safer if we could convert a tacit understanding into a formal contract , This , at least , is the assumption upon which Mr. Eisenhower and Harold E. Stassen , Special Assistant to the President on Disarmament , have operated in their patient and persistent search for a written contract . Now we have reached the point Where the achievement of this presumably desired contract in all serious probability depends upon Washington 's policy toward Germany . In insisting that German unity is an essential precondition the Western powers find themselves on an extremely weak and vulnerable position , wliOe Mr , Khrushchev stands on a stronger position than any Western diplomat cares to ? concede . The truth of the matter is that almost everyone in the West pays lip service to the goal of German unity , while few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' How About a Gentlemen 's Agreement ? ' the achievement . It is the last thing the French really want . West German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer himself has a double reason for pushing with less than all his political strength , because the present margin of his predominantly Roman Catholic party in West Germany almost certainly would be wiped out under unification by the heavy Socialist-Protestant majority in East Germany . Britain , feeling the economic pressure of rising West German industry , is a reluctant acolyte before the shrine of German unity . And does Washington , deep down in its heart , truly prefer the uncertainties which German unity would bring to the present situation , unsatisfactory as it may be ? More importantly still , the issue of German unity is the one issue which truly draws the Soviet Union together with its Eastern European satellites . On that point and on that point only Yugoslavia 's President Tito and Polish Party Chief Wladyslaw Gomulka and the most ardent divisionists and patriots of all Eastern Europe feel a kinship with Moscow . Much as the Poles and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Moscow in other matters , they look to Moscow for protection from a revival of German power in Central Europe . The Gestapo and Hitler 's gas chambers are still a more hateful memory to them than even the worst days of Stalinism . Thus when Messrs . Khrushchev and Zorin reject German unity as a precondition for a disarmament treaty , they have an issue which draws together , unifies , and solidifies their relations with their satellites and which also appeals to the French , British , and even to many West Germans . It . is unifying in the East and divisive in the West , A A A Conversely , when Washington makes German unity a precondition for a disarmament treaty , it is doing what . it thinks it must to strengthen Dr. Adenauer 's hand in the forthcoming German election , But it is , in the process , giving Moscow an advantage both in Eastern and in Western Europe . The economic and social reunification of Germany is desirable and necessary , and some day , and sooner better than later , must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another matter . There are grave doubts about the desirability of it in the West as well as in Moscow , Warsaw , Prague , and Belgrade , Mr. Khrushchev has appealed shrewdly and powerfully to those Western doubts , 