@@715717

txt The city council voted 31 to 8 yesterday to close the city 's ye ' hicle testing lanes and end compulsory inspections of automobiles . The move Will save the city government about $600,000 a n - nually and perKeane mit use of the funds for street repair and maintenance . The operation of the 12 lanes at nine locations has been financed largely by revenue from city vehicle license fees . Jobs of about 180 testing lane employes will be ended . May Close by Oct. 1 The council 's action repealed ordinances providing for creation arid maintenance of the lanes . The effective date has not been determined . The repealers will be . published , probably in a week or 10 days , and will become effective 10 days later . Thus it appeared the lanes will be closed down by Oct. 1 . Corporation Counsel Mortimer warned , however , that car owr , ers without current windshield safety stickers will be subject to wrest until the lanes officially close . Closing of the lanes will elimins.te the requirement that more than 800,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vehicles are mechanically safe . Established in 1936 Compulsory vehicle testing was establikhed in Chicago in 1936 . At onetime the city operated 20 lanes . In Minh , 1952 , the city council enacted an ordinance providing that only one inspection a year was required , instead of one each six months as before . The repealer ordinances , submitted by Ald. Keane 31st , chairman of the council 's traffic ancrpublic safety committee , re-versed recommendations by this ' , committee last July 21 . At thatl time the committee recommended not only that the lanes be continued , but ? that two inspections a year again be required starting Jan. 1 . The committee report had been pending before the council since . The action yesterday conformed with recommendations of the Chicago Motor club and several top city officials that the lanes be closed . Among the officials were Lloyd M. Johnson , cofnmissioner of streets a n d sanitation ; Leslie J. Sorenson , city traffic engineer , and Public Works Commissioner Gunlock . Keane told the council 250,000 suburban cars using city streets regularly are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the inspections contribute little to prevention of fatal accidents . He said at least $1,600,000 a year would have to be spent if vehicles were to be tested properly twice yearly . He noted the state government refused to institute compulsory vehicle testing . The opposition came from wards in which a number of testing lane workers are precinct captains . Most of the testing lane Jobs pay $2,820 a year . The 1953 city budget provided 190 testing lane jobs , but some of these are not filled . 