@@716472

txt There seems not the slightest common ground between French Premier Pierre MendesFrance 's attitude toward the European Defense Community and the positive " let's-build-anew-Europe " attitude of the five other foreign ministers . This has been made strikingly clear at the six-power conference being held here . The one and the five are worlds apart . They are talking different langnages . Since no mutual agreement seems remotely possible because of this , the sole effort today is toward saving the conference from breaking down . A formula which would avoid killing EDC but gain little else than suspended animation now appears to be the last hope . M. Mendes-France made a most effective demand Aug. 19 , to have his textual changes approved , but it was all based on an appeal to fear , which struck a strange note to those who attended previous six-power meetings . It made this brilliant Frenchman seem like an outsider , and gave him a rough day indeed . It was a somber French delegation which went to the Aug. 20 morning meeting to work out a formula for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Premier took up a theme only too familiar in French international appeals of France 's always special difficulties which no one else could have and which everyone must therefore make special efforts to understand , he received a sharp counterattack from West Germany 's chancellor , Konrad Adenauer , and Netherlands Foreign Minister Y. W. Beyen . Mr. Beyen said that if the French had difficulties , other nations had difficulties , too . He said it was most difficult for the Dutch to join EDC in the first place when they were fundamentally opposed to an exclusively continental bloc of nations . They now could not approve anything which fell short of the principles involved , Mr. Beyen said , and an eight-year delay in EDC 's supranational phase andturning the commissariat into mere civil servants taking orders from ministers would take all the strength out of the treaty . But it was Dr. Adenauer who came back and knocked the pins from under M. Mendes-France 's most carefully worked out point to bring the other five into line . The French premier had said that if the treaty changes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would move toward a popular-front government . This would be a victory for the Soviet Union and endanger the whole structure of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . Spaak Tries to Mediate Dr. Adenauer said that if he went back with the treaty remodeled according to M. Mertes-France 's ideas , the next day they would all rind that the difficulties presently encountered by the French Premier would simply have been transferred to Bonn . In that case , could he be forbidden to say that if his government then fell , Germany without doubt would move toward a popular-front regime . This exchange on the major French pressure device symbolizde the almost complete deadlock that exists . Belgian Foreign Minister Paul-Henri Spaak , trying to act as mediator , suggested Aug. 19 , to divide the problem into two parts  --  a list of points considered interpretative , which could be agreed upon among the foreign ministers without further action , and a list of points which each felt would necessitate reratification by their national parliaments . This latter would then be the subject of a " declaration of intention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have no binding character . " Nothing could be more noncommital or better show the degree to which the conference would be forced to go to avoid a breakdown . It is conceded that with different laws the six nations ' sum total of the points needing such study would represent all the essentials of the text proposed France .                     