@@719884

txt James A. Farley sought to ' demolish by humor yesterday the notion that Mayor Wagner could be drafted for the Democratic Senate nomination . that Mr. Farley wants for himself . The draft of a candidate was once " a sure-fire cliffhanger , a real-life soap opera , " the former Democratic National Chairman said in a statement . But modern communications , he added , ' " have made ridiculous the spurious draft to public office . " One of the purposes of Mr. Farley 's statement was to indicate that it was impossible to draft a person for a nomination ' , without that person 's consent . Wagner has said that he is not a candidate for the Senate nomination and has pledged himself to serve out his term as Mayor . But the feeling persists that the Mayor 's mind might be changed by " a draft " at the party 's convention in Buffalo on Aug. 25 and 26 . " Tens of millions of past generations , " said Mr. Farley , " enjoyed the hoary , hackneyed plot ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ withdrawal , the ardent pursuit , the coy consent to listen to the passionate plea of the desperate professional partisans , the troubled candidate 's withdrawal to the mountaintop to wrestle with himself , the anguished wait , the breathless suspense , the candidate 's final mock-reluctant acceptance , the wild exaltation of the carefully assembled claque that the country is saved . " Mr. Farley said it would be " a pity to drag out this time fionored though time - worn comic opera and tag it on a fine young Mayor like Robert Wagner . " " Mayor Wagner is enough of a star in his own right to deserve better props and better material , " he declared . " Further , if I may speak as one with some professional experience In these matters , " he continued , " it seems to be downright amateurish to take a very able young Mayor and cast him as the juvenile lead in the most transparently absurd production since ' Charley 's Aunt . ' Nor can I easily imagine as seasoned and distinguished a leader as Carmine De @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he doubted that Mr. Wagner had seen " this preposterous script , much less accepted the part , " and predicted that the Mayor " will disdain any clumsy device whereby a few well-intentioned zealots will importune him to break a solemn promise extended by him and accepted by the people of New York City in the last campaign . " Mr , Farley mixed with his humor a clear warning to party leaders that he planned to fight for the nomination right through the convention , His friends , he said , had advised him " not to be asleep at the switch . " To a suggestion that he might be sidetracked via the Union Pacific , he said he had replied that " that would be unfair and unwise and our Governor is neither . " Governor Harriman formerly was chairman of the ' Onion Pacific Railroad , which was founded by his father . " It is not improbable that my opponents will prevail upon some prominent and innocent citizen , as yet in the wings , to come forth as their pinch hitter , " Mr @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to believe there will not be a last desperate effort to prevent my nomination , a nomination which I know is the wish of thousands and thousands of New York Democratic men and women who feel I am entitled to it . " Accordingly , it looks to me as if one of those healthy oldfashioned intra-Democratic party battles is developing , the kind which caused Will Rogers to jovially remark that a Democrat always reserves his best shillelagh for another Democrat . " My position , of course , is clear ; I most certainly want to be the second Senator from New York and I , even more certainly , am not going to be the first American Irishman who ran away from a-fight . " Two other Democrats have announced candidacy for Senate nomination . One is Thomas K. Finletter , former Secretary of the Air Force . The other is Edward T. Dickinson , Commissioner of the State Department of Commerce .                     