@@719265

txt Le'tters to The Times Competition With Soviet Problems of Democracy in Contest With Dictatorship Cited To THE EDITOR OP THE NEW YORK TIMES : Our lag in missile technology is substantial and this is but a symptom of greater inadequacies . If we do not reorganize our scientific efforts , from the high schools up , we may some day find that sputnik was the thin end of a nasty wedge . So long as our expenditures on science are no greater than Russia 's there is no reason to think that we will ever catch up to them , much less overtake them . Not only are the Russians producing greater numbers of young engineers but they are also more concentrated in fields which markedly affect the power of their nation . A large fraction of our engineers is building the things which make life here comfortable at the cost of putting limitations on advances in fundamental matters . This has always been characteristic of the United States . Let us not forget that it is only very recently that the United States has become strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to an influx of immigrant . scientists , while Russia has always had first-rate theoreticians . Scientific Challenge , Judging from his Nov. 7 talk , the President unfortunately missed the significance of the satellite as a scientific challenge rather than a military one and he entirely neglected the nonmilitary aspects of science and the effect of the Russian advances on the numberless people in Asia and Africa who are looking for a helping hand into the twentieth century . ' We should not disregard the fact that the Russians are fairly advanced in reactors and may be close to solving the problem of obtaining power from fusion reactions . We are faced with the following alternatives : we can relinquish the lead in science to the Russians or we can make this a contest by harnessing a sizable part of our vast resources . We have a larger , richer and more powerful industry and many competent people , but we must organize our efforts more intelligently than heretofore , perhaps with a greater measure of Government control . We can no longer permit our economy to run on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very disturbing questions . How shall a democracy ? successfully grapple with a totalitarian state without compromising its fundamental principles ? In the past our victories have been based largely on the fact that we have been able to marshal a greater effort and to draw upon vaster resources than our adversaries . In the past we have also had time to mobilize a war industry where none existed before the country was threatened . This will ' never again be true . Holding Our Own Furthermore , the natural resources of the Communist world are great , and it is possible that soon its industrial power and over-all state of technology may be roughly comparable to that of the Western World . What shall we do then ? How shall we hold our own against an organized concentrated efficient , effort on the part of the Communists ? How can we compete against such a Spartan system with our unwieldy , clumsy Government which was designed to best prevent the accumulation of excessive power and to insure a just and happy life for our citizens ? We must first accept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with us as long as we are a democracy . A democratic form of government demands much more of its citizens than a dictatorship and if we are to remain a democracy through periods of great stress our citizens will need to exhibit a high degree of political maturity . This brings us back to the importance of education . We should not be led by the Russians into an exclusive emphasis on science , because our nation needs an alert citizenry , aware of the stakes and prepared to make voluntary sacrifices to conHoop our manner of life . VICTOR GILINSKY , rorman Bridge Laboratory of Physics , California Institute of Technology . Pasadena , Calif. , Nov. 8 , 1957. security regulations and safeguards in certain defined areas of militaryconnected activity , we must , as a nation , get over the obsessive notion that the safety and survival of the country is better served by devoting excessive amounts of energy , manpower and money to the keeping of " secrets " rather than by applying our maximum efforts to the task of most effectively and rapidly extending the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power which flows from such increased knowledge . While such a course involves some risk , it has been well said that all life involves some risk and that there is no such thing as absolute security except in the grave . It would be ironic indeed if we should some day meet our Armageddon protecting with our lives a " secret " that the Soviets had long previously discarded as obsolete . JOHN F DAVIDSON New York , Nov. 11 , 1957 . Protecting Home Industry . Effect of Tariff Process on Foreign Policy Discussed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In your editorial of Nov , 5 " Storm Signals Flying " you are critical of a statement purported to have been made by 0 .. R. Strackbein , to whom you refer as a " tireless lobbyist for protectionism , " that the so-called protectionists want " above all to eliminate the Presidential veto over Tariff Commission findings in escape-clause cases " and put an end to a situation where , the protectionists claim , " fancied advantages to international relations * * override the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To eliminate consideration of foreign policy from the tariff-making process , as this proposal would do , would be an act of monumental folly , disastrous to the relations of the United States with the rest of the free world . " The problem which arises , and which your editorial ignores , is whether the procedures which have been set up to help nations that are made victims of unrestricted imports are to be abandoned . Condemning Industry One of these procedures , supposed to offer protection against the disastrous effects of competition , especially for smaller industries not in a position to protect themselves to the extent that the large mass production industries are , is the escapeclause . This is the law of the land , as valid as the reciprocal trade treaty program . If industries avail themselves of a procedure recognized in the law are they to be condemned because the effect of what they do may be to eliminate foreign policy considerations front our tariff-making process ? Second , if it be true that the utilization of the escape-clause provision is an act which interferes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the fate of the free world depends , why is this clause not eliminated from the reciprocal trade treaty program ? Third , if the hope that is now held out that an industry seriously handicapped by imports can obtain relief by invoking the escape-clause provision and applying to the Tariff Commission for relief is illusory , as experience has shown that it is ( the President having disregarded one after another of unanimous Tariff Commission recommendations for relief ) would it not be more realistic if the Tariff Commission were abolished altogether ? . Its recommendations , based on facts which are established after long and thorough investigations , are cast aside because they come in conflict with our foreign policy . Finally , are we to say that the Congress , to which the Constitution has entrusted the making of tariff laws , has been deprived of that power , as in fact it has , without a ' constitutional . amendment ? If neither Congress , nor the Tariff Commission , which is its creature , lawfully endowed with certain functions , exercises any power in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better if that fact were recognized and officially established , rather than have the power usurped by the State Department , as happens to be the case now . MARX LEWIS ,                     