@@715709

txt Secretary of State John Foster Dulles is practicing a new kind of tree-world leadership in his blunt and forthright statements on international affairs . But the big question is : Is such outspoken diplomacy the way to win friends and influence allies ? World reactions to parts of his speech to the American Legion this week , and his press conference statements on various issues the next day , indicate that he has stirred up a diplomatic tempest from Rome to Tokyo , from New Delhi to Bonn . It is inconceivable that Secretary Dulles , whose diplomatic training and experience go back 30 years , could have been unaware of the reactions that would flow from his unorthodox diplomatic speaking . Therefore , one must conclude that Mr. Dulles is deliberately applying a new brand of diplomacy to international problems . No Opinion Polls ' ? That this is intentional , a calculated effort to boldly lead the free world in the cold war , can be read in his St. Louis speech to the American Legion . where he outlined his views on what world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " There is much talk these days about the increased responsibility that no , . v devolves upon the United States . That responsibility is a reality . We need not , however , shrink from it out of fear that it will involve the scrapping of our American traditions and ideals . " We do not now have to be constantly taking international public opinion polls to find out what others want and then doing what it seems will make us popular . Leadership won in that way is shabby and fleeting . " There you find Mr. Dulles ' conception of how the United States must practice the leadership thrust on it : Do and say what it thinks is right ; ignore foreign reaction . which may be critical but is ephemeral ; the way to lead is to lead . Surprise Stirred In his St. Louis speech , but more particularly in his press conference in Washington the next day , Mr : Dulles very definitely put in practice what he preached  --  in his references to the coming German elections , to Trieste , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out frankly , openly , and bluntly . The result was surprise  --  ranging from unbelief to consternation. from uncertainty to denunciation  --  in a score of capitals . The State Secretary 's bald public endorsement of Chancellor Adenauer , in which he described his possible defeat as a catastrophe for Germany and German unification , unleashed a fury of denunciation in the antiAdenauer press in Germany . Mr. Dulles was charged with open interference in German elections , with trying to decide German elections as the Soviets determine election results in their satellites , with acting like an overlord , not an ally . Open Intervention Criticism came not only from anti-Adenauer forces but from the Chancellor 's friends and from friendly diplomatic quarters . It was argued that such open and positive intervention in German internal affairs would hurt rather than help the pro-American Chancellor . It was recalled that just prior to the recent Italian elections , America 's Ambassador to Rome , Mrs. Clare Boothe Luce , warned Rome in effect that American aid to Italy would be withdrawn if elections went against American wishes . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to some reports , accounted for the failure of Premier Alcide de Gasperi to win a working majority . The comments on Trieste likeMse alarmed both Rome and Belgrade , with reactions ranging from apparent consternation to confusion . Hasty Conferences Both capitals , which have vital interests in the future of that strategic area , quickly called State Department officials to find out what the secretary was up to . Rome felt that the secretary had torn up Washington 's 1948 promise that all of Trieste should be Italian : Belgrade asked to know just what the secretary was suggesting . Hasty conferences in both Rome and Washington between American and Italian officials did not resolve the issue . The Italians were left with the feeling that Mr. Dulles had pulled the rug out from under them , that his observation that Washington would support a new solution to Trieste if it could find one . had definitely weakened their position in this dispute with Belgrade . The Yugoslays learned that the secretary was n't suggesting anything in particular , except that the United States was stuck with the 1948 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acceptable alternative . India 's irritation with the secretary of state stemmed from his St. Louis reference to New Delhi 's neutralism in the East-West struggle and the Korean war . India insists that there is nothing wicked or immoral in trying to remain neutral in the East-West struggle and that suggestions that India is pro-Communist because it is not especially pro-Atnerican are irresponsible as well as untrue .                     