@@717601

txt The British Government reaffirmed today that it intended to do all in its power to prevent an arms race in the Middle East , " whatever the source of supply . " Its declaration was issued shortly before Hugh Gaitskell , Leader of the Labor Opposition , met Prime Minister Eden in a two-hour-and-ten-minute conference at 10 Downing Street . Mr. Gaitskell urged the Prime Minister to ban all exports of surplus war materials and to try to persuade Belgium to do the same . The Opposition leader was accompanied by Alfred Robens and Kenneth Younger , Labor 's foreign affairs specialists . He also asked that Parliament be recalled if necessary to debate the issue before Sir Anthony left for the United States at the end of the month for conferences with President Eisenhower and other leaders . Ban Announced Saturday On Saturday , after an outburst of public criticism for having permitted surplus tanks to make their way via Belgium to Egypt , the Government announced a ban on any further private shipments of war surplus material . Two hours before Mr. Gaitskell and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Defense Minister Sir Walter Monckton , the Prime Minister ordered a statement issued further clarifying the Government 's position . No licenses will be granted to private dealers for the export of material that might be " reconditioned and re-exported as weapons of war , " the statement said , " unless the Government of the country of destination is prepared to give a guarantee against that happening . " Reports from Belgium , confirmed by official British sources here , have indicated that 180 to 190 World War II Valentine tanks of sixteen tons each were reconditioned at the free port of Antwerp and ? e-exported to Egypt . A shipment of about fifty World War II United Statesbuilt Sherman tanks was reported to have been bought as surplus in France last slimmer and to have gone to Israel . Moreover , there have also been unconfirmed reports of shipments of " softskinned " military vehicles , such as scout cars , through Belgium and Holland to the Middle East in recent months . Tonight the British customs and excise authorities said that 420 tons of tank threads were being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their destination and eventual use . Other official quarters indicated that the treads would probably not be allowed to leave the country in view of the present public outcry about arms movements to the tense Middle East region . The Government statement was issued from the Prime Minister 's office because the problem of surplus arms sales involves several Government departments . It explained that since the war " large quantities " of surplus war material have been sold to private traders partly as " scrap " and partly for " civil " purposes ? that is , agriculture or civil engineering . Hitherto , exporters were required to give assurances about nonmilitary use of purchased material , but in July , the statement disclosed , the Government received reports that ' ' raised doubts " about the ultimate use of some of exported stocks . Since July , it added , all tank exports have been stopped , and only one comprehensive license ? for 8,000 tons of spare parts for armored 6 fightino- vehicles exported to Holland  --  has been approved . The statement said the approval came after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be reexported " in a form in which they could be used for military , purposes . " Official sources explained privately that part of the British Government 's problem had arisen because of the inability of the Belgian Government to give pledges similar to those obtained from the Netherlands . The Dutch have agreed to supervise the use of the material imported into their country . But the Belgians have pleaded that such a move on their part might jeopardize the rights and privileges of " free port " at Antwerp , into which goods can be imported , reconditioned and re-exported without the Belgian Government 's " official " knowledge . Sir Anthony agreed to consider the Labor requests and to communicate further with Mr. Gaitskell . He explained that a shipload of twenty-one railway cars of arms , now being loaded at Liverpool for shipment to Egypt , was going on Government authority in fulfillment of a 1949 contract and he said that " some " airplane ' engines were also being shipped to Israel " under similar authority . " The Prime Minister gave scant encouragement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union be invited to help keep the peace in the ' Middle East . A change of plans on a tour in Israel and Jordan by a Labor party delegation was announced tonight . The visit was to have been made this month and no reason was given for the change .                     