@@713723

txt United Nations forces discovered yesterday that the Chinese Communists apparently had abandoned their big base at Chunchon , only eight miles south of the Thirtyeighth Parallel , as the allied forces pressed forward cautiously toward the controversial boundary line be-1 tween North and South Korea . The city , which had been an imfi ortant forward collection and disibution point for reinforcements L id supplies sent down to the Comtriunist armies from north of the Parallel , seemed to have been deserted both by the enemy troops ; and the civilian population , front-1 line reports said . The United Nations troops moved up toward the city from Hongchon , captured last week , along a road sown with mines , which , however , had been planted hastily and were detected comparatively easily . The advancing forces captured an abandoned enemy ammunition dump south of Chunchon . It was smaller than the huge cache of arms , enough to equip a regiment , the Marines had uncovered last week in the hills south of Hongchon . But the latest cache found had enough ammunition to fill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indication of a hurried enemy retreat under the powerful allied air forces , which prevented removal of the important stores by convoys . Enemy Breaks Contact Along almost all of the 100-mile front , from the Yellow Sea to the Sea of Japan , the Chinese and North Korean invaders broke contact with the United Nations troops after brief rearguard stands Saturday that , according to an Eighth Army estimate , cost them 5,050 casualties in the ground fighting , as well as an uncounted total of killed and wounded from air and naval bombardments behind the lines . Army headquarters reported a " considerable amount of enemy activity " around Uijongbu , about twelve miles north of Seoul in the mountain wedge , which , so far as has been announced , is still considerably beyond the farthest penetration of allied patrols . It has been expected that the enemy might make a stand somewhere in these hills , utilizing the same rough terrain that proved an obstacle to the United Nations forces during their first advance from the Korean capital last year . General of the Army Douglas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increased convoy traffic in Central and Western Korea during the first fortnight of March . At an average , 692 vehicles were sighted daily , and the total for the period was 9,695 , with more than half of them moving southward . Few Contacts Reported The heaviest traffic was along the Sinanju - Pyongyang - Sariwon highway down the west coast toward Seoul and in the central Chorwon-Yonchon-Kumhwa triangle just north of t4e Thirty-eighth Parallel , the United Nations commander revealed , While these signs might indicate the Chinese and North Koreans were being reinforced and resupplied to stand and fight somewhere Tong the old Korean boundary , reports of actual troop contact yesterday were at a minimum . On the east coast , delayed reports told of action by South Korean Republican troops eleven miles from the Thirty-eighth Parallel . A South Korean patrol had a one-hour exchange of fire with an enemy force estimated at a platoon northwest of Kangchung , without an announced result . The fighting was closer to the Parallel than official accounts had located United Nations troops since Lieut . Gen. Matthew B. Ridgway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the penetration on the east coast should not be overvalued . No important enemy forces have been reported in the extreme eastern sector for several months , and South Korean patrols have moved almost at will . The single road in the narrow strip of land between the Sea of Japan and the mountains is the sole means of access , and this track is covered by guns of the United Nations naval flotillas offshore . Summarizing Sunday morning activities all along the United Nations line the Eighth Army reported " little or no contact " in the west . One mortar shell that fell in United States positions was the sole Communist effort , observers at the front said . In the center there was " light small arms fire " as the United Nations forces " continued to advance during the day . " The only large concentration of the enemy consisted of 1,500 men , who brought rifle and machine gun fire to bear on South Korean troops west of Hongchon yesterday mulling . " Little or no contact " again was the picture in the eastern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following the United Nations reoccupation of Seoul and Hongchon , observers saw increasing indications that the Chinese and North Koreans meant to retreat behind the Parallel . The action would place on the United Nations and its field command the onus of a political decision whether to cross the line again or not . It might open the way to negotiations in which the Communists could hope ' to gain some of the aims they had failed to obtain by force of arms , such as de facto recognition of the Communist North Korean state , existence of which had been denied in the United Nations mandate for unification of Korea under a- democratic regime . Time to Regroup Seen It . certainly would provide time for reorganization and regrouping of the enemy armies should the United Nations forces , because of hesitation to cross the Parallel , permit the Communists to break off completely from pursuit on the ground . Many military observers here gave weight to these considerations . But reports from Korea indicated the high command was not unmindful of the enemy potentiality to strike back against General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General pointed out last week that the Chinese . Communists had suffered no decisive defeat , and that the enemy withdrawal was orderly . Since that time , although the Communists abandoned some armaments in their quick retreat , their casualties have generally numbered only about 1,000 daily in ground fighting , a tiny number in comparison with the Chinese and North Korean forces massed somewhere near the Thirty-eighth Par- , allel . Reports from Korea have made it plain that General Ridgway 's advance continued slowly and methodically because of the nature of the terrain , the known enemy propensity for ambush tactics and the generally superior numbers facing the allies . The enemy has been able to break contact effectively between the main masses of the opposing armies and the casualties have been light largely because Communists in large groups have been able to stay out of artillery range . Chunchon itself is a military position somewhat hard to defend . Like most Korean cities , it is built on river flats commanded from all sides by mountains . But there are hill masses north of the Choyang @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of . contact of the sort now inprogress often before have been the prelude to counter-offensives . Against such a possibility , General Ridgway 's army continued on guard yesterday , moving up slowly , mopping up the hills and valleys , keeping the commands in as level a line as can be done in Korea and leaving minimum of opportunity for a new Communist blow south of the Parallel . Switch Air Attack With ground fighting almost nonexistent , the air forces switched their attacks yesterday to areas , behind the enemy lines . Fifth Air Force pilots flew 560 sorties up to late afternoon . B-26 light bombers concentrated along a railroad line from the enemy 's east coast base at Wonsan down toward the central front through Pyonggang . One tunnel and seven bridges were destroyed or damaged and a highway bridge was knocked out . The pilots reported they had destroyed or damaged 30,0 buildings , thirty-five railroad cars , twenty trucks and one tank , and had wrecked one fieldpiece and four gun emplacements . One United States F-80 Shooting Star crashed and exploded while on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Wonsan area took a heavy battering from the sea as well as the air as the light cruiser Manchester and accompanying destroyers carried the bombardment of the city into the thirtieth consecutive day . The guns of the battleship Missouri " completely obliterated " a long thirteen-span railroad bridge at Chaho , south of Songjin on the east coast . Destroyers fired at Songjin and Chongjin . B-29 's from Okinawa turned to east coast targets , hitting railroad yards and barracks at Hungnam . A suggestion that the " eneiny may be using tanks to a larger extent in an attempt to stem the United Nations offensive or launch a new counterdrive was made today by Maj. Gen. Earle E. Partridge , commander of the Fifth Air Force , in a recapitulation of air activity from Feb. 23 to March 17 . During the twenty-two-day period , General Partridge said at his headquarters in Korea today , twenty enemy tanks were destroyed and twenty-eight damaged by-air strikes . Although no details were given , these presumably were the Russian-type **  --  the only model yet spotted in the enemy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lavish supply at the start of the war , but which later was seen less often at the front . One of the reports current here for some time ? has been that the comparative lack of such Soviettype equipment made available to the Chinese for their Korean intervention may have caused a breach between the Red Chinese and Russia . The commander of the Fifth Air Force gave the following tally of damage to the enemy from the air during the period : 9,000 troop casualties , mostly in close support missions , 345 gun positions destroyed or damaged , 2,880 vehicles knocked out  --  a record  --  twentysix locomotives destroyed and forty-two damaged , and more than 700 railroad cars wrecked . Nineteen thousand buildings , from large warehouses to small houses , that were sheltering troops or supplies , were burned out , according to pilot claims .                     