@@717626

txt New Hampshire backers of Adlai E. Stevenson for the Democratic presidential nomination today went ahead with plans to develop a strong slate of delegate candidates " favorable " to him , even though the former Illinois Governor formally took himself out of the Granite State primaries . Prof. Herbert W. Hill of Dartmouth College , leading Stevenson supporter in New Hampshire , said a slate of candidates favorable to Mr. Stevenson would be entered in the March 13 primaries . Only yesterday the Dartmouth College professor disclosed receipt of a letter from Mr. Stevenson declining permission for a slate to run officially " pledged " to him , Vote Not Binding - For a delegate aspirant to run " pledged " to a specific candidate , ' the latter 's written consent is required under New Hampshire law . No such assent , however , is necessary in the case of a person running as " favorable " to a presidential prospect . When a delegate candidate is running " pledged " to or " favor -- able " to a particular presidential aspirant , it is spelled out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Stevenson letter also firmly closed the door to any possible move to enter his name in the preference voting . This voting is entirely apart from the election of delegates , although on the same ballot . The preference voting is not bindirfg on the delegates . " Of course , " Professor Hill said , " we will respect Mr. Stevenson 's wishes but it is just impossible to restrain the growing grass-roots support . for him . People are demanding an opportunity to vote for him and I am sure they will have that opportunity through voting for delegates favorable to his candidacy . " Thus , it is certain Senator Estes Kefauver ( D ) of Tennessee will face at least a partial contest in the New Hampshire primaries , first in the nation . The Tennessee senator is opening his New Hampshire campaign on Jan. 14 , when he starts a three-day swing in the Granite State . He hopes to sweep the 16-member , eight-vote delegation this year just as he swept the 1952 Democratic primaries in New Hampshire . Some top Stevenson men in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Granite State primaries because he will campaign diligently in the state , while Mr. Stevenson finds it impossible to come to the state for a personal and concentrated campaign tour . Primary March 13 With a strong slate of delegate candidates , the Stevenson supporters could , however , capture some of the delegate seats from the Kefauver forces . It is known that many prominent New Hampshire Democrats had been ready to run pledged to Mr. Stevenson . It is understood these same leaders , including Professor Hill , are now ready to run favorable to the former Illinois Governor . Professor Hill said " there is a great deal more support for Mr. Stevenson in New Hampshire than most observers have anticipated . " Stevenson leaders point out that anyone can run for delegate in New Hampshire . Recognizing this ? situation and the fact that some delegate aspirants running on their own , favorable to Mr. Stevenson , may lack voting strength , they want to present a Stevenson slate of sufficient strength to make a good showing in the March 13 primary . The Kefauver name @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Npw Hampshire laws a candidate 's name may be entered in the preference test by filing of a petition signed by 50 voters in each of the two congressional districts . The candidate himself has 10 days in which to request withdrawal of the petition . If he does not make such a request , his name stays on the ballot . The Stevenson name will not be entered on the preference ballot because his letter to Professor Hill made it clear he would not allow his name to stay on due to his concentration on the March 20 Minnesota primary , which he has chosen for his first big primary test .                     