@@720738

txt Delegations to the United Nations took a reserved attitude today toward the proposals of Premier Khrushchev for universal disarmament . Representatives of some Western nations went so far as to call his remarks " platitudinous " and " the same old story " of disarmament without effective inspection that the Soviet Union had been advancing ' for many years . Others , including some LatinAmerican and Asian countries , thought Mr. Khrushchev 's statements should be studied further . But most agreed that the Soviet leader had introduced nothing definitely new into the deadlocked disarmament issue and had - proposed only that previously ? advanced plans should now be reviewed on a different basis . Study Is Pledged Immediate United States reaction came from Secretary of State Christian ' A. Herter , who had listened , with his chin cupped in his hand for more than an hour , to Mr. Khrushchev 's statement from the dais of the General Assembly Chamber . " Obviously , the disarmament proposal made by Chairman Khrushchev is one which will require very careful examination , even though it seems to repeat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1932 and more specific // proposals made on May 10 , 1955 , " Mr. Herter said in a public statement . " Speaking in general terms , " he said , " I think I can say that the United States will go as far on the path toward controlled disarmament as any other country . I stress the word ' control ' because up to now the previous proposals have foundered on the Soviet Government 's refusal to agree to effective controls . " Mr. Khrushchev 's address to the Assembly came as somewhat of a surprise here . Representatives of some delegations had expected that the Soviet Premier would propose some definite measures by which the cause of disarmament could be advanced . They found , instead , they said , that the Russian leader spoke in generalities and that his five " new proposals " for negotiation were in fact ' some years old . Sir Leslie Munro of New Zaaland , a former president of the General Assembly and now its special representative on Hungary , said that Mr. Khrushchev 's plan " does not meet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He added that Mr. Krushchev had not touched on the " vital question of Hungary , " to which the Soviet and the Communist Hungarian Governments had refused admission to any Assembly representative . French Are Critical A similar reaction came from Armand Berard of France . He called the Soviet statement " absolutely empty . " Mr. Khrushchev 's statement , the French representative believed , could be " beefed up " only if it were followed by specific proposals for the various disarmament bodies now in existence  --  both within and without the United Nations . Western skepticism , however , was not universally shared . A representative of one Asian delegation called Mr. Khrushchevs ' proposals " idealistic " and worthy of further exploration as to details . One LatinAmerican delegate took approximately the same view . Both , however , wanted further details of thn workings of Mr. Khrushchev 's total disarmament plan spelled out in workable detail . Some delegates had expected Mr. Khrushchev to make a considerably more detailed proposal on disarmament  --  perhaps an offer to let Western powers inspect Soviet launching sites in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " phased " closedown of United States bases around the Soviet Union . Mr. Herter conferred this morning with Selwyn Lloyd , British Foreign Secretary , and Maurice Couve de Murville , the French Foreign Minister , in advance of Mr. Khrushchev 's address . It was announced that they talked on subjects included in the agenda of the current statement of the General Assembly . One of these is disarmament . Restatement Seen Some delegates , after listening to the address , considered it little more than a restatement of proposals the Soviet Union had made before . They specified such items as Mr. Khrushchev 's suggestion for a series of summit meetings , his demand for the admission of Communist China to the United Nations and his . apparent bid to the Asian , African and Latin-American nations to ' back any or all disarmament proposals in the interest of a release of funds for assistance to the less-developed countries . Dr. Luis Padilla Nervo of Mexico commented that the Khrushchev proposals probably would be debated in the General Assembly 's steering committee and that their eventual reception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union introduced to give them effect . Dr. Francisco A. Delgado of the Philippines found that Mr. Khrushchev had taken a " conciliatory attitude " that might lead to a relaxation of internationalist tensions . Taiwanese Resentful While the Western nations generally expressed no more than diplomatic reservations to Mr. Khrushchev 's address , a definite show of resentment came from Nationalist China . The Soviet leader , in . a general review of the world situation , had asserted that Communist China must be admitted to the United Nations and that the Taiwan regime of Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek was no more than " a corpse of reactionary China " and a " dead man " holding down an unjustified seat in the world organization . In a statement this evening , Dr. Tingu F. Tsiang , the Nationalist Chinese chief delegate , charged that Mr. Khrushchev had " in fact intensified the ' cold war ' . " " He called for the burial of free China , or , as he said , the placing of free China in a museum or mausoleum , " Dr. Tsiang said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinese Communists but also for the annexation of Taiwan by the Communists . This is the ' cold war ' at its worst . "                     