@@720451

txt President Eisenhower announced Thursday night that the government plans to build a new 100 million dollar tool for delving deeper into the secrets of matter  --  a two mile long atom smasher far more powerful than any smasher now being used . Mr. Eisenhower , in a speech to a symposium of scientists at the Waldorf. - Astoria hotel , said the proposed device , called a high energy linear accelerator , will be " by far the largest of its kind ever built " and will take six years to complete . Probes Make-up of Atoms He said he will ask Congress to vote Money for the de vic e , which was recommended by a special panel of scientists assigned to point the way toward keeping the United States " moving ahead in experimental high-energy particle physics . ' The accelerator , a basic tool in probing the make-up of atoms by splitting them into the tiniest conceivable particles , will be constructed at Stanford university , Palo Alto , Cal. , which has the largest smasher of the linear . ype operating in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wilt h ? about 50 imes as long as the one it Stanford and will haves smashing power of . 10 to 15 billion electron volts , or 15 to 20 times more than the present one . Used in Basic Research Mr. Eisenhower said that physicists dealing with basic research into nature 's secrets consider the proposed project of " great importance . " He said they believe it will " make valuable contributions to our understanding in a field in which the United States already is strong and in which we must maintain our progress . " Scientists have explained that accelerators , or atom smashers , are essentially " basic research " or " pure science " devices which can be used to unlock the mysteries of matter . They say the practical application of what may thus be discovered can not be foretold in advance , but that pure iesearch in the past has almost always borne fruit in countless useful benefits to mankind . The United States has 15 atom smashers with power greater than 200 million electron volts , and four with energies above 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these are circular rather than linear accelerators . A circular one under construction at the University of California is expected to develop 6 billion electron volts . Mr. Eisenhower , whose address capped a busy 13 hours in Manhattan , told his audience of 250 research scientists that the government must play a large role in research , but that it must not pre-empt the field so that private initiative in science is blunted , He said there must be a " persistent partnership between government effort and private effort " in science and technology , which he called the corner stones of American security and a just peace . The President said he was particularly pleased that the conference where he spoke was sponsored by private interests . The conference was called by , the Sloan Foundation , the National Academy of Sciences , and the American Association for the Advancement of Science . Cities Uneasy Tensions Mr. Eisenhower said that freedom is a central concept of American society , in science as other fields . He said scientists and engineers have a steadily increasing cam or helping to safeguarc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in " an uneasy mate of tension . " He ' called for stepped up emphasis on basic research in order to bolster America 's defense and economic growth . More citizens should be guided into this work , but they must not be " regimented " by the government , he asserted . The federal government , he continued , is now spending 5 billion dollars a year on both applied and basic research , or 50 times its outlays two decades ago . Puts Stress on Education To strengthen the nation 's science effort , the President said , education of all kinds must be improved . He called for educating all the talents of Americans , without regard to race , color , or religion . " Let us cultivate more respect , " he said , " for learning , for intellectual achievement , for appreciation of the arts and humanities . Let us assign true education a top place among our national goals . This means that we must be willing to match our increasing investments in material resources with incre a si n g investments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " hall of fame for the arts and sciences " so that young Americans could aspire to the honor of becoming members . Earlier Thursday , the President exercised some personal diplomacy in inspecting exhibits of 24 foreign countries and chatting with their representatives at the World Trade fair . The President was so fasinated with the exhibits ranging from Polish hams and French wines to Yugoslav motorboats and Italian cars that he spent an hour at the fair  --  nearly twice as long as he had planned . Mr. Eisenhower flew to New York from Washington Thursday morning and flew home after his address to the science symposium .                     