@@715588

txt Charging political influence in the draft deferment of a congressman 's son , the three man Wabash county selective service board resigned today and postponed the induction of all other registrants scheduled to report with the politician 's son . Principal in the controversy is John V. Beamer . Jr. , 24 , son of Rep. Beamer R. , Ind . . T h e young man , a Yale graduate , was married last Saturday at Bluefield , W. Va. , and is now honeymooning in Hawaii . He has had an occupational deferment for two years . The local draft board was notified yesterday that the office of Selective Service Director Lewis B. Hershey in Washington had postponed the induction of Beamer , scheduled for July 27 , and that of Vaughn P. Peebles , 20 , a farmer 's son who has claimed exemption as a conscientious objector . Hits Apparent Interference " In view of the influence and apparent interference from Washington in these cases , the local draft board is resigning , " said a statement signed by the three members , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a plant engineer , and Wendell Hicks , a real estate dealer . " These cases were postponed by national headquarters of selective service after being unanimously approved by both the local board and the state appeal board . " Because of such interference , the local board does not have the heart to induct other boys of this county into active service when the above individuals are allowed to remain at home thru apparent political influence . " The last official , action of the local board was to postpone the induction of other registrants due to report July 27 along with Beamer . Calls Action Unfair " The local board h a s made every attempt to be fair in the evaluation of all cases and has kept its actinns within the regulations of the selective service system . It does not think it fair to send other boys in this county to replace the above named eligible inductees . " Since leaving Yale about two years ago , Beamer has been employed as an industrial engineer by Procter and Gamble company . He worked for a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a half , has worked at the company 's plant at Sacramento , Cal. , and lived in Palo Alto , Cal . At the expiration of Beamer 's deferment recently , the Wabash county draft board was asked to grant him another . one , but it declined and ordered him inducted into service . In Washington his father denied any political influence had been eXerted in the case . He said his son 's company asked for adother postponement of his induction to have time to train a business replacement for hiin . The congressman said he never had been in touch with either the local or national draft boards in his son 's behalf .                     