@@715914

txt The New York Shipping Association recommended to its membership of 170 steamship companies and stevedores yesterday that they employ properly registered ) longshoremen to load and unload tracks at piers and waterfront terminals . This change in historic dock , practices was made necessary because of the new ban on public loaders , who in the past have transferred cargo to and from trucks at waterfront terminals . The outlawing of these loaders under the bi-state waterfront compact was ruled constitutional on Wednesday by a three-judge Federal Statutory Court . A spokesman for the shipping association said the transition to the new system got under way yesterday without too much confusion , although some delays in loading trucks and in recruiting longshore labor were reported . However , Joseph M. Adelizzi , managing director of the Empire State Highway Transportation Association , asserted that the loading situation on the docks yesterday was " a mess . " He said there was not sufficient manpower available to load trucks and that many Vehicles could not be operated . Confusion Laid to Sudden Ban The sudden ban on public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to adjust to the new situation . He said members of the highway association , which represents the trucking industry in the state , had decided to wait al day or so before taking any action in the hope that the confused situation would be unraveled . The Waterfront Commission reported at the end of the day that " everything is going off all right on loading . " A spokesman said ' that wherever its observers found efforts being made at the old style public loading these were reported ) to the police , but there were no arrests . Capt . William V. Bradley , president of the old International Longshoremen 's Association , expressed a less optimistic view , however . ) He described the situation as one of " turmoil and confusion . " Onl some piers , he said , members of , the International Brotherhood of Teamsters , A. F. L. , loaded cargo on trucks , while on others longshoremen did the work . There also were reports that some longshoremen , who formerly worked for public loaders , failed to report for work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the public loaders . Loaders Paid by Consignees The public loaders in the past have employed longshoremen to load and unload trucks on piers . The loaders , themselves members of the old dock union , were paid by the person or company to whom the goods were consigned . The waterfront reform compact between New York and New Jersey , however , specifically blamed the loaders for violence , racketeering , extortion and many other evils that have contaminated the waterfront for years . The recommendation by the shipping association that registered longshoremen be hired to load trucks on the piers was made after a meeting of the organization 's members yesterday to resolve the problem posed by the court ruling . Enforcement of the ban on public loaders had been restrained pending the decision . In telegrams to the members John V. Lyon , chairman , said last night it had been recommended that the shippers employ only workers registered and validated by the new Waterfront Commission for the loading work , paying wages at the present longshoremen 's rate of $2.27 an hour . For the time being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present schedule of charges , as issued by the Truck Loading Authority , be applied . Dne of the complications in the transition to the new system was raised Wednesday when the Teamsters Union announced it would insist that trucks be loaded and unloaded only by its members . One waterfront source indicated that the Teamsters were not ready yesterday to enforce the order . But there was no doubt that they would prepare quickly to do so . This posed the likelihood of an organizational clash between the Teamsters and the old L L. Am , which in the past has claimed jurisdiction over longshoremen working for public loaders .. Meanwhile , there were these other developments in the waterfront situation : A. M. Keeney , executive director of the rival American Federation of Labor longshoremen 's union , proposed that the shipping association put into effect several changes in working conditions for the dock men when the present injunction against a strike expires Dec. 24 . The suggested changes include a wage increase of 20 cents an hour , a guaranteed eight-hour day and twelve paid holidays . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ F. L. longshoremen 's union would urge longshoremen to stay on the job for thirty days after certification of a bargaining agent for the dockers by the National Labor Relations Board . Last Contract Offer Opposed 9Captain Bradley reported that the wage conference committe of the I. L. A. 's Atlantic Coast District decided yesterday to recommend that members vote against acceptance of the last offer made by the shipping association in con , tract talks . The A. F. L. union also ihas opposed acceptance of the offer , but balloting on the issue would be meaningless until an election was held to determine which union represents the dock workers . ( lGeorge Meany , president of the A. F. L. , acknowledged in an interview here that a strike appeared likely when the present injunction was vacated on Christmas Eve . He contended , however , that the important objective of the moment was to clean up the waterfront and give the longshoremen representation by a decent , democratic union . He said the A. F. L. longshoremen 's union had signed up 14,090 dock workers in the port @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had offered longshoremen there 10 cents an hour , a cent and a half more than offered here , and was seeking a local settlement with the old I. L. A. there .                     