@@713241

txt CIO Electrical Workers and the General Electric Company agreed on contract terms to end a strike of 40,000 workers , including 19,600 at the GE plants in Lynn and Everett , Mass . Page 2 . First meeting of the Advisory Council of the Boston Civil Defense Department was held in Mayor Hynes ' office . Joseph L. Malone , head of the department , and Samuel J. Pope , chairman of the council , addressed the group of advisers . Page 2 . Europe : Army Men May Join West German Police Former members of the German Army and other military organizations may join German police forces in West Germany , the Allied High Commission announced in Bonn . The 13th major case of suspected sabotage since the Korea war began has been discovered by- the British Admiralty . Sand was found in the lubricating system of the light aircraft carrier.Vengeance as it headed for home fleet maneuvers . Police broke up a demonstration of some 200 Communists in Vienna before the hotel of Gen. Mark W. Clark , Chief of United States Army Field Forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Europe . First reinforcements for British troops fighting in Korea , 66 Highlanders , left England in two planes for Japan . The flight reportedly will take eight days . Washington : Truman Orders Full Rubber Output President Truman has ordered that the nation 's synthetic rubber production facilities be brought into full operation at once , top government officials said . The House Armed Services Committee approved legislation to permit Gen. George C. Marshall to serve as secretary of defense . The vote was 18 to 7 . The opposing votes in the House committee were cast by Republicans : Representatives , Short of Missouri , Arends of Illinois , Shafer of Micffigan , Elston of Ohio , Towe of New Jersey , Gavin of Pennsylvania , and Myer of Kansas . The Senate Armed Services Committee had previously approved the legislation . Maj. Gen , Orvil Anderson , who was suspended as head of the Air War College after offering publicly to destroy Russia 's A-bomb centers , has been rebuked and will be reassigned to a nonteaching post in the air force , the Associated Press said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chislers " and profiteers are doing the country " serious damage . " Mr. Symington , chairman of the National Security Resources Board , dedlared that some businessmen are following a policy of " hog profit " and indicated that the government is getting ready to crack down on them . Philippines : Relief Is Rushed to Disaster Area President Quirino of the Philippines ordered all agencies of the government to rush relief to Camiguin Island , where a volcano erupted , killing 70 persons . The island is near the north coast of Mindanao in the southern Philippines .                     