@@716864

txt President Eisenhower 's message to Congress yesterday set forth the problem . of our highways clearly , briefly and logically . The facts are irresistible . The reasons for extending , and modernizing our road system are compelling . It may be observed at once that no one disputes the need for action . Few question the estimate of magnitude of need , which the President places at expendit ire of $101,000 , - 000,000 for a ten-year construction program supported by all levels of government The difference of opinion lies in methods of financing and bookkeeping , and the division of burden . There is room for healthy argument on the fiscal phase of the problem . In his call for action the President cites four major reasons for urgency : More than 36,000 persons are killed each year on the highways , and a million are injured . The human loss is our foremost thought , but the economic cost of the accident toll is more than $4,300,000,000 a year . Second , the expense of operating automobiles is increased by the bad condition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - 000 a year . Third , the atomic age requires better evacuation and mobilization routes to avoid " deadly congestion . " Fourth , if our present 58,000,000 motor vehicles increase to 81,000,000 in 1965 , as predicted in the Clay committee report , then , as Mr. Eisenhower says , " existing traffic jams only faintly foreshadow those of ten years hence " unless the present rate of highway development is increased . The President remarks that the nation 's highway system is a " gigantic enterprise " out of which one in every seven Americans gains his livelihood and supports his faznily.1 To fail to bring this enterprise up to a level of safety and reasonable economic efficiency is extremely poor business . Karl M. Richards , secretary of the highway policy committee of the Automobile Manufacturers Association , recently illuminated this point . He said it was obvious that there was no lack of ability to pay for road  --  improvements . " Rather , " he continued , " we already are paying in accidents , time losses and extra vehicle operating costs a sum well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roads and eliminate the waste of time and money . " The hidden costs of inadequate roads include traffic delays , truck and bus drivers ' time , higher insurance premiums , overuse of gasoline , oil and brakes , - and other wear and tear . He estimated that the money loss through an inadequate interstate highway system alone would finance $40,000,000 in twenty-five-year bonds for- road improvements . How the Federal Government 's $31,225,000,000 proposed share of the $101,000,000,000 ten-year program shall be financed is one of the major questions . The President 's message  --  while it forwarded to Congress the Clay  - -  report with a specific proposal for a bonding program outside the conventional revenue system  --  did not appear to denote strong convictions on this question , except to say that a highway program should " stand on its own feet , " with highway users footing the bill through fuel taxes and in limited instances tolls . , The Clay report proposed Great ing , a Federal Highway Corporatior to keep the new debt in a separate drawer ; . $11,548,000,000 in interesl charges would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of $20,235,000,000 in borrowed money . This has already given some people in Washington , like Senator Byrd , reason for a pause to meditate , and it recalls to New Yorkers. the comment made just a few days ago by the Bird Commission which has been studying state finances . " It should be recognized , " said that commission , " that all money for capital construction must , in the last analysis , come from current revenues . The state must either directly appropriate funds for construction or it must appropriate funds for debt service . " Interest charges build no roads , of course , So it is obvious-that the financing and accounting methods demand full inspection . But if we fail to recover from past negligence in rate of building adequate highways , if we fail to anticipate realistically the challenge of the future , the results will be extremely grave to human life and to our national well-being .                     