@@714015

txt Britain is prepared to accept Greece and Turkey as members of the North Atlantic Pact but is still interested in the establishment of an alliance for Near Eastern security built around Turkey , Foreign Secretary Herbert Morrison told the House of Commons today . Because of the objections of some North Atlantic Pact countries , like Norway , Denmark and the Netherlands , to a broadening of the North Atlantic Pact to include Mediterranean and Near Eastern countries , Mr. Morrison stated specifically that he was voicing the views of the United Kingdom alone . Ever since it was proposed last spring that Greece and Turkey be included in the North Atlantic Pact the British and other Governments have hesitated . In some cases it was feared that limited supplies would have to be spread too thin and forces stretched beyond safety limits if too many countries over too wide an area were taken into the fold . The British , notwithstanding the obvious difficulties of bringing countries as hostile to each other as Egypt and Israel into any such alliance , still favored some sort of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the keystone . Statement on Turkey Mr. Morrison 's statement in the HOLM today seems to indicate that the two ideas are not , in British eyes , mutually exclusive . His words were taken to mean that the Government has concluded that some sort of security arrangement can still be built around Turkey in the Near East . even if that country is granted membership in the North Atlantic Pact , which the Turks want above a , 11 else because it carries with it what amounts to a United States Kuarantee . In his statement to the House Mr. Morrison said : " As regards Turkey , the main difficulty has been to reconcile her desire to join the North Atlantic Treaty with her position in relation to the general defenses of the Middle East . The British Government have now examined the matter fully and they have come to the conclusion that Turkish and Greek membership of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization is , in fact , the best solution . " At the same time they are most anxious that Turkey shall play her appropriate part in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ share this view and I hope that arrangements will soon be made to associate her fully with plans for the safety of that important part of the world . " Mr. Morrison 's words about Turkey 's role in the Near Eastern defenses were somewhat less than specific . But it was understood that what Britain now has in mind is less a political alliance than a Near East command with which important North Atlantic pact powers and others in the region might become associated . It was suggested at first that to insure the security of Greece and Turkey they should be associated in the planning with a projected Mediterranean command under the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . But what Turkey demanded was an American guarantee against aggression . When it became apparent that . the United States had no intention of making any such commitment singlehanded and that a separate Near Eastern treaty would have to run the gantlet of Congressional debate , the British saw the wisdom of taking the simple way out and agreeing to the admission of Greece and Turkey into the existing organization . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position regarding United States approaches to Spain in connection with possible contributions to the defense of the VVest . Only a few days ago a Foreign Office spokesman said : " The Government remains opposed to any admission of the Spanish Government to the Atlantic Pact or any closer association between the Spanish Government and any member of that alliance . " Today that sentiment was repeated after Secretary of State Dean Acheson had announced that Admiral Forrest P. Sherman was exploring the possibilities of Spanish contributions to Western defense . Of course , Britain does not question the right of the United States to enter into economic and military agreements with Spain , the spokesman said , but Britain wants to go on record now as saying that she disapproves of any accommodation that places material considerations above moral principles . Not only were anonymous spokesmen of the Government busy today in pointing out the Government 's objections to any agreement between the United States and Spain but in the House of Lords , Viscount Alexander , Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster put these objections on the record . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ propaganda value to Moscow , which , he said , might welcome such an arrangement even more than an open invitation to Spain to join the North Atlantic Pact . Sharing importance with the strategic thinking of the generals are the political problems of the party in power here . The Labor party , holding office by a narrow margin , has its own internal problems . It would never do for the moderates in the Government to consent without a protest to an American policy that might enable the Left-Wing Laborites led by Aneurin Bevan to accuse Mr. Morrison of becoming an ally of Fascist . Spai under Generalissimo Francisco ranco because of American pressure . Inasmuch as the other North Atlantic pact countries are still debating the admission of Greece and Turkey into their hitherto rather exclusive club there was some speculation on why Mr. Morrison chose today . to make Britain 's position clear . One suggestion was that his statement was designed to slistract some attention in Washington from the blunt criticism of American policy toward Spain and to show that Britain occasionally agreed to go along @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States and its European allies , not the least of which is the question how Western Germany is to play its part in the defense of Europe . With this in mind there has been some discussion of the possibility of a visit by Prime Minister Attlee to Washington during the eight or ten weeks when Parliament is in recess . According to present plans the summer holiday will begin ELECTED TO CONGRESS Mrs. Maude Elizabeth Kee , the first woman elected to the House of Representatives from West Virginia . She won in k special election Tuesday to fill out the unexpired term of her husband who died last May . Associated Press Wirephoto about Aug. 4 but it has not yet been decided definitely whether the Prime Minister will make another trip to Washington . To some extent it appears that it depends on whether President Truman thinks this would be an auspicious time for another visit .                     