@@714562

txt The Senate Banking Committee will it down this week to start writing a new controls law  --  with cries for Price decontrol ringing loud in its ears . The clamor for decontrol of prices sagging below ceilings was the big feature of committee hearings during the past two weeks . The hearings were on extending the Defense Production Act beyond its Tune 30 expiration date . This is the law that gives the government power to control prices , wages , credit and rents and to allocate scarce materials . The law got a thorough going-over by a parade of witnesses at the Senate committee hearings . Truman administration big-wigs , spokesmen for labor unions and representatives of consumer groups urged Congress to broaden the government control power and to tighten up especially on price regNations . But they were outnumbered by a host of industry spokesmen pleading that price curbs be lifted from the things they produced or sold . House to Hold Hearings Also On Wednesday , the Senate Banking Committee will gather behind closed doors to decide whether these pleas should be heeded . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its hearings on a new controls law , and decontrol advocates will have a chance to restate their case . Price controlling will be the biggest issue before the Senate group , as it likely will be at the House hearings . There 's little argument so far over the other provisions of the controls law . What are the chances that the Senate will write a price decontrol provision in the new controls law ? " It depends entirely on what the Administration does in the next few weeks , " is the answer of one Senate committee member . Committee aides are inclined to agree . Here 's the way the situation shapes up : Price Stabilizer Ellis Arnall has advised the committee he is hard at work on a study of price decontrol  --  although he prefers to call it " suspension " of price ceilings . But the study wo n't be completed for another two weeks . Mr. Arnall has already made it known to Senate Banking Committee Chairman May- bank ( D. , N. C. ) that he is about convinced that ceilings can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question is whether such action , even a recommendation by the banking committee if it comes within a , day or so , can stave off a recommendation by the banking committee that Congress shout ' write a price decontrol formula rather than leave it up to the Administration . ? Committee Members Split The banking group is pretty well split on the issue . Most G.O.P. committee members think Congress should make price decontrol ? on items selling well below ceilings  --  a matter of law . Most Democrats on the committee would prefer to let Mr. Arnall write his own rules for suspending price ceiling where they are n't needed . Senator Maybank can probably swing the decision either way . And he has indicated he might be willing to leave the matter up to Mr. Arnall , if he gets some assurance that price controllers are really serious about their decontrol plans . One of the factors favoring those who do n't want to decontrol prices by law is the difficulty in writing decontrol machinery into law . So far this year no legislation for this purpose has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expert has tried his hand at drafting such a provision . All agree that lifting price controls on a selective basis is a complicated business that becomes doubly so when the question of wage controls is counted in . The Banking Committee on Wednesday will have before it at least one draft of a possible decontrol provision . One suggested approach that 's been prepared for the senators ' consideration provides for suspension of price controls when prices of a given item fall a certain percentage below the price ceiling  --  and reimposition *If the controls if prices rise enough to pierce this " sub-ceiling . " The author of this pees its primary virtue in the elimination of a certain amount of paperwork and reporting by companies whose products are eligible for price ceiling suspension .                     