@@712887

txt Letters to The Times EDUARDO SANTOS.JOHN J. O'CONNOR.FRANCIS HALLY.MARGARET MELLINGER . Letters to The Times Political Scene in Colombia Former President of That Country Comments on Present Regime To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The statements made by the Minister of Government of the Republic of Colombia about religious freedom , published in THE TIMES a few days ago , will be endorsed by all my countrymen . Religious freedom , like other freedoms , is an essential human right , which the people of Colombia want to maintain intact . It conforms to our fundamental traditions . But how can we reconcile these declarations from an important functionary with the harsh realities under which the Colombian people have lived for more than six months ? About the situation of the Protestants in Colombia , I have nothing to say . They constitute there a tiny minority worthy of respect , esteeming the country 's laws and not rfiixing in its political struggles . I only wish to point out that the complaints rectified in THE TIMES by the Minister were compelled ( naturally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a letter in El Siglo , organ of Colombian conservation , from the secretary of the Presbyterian Mission in Bogota . That letter is plain proof , establishing clearly the difference between intentions and words , both excellent , and deeds , scandalous . I am inclined to think that the abuses committed  --  which we pray will be soon repaired  --  were not in the nature of religious persecution . That would be too abominable , too contrary to our way . They must . have been a part of the wave of uncontrolled violence which has been the cause of so many evils in Colombia for seven months and is for us a constant thorn of indignation and shame . Our greatest desire is that in our country , almost unanimously Catholic , we can at least preserve religious freedom . We must not only respect those who profess a different faith from ours but must seek to keep Catholicism free of political influences which might attempt to use it sacrilegiously in the service of a party eager for power . Lost Freedoms The problem for us , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Freedom in Colombia " is the title of the letter from the Minister of Government published in THE TIMES ; those three words state the situation completely . Where is that freedom now ? Have we Colombians freedom of speech , of press , of meeting ? Do we truly have political freedom ? Do the institutions made up by popular vote  --  congresses , assemblies , municipal councils  --  still remain closed by force ? Does a representative regime exist , or has it been replaced by the exclusive will of the . President of the republic , converted , on the ruins of the Constitution , into a single source of all powers ? Discarding the explainable but unjustifiable words of the high functionaries , the situation in Colombia today is not that of a country governed by democratic institutions , but that of an evident dictatorship . How can our Minister of Government say that Colombians enjoy all the benefits which Democrats and Republicans together could offer here ? No more , no less . Paradise on earth . That is Dr. Goebbels ' old lesson on propaganda @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colors but must continue to extremes . But the truth is different , and sad , indeed . I am one of many Colombians who are pained to have to tell , in foreign countries , the bitter truths about what is happening in Colombia . Would that I had never had to do so . But oppressed peoples who do not have full freedom to speak and to live can not remain silent without becoming accomplices of oppression . The basic struggle at the present moment is , must be , the struggle against totalitarianism , That totalitarianism , from the right , conquered at such tremendous cost in Europe , is being reborn in Latin America , under various disguises . It is creating the anti-democracy of Hitler and Mussolini there . Support of People That is the evil which a country like Colombia , democratic and free by nature and history , is suffering , and which the majority of Colombians , defenseless and pacific , irrevocably addicted to liberty , wish to combat strongly and unceasingly . Our arms are few , but we believe them sufficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people behind us . We do not wish to call ourselves democrats but to be democratic . We do not wish to use the word liberty as a mask for dictatorship , but to endeavor to obtain freedom for all our compatriots and to make it in the future , as it was before , the atmosphere of our life , in a framework of effective reality of the human rights . All our aspirations culminate in this : that THE TIMES be able to write an article , on the basis of established truth , bearing the title which headed the letter from the Minister of Government : " Freedom in Colombia . " Today that title might seem , to Colombians , sarcastic , sorrowful . That the day may soon arrive when it reflects the exact truth is the one thing we can not cease to desire . EDUARDO SANTOS . New York , May 10 , 1950 . Guilt by Association To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In an editorial on May 4 , in commenting on the defeat of Senator Pepper of Florida @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Representative Smathers , for certain attacks on the Senator and , more especially , for employing against Mr. Pepper the " principle of guilt by association . " That phrase , " guilt by association , " has been mouthed extensively of late , and especially in the nature of p , defense , or alibi , to many persons , principally government officials and employes , charged with being " Communists , " " fellow travelers , " " disloyal , " " spies , " or just plain ' ' security risks , " Such a defensive resort is typical of this type . I have continually wondered , however , just what is wrong , fundamentally , with this " principle of guilt by association . " It is as old as humanity itself . It is taught at every mother 's knee , " A person is known by the company he keeps . " What 's wrong with that ? It has always been considered a worth-while guide for the young . Why not the elders ? Add " Birds of a feather , " etc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ somewhat , by explaining that the principle is only a presumptive , or a prima facie , one , subject to rebuttal  --  with the burden , or " duty of going forward , " at least , however , on the one who is suspect , by reason of his . or her " association . " JOHN J. O'CoNNoR . New York , May 5 , 1950 . Concentrated Industry Decentralizing Big Business Opposed as Impractical Solution To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The letter of Emanuel Celler , in reply to your editorial of May 2 entitled " The Role of Big Business , " quotes an opinion of Justice Douglas in the . case of United States vs . Columbia Steel Company : " Industrial power should be decentralized . It should be scattered into many hands so that the fortunes of the people will not be dependent on the whim or caprice , the political prejudices , the emotional stability of a few self-appointed men . " The concentration of industrial power by the elimination of the less efficient in the evolutionary pattern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we enjoy today . To suggest a decentralization of " big business " when the supply and demand for a specific product has approached a normal balance within the natural limitations of the system for the purpose of sustaining or increasing employment is about as impractical a ? unnecessary public works to accomplish the same end . A relatively stabilized demand for the particular product , where the achieved rate of production levels off to a synchronized activity with demand , with the proper number of producers , would require an increase in the unit price of the product involved if its production was spread to include a greater number of producers without a proportionate increase in sales . If twice the number are to he supported at established levels by the decentralization , the unit price must necessarily be doubled , and any gain in. employment would be a form of subsidy borne by the balance of the economy collectively , as a penalty . It would have no effect on the total national volume produced , or the total national income in terms of dollars . It would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a general decline in the total of capital formation . If carried to extremes , it would call for a total cancellation of income , profits , service values and produce of the consumer type , on a current basis , by the elimination of the values from which progress is made . Decentralization is not a solution to the problem of the surplus values : profits , goods and labor . These are natural and normal factors in a progressive , dynamic capitalism . The solution lies beyond the sphere of prices ? wages ? supply ? demand and profits , yet quite within the scope and framework of private capitalism . FRANCIS HALLY . Bound Brook , N. J. , May 7 , 1950 . In Praise of the Organ Grinder To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : If it is true , as was intimated by a letter in THE TIMES of May 3 , that the Police Department is starting a purge of organ grinders , I for one would like to make a vigorous protest . Sirens wail and horns honk in this city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The organ grinder , like his larger and more expensive counterpart , the circus , comes once a year , in the spring . He is an age-old conjurer of sunshine and flowers and innocent pleasures . His haunting , tinny-sweet music calls up images of yellow fields of daffodils , of dancing children and birds singing , far away . In the city there are few enough such reminders . And this spring particularly , when since the arrival of Dr. Howell every day is " fowell , " the sunny organ grinder is needed more than ever . His music may not 11.2 streamlined but it is traditional , loyal by many , and irreplaceable . If the organ grinder stays , a bit of Now York 's heart stays , too . MARGARET MELLINGER . New York , May 3 , 1950.                     