@@720416

txt Secretary of State Christian A. Herter returned from Paris today and promptly reported to President Eisenhower on what the Secretary described as a successful meeting of Western foreign ministers . " Both in spirit and in 50 ; stance , we reached complete ' agreement on a highly important Western position , " the new ' Secretary told reporters on his ' arrival from Europe . " This should assist greatly in making progress at Geneva should the Soviet Union demonstrate an honest desire to negotiate . " After an overnight flight from Paris and a quick breakfast in Washington , Mr. Herter flew by helicopter to Gettysburg to talk with the President . Confer for ' 15 Minutes At a seventy-five-minute session , he reported on the final program the United States , Britain and France will present at a conference with Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko of the Soviet Union in Geneva beginning May 11 . It is clear that one of the first objectives of the West in meeting with the Russians will he to determine just how serings ; : Moscow is ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the world . The Secretary of State was asked whether he Was about the prOspects for the foreign ministers ' meetings . " If I knew what frame of mind the . fellow meaning the Russians was in , I could answer that better , " he replied . Flies From ? White House Mr. Herter flew front the White House grounds to Gettysburg this morning . He was ac-. companied by James C. Hagerty , White House press secree tary , and the President 's son , Maj. John Eisenhower . The President ' and Mrs. Eisenhower , are spending the week-end at their farm . After the meeting , which endea at 11:45 A. M. , the Secretary of State flew back toWashington . He will leave for Geneva Friday . The position wrapped up by the Western , foreign ministers in Paris is based on the reunification of Germany . On that keystone rest proposals for arms controls , Berlin and apeace treaty . The foreign ministers have // imposed a strict " not to be opened before May 11 at Geneva " label on their package @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the following emerged : AllThere can be no permanent guarantee of peace or of security for Europe and the world while Germany remains divided into two parts . Thus , unification of that country should be a primary objective for the great powers , which defeated Germany in World War II . To achieve that end , the West proposes that a commission be established inducing representatives of both West and East Germany . However , the commission would not be empowered to reach agreements binding on either government but only to make recommendations . Commission Plan Modified The original United States plan to base the commission on the pre-war German states , ten of them in West Germany and six in the East , 1 .. 7 .. ; been dropped because of objections from Bonn . A compromise was worked out in Paris between the ten-six ratio proposed by Washington and the roughly threeone ratio Bonn asked for , based on the populations of West and East Germany . The commission would work first of all to increase trade and travel between the two German states . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parts of Germany , by the Communist party in the West and by the Christian Democrats and Socialists in the Eastern sector . It is anticipated that in about three years the groundwork would have been laid for the holding of elections throughout Germany to set up a central government . CA program for controlling armaments and preventing surprise attack in Europe would be a phased one , starting with a limited area along the present border dividing the Communist and non-Communist worlds . It would gradually be extended to include most of Western Europe and Eastern Europe , including ' , significant parts of the Soviet Union . Comprehensive machinery for inspection and control over all phases of arms ? conventional and nuclear  --  would be established . The steps in the armscontrol and security program would be tied in with those for unifying Germany . Thus political and military steps would be taken as part of an integrated schedule . q0n Berlin , the West will argue that the future of the city as the capital of a unified Germany should be guaranteed . , to talk with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reassert the right of the victor powers to maintain forces there . Open to Modifications If the Russians are ready to acknowledge those rights and write a new agreement , the Allies will consider favorably  --  a number of modifications of their present position , it is reported . They would agree to cut down the size of their military establishments . They would eliminate the radio station RIAS , which beams broadcasts to Eastern Europe . They would accept East German supervision of h.ccess routes if the East Germans were acting as agents for the Soviet Union . Presence of United Nations elements to help oversee the agreement would be acceptable . Sources here said there was no intention that the program would be advanced on a " take it or leave it " basis . Each of the points in the program can provide a basis for negotiation . it was said . The West would be willing to alter its unification program or the security plan . But it will change its position , these sources said , only in response to concrete proposals from the Russians . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany is a basic objective . Flexibility Is Affirmed When Western diplomats in Paris said the Allies had no " fallback " position , a mistaken impression was left in some quarters , it was believed . What was meant was that the West would not move from its package plan merely because the Russians said they did not like it . But if Moscow produced ideas of its own on each of these points , the Allies would negotiate . It was assumed here that , in advance of the Geneva sessions. the Soviet propaganda machine probably would pick up the " no fallback " statement as evidence of Western recalcitrance and the desire of the Allies to present Moscow with an " ultimatum . " That is not an accurate description of the position as reported to the President by Mr. Herter today , qualified sources said .                     