@@713291

txt Letters to The Times FRANCIS B. SAYRE.HELEN DEMYDCHUK.WHITNEY TROW PERKINS . Amsterdam , Oct. 8 , 195 ... pg . E8 Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In his letter published in THE NEW YORK TIMES on Oct. 6 Andrew Frey wonders " why British colonialism without forced labor camps attracts more attention than Russian colonialism with forced labor camp- . " His point is well taken . The obsolete nineteenth century conception which lurked in some minds that Europe possessed a divine right to exploit Asia and Africa for her own profit is dead . It has been supplanted by an altogether different conception , based upon the assumption that the interests of non-self-governing peoples constitute a " sacred trust " which must be observed by all administering powers . The changed conception is bearing much good fruit . One has only to examine the actual present-day treatment of non-self-governing peoples . America 's policy toward the Filipinos , built upon statesmanlike liberalism and generosity and culminating in the grant of complete independence , stands out as one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Action Since the Second World War Great Britain has given actual independence to 410,000,000 people living in India , Pakistan , Burma and Ceylon . It is interesting to compare this figure with the 500,000,000 people whom the Soviet Union during the same period has brought under Soviet control . Under the British system of rule more millions of people have actually been granted their independence than in any ten-year or even hundred-year period before in the world 's history . From the viewpoint of human exploitation , by contrast with the British treat : ment ' of their non-self-governing peoples , the Soviet treatment of those under their rule is very black indeed : It is all the difference between hope and despair . The real problems of non-self-governing peoples go far deeper than mere political status . The exploitation of human beings , alas , is not confined to peoples with a strictly colonial status . There are reliably reported to be today between 10,000,000 and 15,000,000 people in Russian slave camps . The unforgivable evils of exploitation must be fought as such . The battle must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations Trusteeship Council is bringing new hope to the peoples of the trust territories . In constant touch with them through visits , petitions and reports , it keeps a friendly and watchful eye on their progress and advancing welfare . Welfare Plans The problem of alien rule over primitive or feudal peoples can be solved only through the slow processes of edttcation , training and economic upbuilding . Along these pathways Great Britain and other colonizing powers are pressing forward . To aid in building for the welfare of the non-self-governing peoples under her flag , the United Kingdom set aside by the Colonial Development and Welfare Act of 1945 funds amounting to ? 120,000,000 to promote the development of the resources of the colonies and the welfare of their inhabitants . By the end of March , 1950 , ten-year plans for twenty-three British territories had been approved providing for expenditures on specific projects of about ? 200,000,000 , divided almost equally between colonial development and welfare grants , new loans and allocations from local revenue . In May of this year representatives of six of the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sydney , Australia , where they agreed on a six-year program of economic aid to the countries of South and Southeast Asia . Among other features , .. this program recommends a common welfare technical assistance scheme involving an expenditure of ? 8,000,000 over a three-year period . Certainly a new chapter in the history of colonial government is being written today . It may not be frontpage news ; but it points the way to genuine human progress . FRANCIS B. SAYRE . Washington , Oct. 10 , 1950 . Helping Future Teachers tuition may be free ; however , it still takes money to attend , to buy books and to pay special tstudent fees . The fact that we are drawing from the family income rather than adding to it makes a college education even harder to get . I believe that most teachersto-be can be classified with me . They are not " rich " enough to attend school for another four years . If we are all so concerned over the nation 's present and future teacher shortage , why do n't we do something about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encourage these high school students ; we can enlighten them . We can give them the careful guidance and counseling that they need . We can raise special funds for teaching scholarships . Why not ? The Government will help a good investment . And we can spend more time and money in helping them ; after all , they will help America . HELEN DEMYDCHUK . Brooklyn , Oct. 8 , 1950 . Election Issue Necessity Seen for Wise Choice in Realm of Foreign Policy The writer of the following letter , formerly Assistant Professor of International Relations at the University of Denver , is- engaged in research in international relations in the Netherlands under a Fulbright grant . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Timm : An American abroad is able to follow the present election campaign only in its highlights and deeper reverberations , as transmitted and interpreted by the great metropolitan newspapers . Perhaps this produces a different perspective from that which prevails amid the campaign fury . Seen from abroad , the basic issue in this campaign assumes a form which has not been stressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become this : Will the American people exercise mature and responsible judgment on the conduct of foreign policy in a time of great peril ? This is a recurring issue , made critical in this election by the magnitude of our danger and the pettiness of an irresponsible group within the Republican party . They are asking for a vote of protest against the conduct of our foreign policy , which they claim was affected by Communist influences within the Government . But the great issue is not the matter of personal integrity in politics . If the Administration has actually pursued a foreign policy deserving Of mass protest , its repudiation at the polls would be healthy and necessary . If , however , the Administration is defeated on a spurious issue relating to foreign policy , this would weaken all aspects of our present policy and would be a fearful portent for the long years to come . Hesitant Timidity The issue presented by this group of Republicans is spurious . There is , admittedly , reason to charge the Administration with slowness to realize the aggressive and subversive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ timidity of policy which , were it not for the colossal blunders of the Soviet Union , might have placed the ' free world in a hopeless situation . Yet this Administration has taken several steps of sound , constructive policy , over ground mined with political explosives . In this it has had the immeasurable aid of a responsible group of Republican statesmen . Moreover , the Administration has refused to be stampeded into a China policy that would waste our strength to no purpose under an immense strategic and psychological handicap . Its shortcomings of recent years have almost all been due to fear of the political consequences of what it considered necessary steps in support of the free world , For an indefinite period to come the Government of the United States , Democratic or Republican , will be forced to make difficult and costly policy decisions . The margin of survival for the free world will continue to be perilously narrow , demanding the utmost in concentration and maneuverability on the part of our leaders . Must . they be harassed and further confined by the knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irresponsible politicians and perhaps repudiated by an irresponsible electorate ? This danger can be lessened only if the people , backed by the press , demonstrate in November their abhorrence of the more extreme examples of this irresponsibility . WHITNEY TROW PERKINS . Amsterdam , Oct. 8 , 1950 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : With the " Crusade for Freedom " sponsored by the National Committee for a Free Europe in full swing , Will Lissner 's four informative articles of Oct. 4 to 7 on the political exiles from the Soviet satellite states in Eastern Europe were timely and useful . Especially commendable is the exposure of the reactionary ? migr ? elements flourishing under anti-Communist disguise . A well-informed American public opinion on ? migr ? matters can considerably strengthen the hands of the democratic-minded political exiles . Mr. Lissner has neglected , however , a significant democratic aspect of ? migr ? politics  --  namely , the program of future federation of the peoples awaiting liberation . He made only one cursory remark about federation , stating that the Croats and Slovenians as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of federated structure , either of Yugoslav peoples or Danubian peoples , in which their national interests will be guaranteed . The idea of federal union of the liberated peoples , however , is a progi.am of much greater importance , deserving more publicity . It is the only conceivable way by which the democratic future of all the peoples between Germany and Russia could be secured . Not New Idea The idea of federation in this " danger zone " of Europe is , of course , not new . Ever since nationalism invaded this ethnically mixed area with irreconcilable national aspirations based on the memories of past glory , the impracticability of the so-called nation-state became apparent . Great thinkers of practically every nation in this " belt of small nations " have come out at one time or another with a program of federation as the only solution . The Pole Adam Czartoryski , the Czech Frantisek Palacky , the Rumanian Nicolas Balcescu , the Hungarian Louis Kossuth , the Serbian Prince Mihail Obrenovic , the Croatian Bishop Josip Strossmayer and others were already as well aware of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The basic truth , that the nations bordering on the Russian giant in the east and the German giant in the west have the choice between federation or destruction , was revealed long before the terrible blows of Pan-German nazism and Pan-Slav communism were inflicted upon the nations of the " danger zone . " The general trend of European power politics has offered , however , for the smaller nations tempting chances of against their fellow smaller ones . The pattern of this destructive policy  --  and as a Hungarian I do not hesitate to confess  --  was practiced by the Hungarians after the Ausgleisch of 1867 when Hungarian imperialism allied itself with the rising tide of German imperialism . As seen against the background of contemporary European politics the " sins " of Hungary might well be called historically inevitable The same might be true about the imperialism of the liberated nations after the First World War whet allied themselves with France , and also about the pro-Soviet policies of some Slav leaders who in the period of the Second World War were seeking protection for their imperialistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all these " sins " of the past , whatever their promptings were , is to be found in the idea of the nation-state . To reverse this " historical trend " is the real historical and democratic task of the present political exiles from the Soviet satellite states in Eastern Europe . It is regrettable that so far there has been more lip service given by the ? migr ? leaders to the idea of federalism than real action taken by them . ' Union of Liberated Federation for Danger Zone in Europe Is Advocated The writer of the following letter is a Hungarian journalist , served as counselor of the Hungarian Legation in Washington , and is now Professor of History at the Pennsylvania College for Women . Problem of Alien Rule Changed Concept Viewed in Our Attitude Toward Colonialism The writer of the following letter is Representative of the United States in the United Nations Trusteeship Council . He formerly served as Assistant Secretary of State and as High Com7 missioner to the Philippines . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I am writing in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Week section of Oct. 8 , in which B. F. gives the " Realities of the Teacher Shortage . " I am a high school senior , a 90 per cent honor student , preparing to graduate in February , 1951 , and then to enter a curriculum of elementary school teaching . When I have completed my coourse and received my B. A. , I would like to teach in a small town in one of the Midwestern or Eastern states . Although the teacher shortage is acute now , in four years it will be just as serious , perhaps more so . This situation is often thought of ; often spoken of ; yet , nothing is really dope to help it . There are many other girls with plans ? similar to mine ; I am - not the sole one . Yet we are n't encouraged in any way to undertake this vocation ; we are n't helped . Scholarships for teaching are scarce , although in my recent investigations I found offerings of numerous science and music scholarships . Many of us want to.go to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a city college or to a state college where Revised Policies There is promise for the future of the unfortunate victims of Soviet aggression in Eastern Europe in the fact that their free agents in the free world are today . in the same boat . There is no room today for the ? migr ? politics of the First and Second World Wars when the ? migr ? representatives of some nations were directing their propaganda against other nations allied with the enemy . This is the time to make an end of old-fashioned " national " policies . Mr. Lissner has pointed out in his articles that the most important factor in curbing reaction among the ? migr ? s has been the aid and sympathy given democratic-minded political leaders by the National Committee for a Free Europe . He pointed out also that the same beneficial influence helped the exiled groups to achieve a minimum of unity . In addition to these two good effects on ? migr ? politics , the National Committee for a Free Europe is called by history to exercise its friendly influence upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ federal union of their respective peoples . Also public ' opinion duly informed about the needs of their respective peoples . And last but not least , the program of a future democratic federal union to end national rivalries , economic miser. ies , senseless persecutions and humiliations , to end the dangers of brutal alien invasions , would give a lift to the tortured minds of the subjugated peoples behind the Iron Curtain , it would kindle the light of future hopes in their present darkness . The program of a. federal union would be a whale of a , program , indeed , worth while to be broadcast by Radio Free Europe , STEPHEN BORSODY . Pittsburgh , Oct. 10 , 1950.                     