@@712614

txt James F. Byrnes , former Secretary of State , announced tonight that he would be a candidate for the Democratic nomination for Governor of South Carolina this year . The primary will be held July 11 . Mr. Byrnes is the fourth candidate to announce for the Democratic nomination , which is equivalent to election in South Carolina . The others are Thomas H. Pope , Speaker of the State House of Representatives ; Lester L. Bates , Co- , lumbia City Councilman , and Mar- , cus A. Stone , a lumberman , of Dillon and Florence . " I will be a candidate for Governor , " Mr. Byrnes said in a statement . " I will seek the nomination of the Democratic party of South Carolina . " When I left the service of the national government in 1947 I fully intended not to return to actual participation in political af- fairs . I adhered to this intention until last spring when the trend of political events caused me to express my views of policies affecting the state and nation . " During the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in all walks of life in the state to be a candidate for Governor . The people of this state have been good to me , and I have decided to ' be a a candidate , in the hope , if elected , I can be of service to them . " At the same time Mr. Byrnes repeated a previous assertion that he would not be a candidate " for President  --  or Vice President on the . ticket of any party under any circumtances . " Thurmond Endorses Aim In comment nn the announcement by Mr. Byrnes Gov . J. Strom Thurmond said in Columbia : " I repeat my pr-eious statement I think the sentiment of the peo , . ple of the state is th it Byrnes will make a fine governor . " Mr. Byrnes. once known as " Assistant President- to Franklin D. Roosevelt . has served in both ' Houses of Congress . In recent speeches Mr. Byrnes , who is 70 years old , has spoken against centralization of power in Washington and big government . He made it clear , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration . He said he also meant Republicans . His return to politics follows service as a United States Supreme Court justice and as director of the Office of War Mobilization in World War II . When he resigned as Secretary of State in 1947 he gave his health as the reason . Today he looks and acts fit . Since he left the Cabinet he has been associated with a Washington law firm , but he limits his activity to the appeal courts . In a speech at Washington and Lee University last June 18 Mr. Byrnes said certain suggested new Federal programs " point inevitably to a welfare state . " " We are going ' down the road to statism , " he went on . " If some of the new programs seriously proposed should be adopted there is danger that the individual * ? will soon be an economic slave pulling an oar in the galley of the tate . " The occasion of the speech was the 200th anniversary celebration of the university at Lexington , Va. , at which Mr. Byrnes received an honorary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he also called for a reduction in Federal spending and Federal powers . Senate Republicans were quick to pick up Mr. Byrnes ' charge that the Truman Administration 's spending programs could turn the nation into a welfare state . Mr. Byrnes never went to high school , but he has received honorary degrees from many universities . With royalties from " Speaking , Frankly . " which describes in part his trying to get along with Russia while Secretary of State , Mr. Byrnes established a foundation to send orphans to college . The fund amounts to more than $100,000 . He and Mrs. Byrnes have no children . They live in a modest brick home on the edge of Sparta nbu r , E.r . A combination houseman-. chauffeur is the only servant in the household . There is also a summer home on the Isle of Palms near Charleston . ; 1r . Byrnes is a shorthand expert . in the first decade of 1900 James F. Byrnes The New York Times he was court reporter and then solicitor ( prosecutor ) of South Carolina 's Second Judicial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ UP ) ? Senator Burnet R. Maybank said tonight that he was " very pleased " that James F. Byrnes " is going to be the next Governor of South Carolina . " " With his well known integrity and honesty , " he added , " I am sure Mr. Byrnes will uphold the traditions of our state . I am pleased for the state of South Carolina and for Mr. Byrnes . " Senator Olind D. Johnston , who will be a candidate to succeed himself in the primary , said in a statement : " I am informed that Mr. Byrnes has stated in his announcement that he will take no part in any other race in the state , which is the same course that I shall follow in the Democratic primary for re-election to the United States Senate . " Governor Thurmond has been mentioned as a candidate for the Johnston Senate seat .                     