@@713430

txt Letters to The Times HENRY P. VAN DUSEN , M. SH . EL-MODJADMI , MARY S. KRECH , FEARFUL PHYSICIAN.MORRIS ... Letters to The Times Assessing Blame for Korea Entire Nation Is Believed at Fault in Misjudging Communist Intentions To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : We Americans have an inexcusable if childish habit of recourse to scapegoats . We delight to fasten upon some one person the guilt which we should all acknowledge ; At the moment the vogue  --  is to lay upon General sole blame for the debacle in Korea . It is true that General and his staff were guilty of a grave error , in judgrrient which brought the Chinese Communist hordes upon us in a surprise attack rather than according to their own chosen timetable , and thus may have increased American casualties , though that can not be proved . But it is important to note , in the first place , that-this error of judgment was not primarily military but political . It was not a miscalculation of Chinese Communist military- strengtn ; for weeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces of the order of 500,000 or more beyond the Manchurian border . The error was a misreading of Chinese Communist political intentions . It was assumed that these masses of troops would not be used against us . It is even more important to note that this mistake in judgment was not General 's alone , or even primarily . It was based upon a set of assumptions widely held by the highest officers of Government and by the American public generally . And for that fatal mistake none of us can pretend adequate excuse . The bitter truth ? and we had better face it now , as we shall certainly have to confront it at the bar of history  --  is that the Chinese Communists have done nothing which they had not told us explicitly that they intended to do . The only surprise was the precise timing . We have been told , and we believed , that Chinese communism was basically different from Soviet communism , when there was no shred of justification for that assumption . We have been told , and we believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is no evidence whatever that they are following Moscow 's orders rather than their own plans . It was assumed that they would not attempt to drive us out of Korea , when they had categorically warned that they would . It was assumed that they were merely concerned to protect the water-power installations along the Yalu River , when they have never given the slightest indication that that was their objective . It is now assumed that they will graciously stop their triumphant advance at the Thirtyeighth Parallel , when there is no discoverable reason why they should . The truth is our Government and we have been consistently misled misled by self-designated " experts . " The exoneration of Owen Lattimore from the charge of Communist affiliation had disguised the fact that he and his ilk were almost unfailingly wrong at the key points , and thus were , albeit unwittingly , abetting the Communist designs . They were blind guides , and we slavishly followed . If blame must be placed , let us lodge it where it belongs  --  in the first place , upon these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Chinese communism , its policies and its intentions : then upon the leaders of Government who accepted their advice against the reiterated declarations of the Chinese Communists themselves ; but most ? of all upon ourselves , who surrendered to the illusions of wishful thinking , and now take refuge in the easy device of scape-goating . HENRY P. VAN DUSEN , President , Union Theological Seminary New York , Dec. 8 , 1950 . Invasion by Afghan Troops Denied To THE EDITOR OP THE NEW Vont* TIM Es ? According to an Associated Press dispatch dated Nov. 29 from Karachi which appeared in THE TIMES of Nov. 30 , it is stated that " the Pakistani Ministry of Frontier Regions charged today that Afghan regular troops had again invaded northern Pakistan Nov. 21 and had taken over a hill position in the Quetta-Pishin district . " I refute categorically the participation of Afghan regular troops in any invasion of Pakistan . I hope that in a spirit of objectivity your paper will publish this correction . M. EL-MODJADIDI , Attach ? , Royal Embassy of Afghanistan . Washington , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TINIER : Few people have contributed more to the art and science of obstetrics in the United States than Dr. Robert Latou Dickinson , and we can not let the moment of . his passing go by without recording our appreciation of him as a great person , doctor , teacher , artist . When Dr. Dickinson retired from active medical practice he made in the last two decades of his life a unique and important contribution to medical and health teaching . Working with Abram Belskie , a sculptor of great talent , the two developed medical teaching aids in plaster and rubber . The first of these were made for the Maternity Center Association 's New York World 's Fair exhibit . They depicted in life-size sculptures the development of a baby from the moment of fertilization to the moment of birth . These sculptures were one of the most popular exhibits at the fair and were later made into a medical teaching book , the " Birth Atlas , " which is used , in the medical and nursing schools and parents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Dickinson 's books on a number , of subjects related to human reproduction are of world-wide repute . His fearless willingness to take a public position on subjects of controversy won for him not only the admiration of those who agreed with him , but also of those who disagreed . I speak for the board , the medical board and the staff of the Maternity Center Association when I say that his passing is an irreparable loss to the dynamic advances in our field of endeavor . But his contribution to medical science , to human relations , especially in the development of mutual understanding between the doctor and his patient , will live forever among the people of America . MARY S. ICRECH , President , Maternity Center Association . New York , Dec. 3 , 1950 . Traffic as Rescue Problem Relief From Street Congestion Urged as Civil Defense Measure Electrical Wires Underground To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your correspondent Edward , whose letter appears in THE TIMES of Dec. 8 , may be interested in knowing that I introduced a bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of overhead wires underground in streets that are about to be paved . We have been trying to iron out certain practical difficulties by providing that in some cases only conduits to accommodate such wires shall be placed underground in streets to be paved . Thus it would be possible to place the wires underground through the conduits without ripping up the street again . This bill now in the General Welfare Committee of the City Council will , I believe , if passed , spare our residents considerable discomfort and inconvenience , save the utility companies the high cost in labor and material in replacing , wires , poles , etc. , and save possible loss of life from loose high tension wires MORRIS J. STEIN , New York , Dec. 8 , 1950 . To THE EDITOR OF THE Nzw Yonx TIMES : In these days Of growing peril I am appalled at the lack of effort or action to improve the steadily worsening traffic situation in our city . It is my belief that we are daily facing disastrous congestion which will result in a horrible panic if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With almost every street and avenue more or less filled with vehicles by day and many sections by night , any large-scale explosion or fire will effectively choke the adjacent streets , back up traffic for miles and bring it all to an impassable standstill unless new means of moving and continuing traffic are developed , especially for such emergencies . It is reasonable to predict that in the event of large-scale fires or explosions people who are in vehicles will abandon them in order to save their own lives . This makes the peril from bombing and fires even greater , since rescue and firefighting apparatus will be blocked . How physicians and other essential ' aids will get to hospital or first-aid stations , except on foot , I do not know . Everyone should realize that our city streets are our fire exits . In case ? of large-scale bombing or fires we must plan to keep them free and open just as we do fire exits in public buildings . No halfway measures will do . Double parking must be stopped by all classes of drivers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The present practice of truck-operating agencies making deliveries between the busy hours of 9 A. M. and 6 P. M. should be rigidly controlled and deliveries should be staggered to avoid mingling with the rush-hour passenger vehicles in each district . Certainly Sanitation Department trucks should be used out of the busy daytime hours . The repair of torn-up streets should be regarded as an emergency and such repair work should be done on a sixteen or even twenty-four hour basis , seven days a week , in order to keep our streets as free as possible . Curb parking space is at a premium and the " no parking " signs seen in front of churches and other institutions , which need only part-time clearing of their curb , should be modified . Why ca n't church needs be met by putting out special signs when the curbs are needed for worshipers , funerals or other functions ? Anyone who has been trapped in the creeping traffic on the East Side or West Side Highway on a week-end or during the morning or evening rush hours has seen a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then things would be far worse , with panic in the streets and many thousands trying to flee to the outskirts of the city . What is being done ? It is time for all citizens to realize the growing danger and to compel action . FEARFUL PHYSICIAN . New York , Dec. 5 , 1950.                     