@@715970

txt The dogged campaign led by Senator Bricker and the dominant elements of the American Bar Association to hobble the President 's treaty-making powers will soon be fought out on the floor of the Senate . It seems incredible that this proposal , at once so revolutionary and so retrogressive , should have received enough support to make it the major issue it has now become . Stripped of its legal complexities , it represents an effort to transfer from the President to the Congress a vital part of the conduct of foreign affairs and thus to disrupt the historic balance between Executive and Legislature that has served our country so well for the better part of two centuries . Every citizen who takes his Government seriously ought to familiarize himself with the Bricker amendment , a brief document of half a dozen sentences in which the really dangerous provisions are condensed in less than sixty words . They would prevent any treaty from becoming effective as internal law unless both houses of Congress passed appropriate legislation  --  this , of course , after the Senate had already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many important cases prevent the Federal Government from making any effective treaty at all unless each of the forty-eight states approved its provisions . They would furthermore give Congress the " power to regulate all Executive and all other agree ; ments with any foreign Power or international organization . " These three proposals wrapped up in one short Constitutional amendment would make our treaty-making procedure unbearably cumbersome , would deprive our nation of its sovereign power to make certain kinds of treaties and would destroy the essential ftsnction of the President to conduct foreign relations decisively and expeditiously . The additional provision of the Bricker amendment stating that any part of a treaty that conflicts with the Constitution shall be void is already part of our Constitutional law and practice and is therefore unnecessary . President Eisenhower stated last July that h. ? was " unalterably opposed to any amendment which would change our traditional treaty-making power or which Would hamper the President in his Constitutional . au thority to- conduct foreign affairs . " Secretary Dulles said in August that adoption of the amendment would have " a calamitous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States . " A committee of distinguished citizens , headed by such eminent authorities on Constitutional law as Edward S. Corwin and ' John W. Davis , has been specially organized to fight this insensate proposal . Twenty-six deans and professors of law from universities all over the country have publicly denounced it . The Bricker amendment is thoroughly . bad , and there is no reason to compromise with it . It is true that the Senate should require at least a rollcall vote when a treaty is up for ratification ; but this reform could be effected by a simple change in Senate rules . What the Bricker amendment does is to return to the Articles of Confederation and to express the Senate 's profound mistrust in itself as well as in the Chief Executive . It is a counsel of fear and retreat when Courage and boldness are needed .                     