@@714870

txt One of the most appalling consequences of two world wars and the rise of fascist and Communist dictatorships has been the vast displacement of populations which has precipitated the greatest migration movement in history , both voluntary and compulsory . According to well-informed estimates there are now between thirty and sixty million homeless and often hungry and desperate migrants moving ac ; oss continents and seas because of wars or political or religious persecution , sometimes aggravated by natural or man-induced catastrophes , or who are bein7 deported by their totalitarian taskmasters into slavery . That is as many as reached the United States in 130 years up to 1950 , and the immensity of the movement may be gauged by a comparison with the famous migrations of more ancient times , when bands of some hundred thousand barbarians , including men , women and children , were able to topple the Roman Empire . Most of these migrants , including the eight million deported by the Soviets from Central and Eastern Europe and the tens of millions of Chinese uprooted from their homes , are for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But there are still at least ten million refugees in free Europe , including the Germans expelled from.eastern territories , and their number is being augmented by some twenty thousand fleeing from behind the Iron Curtain every month . They not only add to the burdens of populations struggling to overcome the ravages of the war ; they also add to the population pressure in all Western Europe and thereby increase the danger of new explosions . There is only one feasible , solution to this problem , and that is , of course , emigration . Much has already been accomplished in that field . The International Refugee Organization has relocated some 1,457,000 persons , either by returning them to their homelands or by finding them new homes in Europe or , for the most part , overseas . Of these 339,000 have been settled in the United States , and the United States , like all countries which have learned that people are their greatest resource , is the richer because of them . But the emigration pressure in Europe persists , and while more settled countries , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resistance to a further influx there are still sparsely populated regions in this world which need and ask for more people to fill up their vast empty spaces and to enhance their defensive strength and their security . Such a country is , above all others , Australia , which realized during the last war that it must rapidly increase its population or face the risk of being overrun by the Asiatic masses . But after a promising start in accepting emigrants from Europe , Australia found that the days of pioneers going into the wilderness with an axe and little more are over , and that the resettlement and economic integration of new immigrants can be an expensive business requiring substantial capital investments . For that reason Australia has had to curtail its immigration program for the present But it has now begun explorations with the Intergovernmental Committee for Migration on a new and integrated plan , which might be applied to other countries as well , and which is designed to enlist international , especially American , capital in large-scale resettlement projects which would not only pay for themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There have been numerous proposals along that line in the past , most of them holding that while it might take up to a hundred million dollars or more to resettle , a million people , up to 90 per cent of that sum would be recoverable , so that the ultimate cost to Governments participating in the project would be small . The latest plan , which is first to be tried out in pilot projects , might do even better than that . In any case , some such plan is necessary , not only to relieve Europe 's dangerous population pressure but also to strengthen the bulwarks of the free world in particularly exposed places , and it is to be hoped ' that it will ultimately be put into effect .                     