@@719757

txt The danger of civil war in France and Algeria receded slightly today with the adoption of conciliatory positions by a dissident military-civilian junta in Algiers and a new Government in Paris . The conditions of the basic struggle remained unchanged . Leaders of the European minority in Algeria made it plain they would continue to right against the anticipated evolution of the French Government toward a negotiated settlement of the forty-three-month-old Moslem nationalist rebellion . The situation both in Paris and in Algiers still was fluid and confused , fluctuating from hour to hour . But one central fact stood out clearly : the dissident Committee of Public Safety formed in Algiers yesterday by Brig . Gen. Jacques Massu had suffered three set- , backs . Premier Wins Majority First , it failed in its avowed ) goal of blocking the formation of a Government here by Premier Pierre Pflimlin . M. Pflimlin , a centrist Popular Republican , was voted into office early today by a , majority of 274 to 109 . Second , Gen. Charles de Gaulle , wartime leader of the Free French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to return to power . Third , efforts by Right-Wing elements in France to set on foot action here paralleling that of the Algiers group broke down on the solidity of France 's permanent left-of-center majority . At a news conference in Algiers , General Massu acknowledged his disappointment over these developments . Then he disclaimed any intent to set up an insurrectionist government . Massu Explains Stand He said he had accepted leadership of the committee , thrust on him by leaders of civilian rioters in Algiers , after only " a few seconds " of reflection in order to canalize the civilian agitation and prevent ) serious bloodshed . Pflimlin , speaking to the nation on radio and television tonight , put the official seal on ' the state of confusion by acknowledging that the army had , " intervened in conditions that in certain bases are still ill- ! defined . " He also said the new Government had succeeded in frustrating " certain subversive actions " by arresting dissident elements before they had been able to implement their plans . The statements by General Massu and.Premier Pflimlin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without either side's1 being forced further into a position of no retreat . That is , General Massu seemed to be trying to exculpate himself of a charge of insubordination or rebellion , and the Government was too weak and shaky to seek a showdown that would involve the court-martial of the general and other officers in the junta . In this operation the key man was Lieut . Gen. Raoul Salaii , the armed forces commander in Algeria . He represented today a tenuous link of legality between the Paris Government and the Algiers committee . From M. Pflimlin he held a mandate to assume temporarily all civilian and military powers in Algeria . FTOM the Massu committee he had an implicit pledge of obedience , but on terms that indicated that he had been forced to accede 4 ) some of the dissidents ' demands . Within this general situation these were the main developments today on both sides of the Mediterranean : 9The dissident movement , on its initial momentum , spread beyond Algiers . 9General de Gaulle , by his silence neither approving nor repudiating the dissident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his Paris appointments and returned to **25;529;TOOLONG , his rural retreat in eastern France . 9Four major Right- ? ing leaders  --  former Premier Georges Bidault , Senator Roger Duchet , an Independent party leader ; Andre Morice , a dissident Radical Deputy , and Jacques Soustelle. a Gaullist Deputy  --  issued a manifesto approving the giers Committee of Putil Safety and demanding formation here of a " government of union and national safety . " Their declaration provoked no notable public or political response . tlOn the oilier hand , scores of labor organizations , veterans ' groups and Left-Wing and Centrist political committees throughout France published condemnations of the Algiers dissident movement and pledged resistance to " fascist " or extreme Right-Wing actions . It was representatives of this leftof-center majority opinion that rallied to M. Pflimlin 's support in the National Assembly to end the Government crisis after twenty-eight days . 9M . Pflimlin put off until Friday his official declaration to the Assembly on the situation in Algiers . Meanwhile , he obtained agreement from the Socialist party to enter the Cabinet instead of merely supporting it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lacoste , a Socialist who for two and a half years has been Minister for Algeria , might return to that post . Lacoste Has Support M. Lacoste has the confidence of Europeans in Algiers and the Right Wing in France and his return would reassure them on the Government 's intentions . On the other hand , it would be widely regarded by liberal opinion as a step backward on M. Pflimlin 's part from a course of cautious exploration of the possibilities for a negotiated ceasefire with the Algerian rebels . M. Pflimlin was also negotiating with- former Premier Antoine Pinay. leader of the moderate wing of the Independent party , for Independent support although a majority of the Independents voted against the Premier early today . Four Independents already are serving as individuals , without party sanction , in the new Cabinet . The blackout of press transmissions from Algiers was lifted briefly tonight , permitting foreign correspondents to dictate short , censored dispatches over army telephone lines . The dispatches failed to clarify completely the role of General Salan . Earlier the Pflimin Cabinet had formally ordered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did so with a statement that left him with one foot in each camp . The general 's statement said that the Committee of Public Safety , which has " constituted itself in Algiers under the pressure of events to affirm the will of the Fren-Moslem population to remain French , " assures liaison between the population and the army command , " which transmits orders to it . " Thus the official agent of the Paris Government recognized the validity of the committee . There were hints of disagreement between the military and civilian members of the Algiers junta . In the first accounts of his news conference . General Massu was quoted as having said the army would turn over control of Algeria to civilian authority " when a new Minister for Algeria shall have come to take over his post in Algeria . " Later , General Massu received correspondents again in the presence of Peon Delbecque , a civilian member of the committee , who was on the official staff of Jacques Chaban-Delmas , Gaullist former Defense Minister . In almost direct contradiction of General Massu 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remain in place until the moment the Government shall have resigned . We have launched an appeal to General de Gaulle to take in hand the destinies of France . " When correspondents pointed out the differences between the two statements . General Massu elaborated on his first statement , saying : " The committee will cease to be , in principle , when a Minister for Algeria can come and install himself in the offices of the Government General with the support of the population . " This was an Important amendment . Civilian leaders in Algiers have indicated clearly that Andre Mutter , M. Pflimlin 's moderate Independent Minister for Algeria , is unacceptable . M. Lacoste , on the other hand , is popular with the European population because of his strict adherence to the line of military pacification of the rebellion during his long tenure . There were two hypotheses advanced by observers here to explain the events of the last forty-eight hours . The first involved acceptance at face value of General Massu 's assertion that the Committee of Public Safety was a hasty improvisation designed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it had no serious political pretensions . This was hard to square with General Massu 's message last night to President Rene Coty in which the . general demanded , among other things , the constitution of a government of public safety in Paris , and his harangue to the crowd in which he attacked the Pflimlin Government and urged that General de Gaulle be called to power . These were clearly political acts tending to support a second hypothesis . This was ' that a coup had actually been prepared in both Algiers and Paris . According to this thesis , the first act went off as scheduled with mass demonstrations against M .. Pflimlin , the formation of the public safety committee and General Massu 's appeals to Paris . But , it is suspected , the Paris end of the plot failed , either through the tardiness of those charged with carrying it out or the failure of General de Gaulle , who was not thought to have been forewarned , to pick up the ball passed . to him by Algiers .     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       