@@714639

txt Greater Boston communities today , have started down the long road toward mutual protection and cooperation that , Americans have been urging European countries to tread for many decades . A steering committee of the " Greater Boston Area Council " held its first formal meeting at the Sheraton Plaza last night . When completely organized , this group hopes to bring the 40 communities in Greater Boston together to discuss their mutual problems and to work as a ' team to solve them . ' Common Ground Sought Greater Boston communities have far less to work out for a successful " Boston Day Pact , " but some fight it on generalities , Jerome L , Rappaport , Boston attorney who is chiefly responsible for formation of the Greater Boston Area Council , said today . In the past any move toward metropolitanization scared off outside communities because they did not want to be swallowed up by Boston or be saddled with Boston 's financial burdens . The new council does not concern itself with these problems . Its principal objective as set in the ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of common concern to two or more of the communities of Greater Boston , to encourage mutual exploration of such problems by the communities involved , to stimulate possible study of possible solutions to secure public support for the measures determined to be most effective and practicable , and to promote acceptance of such measures by the appropriate bodies , agencies or individuals . " Membership Sketched No community would have less than two representatives . Limited to two would be communities with less than 5,000 population . Communities such as Reading and Stoneham probably would have three , Dedham , Lexington and Winchester four ; and Melrose , Belmont , Weymouth and Watertown , five . Everett , Waltham , Medford , and Brookline might have six members each . The cities of Cambridge and Lynn might have eight each , when the representation is finally determined by the executive committee . Serving on the steering committee will be William R. Greeley , Jr. , of Lexington , as temporary chairman , Eliot L. Richardson of Brookline , William Hulbert of Wayland , and Mr. Rappaport of Boston . Ralph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Commerce , was appointed treasurer . Next meeting of the executive committee will be May 1 .                     