@@716115

txt There is every indication here that at least a portion of the forthcoming Geneva conference ? that portion which concerns Indochina  --  will be a " roundtable " conference including Asian neutrals , despite earlier United States opposition to such an arrangement . Well-informed sources here say the Philippines has made known its desire to participate as one of the " interested states " which , according to the Berlin communique , are to be invited . The United States is Supporting this request . In addition . Thailand . Burma , and Indonesia are known to be seriously considering similar requests . V. K. Krishna Menon of India said March 4 that his country could be considered an " interested state " to the extent that Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru had appealed for a cease-fire in Indochina . Mr. Menon declined to authorize the inference that India was seeking representation at Geneva . But a number of United Nations observers nevertheless have drawn this inference . Mr. Menon will be in Geneva in April . During the most recent sessions of the UN General Assembly . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that India , Indonesia , Burma , Pakistan , and the Soviet Union take part in the Korean peace conference as " neutrals . " Support for Peking The United States resolutely opposed this proposal , partly because it wanted the Soviet Union to assume full responsibility for conference decisions , and partly because President Rhee of South Korea had said he would boycott any conference at which India was seated . At the Berlin meeting of Foreign Ministers , the issue was resolved in favor of the United States so far as discussions on Korea are concerned . The participants when this problem is taken up are to be the Soviet Union , Communist China , the two Koreas , and the countries which sent troops to fight on the UN side . When Indochina is discussed , the Berlin communiqu ? declared , the Big Four . Communist China , and " other interested states will be invited . " The phrase " other interested states " was not amplified . It vas taken to mean the associated states of Indochina and the Vietminh rebels led by Ho Chi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phrase is being much more broadly interpreted . The fact that the Philippines has asked for representation and secured United States support indicates that the United States plans to modify its opposition to other Asian neutrals . It would be virtually impossible , diplomatically speaking , to support one and oppose the others . The Soviet Union and Communist China are so heavily committed to the participation of Asian neutrals at an Asian peace conference that it would be virtually impossible for them to reverse their position , even if they disapproved of some applicants . What impact neutral participation would have on the deliberations is not difficult to foresee . If India , Burma , and Indonesia seek representation , or arrange to be " drafted , " it is certain that Communist China 's demand for UN representation will receive non-Communist support . The Philippines and Thailand could be expected to oppose it . Capitol Bill Reaction There already is speculation here that sooner or later , in one form or another , the United States will have to decide whether admission of Peking to the UN would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is taken for granted that even France would refuse to pay such a price if an illusive paper settlement were at stake : the problem would be to distinguish between an illusive peace and a genuine one . If iron-clad guarantees could be evolved , both France and Britain  --  and , needless to say , most of the Asian neutrals ? would press the United States to accept . But the United States delegation would face severe opposition on Capitol Hill if it agreed to such a deal . Some UN circles argue that Communist China is likely to he admitted to the world organization in late 1954 or 1955 in any event , and that it would be wiser to extract from Peking a price for this concession than to let it go " for nothing . " The United States diplomat faced with this problem in the first instance is Douglas II , nephew of the former UN commander in Korea . Mr. , a counselor to the Secretary of State , has been assigned the duty of coordinating preparations for the Geneva conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attend the first few weeks of the conference and then turn the job over either to Mr. or to Walter S. Robertson , Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs .                     