@@719179

txt Stand on Test Ban Queried Government Declared Opposed to Ending Nuclear Explosions To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I am deeply concerned ? about the distortion of information reaching the American people about the great question of nuclear weapons testing . In the first place , the American people have been led to believe there is a serious difference of scientific opinion concerning the seriousness of the radiation hazard . Actually , with the exception of a handful of scientists who are almost entirely Atomic Energy Commission employes , consultants or contractors , the overwhelming , majority of informed scientists , including those who do work for the Atomic Energy Commission , agree on the hazard involved . A score of well over one hundred to one should certainly be classed as " no contest , " not a serious divergence of opinion . The failure to reach agreement in London on atomic controls is hard to understand . Both sides profess deep concern . But why do the Russians refuse to accept a cut-off of production of nuclear materials for bombs  --  and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ban on nuclear weapons tests ? The American people have been led to believe that our Government favors a ban on nuclear testing and that this is barred only by Russian intransigence on adequate inspection . Actually , at London and in Washington , our responsible officials , including Secretary Dulles and Harold Stassen , have clearly stated we , would accept a limited ban on nuclear tests only as part of a far more comprehensive package deal . Agreement on Feasibility Again , a great majority of informed scientists , agree that an inspected nuclear test ban is entirely feasible , could readily be achieved , and would be a highly desirable first step toward more comprehensive international control of the armaments race . The American people should be informed that our Government is flatly opposed to a nuclear test ban , no matter how thoroughly inspectable  --  and we should be told the reasons for this position . Government leaders have uttered noble words indicating their belief that the only real hope for salvation from the utter tragedy of atomic war is to make the United Nations an effective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It seems to me high time that these noble words be backed up by some real effort commensurate with the importance of the task  --  and at least equal to some small fraction of the immense effort now going into preparing for atomic war . CHARLES C. PRICE , Director , John Harrison Laboratory of Chemistry , University of Pennsylvania . Philadelphia , Oct. 7 , 1957 . Cleansing Process Seen 4TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I am not proud of what is happening in the South today any more than I am deluded by what is happening in the North in the same area of human relationship . But to Allen Scott of England , who in The Times of Oct. 2 suggests that we are a rapidly degenerating society , and to our other friends in other lands abroad who despair of our American civilization , I say : Take another look at America and at your own country . There are headlines about race relationships , in the United States today not because we are a degenerating society but rather because our society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have turned up a long-resting stone and we are exposing to the antiseptic light of the sun the rottenness and the disease which have been festering under it . Out of all of this will come cleanliness and health . Can our friends abroad , many of whom are only now adopting at home the racial antagonisms and prejudices reserved earlier for their colonies , while others without colonies maintain a system of caste and other religious persecutions , point to a more regenerative process in their own countries ? MARTIN PANZER . Great Neck , N. Y. , Oct. 2 , 1957 . Use of FM Bands Urged To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial of Sept. 30 " Crowding the Airwaves " deserves the careful attention of radio listeners and public-minded broadcasters alike . Side-by-side comparison leaves no doubt but that FM broadcasting is so far superior a medium as to render almost ridiculous those who petition the Federal Communications Cone . mission either for new stations on an already badly overcrowded spec. trum , or for increased power on currently operating stations . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are ample FM facilities waiting for use in a medium which is already giving the public " a modern , static-free , high : - fidelity service . " Those of us who believe in FM and its future appreciate the increasing interest shown in the medium by responsible members of the business and press communities . Still , we are aware of important and serious challenges to FM . Only recently Douglas A. Anello , chief attorney of the National Association of Radio and Television Broadcasters , warned an industry meeting that FM radio stations " face the fight of their lives " to retain the use of the 88-108 megacycle band against the demands of mobile and industrial services as a result of a recent action by the Office of Defense Mobilization restriding use of the 30-50-megacycle band ; If public service and responsi ? bility , two important factors in determining who shall use the publics frequencies for broadcasting purposes , are to continue to be of real moment I submit that the FM broadcasters are perhaps better able on all counts : proved performance , technical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others , - to stake their claims for continued use of the FM frequencies . By all means , let the F. C. C. divert the attention of all prospect ? tive broadcasters to the FM field . Those of us who are already inter . ested will be genuinely glad to wel. come them in and to wish them . well . EDWARD L , MERRITT Jr. , F. M. Unlimited , Inc . New York , Oct. 3 , 1957 . Tipping in Moscow , Survival of Capitalism Is Seen in a Willingness to Accept Gratuities To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : 1 Gospodin Reston , your quondam - Washington correspondent , lately writing from Moscow , has rarely been hoodwinked by any of the hocus pocus on the Potomac , but he has been shamefully taken in by Soviet propaganda . In his dispatch published Oct. 6 he writes that the Soviet Union has " abolished the iniquitous practice of tipping . " He adds that , on leaving the barber shop in the National Hotel in Moscow , he felt that , if he had offered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a ghastly scene , and ended up no doubt in the pokey . " Reston , who was always known in Washington as " Skeptical Scotty , " will probably be remembered in Moscow as " the gullible gospodin . " He inexplicably failed to put his information on tipping to the acid test . Perhaps , because of his Scottish ancestry , he was only too ready to believe it . He should have proffered a tip . Only if it had been refused could he then say that Marxism-Leninism had not only re . pealed the law of gravity but also cured the itching palm . During the thirteen months that I lived in Moscow I patronized the National Hotel barber shop regularly . Like Gospodin Reston , I was delighted to find that a party-line haircut cost only 1 ruble 90 kopeks ( then 471/2 cents , now 19 cents ) . However , the look on the barber 's face when I failed to tip him after my first visit told me that the rules of principled Socialist conduct did not necessarily apply to a dirty capitalist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  three , four or five  --  and slipped them into his hand on departing . A susceptibility to being tipped , I discovered , was one of those " survivals of capitalism in the consciousness of the people " throughout the Soviet Union . Taxi drivers , waiters , doormen , porters and hat-check girls would nearly always accept a gratuity  --  if nobody in authority was looking . By propagating the myth that tipping has been abolished , Gospodin Reston has unwittingly served Soviet propaganda . At the same time he has probably left a very bad impression on the barber in the National Hotel . The poor fellow 's faith in capitalism may have been undermined . CLIFTON DANIEL . New York , Oct. 6 , 1957 . Lack of Middle-Income Housing To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : There is too much ruthlessness in the treatment of human beings in this city today , parading under the guise of " necessary evil . " Evil is evil however you qualify it , and even 6,000 ( Lincoln Square families to be dispossessed ) wrongs wo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Coliseum Park Apartments from the beginning ( when rentals were supposed to be $50 per room for middle-income people ) to the end when , though financed under Title I , it has turned out to be a luxury , building ( $122 per room and kitchenette and up , way out of any middle-income price range ) I want no more of it . A city that goes blithely on dispossessing low and especially middle income people for whom there is no available housing  --  no matter how often Robert S. Fougner , counsel for the Metropolitan Fair Rent Committee repeats that it is " arrant nonsense that there is an emergency in housing " ? deserves to be stopped short and made to look at itself . GENEVA HARRISON . New York , Sept. 28 , 1957.                     