@@715406

txt The interim fares now being charged on the private bus lines operating under city franchises will be extended today by the Board of Estimate until midnight June 30 . These fares-12 cents on buses of the Fifth Avenue Coach Company and 10 cents on all otherlines  --  otherwise would lapse at midnight Thursday . Extension of the interim fares will be voted at a special meeting called for 10:30 A. M. , at which the board also will adopt its proposed city budget for 1953-54 . The budget to be adopted will vary little , if any , in amount from the $1,528,812,795 executive budget submitted to the board on April 1 by Mayor Impellitteri . The board also will pave the way for reductions in the amount of franchise taxes to be paid to the city by private bus companies whose revenues may be affected adversely by the granting of the forty-hour week to their employes . This matter is now in the hands of an impartial arbitrator whose decision is expected within the next month . It was indicated last night that any franchise tax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city 's right to revoke them  --  and in. fact increase them  --  should the companies obtain fare rises after July 1 . The funds involved in any tax reduction will be held in escrow pending the outcome of the arbitration proceedings . The prospect of fare rises on the private bus lines is tied in with the possibility that the city 's bus lines , as well as its subways , will be operated by the newly created New York City Transit Authority starting July 1 , with a higher fare indicated before the end of that month . A fare rise on the municipal bus lines probably would be followed by a similar rise on the private lines . Action by the Board of Estimate on the reduction of franchise taxes paid by the private lines will be based on a report submitted to it last week by the Mayor 's Transit Advisory Commission . The New York City Transit Authority , should it take over the municipal lines , will have no power over fares on private bus lines . That power is vested exclusively in the Board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislation en. , acted at Albany last winter , the power and duty to supervise safety and adequacy of service on private bus lines . Some of the Mayor 's transit advisers are known to fear that the new law has made the Board of Estimate a " little Public Service Commission , " the rulings of which on fares as well as service will be subject to court review . Should this be true , the private bus lines that now have higher fare applications pending before the board would be able to take their appeals to the Supreme Court if their applications were to be denied . The budget to be approved by the Board of Estimate today is subject to modification after June 1 if the city and the New York City Transit Authority do not reach agreement by that date on transfer of the municipal lines to the new agency . Provision for such modification is made in a local law upon which the Mayor will hold a public hearing next Thursday in his office at City Hall . The Board of Estimate 's budget , like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the assumption that the municipal transit lines ' will be in the hands of the New York City Transit Authority by June 15 . If the city lines should remain in the hands of the Board of Transportation because of rejection of the authority plan or its invalidation in pending court proceedings , the city budget would be $97,000,000 out of balance . The modification authorized by a local law now on the Mayor 's desk would allow it to be balanced by means of general economies , reductions in operating costs on the city transit lines and reductions in general city services . MARINO ON NEW BUS PLAN Estimate Board to Weigh 2-Zone Alternative on Staten Island On May 28 the Board of Estimate will hold a public hearing on a proposal by Richmond Borough President Edward G. Baker for a two-zone pattern of city bus operation to replace the discontinued North Shore and South Beach service of the Staten Island Rapid Transit Railway Company . The I Baker plan has the sponsorship of the . Board of Transportation as an alternative to its own three-zone proposal . Each of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The zone boundary would be at New Dorp . Under both proposals the city , buses would act as feeders to the railroad 's Tottenville division , The railroad has promised not to seek permission to abandon passenger service on the Tottenville route before next February . The three-zone plan of city operation first offered by the Board of Transportation calls for a 30-cent fare for a through ride between St. George and Tottenville . The alternate plan calls for a 20-cent fare for the same ride . Both plans set up a 10-cent fare for shorter rides , allowing passengers to complete their trips on the railroad 's Tottenville line .                     