@@715845

txt The twice-delayed Bermuda meeting between Prime Minister Sir Winston Churchill of Britain , President Eisenhower of the United States , and French Premier Joseph Laniel is scheduled for Dec. 4 . ' It was initiated before Moscow 's rebuff /hat ended plans for a Big Four foreign ministers ' meeting at Lugano , Switzerland . It was confirmed after the collapse of arrangements for that meeting . Failure of the Big Four foreign ministers to talk was the deciding factor in setting up the Big Three chiefs of state meeting . The new Bermuda meeting , incidentally , is not planned as a prelude to a later Big I Four chiefs of state conference , as was its original purpose . Soviet Forced Issue Prime Minister Churchill undoubtedly will renew his plea at Bermuda for top-level talks between East and West . But unless President Eisenhower and his principal foreign-policy adviser , Secretary of State John Foster Dulles , have a change of heart at Bermuda they will put the damper on such plans . Soviet intransigeance has increased , not diminished , since Sir Winston 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the western Big Three chiefs became a must when the Soviets , in their latest note on German unification , listed a half-dozen impossible demands before an EastJ-West meeting could occur . The Big Three chiefs of state with their foreign ministers now must decide on policy and programs in the light of this Soviet intransigeance . While the agenda of this meeting will girdle the globe , major topics for discussion are sure to be : Future attitude toward Germany ? integration with the West , association witht the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and membership in the European Defense Community , Related Problems Western relations with Peking , including such varied matters as recognition , membership in the United Nations , trade relationships , its assistance to Communist aggression in southeast Asia . Allied policy toward Korea should the conference negotiations bog down and/or fighting be renewed . Western defense and security requirements in the light of So                     