@@712611

txt Louis Johnson , Secretary of Defense , asserted today that the tightened budget of $13,545,000,000 for the armed services that President Truman submitted to Congress yesterday offered the country " an adequacy of defense for any situation that may arise in the next two years . " Mr. Johnson 's remarks were made at a press conference , his first in several months , and it turned out to be a mass meeting . Ranged around him in a conference room in the Pentagon were the Secretaries of the Army , Navy and Air Force , the Chiefs of Staff of the Army and Air Force , the Chief of Naval Operations , the commandant of the Marine Corps , the three assistant Secretaries of Defense and other defense officials . Mr. Johnson at the outset limited the session to questions on the budget . Attempts to change the subject were unavailing . Coincidental with the Johnson press conference , the House Armed Services Committee announced that it Would conduct a full dress study of the " true state of the national defense . " The inquiry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Johnson 's thesis on the budget was summed up in a prepared statement handed to reporters before the meeting . It was that the basic objective in adjusting the size of the armed forces had been " all possible economies , " but that security had come first and economy second . The proposed budget was hardly what the Joint Chiefs had wanted , he said , adding that if the requests of the three services had been granted " unilaterally , " the budget would have been $7,000,000,000 higher . However , also in statements prepared before the conference , the three Secretaries and the Chiefs of Staff of the Army and Air Force and the Chief of Naval Operations described how they would get along under the President 's proposed budgetary ceilings . W. Stuart Symington , Secretary of the Air Force , injected a rude note into the close harmony , however . The Air Force " supports " the Administration 's budget and its provision for holding the service to forty-eight groups because of the possible economic drain of a larger force , he said , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conviction of the Air Force ; namely , that from a purely miltary standpoint , we believe seventy groups or its equivalent ( now sixty-seven groups ) is necessary for the minimum peacetime security of the United States . " Mr. Johnson , who presided at the meeting , turned over questions on this subject to Mr. Symington , who sat at his right . Did Mr. Symington 's statement mean that when the Air Force " goes to the Hill " ( to appear before Congressional committees ) , it would argue for seventy groups ? a reporter asked . Mr. Symington referred ? to that part of his statement that said the Air Force supported the budget " because we realize that economic disaster might be equivalent to military disaster . " On Oct. 29 , President Truman impounded $615,000,000 appropriated by Congress for enlarging the Air Force . He said that the added expense would put an unbearable burden on the national economy , Asked if he meant by " purely military standpoint " that if the country were attacked , the Air Force would " not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ look and a grin at Mr. Johnson , replied : " Yes , but do n't try to get me in trouble with my boss . " The Air Force Secretary repeated that his service would not attempt to have Congress change the forty-eight group plan set forth by the President , but then said : " No matter what our position is we will not turn down any money given to us . " Says Truman Set Ceiling Secretary Johnson , in reply to a question about who had decided that a $13,000,000,000 ( obligational authority ) budget was economically feasible , said that President Truman had certified that ceiling to the Department of Defense after consultation with his advisers . Questioned on whether the Defense Department wanted a program of universal military training , Mr. Johnson said that the military establishment was " extremely anxious " to have the Selective Service Act extended . It was a purposeful evasion . When the question was repeated , he said that he hoped for a universal military training program because " I think we need it . " In his message @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the program , but did not request funds for it . Mr. Johnson said that the Defense Department was seeking " straight authorization for selective service . " This would include , he added , one-year enlistments of 18-year-olds . He . expressed " hope " that the military establishment would have no need td use the draft , even if it were extended by Congress beyond the June 24 expiration date . Mr. Johnson disclosed that while there had been a delay in getting the military assistance program into motion because of the snags encountered in the signing of bilateral agreements with the Atlantic pact nations , the " time had not been entirely wasted " because contracts had been prepared covering arms shipments . He said that the program " ought to get going " in a few weeks . He asserted that if the new timetable was kept , at least half of the $1,000,000,000 authorized under the program could be expended by the end of the present fiscal year ( June 30 ) , and that if there were unexpended funds on that date , Congress would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year . The arms shipments to Europe , even if extended under a 1951 fiscal year program , Secretary Johnson said , would not deplete the armed services ' stores of excess weapons and other equipment . Questions directed to Navy officials brought out that carrier air groups , which numbered twentyfour in the 1949 fiscal year , had been reduced to ten and would be ently one More group after July 1 . Gen. Clifton a Cates , cornmandant of the Marine Corps , said that President Truman 's reference to maintaining six battalion landing teams meant that one battalion would have to be trimmed out of each of the Marine 's two divisions . He said that the divisions would be retained as such . In his prepared statement , Admiral Forrest P. Sherman , Chief of Naval Operations , said that he considered the distribution of funds among the three services " equitable and about in consonance with their responsibilities in the world strategic situation . " He added that he was confident that a greater proportion of the Navy 's funds could in time be devoted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this point in his remarks . He said that the " fighting man is being returned to the fighting unit , " and that desk jobs were being cut in all services . Secretary of the Army Gordon Gray asserted that the Army had been operating under a disadvantage since the war . Its occupation duties had consumed a large part of its time , effort and appropriations at the expense of developing an adequate mobilization , base and war reserve , he said . He added that savings achieved through release of civilian employes and shutting down installations had enabled the service to increase its requests for funds for the civilian components program , research and development and the procurement of modern heavy equipment .                     