@@720596

txt The United States is exchanging copies of its current patents for copies of those issued by the Soviet Union . Prints of about 2,000 Soviet patents granted this year have been received so far by the United States Patent Office . The exchange agreement , which became effective last Jan. 1 , was worked out by the Patent Office through the State Department wit ' theSoviet AllUnion Patent-Technical Library . The library is under the direction of the Soviet Union 's Committee for Invention and Discoveries in the Council of Ministers . Negotiations were started by the Russians through the United States Embassy in Moscow . The American Patent Office also sends copies of its Official Gazette , a weekly summary of new patents , in return for copies of the Soviet equivalent , 13yulleten Isobretenii ( Invention Bulletin ) , which is issued twice a month . The 2,000 Soviet patents are the first the United States Patent Office has acquired since 1927 . Officials said that a preliminary examination had indicated that some were important . Patent Check Extended American law requires the rejection of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anticipated by patents or technical publications anywhere in the world . Examiners now Will search the Russian patents along with those that have been received from many other countries . The bulk of the Soviet documents received are " authors ' certificates " entitling their recipients to awards , rather than patents proper , of which fairly few are granted . It is assumed that the Soviet Government has been able to obtain copies of American patents without interruption , as subscriptions may be entered for the Official Gazette through the Government Printing Office . Any one may buy copies of patents at the Patent Office for 25 cents apiece . The Russians could also make copies of United States patents on file in various European cities . The Patent Office is uncertain to what extent American patents have been exploited within the Soviet Union . The assumption is that there is considerable exploitation , particu-1 larly of technological patents . United States patents are not enforceable abroad , nor are Soviet patents enforceable in this country . In recent years very few United States patents have ' been granted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patents in the Soviet Union , but the Patent Office could not recall any examples off-hand . From 1896 to 1917 the United States Patent Office obtained copies of 29,745 Russian patents , and between 1924 and 1927 another 3,500 . In all , the Patent Office library has on file some 6,500,000 foreign patents . American officials expect the Soviet Union to issue about 10 , - 000 patents this year . American patents are granted in far greater volume . The 1959 total is expected to be about 54,000 . The Soviet Union is not a member of the International Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property , to-which the United States and . forty-six ' other countries belong. - Under the convention , the members accord each others ' citizens ' rights on patents and tradeImarics.                     