@@715374

txt Establishment of a new Massachusetts division of building construction to centralize responsibility for the state 's huge building program was advocated today by the Special Commission on the Structure of the State Government . Manned by professionally competent personnel , the new division would replace the Massachusetts Public Buildings Commission . It would hive more specific control Over state building construction than the present unit . The so-called Bzii ) y Hoover Commission holds that long-range savings would be substantial . The proposed agency would have supervision of construction for all agencies except the Department of Public Works , the Port of Boston Authority , the State Housing Board . and the School Building Assistance Commission . Under the plan outlined to the Legislature , the division would be headed by a director and deputy director . one of whom would be a registered architect and the other a registered engineer . The report disclosed that at the time the commission study began , there were under way 240 building projects involving 17 state agencies , and past , present , and future state commitments totaling Stl0.000,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factors causing sub- : stuntial losses , the commission ! ) roposed that the director be authorized to set up regulations and standards of perforrnance to speed construction , eliminate or reduce delays , and lower costs . " Absence of adequate performance and other records makes it impossible to estimate the losses incurred by the commonwealth under the present system , " the study group reported , " However , in the considered judgment of our engineering consultants . these losses are very large  --  and unless remedial action is taken soon , they will become staggering . ' ' The group asserted : " Great delay is trequent and inevitable in the existing system of construction control and supervision and it results in considerable financial loss to the commonwealth . " The new division would be under the State Commission on Administration and Finance . The director would be appointed by the Governor for five years . The director would appoint- the ' ' deputy director , subject to approval by the Governor and Executive Council . Neither would be subject to civil service . At the same time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reorganization ) is to work . the construction division musts have an adequate and well-qualified staff protected by Civil Service . " It would he not only false economy but also a cruel deltasion  --  probablv indeed adding to the present difficulties ? if the division should be establishcal and then be starved for lack of funds . Undermanned , it simply could not do the job proposed for it . " The Baby Hoover Commission 's plans are designed to eliminate several present situations which the commission particularly crit-                     