@@713584

txt Letters to The Times On Stuyvesant Town Brown-Isaacs Ordinance Barring Racial Discrimination Favored Action Asked on P. P. R. To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your Lincoln Day editorial " Permanent Registration " is a reminder that we as citizens can do much to make democracy work . Procedural changes which make voting more palatable to the citizens of the State of New York are desirable . The legislators of both parties owe an obligation to the electorate to pass this reform . A failure to do so is a deliberate negation of the democratic process . It would be well for the readers of THE NEW YORK TIMES to let their Assemblymen and Senators hear from them . The time is now . LEO KLAUBER . New York , Feb. 12 , 1951. published on Jan. 31 and which could probably be . multiplied many times : " Washington , Jan. 30 ( A ) ? Two Kansas Representatives renewed today their protests against an Air Force proposal to spend $37,000,000 for a new base in Wichita when six World War II bases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harold Stuart , Assistant Secretary of Air , Representative Clifford R. Hope said , he and Representative Wint Smith had urged the use of bases now available . " Mr. Roosevelt once said that " more republics are wrecked on the rocks of a loose financial policy than for any other cause , " and Mr. Truman seems anxious to prove that point . Let 's try and stay as solvent as we can , without bleeding the people completely white by wasting their substance . LESTER R. GOLDBERG . Brooklyn , Feb. 8 , 1951 . Coverage of Rousset Trial Failure to Report Proceedings of Paris Libel Case Criticized To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Turns : Recently , for a period of seven weeks from Nov. 25 to Jan. 12 , an extraordinary legal case was tried in the Palais de Justice in Paris . Technically it involved merely a successful libel action brought by David Rousset , the French writer , against the Communist magazine Les Lettres Frangaises . In fact , however , it was nothing less than a full-dress indictment of the entire system of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ props of the Soviet Union . Rousset , a former inmate of Nazi concentration camps and author of two books on the subject , brought suit in order to defend against Communist slander an investigation he has been conducting into the institution of slave labor throughout the world , but particularly in the Soviet Union . To support his case he produced a number of former Soviet slave laborers as witnesses . Among these men and women , some of them once prominent in the world Communist movement , were : Witnesses Listed Valentin Gonzales , the famous Communist general " El Campesino " of the Spanish Civil War , who fled to the Soviet Union after Franco 's victory in 1939 , only to be thrown into a " corrective-labor camp " ; Margarete Buber-Neumann , wife of the former German Communist and Comintern leader Heinz Neumann and author of the recently published book " Under Two Dictators , " who was held in a Siberian forced-labor camp from 1938 to 1940 , and turned over to the Gestapo by the N. K. V. D. in 1940 to serve five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jerzy Gliksman , author of " Tell the West " and brother of Victor Alter , the Polish Jewish Socialist leader executed by the N. K. V , D. in 1943 ; Elinor Lipper , author of " Eleven Years in Soviet Camps and Prisons " and veteran of forced labor in the notorious Kolyma gold fields ; Georgi Ostroverkhov , a former Soviet actor and theatre manager ; Julius Margolin , an Israeli writer trapped by the outbreak of war during a visit to Poland in 1939 and deported to Siberia for six years . Throughout its entire seven weeks the Rousset trial produced great excitement in France . News of the trial filled the front pages of newspapers day after day , with long verbatim extracts from the court testimony reprinted . The Communist party , which was kept constantly on the defensive by the stunning revelations , Is believed to have sustained one of its gravest popular defeats of recent years . Ignored by Press Yet this tremendous event  --  comparable in moral significance and surpassing in human scope the Dreyfus trial of a half-century ago  --  has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the entire course of the trial not one major newspaper , not one of the larger magazines , and neither of the two great press services saw fit to devote a single item to the proceedings in the Palais de Justice . ( Only after the trial had ended did THE NEW YORK TIMES report the verdict in a brief dispatch , while Time magazine ran a feature on " El . Campesino . " ) To the best of our knowledge the liberal weekly New Leader , which dealt with . the trial in a series of three dispatches from Paris , is the only publication which took notice of it . No totalitarian state could have imposed a more complete or effective news blackout on an event of such importance . ARTHUR KOESTLER , ARTHUR SCHLESINGER Jr. , REINHOLD NIEBUHR , NORMAN THOMAS , ROGER BALDWIN , GEORGE S. COUNTS , SIDNEY HOOK . New York , Feb. 8 , 1951 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The Brown-Isaacs ordinance barring racial discrimination in city-assisted housing projects is ' scheduled for vote in the City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is based on four misapprehensions . The first is that the 4-3 decision of the Court of Appeals affirmed Stuyvesant Town 's legal and moral right to discriminate . The issue in the case , However , was whether the Constitution would forbid racial discrimination in such publicly aided projects in the absence of a statute . The court held that a statute banning discrimination was needed . It said , " We feel that those sources of control are the most appropriate " ( i.e. , legislation ) . In 1950 , following the court decision , Governor Dewey supported , and the State Senate and Assembly unanimously passed , the Wicks-Austin bill outlawing discrimination in future Stuyvesant Towns throughout the state . It was not sought to bring Stuyvesant Town under the ban because the case was then pending in the nation 's highest court and it was feared that if the statute included Stuyvesant Town the issue in the highest court with its nation-wide application might become moot . The proposed ordinance now aims to extend to Stuyvesant Town the general principle affirmed for all publicly aided projects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the city agreed to allow Stuyvesant Town to discriminate . There was never any such agreement . The contract was approved by a vote of 11-5 by the Board of Estimate , and both Mayor La Guardia and Borough President Lyons in voting for the contract expressly said they expected Stuyvesant Town not to discriminate . Even if this was implied in the contract , a city can not surrender its police power by contract . If private hotels and restaurants not receiving subsidy may be subject to a non-discrimination ban , so may publicly aided projects . The third objection is that it would discourage similar private investments . The answer is that all future publicly aided projects are already subject to the Wicks-Austin law . Moreover , more than $100 millions of private projects have already been built subject to nondiscrimination laws . CFinally , it is being whispered that ommunist-front groups are behind the bill . For seven years the fight has been waged in the courts , first by the Citizens Housing and Planning Council , and later by the American Civil Liberties Union , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Colored People . As counsel in the case , I can say that it was only when the case reached the Court of Appeals and had burgeoned into a national issue that the front groups attempted to encumber us with their help . They have been outmaneuvered in their efforts , and it is playing into their hands to give them credit for the fight . Ethical Principle The , pending legislation is being pressed by the New York State Committee on Discrimination in Housing and is supported by the Episcopal Diocese , the Congregational Churches , the National Conference of Christians and Jews ( New York chapter ) , the Community Church , the Citizens Housing and Planning Council , and the American Jewish Committee . The simple ethical principle which these groups seek to affirm is that funds or powers belonging to all the people may not be used to benefit one class or race . In anticipation of the legislation , Metropolitan did admit three Negro families , but unfortunately reiterated that it would continue to exercise its right to discriminate . The company 's attitude makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . New York , Feb. 9 , 1951 . Waste of Money by the Military To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : When the President submitted his fantastic budget figure of $71,000,000 , - 000 for 1951 many people believed it could be cut by from six to seven billions with the elimination or reduction of several items concerned with the civilian branches of government . Everybody seemed agreed that the military portion of the budget was sacrosanct  --  what the Defense Department wanted it could have , with no questions asked . I maintain that the military like to squander money as wastefully and carelessly as the other branches of government  --  that their figures should be carefully scrutinized and checked ? and as much-Water as possible squeezed out of their demands as out of the civilian departments . Both could stand drastic pruning without affecting vital matters . Here is one small item which you                     