@@713087

txt Greek demobilization has been suspended so that Greece " may be prepared . " Commander in Chief Alexander Papagos saw no immediate danger to Greece , however , despite current rumors of troop movements in Bulgaria on the Greek border . Russia lifted the ban on travel of the United States miiltary mission in eastern Berlin . A similar ban by the United States on Russian personnel was promptly lifted in return . Another message to Britain 's Prime Minister Clement R. Attlee from Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru of India was rushed 40 miles from London by special dispatch rider . Boston : Poll Shows Barnes-Denfeld Even Race Preliminary results of a gubernatorial poll of State Club members shows Clarence A. Barnes , former attorney general , and Admiral Louis E. Denfeld running an even race for the GOP nomination , Page 2 . Dr. William Beebe , famed zoologist and explorer who holds the world 's record for deep-sea diving , said on departure from Boston by ship that he has given up deep-sea exploring for jungle research . Page 2 . Washington : ' Moth-Ball @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tentative go-ahead from a House committee to get more of the ships in the moth-balled merchant fleet ready for use , Representative Albert Thomas ( D ) of Texas , chairman of a House Appropriations subcommittee in charge of Maritime Administration funds , said he had told the agency to rush estimates of how much more money it needs . Senator Joseph R. McCarthy ( R ) of Wisconsin predicts the Democratic majority of a Senate inquiry committee will decide there was no basis for his charges of " Communists in the government . " He said a report the Democrats expect to issue soon will be a " complete whitewash . " Near East : Iran Rejects Soviet Complaint on Oil Iran has rejected Soiriet complaints about American oil surveys on the Soviet border of Isan , but said that , in future , only ground surveys would be made , and those by Iran engineers . National : Plan to Attack by South.Korea Alleged Brig . Gen , William L. Roberts , head of the United States Military Mission in Korea before the outbreak of fighting there , said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the South Korean Government because it wished to attack North Korea . The charge was denied by Korean Ambassador John Myun Chang in Washington . The pattern of south Florida 's gigantic gambling operations  --  and the immense sums of money used to make the illegal wheel spin ? is being pieced together by a Senate investigation committee , the Associated Press reports . Senators Estes Kefauver ( D ) of Tennessee , Lester Hunt ( D ) of Wyoming , and a corps of counsels , investigators , and volunteers are making the probe .                     