@@715245

txt Hopes for a tax cut in 1953 dimmed today when President Eisenhower did Martin ( lett and Taft keying White Howe Yesterday . not Include any " slash in " revenues in an 11 point.legislative program worked out with congressional leaders . Senate Republican Leader Taft 0. said the President feels there should be no tax reduction until after the budget is balanced . Taft declared himself to be in complete accord with the White House on this position . The position taken by the President and the senate Republican leader was seen as blocking plans of house G. 0 . P. leaders for a tax cut by July 1 . House leaders agree that no tax cut should come until the budget is cut , but they maintain one of the best ways to cut the budget is to cut revenues so that the budget will be tailored to income . Want Appropriations Cut House leaders have argued that appropriation bills can be cut so drastically in the coming months that Congress can effect a tax cut and go home by July 1 . Republicans are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program announced at the White House follows : L Reorganization of executive departments and agencies . 2 . Appropriation bills to be ready for action by the senate not later than May 15. 8 . Statehood for Hawaii . 4 . Amendments to the TaftHartley act . 5 . Limited extension of some controls on prices and allocations in critical situations . Tidelands 011 Question 6 . Tidelands oil land ownership , which probably will mean action by Congress to retutn control of the offshore oil deposits to the states . 7 . Extension of the reciprocal trade act . 8 . Action to simplify customs procedures . 9 . Extension of the old age and survivors insurance to cover groups presently excluded . 10 . Extension of aid to schools in critical areas . 11 . The addition of two commissioners for the District of Columbia . The program was announced by House Speaker Martin R. , Mass. and Taft after a two hour conference with the President . Martin said the intention is that legislation must be considered on the 11 points at this session , but need not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 11 points would be passed but was not sure what the final form might be . Taft expressed belief that the excess profits tax should not be allowed to expire July 1 . He said he expected the senate and house to extend the excess profits tax for 6 months and permit it and the 11. per cent increase in income tax to die together .                     