@@719020

txt Governor Furcolo 's crushing legislative defeats , climaxed by Senate rejection of his Superior Court judges bill , emphasizes his need for a 1958 program designed to weld together Democratic forces on Beacon Hill . Without such a program , skillfully drawn and promoted , the Governor may face serious difficulty in the 1958 election . Republican hopes already are mounting because of his failure to win full Democratic backing in the Legislature for his major legislative proposals . Rejection of the bill to add six new judges to the Superior Court was anticipated . The 22-to-16 vote against it was accomplished by solid GOP opposition plus two Democratic Senators , John E , Powers of Boston , Senate minority leader , and Mary L. Fonseca of Fall River . Of itself , the defeat was not ' regarded as highly important . But coming after many other setbacks on major measures , it has bolstered his opposition . ? The 1957 legislative session is regarded as too near adjournment for major recouping action now . The Governor must concentrate on the 1958 Legislature to fashion a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not too late . Several factors will operate in his favor in the forthcoming months . With the Legislature due to adjourn sometime in August , the chief executive will have time to concentrate on administrative problems and fashion a 1958 program . Valuable Information He has gained valuable experience this year in dealing with the Legislature . Not having been a , member of the Legislature and having assumed office in January with little working knowledge of state government , he has been operating this year under major handicaps . He knows now how legislators operate , the pitfalls to avoid . In addition , he will have available information on major state , programs produced by the State Commission on the Audit of State Needs . With the facts being gathered by this commission , established on the Governor 's recommendation , the chief executive wilt be in a position to make recommendations Nvith far more sureness than he did in January . Many of the Governor 's 1937 proposals for legislative action were diverted to the audit commission , as a hostile maneuver . But the studies could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor the solid background from which to produce well-documented proposals for 1958 legislative action . But it is clear Mr. Furcolo must produce a 1958 program more acceptable to a majority of the members than he did last January if he is to avoid going into the 1958 state primaries with very few major legislative successes . Open to Attack The judges measure , just rejected by the Senate , is a case in point regarding his present program , so roughly handled by the Legislature with its Democratic-controlled House and Republican-majority Senate . As presented , the measure to add six new judges to the Superior Court was ill-timed . It was too open to Republican charges of court-packing and political payoffs . Had it been presented after Judge Paul C. Reardon , Chief Justice of the Superior Court , had completed his drive to speed up operation of the court , it would have been less open to political attack . The Governor could have backed up his proposal with specific supporting data based on a completed Reardon efficiency campaign . Why the Governor proposed six additional judges never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court does need added judges , but are far from convinced that the number should be as high as six . It may well be that Jude Reardon will be in a position by the 1958 session to inform the Governor on the number of new judges he believes the court should have to keep abreast of the case load . By that time the full effect of the district court reorganization , designed to encourage handling of more cases on the lower court level , may be possible of assessment . At any rate , observers believe the Governor can not afford to go into the 1958 ejection campaign without greater legislative achievements under his belt than he has thus far . To score victories next year he must produce the kind of program his Democratic legislative associates can go along with generally , not reluctantly , but enthusiastically .                     