@@714753

txt You may have just purchased a summer dress or suit . Perhaps you find the warm weather a little wearing , but keep cool , Christmas is just around the corner . This was obvious yesterday at the State Street Toy Center , wholesale market in the Republic building , 209 S. State st. , where Christmas was practically in full swing with jingle bells tinkling , Christmas tree lights flashing on and off , and thousands of new toys ready to be put under the tree . 175 Firms Show Wares More than 175 exhibitors from all parts of the country are showing their Christmas wares in the center thru next Thursday . The center occupies three floors of the building , which is fast becoming the hub of the wholesale toy industry . In keeping with an important Presidential year , many of the new toys are of a political nature . There are giant elephants and donkeys that double as pieces of furniture , ottomans and hassocks . One pink plush elephant , which seemed flushed with political importance , was 33 inches long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weight of a 250 pound man . The donkey , in gray plush , was a little more somber , probably for good reasons . He was taller than the elephant , however , standing 36 inches high , but that was because he had his ears up straight as political listening posts . Books Play Tunes All of the toys seemed to be of an ingenious nature . Gone are the days when sister was contented with a simple rag doll , and brother with a soap-box racer . Now they have books that play tunes , cows that moo when pulled across the floor , trick lassos that glow in the dark , real tractors that have dump carts , scoop shovels , snow plows , fire fighters , and road graders for attachments , and tiny electric organs that play full symphonies . The dolls are glamor girls . Doll tables have plastic tops that ? no amount Of spilled doll food can stain . One doll crib has a drop side and a drawer for tiny clothes , just like little brother 's . Toy chests are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crate . On display is a sizable frate truck with a cab in front on which a child can actually take to the highways of his imagination . There are backyard wading and swimming pools of plastic that cost anywhere from $10 to $500 , and can be stored when not in use . People say there is nothing new under the sun , but Christmas decorations certainly are different this year . One novel innovation is a cord of electric bells for the Christmas tree that peal merrily . Then there are lights that snap on the Christmas tree cord , permitting them to be placed to their best advantage . Yes , Christmas seems right around the corner . And it is probably time to start thinking whether Santa Claus is going to be a Democrat or Republican .                     