@@720782

txt BRITISH ADVOCATE WESTERN SUMMIT TO UNIFY POLICIES Macmillan Favors Meeting Eisenhower and de Gaulle in Washington Soon INITIATIVE IS PRESSED ' Strengthened Prime Minister Looks to Preparatory Steps for Khrushchev Talks By DREW 2111DDLETON Special to The New York Times . LONDON , Oct. ** British Government advocates a Western summit meeting as the best preparation for a heads-ofGovernment conference with Premier Khrushchev of the Soviet Union , authoritative sources said today . Prime Minister Harold Macmillan , who was back at Downing Street this morning for a conference with Foreign Secretary Selwyn Lloyd , supports the idea of a meeting with President Eisenhower and President ' Charles de Gaulle of France in Washington . This meeting would give President Eisenhower an opportunity to discuss his talks with Mr. Khrushchev in Washington last month and for final preparation by the three Western leaders of objectives and tactics at the summit , the sources said . Preliminary Meeting Urged The British also favor a. preliminary meeting of the United States , French , Soviet and British foreign ministers to discuss the agenda , site and time of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ministers before they met in Geneva last May , but it was one they never tackled . The impression in Whitehall is that the Conservative Government , refreshed and strengthened by its success at the polls , will attempt to maintain the initiative it has displayed on the summit talks since Mr. Macmillan went to Moscow last February . British ministers and diplomats remain sensitive to the reluctance of the White House to go too far too fast toward the summit . But in the heady atmosphere of victory less attention appears to be paid to the feelings of the French and West 1German Governments . Macmillan 's Confidence High Mr. Macmillan and his Cabinet apparently would like a summit conference next month . But , if a foreign ministers ' conference can be arranged , they would be willing to wait until early in the new year . It appears to be settled , in British minds at least , that a conference at the summit will be held before President Eisenhower visits the Soviet Union . The emphasis placed upon the meetings of heads of government an , d @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high places that , whatever else the election results mean , they pri // marily are an endorsement of Mr. Macmillan 's summit policy . Some well-Informed people doubt , however , that the Prime Minister would be quite so intense about a summit conference if he did not have grounds for believing the Allied Governments were swinging around to his point of view . After all , it is pointed-out , in the easy aftermath of victory , Mr. Macmillan , had no need to plunge into the , diplomatic battle so soon . Mr. Macmillan 's concentraH tion on the summit at this par ticular moment in his political history is considered by his friends an effective answer tol those who thought his pilgrimage to Moscow in February was , inspired by political motives . Between February and the present Mr. Macmillan has been , criticized on the Continent and In Washington for endangering Allied unity for political gain . Wide Preparation Indicated There have been constant contacts about summit talks between the Foreign Office and the State Department during the election campaign . When a site and date @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evident that a great deal more paper preparation has been completed than has been indicated publicly , - it is said here . The summit talks necesarily will concentrate upon Berlin and the associated issue of German reunification . There is general agreement in Washington and London that these are the immediate problems . In Whitehall , however , the impression is that diplomats feel that they and their masters in the Cabinet have more freedom in dealing with the paramount issue of the future of Germany than do their counterparts in Washington . One reason the British desire a Western summit meeting with President de Gaulle and President Eisenhower is that they feel that the West 's ground rules for negotiations on Germany should be agreed to in advance of the summit meeting . The British concept of a summit meeting as the first of a series that would periodically discuss all points of issue between East and West is supported by detailed studies on outstanding issues prepared in Whitehall . There is an evident desire to go beyond Berlin and Germany to a discussion of the situation in the Middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in some degree from the old position that the Soviet Union should not be included in the Middle East discussion because it has no right to be involved in tile area . The new Conservative Government , like the old one , is pledged to the closest and most friendly cooperation with the Administration in Washington . This is one of the foundations ( on which British foreign policy has rested since the Conservatives came to office in 1951 . But it would be unrealistic to think that the British Government , emboldened by the success of its push toward the summit and strengthened by a national mandate , will be as willing as it was in aftermath of the Suez conflict to let the United States lay down general policies for the West , it said here .                     