@@717455

txt The Administration is planning a series of administrative and legislative changes to ease President Eisenhower 's burdens when he returns to active duty at the White House . The purpose of these is not only to eliminate unnecessary and burdensome routine during the period of the President 's convalescence but also to demonstrate to him , before he makes a decision whether to run again , that the Presidency need not be so burdensome as it has been . Three changes are now being planned by Attorney General Herbert Brownell Jr. , who is in charge of the study and has discussed the changes with the President . These are : Amendment of the immigration laws so that special hardship cases can be dealt with administratively instead of by private bills . These private bills run into the hundreds each term of Congress and add considerably to the number of bills the President has to read and sign . tISimplification of the administrative procedures for signing such things as pardons . The President has been signing each of these three times . This can he cut down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ application of Public Law 673 , which was passed in 1950 but has never been fully exploited . This authorizes the President to delegate to his Cabinet officers or heads of Government agencies " any function which is vested in the President by law . " Study of Law Ordered All heads of the departments and agencies have been instructed to study Public Law 673 and to recommend ways by which the President , if he chooses , may delegate routine duties to the responsible heads of the departments and agencies . For example , the President has been reviewing all court - martials that involve the death penalty or the future of any flag officer or general officer . It is now proposed that this task should be delegated to Charles E. Wilson , Secretary of Defense . However , the President has not yet decided whether to avail himself of this opportunity . Plans also are under way to enable the Vice President to take more and more of the ceremonial functions of the Presidency . These have been increasing every year as Washington has become a center of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tuyves ant Wainwright , Republican of Suffolk County , N. Y. , has White House approval for legislation that would provide an official residence and more staff assistance for the Vice President . It would also give him representation of the planning staff of the National Security Council . President Eisenhower approved Mr. Wainwright 's activities in this direction before he was taken ill . Mr. Wainwright also has the support of leading Democrats for the legislation he will introduce . when Congress returns in January . However , the Wainwright plan would not go into operation until after the present term of Vice President Richard M. Nixon . Meanwhile , Mr. Nixon is serving as chairman of the National Security Council and performing many of the social obligations that usually fall upon the president . It is planned that he continue to do a great deal of this in the coming months in order to conserve the President 's energies . Behind the proposals to lighten the President 's administrative duties is a. growing conviction in the Cabinet that General Eisenhower has not made up his mind to retire at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is still a good chance he will agree to seek re-election . Members of the Cabinet have been saying this ever since the President suffered a heart attack forty days ago . It was widely assumed here that wishful thinking , good manners , and political tactics explained such expressions . In the last fortnight , however , when Cabinet members have Iliad access to the President , one at a time , , there has been more and more talk of a second Eisenhower term . Much of this talk has been inspired by the men ' who have seen him . Admittedly , these are also the men who have the greatest personal interest in wanting the President to accept another Republican party nomination next August , but there is apparently more to it than that . His associates have returned from Denver talking , not only about how well he looks , but also about his enthusiasm for planning the work ahead , and of his eagerness to get back on the job full time . This is something new . Al'ways in the past he has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to avoids the pressures of the capital . In summary , the President 's most intimate associates  --  personal friends and those in Government  --  who have seen him since his heart attack , definitely reject the basis of the assumption that he will not accept renomination . This basis is that , from the early days of his illness , he decided he would not permit the party or the people to entrust the Presidency for four years more to a man of 65 who had had a heart attack . The assumption founded on this basis  --  that he will be out of the ' 56 picture after he and his doctors make their final check in January  --  is neither accepted nor rejected by his associates . They do not know and they do not believe he or his doctors know at this time . Physician 's Comment Noted Maj. Gen. Howard McC . Snyder , the White House physician , was quoted yesterday as saying that the President would be in no position to announce his intentions about the political future until January , when it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ checkup on his recovery . I This was interpreted here as indicating that the President had not yet made up his mind about lretiring from the White House . It was noted that , if he had decided not to run again , he would not only be free to make that announcement now , but that he would help his party by announcing his decision early and giving the G. 0 . P. time to deal with the many problems of finding a successor . There is another bit of evidence that the President 's associates are thinking seriously he may run again . Quite a lot of private talk is going on high in the Government about who the Vice-Presidential nominee should be on an Eisenhower ticket . Here again private speculation is taking a new turn . Three ' weeks ago it was generally assumed that if the President did run , again Vice ' President Nixon would be his running mate . Many observers still assume that . But in recent days , as the President 's associates have put their minds to the problems of running @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there has been more discussion of the possibility of running former Gov . Thomas E. Dewey of New York or Gov . Christian Herter of Massachusetts as the Vice-Presiidential candidate . There is , however , a marked contrast between the conversation of the President 's associates and the conversation of other observers in the capital on this whole subject . The general assumption is that she President himself and his family will insist on his retirement , and that this will be announced in January when the doctors examine him at the end of the healing period . It is a fact , however , that his associates are not talking this way ; that they are saying , with every appearance of conviction , that he may run again and that they are trying to organize his duties so that he may decide that he will have sufficient strength to carry them for another term .                     