@@718765

txt What could become one of Metropolitan Boston 's most influential organizations was born last night at Newton City Hall . Top leaders from 28 metropolitan cities and towns voted unanimously to establish a formal group through which they could exchange ideas of common regional concern and coordinate their independent actions . Mayor Howard Whitmore , Jr. , of Newton , who called the meeting , was unanimously selected temporary chairman . By the end of the week , according to Mr. Whitmore , he will appoint two committees to get things rolling before the next meeting three weeks hence . A nine-man committee , to be selected on both a geographical and population basis , will determine the structure and scope of interest of the as yet nameless organization . The other committee , of undetermined size , will meet with the Legislative Committee on Metropolitan Affairs to discuss and report back to the new group on several bills of special interest to the metropolitan area as a whole . Nome Rule Backed These include regional planning bills , proposed extension of MTA rapid-transit service to Newton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Philip G. Bowker ( R ) of Brookline , chairman of the legislative committee , had requested the meeting . The regional body set up last night would supplement , not supplant , any regional organization approved by the Legislature . It would be consultative and advisory in nature , permitting an exchange of opinions on a wide variety of topics . It would have no power to govern on any subject or to coerce its members . It assumes a desire on the part of cities and towns to cooperate voluntarily for their own good , " Home rule is to me a necessary , desirable , and sacred principle , which should not only be advocated and protected but continuously strengthened , " Mayor Whitmore stated in his opening remarks . " We , do not need in sacrifice the philosophy of freedom of limitation of governmental authority to accomplish con structive and beneficial results . " he said . The Newton Mayor , a former state representative himself , said he was " convinced this group could have considerable influence in the Legislature , which is pretty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from local officials . " " We are the closest to the people in the community and , as elected municipal officials , we are the group charged with the responsibility of transferring thoughts of constructive action on behalf of our communities . " Hynes Motion Loses Mayor Hynes ' of Boston strongly urged putting the group on record immediately , even though tentatively , as favoring some type of " loosely federated " regional organization such as is contemplated in bills before the Metropolitan Affairs Committee . He was voted down by a wide margin , however , and instead a motion suggested by Selectman Matthew Brown of Brookline recording the groups " sympathetic interest " in regional planning was approved unanimously . The assembled mayors , city and town managers , selectmen , and other town officials had a variety of suggested topics for later discussion . In addition to the bills before the Legislature , Mayor Whitmore mentioned problems of snow removal and more efficient use of existing roads and highways . Gilbert M. Lothrop , Reading selectman , suggested intercity trucking problems ; George V. Brown , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; John J. Curry , Cambridge City Manager , commented sewage-disposal problems ; Mayor Lawrence W. Lloyd of Melrose brought up the question of dumps and unaccepted streets . Of the 45 communities invited to the session , 25 sent representatives , including Arlington , Boston , Braintree , Brookline , Cambridge , Chelsea , Everett , Hull , Lexington , Medford , Melrose , Nahant , Needham , Newton , Quincy , Reading , Somerville , Stoneham , Stoughton , Swampscott , Waltham , Wellesley , Weston , Winchester , and Woburn . Three other towns also sent delegates : Burlington , Concord , and Framingham . Among those invited , but missing , were three cities : Lynn , Malden , and Revere .                     