@@718693

txt Secretary of State Dulles said today that " a great deal " of Egypt 's future would hinge on President Gamal Abdel Nasser 's response to United States proposals for operating the Suez Canal . The United States is " anxious " to see " developments which will improve and uplift the economy of Egypt , " Mr. Dulles said , But he added that upon Egypt 's decision about meeting the West part way in the canal dispute " a great deal will depend , and a great deal of the future of Egypt itself will depend upon that . " Later in the day the United States received and began to study Egypt 's reply to the United States proposals for changes in the Egyptian plan for operation of the Suez Canal . Reply Transmitted by Envoy The note was transmitted by Raymond A , Hare , United States Ambassador in Cairo , to the State Department , where officials would say only that it had arrived and was being scrutinized . At his news conference Secretary Dulles seemed to be saying that President Nasser @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the negotiations . This was injected with subtlety into the conference , which was notable for the conciliatory tone Mr. Dulles took toward Egypt . He disclaimed any United States intention to use military threats or a canal boycott to put pressure on President Nasser . He emphasized repeatedly that the Egyptians already might be in agreement with the West and that this fact might simply be obscured by a ? lamentably bad choice of language in the Egyptian proposal . Mr. Dulles also said : The United States believes the latest Egyptian proposal for operating the canal was unsatisfactory . The wording probably would permit Egypt to run the canal unilaterally as a purely Egyptian property . This would violate the spirit of the 1888 Convention giving the canal an international character . It would deny any rights to the users . flPerhaps the Egyptians did not really mean to assert such authority . " Perhaps the Egyptians intend this to constitute an international obligation , " Mr. Dulles said . tIThe United States believed that with some minor language changes the Egyptian proposal could be transformed into a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some rather minor word changes " the Egyptian plan might be converted " into a multilateral obligation by perhaps some measure as filing it with the United Nations and providing that any nation which files an acceptance of it shall thereby gain rights under it . " Force and Boycott Ruled Out Asked what pressures the United States could apply to obtain Egyptian agreement , Mr. Dulles ruled out military measures and a canal boycott . " The problem is one which confronts Egypt itself with a choice between whether it wishes to try to re-establish the confidence of the world in the dependability of the canal and its availability for use on the terms contemplated by the 1888 convention or not , " he said . " Upon the choice that Egypt makes a great deal will depend , and a great deal of the future of Egypt itself will depend upon that . We are anxious , I think most countries , are anxious , to see developments which will improve and uplift the economy of Egypt and its Arab neighbors and we think it is in the mutual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be promoted by sound Egyptian policies . " Boycotting of the canal is a question to be decided , not by the United States , but by the nations whose economies depend most heavily on use of the canal , Mr. Dulles went on . Any initiative toward a boycott , " should come from them and not from us , " the Secretary said . Mr. Dulles was vague about Israel 's declarations that she planned to test her right to use the canal by sending a ship for passage : He said he had received no official notification of such a plan , but some of his subordinates might have heard of it . U. S. Backe Use by Israel The United States still believes that Israel has the right to use the canal , the Secretary continued . But the Israelis did not press the United States on this point at the time they were discussing their withdrawal from Egypt , he said . At that time Israel emphasized her rights to innocent passage through the Gulf of Aqaba and to protection from guerrilla raids from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ David Ben-Gurion 's letter to President Eisenhower did not mention the Suez Canal , " the Secretary remarked . The Secretary praised Dag Hammarskjold , Secretary General of the United Nations , for the accomplishments of his recent mission to Cairo . Mr. Hammarskjold had made " at least some progress " toward insuring tranquility in the Gaza Strip and preventing a renewal of guerrilla raids into Israel , Mr. Dulles said . Eban Prods U. S. on Aid WASHINGTON , April 2 ( UP ) ? Abba Eban , Israeli Ambassador , asked the State Department today to expedite negotiations on resumption of United States economic aid to Israel . Mr. Eban also stressed that Israel " intends to exercise its rights in the Suez Canal . " Israel already has served notice she intends to send a ship through the canal . He discussed these and other Middle East problems with Christian A. Herter , Under Secretary of State . The aid program , amounting to $25,000,000 a year , was suspended when Israel attacked Egypt last fall . 