@@714371

txt A payment of $39,888,000 by the United States to Britain , under a 1950 agreement guaranteeing that Government against loss of gold and dollar reserves through ' use of sterling by Marshall Plan countries in the European Payments Union , was announced today by the Mutual Security Agency . Scheduled for announcement along with a forthcoming statement covering $300.000,000 of economic aid to Britain , the transaction was completed last week by the Economic Cooperation Administration . It was confirmed by the ! Mutual Security Agency after ' " premature " disclosure in London . The payment represents the dif- , ference , as of Nov. 30 , 1951 , be tween the amount of gold or dollars paid into the Payments Union on account of the deficit position of sterling in that agency and the amount that would have been paid had Britain not permitted the use of sterling balances held by other Marshall Plan countries in settling intra-European accounts through the Payments Union . Guarantee Won by Britain The guarantee arrangement was negotiated between Milton Katz , former United States special representative to Marshall Plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State for Economic Affairs and subsequently Chancellor of the Exchequer . The agreement was signed June 7 , 1950 . At that time the Organization for European Economic Cooperation , with some prodding from the E. C. A. , was trying to perfect a device for multilateral clearance of intra-European trade balances to take the place of the inter-European payments plan . The latter had been able to clear payments an a bilateral basis only . The United States , through the E. C. A. , was ready to put up a I working capital fund of $350,000 , - 000 to be drawn upon in the event that gold payments to creditor countries of the Payments Union exceeded gold receipts from debtor countries . However , - Britain demurred , fearing a-loss of gold and dollar reserves if member countries were permitted to apply : previously accumulated sterling balances to trade deficits . In the end , Britain was guaranteed against loss by the E. C. A. and Mr. Katz formalized this understanding in a letter to Mr. Gaitskell saying the United States Would " indemnify the United Kingdom for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loss may have been caused by the use of sterling balances of net debtors in the settlement of their deficit with the European Payments Union . " Britain 's Fears Justified With a basis thus provided for multilateral clearing of balances among all Marshall Plan countries , intra-European trade went ahead by leaps and bounds . But . Britain 's fears of the resulting losses in her ' reserves from use , of widely held ( sterling balances also proved well founded . During the first year of the Payments Union 's operations , Britain realized a surplus in trade with other Countries in the Organization for European Economic Cooperation and received payment in gold from - the Payments Union . Since there was no drain on reserves , the E. C. A. paid no indemnity under the Katz-Gaitskell agreement . Last Summer , the trade balance of the United Kingdom with other participating countries changed from surplus to deficit and by Nov. 30 - this adverse balance with the Payments Union had reached $562,500,000 . After the previously accumulated surplus had been wiped out , the continued deficit required Britain to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a result of October and November transactions . During the period of Payments Union operations , some other counltries had used $99,720,000 in accumulated sterling balances to I settle part of their accounts . Under ( the payment arrangements , this use of sterling balances had in creased the gold payments due from Britain to the Payments Union by $39,888,000 . U. S. Liability Continues . The guarantee agreement between the E. C. A. and Britain continues in effect until next June 30 and the United States will be liable for further payments if Britain finds it necessary to draw , further on her reserves . to keep ' current With the Payments Union . If , on the other hand , Britain should recover her surplus posit tion with other Payments member-countries , part of any.kOld she paid into the agency would be returned to the Mutual Security Agency . as successor to the ECA . Meanwhile , . the resumption of economic aid "  - -  tet- Britain , ' which was I terminated a year ago , appeared to be blocked by official indecision as to how announcement of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made . Originally it was planned to announce the grant before the arrival of Prime- Minister Churchill here this week , to avoid even the appearance of casting the British Government in the role of suppliant . More recently it has been suggested that - the announcement should follow Mr. Churchill 's departure from Washington . In any case , officials said today , only the finishing touches remained to be ; put on the use of $300,000,000 of transferable military aid funds for economic assistance to Britain to help keep up her rearmament program .                     