@@720532

txt A memorandum of understanding to end the forty-twoday hospital strike was reached at City Hall at 2:30 A. M. today . The agreement followed five hours of joint negotiations with Mayor Wagner and his top labor aides assisting . The Mayor called reporters into the second-floor room where the talks had been held to announce that a " memorandum of understanding " had been mutually accepted by the union and the struck hospitals . The terms of agreement were not announced . Mayor Wagner said that the terms would not be made public until the union had acted on the agreement at a membership meeting Monday night . Officials of Local 1199 of the Retail Drug Employes Union . which began the strike May 8 , assured the Mayor that they would recommend acceptance of the peace formula at the meeting . Favorable Comment Pledged Harry A. Van Arsdale Jr .. president of the city 's Central Labor Council . who headed a labor negotiating team , said that his group would also comment favorably on the memorandum at the drug union 's membership meeting . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nonprofessional workers at the seven struck voluntary . hospitals might continue until the union members had acted on the peace proposals . He said that the picketing might be subject to change before that time . " Both sides have agreed to the principles of the formula , " Mayor Wagner said . He thanked the negotiating teams for their long efforts to end the strike that passed its forty-second day yesterday . He also thanked the threeroan fact-finding committee for the city that he had appointed to seek a peace formula and on whose recommendations the agreement was based . Benjamin J. Buttenweiser , president of the Lenox Hill Hospital , thanked Mayor- Wagner for his patience in helping to bring the strike to a settlement . Among other city officials who spent the night and early morning at City Hail were Harold A. Felix , City Labor Commissioner , and his deputy , Raymond E. Diana . John V. Connorton. executive director of the Greater New York Hospital Association , also expressed his gratitude to the Mayor . He declared that the hospitals were " very happy " that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ J. Davis , president of the striking union , declined any comment beyond saying that he was in total agreement with the statements of Mayor Wagner and Mr. Van Arsdale . The session , the second joint The session , the second joint meeting in two days , had been called after hospital authorities announced : " We have shifted our position , " This was a reference to the rehiring issue , a key stumbling-block in earlier talks . At that time , a hospital spokesman said : " We are optimistic that what we have to offer will possibly meet the objections of the labor people . " Another important issue that earlier had faced the joint session this morning appeared to have been resolved . This concerned the procedures for reviewing wage-and-hour conditions set by the hospitals . The union had committed itself to a no-strike pledge in any settlement . Hcwever , the union was known to have sought a formula for submitting wageand-hour provisions to a third party if it found such provisions unsatisfactory . Mayor Wagner previously had emphasized that only the rehiring issue remained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he said . He declined to say how the other issues had been settled . The Mayor said that it would be pointless at this time to give such information while the discussions continued . Question of Machinery With the Mayor were Mr. Felix : Mr. Diana , a deputy labor commissioner , and two members of the Mayor 's fact- , finding panel . W ; mam H. Davis and Aaron Horvitz , The panel hau submitted to the Mayor on June 9 recommendations for settling the strike of nonprofessional workers against the voluntary hospitals . Mr Davis was asked what areas of disagreement remained in the rehiring issue . He pointed out that it was mostly a matter of setting up machinery for reabsorbing the strikers into the hospital operations . " It takes some doing to get the people distributed ' through the hospitals , " Mr. Davis said . " The way I understand it , that takes some adjustment by the hospital directors . " The hospitals ' position on rehiring was a chano ? ed in a threehour meeting of their steeling committee ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The group immediately notified Mayor Wagner that it would like to present its program at City Hall . The Mayor then called in Mr. Felix , and William H. Davis , head of the city 's three-member fact-finding panel . After a forty-five-minute conference with the hospital group , Mayor Wagner told the labor committee to come for a joint meeting . 0 Mr. Felix announced last night that he had received a promise from another union , Local 302 of the American Federation of Slate , County and Municipal Employes , not to ' carry out a strike threat against Brooklyn Hospital , a voluntary institution . The strike had been threatened for any time after midnight tonight . Mr. Felix said he had arranged for a meeting of the parties . The union says it has enrolled a majority of the nonprofessional employes at the hospital , which is at 121 DeKalb Avenue , Brooklyn . The voluntary hospitals struck by the drug union are Mount Sinai , Beth David , Beth Israel , Lenox Hill , Bronx and Brooklyn Jewish Hospital , where the walkout began on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Flower and Fifth Avenue Hospital . While the City Hall talks were held , union members , gathered at the Manhattan Center for the mass rally . The meeting was called to clarify , for the membership a report lissued by the fact-finding committee on June 9 . The City Hail ' talks are based on recommends-. tions in the repot*.                     