@@717179

txt Prime Minister Eden told Britain tonight that there was a prospect of " some measure of success " in international negotiation at the Geneva conference . The Big Four heads-of-government meeting will carry the West farther along the road toward an easing of tension between East and West , he said , but " we have a long way to travel still . " Two of the three foundations of British policy were emphasized by Sir Anthony in a speech broadcast to the nation to mark the anniversary of the signing of the Charter of the United Nations . These were the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the United Nations . The third foundation is the alliance with the United States and the Commonwealth . The Prime Minister 's emphasis on NATO as the basis for defense of the free world is not interpreted in authoritative quarters aS reflecting . any British desire to base negotiation at Geneva on the Atlantic alliance . All-European Pact Cited Although British diplomats . with their American and French colleagues , have prepared a policy for the Geneva conference . Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard-and-fast position . Reports that United States officials are fiscussing an all-European security pact between NATO and the Soviet bloc have aroused interest . One diplomat predicted that the offer of such a pact would catch the imagination of Europe . The dimensions , if not the details , of the proposal are familiar here . Chancellor Konrad Adenauer of West Germany has been talking about it for months . The British Government likes and trusts Dr. Adenauer , but in diplomatic quarters his value as , a mentor for Western policy is sometimes questioned . One point in favor of such a security pact is said to be that its signature could create , the kind of atmosphere in which East and West could proceed to a settlement of individual issues . But British diplomats add that this is looking a long way ahead and takes for granted Soviet ' willingness to avoid immediate discussion of the future of Germany . The Russians are said to be unlikely to become involved at Geneva in a discussion of any proposal unconnected with the withdrawal of United States military power from Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a first step toward their objective of neutralizing Germany by one means or another . The Moscow Government , it was suggested , is likely to counter proposals for an all-European security pact with a suggestion that if all forces , Soviet as well as American , British and French , are withdrawn from Germany , the need for security arrangements and guarantees of non-aggression vanish . According to diplomatic experts Soviet emphasis on the desirability of settling the German question may be placing too much faith in their own propaganda . Suspicions on Germany The British concede that there is a good deal of suspicion of Germany and concern about her future in Europe . There is a good deal of it in Britain , too . But the British believe that the Russians are wrong to consider this a decisive force in favor of any arrangement Premier Nikolai A. Bulganin and Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov might propose at Geneva for eliminating issues arising from the division of Germany . Europe , especially France , has become accustomed to the division of Germany , now ten years old , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dangers of the situation have lost their point . But diplomats here are concentrating on what Sir Anthony called the " more encouraging opportunities " that the Western powers may find in the present period of Soviet tactical flexibility . Although nothing has been said officially , it seems probable that it is the British inclination to test the Soviet mood with a firm proposal on some limited but important point affecting Moscow 's international strategy . If Marshal Bulganin and Mr. Molotov are willing to make concessions on an issue that the ' West considers equally important to both sides , then the British believe there will be room for negotiation . Newspapers that reflect the Government 's outlook on foreign affairs continue to stress the need for concessions and settlement on both sides . The Times of London , commenting on the United States Senate 's rebuff of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy last week , said this showed " a trust in the President and an unwillingness to jeopardize any chance of a settlement inconceivable a year ago . " The Senator had urged that restrictions be imposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ editorial prepared for tomorrow 's newspaper , The Times added that President Eisenhower 's " prestige and popularity make it possible for him to make concessions abroad which would have been suspect in a Democrat . "                     