@@715827

txt The great story ends in triumph and tragedy , victory in war and defeat in peace , and such is the way of humanity . We begin today the last of six volumes of memoirs written by the greatest protagonist in one of the greatest dramas of history . Sir Winston Churchill is more than a living symbol of the strength , courage and determination that won ; he is its most eloquent chronicler . The five volumes that preceded tkis one carried the narrative from the bitter and stirring days of 1940 , when he became Prime Minister , up to the eve of the landing in Normandy on June 6 , 1944 . In the fourteen tremendous months that followed , as Sir Winston reminds us in his preface , " Nazi Germany was crushed , partitioned and occupied ; Soviet Russia established herself in the heart of Western Europe ; Japan was overwhelmed ; the first atomic bombs were cast . " Five great figures dominated the period  --  Franklin D. Roosevelt , Joseph Stalin , Adolf Hitler , Benito Mussolini and Winston Churchill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Of the crucial events he lists two obviously determine our lives today and they explain the " tragedy " of the title . Russia has now moved her effective control to a line running through Europe from Stettin on the Baltic to Macedonia . The atomic bomb and its more dreadful successor , the hydrogen bomb , are in the possession of that Power : Yet the victory was a complete and glorious one . Even Stalin , in a message Sir Winston cites today , referring to the Normandy landing , said , " the history of warfare knows no other like undertaking from the point of view of its scale , its vast conception , and its masterly execution . " It will be the task of Sir Winston to show how this and other great deeds  --  some performed by the Russians themselves  --  were nevertheless to " fail so far to bring general peace to our anxious world . " Naturally , the General who is now our President played a great role in the victory and in subsequent events . This is a story @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admired Dwight D. Eisenhower so much , unfold . As we know from the President 's own account , " Crusade in Europe , " these two leaders did not always see eye to eye . Crucial chapters in history will obviously fill these pages  --  the drive across France and Germany , the saving of Greece from the Communists , the American victories in the Pacific , the tragedy of Poland , the birth of the United Nations , the conferences of Yalta and Potsdam . Clearly , somewhere in this seething crucible of events the forces were generated that were to bring about the situation we face today . War , as Cldusewitz told us , is an instrument of politics . Military leadership , wittingly or unwittingly , carries over into the field of statesmanship . The heads of government ( who in the cases of Roosevelt and Stalin were Commanders in Chief and in the case of Churchill essentially the same thing ) become the political arbiters of events . We do not need the testimony of his own documented account to know that Winston Churchill was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of history . In this last period of the war he was having his finest hour in that field , comparable in its way to his role as the heroic defender of Britain early in the conflict , The record will speak for itself . The other leading figures , good and evil , of those days have gone  --  Roosevelt , Stalin , Hitler , Mussolini . Aside from all other reasons to be grateful for the continued presence among us of Winston Churchill , we have the fact that he was spared to give us his own account in imperishable words . He made history and he wrote it . Allowing for the differences in time and manner , his life in these respects bears comparison with that of Julius Caesar . It is a phenomenon as rare as it is wonderful to be able to do great things and to write about them in a form that makes for great literature . . The recent award of the Nobel Prize for literature was a fitting acknowledgment of that fact . It was one of the ironies of history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people as their leader in peace just as the victory was achieved . This stupendous chronicle ends with Potsdam . The ways of Providence being inscrutable , future generations may say that it was all for the best that Winston Churchill should have been relieved of the burdens of office long enough to be able to write the story of the " Grand Alliance " and how it conquered a dreadful foe in the greatest conflict that history records .                     