@@718822

txt CAIRO , May ** major countries of the Soviet bloc have lodged a bitter complaint against Egypt 's insistence that they pay Suez Canal tolls exclusively in dollars or Swiss francs . So far Egypt has held adamantly to this demand . The situation was described by the best possible authority . It has brought to boil a whole series of difficulties in which cautious and hard-dealing economic relations between the Government of President Genial Abdel Nasser and the Soviet bloc appear to counterbalance the warm political friendship that has been worrying the West . Israel holds to her plan to test her right of transit in the Suez Canal by sending a ship to the canal " in due course . " said a spokesman for the Is- ? raeli delegation to the United Nations . The dispute over toll payments reached a climax recently when the Soviet Union , Poland and Czechoslovakia protested that Egypt had gone back on the terms of a payments agreements she had concluded with these three main Communist users of the Suez Canal . Problem for Western Nations Into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade with the Reds , was written a provision whereby the three countries could write off canal tolls from any exchange credits they might have accumulated . However , in the case of each of these countries , Egypt has realized a favorable trade balance that has given her a small margin of credits . The Soviet bloc countries ran up against the same stone wan that has confronted a number of Western European countries that already have resumed using the Suez Canal , control of which was seized by Egypt last July . Neither Egyptian officials nor Communist envoys would comment on these difficulties , which seem to have Imposed a checkrein on relations . As far as one could tell from the public statements of officials and from comments in the controlled Cairo press , everything was going along swimmingly and all Egyptian deals with the Soviet bloc were " without strings . " However , a canvass of Egyptian business circles that have been in close contact with Egypt 's dealings with the Communist bloc indicates that ordinary trade relations during recent months have gone over some rough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bargains , some of which have been none too pleasing to the Egyptians . The Eastern countries have learned to their dismay what Western businessmen working in this part of the world have known for a long time : that dealing with the shrewd Egyptians is often most frustrating . Experts in this field do not predict that these difficulties necessarily will cause a reversal of President Nasser 's over-all policies , under which his socalled positive neutralism gives the Soviet bloc a comfortable foothold in the Middle East and tends to balk Western efforts to keep communism out. , Nevertheless , it was generally felt that the trade developments could be a hopeful sign that the Soviet . Union would find it difficult to become too firmly entrenched in ' Egypt . One expert described Egyptian economic relations with ' the Soviet bloc as " cool and cau tious " even though there are a number of key men in Mr. Nasser 's entourage who seem to feel that turning to the Soviet bloc is Egypt 's best hope . It has been discovered that , contrary to popular opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet bloc 's participation in Egypt 's industrial development pro am has been on an extremely modest scale . In each deal the Communists have driven ) a hard bargain on a stern cashon-the-barrel-head basis . No loan from the Soviet bloc has been ' offered to Egypt and the Egyptians have not been permitted to build up any appreciable credits in the Soviet bloc . Payments agreements with all countries of the Soviet Bloc except Communist China are on What is called a swing-deal arrangement , under Which the ceiling of credit Egypt can build up is only 1,000,000 Egyptian pounds ( $2,880,000Y while no limit is placed on the credits the Eastern bloc can build up . The ceiling on Egyptian credits in Red China is 8,000,00 Egyptian pounds , of which Egypt.has built up about 3,000,000 . The question of canal tolls and trade and payments agreements between Egypt and the Soviet bloc is quite separate from Mr. Nasser 's big arms deal with it . Moreover , the Soviet bloc finds it to its advantage to support him in his effort to thwart the West , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wherever he can find it . Egypt is in a strong bargaining position on the tolls issue . It is expected that she will . not make any appreciable concession but , may seek to revise her payments agreements with the Soviet bloc to exclude any provision for paying canal tolls through credit clearance operations . Egypt also has had a serious dispute on the same issue with a number of Western European countries , ' particularly the Netherlands , West Germany and Italy . Authoritative sources said , however , that these disputes had been more or less ironed out or were in the process of being resolved . The decision by Britain this week to release sterling for the payment of British shipping tolls was a major factor in easing the general situation . An Egyptian delegation left yesterday for Rome to prepare for further talks with the British , starting May 23 , on the question of expanding British-Egyptian trade , lifting the British freeze on other Egyptian sterling accounts and settling claims on both sides for compensation of damages resuiting from the Suez Canal crisis . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade relations with the West will improve , there will be no trade expansion eastward ' and there may even be a noticeable curtailment in that ' direction .                     