@@714294

txt Massachusetts Supreme Court attorneys investigating an Uxbridge land-damage case and bribe charges growing out of it today were given three volumes of records covering many such cases handled by the office of Massachusetts Attorney General Francis E. Kelly . Edmond O'Callaghan , attorney representing Mr. Kelly in court , tried to have the records kept out of the hearing when they were brought in by Charles Alpert , one of Mr. Kelly 's assistants . But his move was overruled by Chief Justice Stanley E. Qua , who held that the records could be used only so far as they are pertinent to the Uxbridge case . . It is felt by observers at the hearing , however , that it the records contain other pertinent facts regarding the actions of attorneys in land-damage cases , the court probers can hardly overlook them . Not an Eating Place Judge John S. Derham , who represented John T. Brady , owner of the Waucantuck Mills , in a S19.000 settlement of claims for damages for a 100-year-old house and some land , was the principal witness today . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state granted a liberal damage claim on the supposition that it was being used as a cafeteria by the Waucantuck Mills was not an eating place at all . Judge Derham admitted that he had represented it as being an eating place when he presented Mr. Brady 's claim for damages before Judge Eugene Hudson in Worcester , He also admitted that he had never seen the place as an eating establishment and only heard of this in hearsay . Attorney George A. , one of two lawyers making the investigation for the Supreme Court , revealed that the so-called eating place never had a victualer 's license nor a milk license , both of which are mandatory for an eating place . Conflicting Stories Repeated questioning by Mr. also brought an admission from Judge Derham that he had given conflicting stories about his association with Mr. Brady in the Uxbridge property deal . Including a statement made today , Judge Derham has given three different accounts , two of them under oath , concerning who it was that made an offer of $14,000 for the property owned by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very close to two appraisals of the property made by the state , which Mr. ' Brady used in his claim for damages . The state probers today were attempting to show a link between this amount , which Mr. Brady said his property was worth , and the appraisals made by the Department of . Public Works . Although he had had conferences with the Department of Public Works , Judge Derham emphatically denied today that anyone there had given him an advance notice of what the state 's appraisals of the property had been . A dramatic point was scored by the probing lawyers in yesterday 's hearings when Assistant Attorney General William S. Kinney declared that he " never pays any attention " to the appraisals submitted by plaintiffs when settling land-damage cases . " Their appraisals are usually from 100 to 200 per cent high , " he asserted .                     