@@716198

txt Secretary of State John Foster Dulles is back from London and Paris  --  with what ? His fair days in Europe produced two documents ? an agreement with the British , an agreement with the French . They may have produced more  --  but so far these documents are the only clear results of his hurry-up visit to the United States ' principal European allies . These documents , it is obvious , are better than nothing , for they do indicate an advance in Allied thinking and cooperation . But they are not the three-power warning to Peking the secretary had hoped to acquire . They are not a plan for " united action " that the secretary had told Congress was his aim in Indochina . , On his arrival in Syracuse , N.Y. , Mr. Dulles talked about his proposed but very uncertain Pacific pact , saying chances for its becoming a reality have been " enhanced " by his overseas talks . And he gave evidence of his continuing concern about Indochina by saying the general situation in Asia is disastrous , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compounded . " Mr. Dulles ' agreements , however , are important , not only for what they say , but how they say it . Take the first point  --  collective defense plans for southeast Asia . Both documents say the parties are ready " to examine " along with other interested nations " the possibility " of setting up a collective defense arrangement for the area . Not Defense Agreement This , however , is not an agreement to set up a southeast Asian defense grouping . It is not even an agreement that a collective defense arrangement for the area should be created . It is only an agreement to consider the possibility of doing it . That is a double qualification that represents the best in diplomatic double-talk  --  a commitment not to get committed . A southeast Asian security pact may come out of such diplomatic jargon  --  but no " face " is going to be lost if it does n't  --  for it says they merely agree to " examine the possibility . " The fact is , these powers have " examined the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several times in the last five years and each time decided against it . The principal difference in the past , however , was that then the United States was the major reluctant member of the trio . In those days the United States preferred bilateral deals with countries not directly tied down with commitments on the Asian continent . So it wrote a treaty with Australia and New Zealand . It wrote a treaty with the Philippines . Then when its Allies , particularly the British , tried to get in on some of these deals , the United States shied away . Then it did not want to take on any responsibility for Indochina , for Hong Kong , for Singapore . But that was yesterday . Warning by Dulles " the independence of the associated states . " The two , it may not be obvious , are not synonymous  --  and there can be no question that the French and Secretary Dulles are quite aware that they are not . The two could be  --  but they are not necessarily  --  identical . - Yet the French-American statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writing , or deliberate deception , or confusion . What the native Indochinese want above all is full , complete , unqualified independence ? and then the right to stay in or get out of the French Union . But the statement asserts in so many words that the only kind of independence the natives will get is to be within the French Union . On the surface , these two generalized statements constitute fruits , if not the only fruits , of Mr. Dulles ' rapid round trip to London and Paris . The challenge , as always , is to see what they say  --  not read into them what it is hoped they might imply . Today Mr. Dulles is Secretary of State . He has made statements warning Peking of " instant retaliation " if it moves into Indochina . He has announced that Peking is actually putting manpower into that struggle . He has recognized that now Cambodia as well as Vietnam and Laos have been invaded by the Communists . It is therefore Mr. Dulles who Is acting , possibly , to create a collective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and wanting that Peking is ignoring . And It is the British and the French , his time , who are hesitating to join such an arrangement . If the Indochinese war is to be internationalized , . they want to know more about what part they are to play , whiat part the United States is to play , what " retaliation the United States has in mind . Not Synonymous On another point these statements are considered important and significant ? independence for the three associated states . It would appear that the French stood firm in their objection to giving the native Indochinese unqualified independence . The French statement refers stsbcitically to " independence of the three associated states within the French Union " as the goal in Indochina . But later it drops the phrase the Indochinese object to and observes that the object of talks at Geneva will be                     