@@719874

txt If Soviet Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev succeeds in his long-range ambition to get to the United States  --  via the summit conference at the United Nations ? this country will have a unique opportunity before it . I It can display to the . Soviet boss how the free-enterprise system works  --  how effective a democracy and a democratic economy can be . This could ' well ? have as powerful an impact on future Soviet policy as any negotiations at the summit . Mr. Khrushchev has long been angling for an invitation to the United States ? as did Premier Georgi M. Malenkov before him . Marshal Georgi K. Zhukov would also have profited by an American trip ; in fact he might still be in office had he received a bid from the White House . Many people believe that if Mr. Zhukov had come to Washington , the added prestige of this Washington trip , plus the prospect that he would have ready access to the President and might be able to influence American decisions , would have saved him from dismissal . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question is whether the administration  --  whether Secretary of State John Foster Dulles ? has the imagination to seize this opportunity . The question also is how anyone with as many American enemies as has Mr. Khrushchev could get an unobstructed , calm view of America at work and at leisure . To really see the United States , Mr. Khrushchev ought to glimpse an automobile assembly line at Detroit , a great vacation area like Jones Beach , a suburban community development  --  and the rich , peaceful farmlands of the Middle West . Noted for Curiosity Could Secretary Dulles , who quite evidently regards Mr. Khrushchev as a pariah who should receive the least sort of American recognition until he ' mends his ways , bring himself to make this tough-minded Soviet official 's American visit meaningful ? So far  --  and there is a question yet whether the " summit " session at the UN will ever materialize ? " Mr. K " is invited only to the United Nations , not the United States . New York 's Mayor Robert F. Wagner  --  mindful of his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Khrushchev visit . Perhaps the gulf simply can not be bridged . Yet the arguments for an effort to broaden the Khrushchevian horizon are persuasive , as made by per sons who know the Soviet leaders of today . Mr. Khrushchev is known to be highly inquisitive and curious about the realities of the world at large today . He is a pragmatical Marxist , which means that he will bend or disregard Communist dogma when it stands in the way of getting something necessary accomplished . Intensely proud of Soviet accomplishments , he frequently equates them with American achievements . But  --  this inquisitive individual , who has traveled so widely among the Eastern European satellites , China , India , and Asia generally , has seen very little of the West . He visited Switzerland for a summit conference ; he visited Britain at a time of strained relations when his reception by Labor Party officials was brusque and explosive . There are American diplomatic officials who believe that if Mr. Khrushchev were accorded a thorough exposure to the conditions of life and work in these United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Soviet policy . Agricultural Revolution r Already , it is argued , American practice has influenced Soviet policy in agriculture . When Mr. Khrushchev 's agricultural chief , Vladimir V. Matskevich , now Minister of Agricultufc , visited the United States in 1955 , he was commissioned to find out why American farmlands were so much more productive than Soviet agriculture . His findings and recommendations since then have had Mr. Khrushchev 's warm support and have effected a virtual revolution in Soviet agriculture , often against the strong opposition of party doctrinaires . Some people may argue that it is not helpful for the United States to have the U.S.S.R. solve its farm problem or its industrial strains . Others , however , argue that the sooner the Soviet Union builds a satisfactory living standard for its peoples , the sooner it will become a stabilized , less aggressive state . A view of American achievements under capitalism is likely to convince Mr. Khrushchev ' that Communism 's forecasts that it will " wither away " are so much tommyrot . How to get the Soviet boss out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom so many Americans are either intensely curious or vehemently denunciatory , a , quiet look at America and American " enlightened free enterprise " ? is , a tremendous challenge . The administration will probably not make the effort . But this is one of those opportunities that ought to have the most responsible consideration highest quarters .                     