@@719956

txt A handful of spectators gathered near Central High School in Little Rock shortly before the hour when the school normally would have opened Sept. 15 and police radio cars began circling the grounds but there were no disturbances , the Associated Press reported . Presidential Press Secretary James C. Hagerty announced it now is definite that President Eisenhower will confer at Newport , R.I. , Sept. 16 , with Attorney General William P. Rogers . They plan what Mr. Hagerty called " a review of the ( school ) integration situation to date . " Mr. Hagerty declined to say whether that will include talk of possible Justice Department steps to reopen Arkansas and Virginia schools now closed in the controversy over integration . Legal proceedings are expected to be filed Sept. 15 in United States District Court in Little Rock in a move to open the city 's four high schools . Some parents and students are considering bringing this action which might very well be supported by the Justice Depart-ritent ? a-s ? aMictis - Curiae ( friend of the court ) . There are indications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means integration . State Law Explicit The North Central Association , which accredits the Little Rock school system , already is hinting that it is taking a new look at the status of the high schools here ? Central High School , Hall High School , and the all-Negro Horace Mann High School . Also closed is Tech High School for boys . The schools ca n't be reopened under state law until after the vote is held on integration of the entire school district . A vote for integration must represent a majority of all qualified electors in the district . Since more than 50 per cent of electors seldom vote in American elections , it is considered highly unlikely that Little Rock will vote for integration . Caught in the legal squeeze between the federal and state governments is the Little Rock School Board , which has sought desperately to work out of the impossible tangle . The board ca n't do anything until after the referendum , which ca n't be held before Oct. 7 . After that date the schools could be reopened as private institutions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is a foregune conclusion that there will be endless legal twistings and turnings as the three groups  --  the state and federal governments and the school board  --  try to determine just who has jurisdiction over the public schools . At present , at least by virtue of acting under his recently acquired emergency legislation , Governor Faubus seems to be in full control of the Little Rock school systems . Thus some say he has taken away from a local agency its right to control its own schools . Meanwhile , a fourth group  --  the public which pays the bills and includes the bewildered parents ? is helpless . It can only stand by and watch the maneuvers over an issue which has been joined at the high levels of govOnment . Faubus Defends Stand Governor Faubus , some Arkansans charge , is trying to fortify his public popularity by continuing to accuse the fed . eral government of using methods that border " on tyranny and a police state . " He refers to the presence of more than 135 federal law enforcement officials in Little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usurp state powers . Governor Faubus told newspapermen that " I have been moderate and reasonable in my actions in this matter and I am not going to do the dirty work of the federal government or the NAACP ( National Association for the Advancement of Colored People ) . " " Even if I believed in integration , " the Governor added , " I would not create the turmoil to a community that is now being done to Little Rock . I have studied a lot of American history and there is no parallel for what is now taking place where the federal government has come in and told people what to do about their sociological problems . So far , aides of the Department of Justice who have been sent here from Washington to help out United Slates District Attorney Osro J. Cobb have n't commented on any possible local moves to counter the Governor 's action in closing the schools . Legal experts are divided over whether the Governor 's action could be considered contempt of the federal courts . Governor Faubus is still under an injunction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ronald N. Davies ordering him not to interfere with the integration processes of Central High School .                     