@@716892

txt The top-level military talks following ratification of the mutual defense pact with the United States are continuing at Nationalist headquarters . Newspapers here speculated that one of the items being discussed was the establishment of a joint Nationalist-United States defense command in this area . Among those taking part in the talks were Admiral Robert B. Carney , United States Chief of Naval Operations ; Admiral Felix B. Stump , commander of the Pacific Fleet ; Vice-Admiral Alfred M. Pride , commander of the Seventh Fleet , and Maj. Gen. William C. Chase , head of the military assistance advisory group . Also at the conference table were Nationlist Foreign Minister George Yeh , Defense Minister Yu Ta-wei , and Gen. Peng Meng-chi , Acting Chief of the General Staff . More U.S. Aid Forecast Nationalist quarters appeared confident of a big boost in the volume of American military aid to Formosa . The treaty made the two countries formal allies in the defense of Formosa , the Pescadores , and American island territories in the west Pacific . It was generally assumed that the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armed forces to enable them to contribute as much as possible to the defense of Formosa if the Communists attack . Admiral Carney said the Nationalist - American military talks here had identified the problems involved in combined action , if necessary , in defense of the area . He said the primary purpose of his visit was to discuss the problems that would arise in case of action implementing the mutual defense treaty , which provides for American defense of Formosa and the Pescadores . He said he had discussed these problems with Admiral Stump , Admiral Pride , General Chase , and the Nationalist Defense Ministry . To Speed Supplies They had also discussed deliveries of material , various other aspects of the aid program , " and the realities of the situation in the Formosa area , " he said . Admiral Carney , who spoke at a news conference before leaving for Washington , said that things required urgently would be delivered as soon as possible . " Shipments already programed should be speeded up , and I intend to see that they are , " Admiral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dinner guests March 4 of President and Mme Chiang . Admirals Stump and Pride  --  planned to remain over the weekend for further military talks . There is speculation in press . circles that the Nationalists may abandon some or all the Matsus , island outposts extendinf , within 31/2 miles of the China mainland off the port of Foochow . The speculation was entirely unoffcial and , of course , without public confirmation . Security considerations presumably would preclude public disclosure even if such was true .. If the Nationalists . do quit the Matsus , it would not be too surprising .                     