@@718780

txt Letters to The Times SIDNEY HOOK . New York , May 8 , 1957 . C.C. BURLINGHAM . New York , May 8 , 1957 . JOH ... ' Letters to The Times Use of ' Fifth ' Discussed Right to - Invoke Privilege Believed ' Applicable to . All The writer of the following letter is author of " Common Sense and the Fifth Amendment . " To THE EDITOR OF THE New York TIMES : It is not necessary to feel the slightest sympathy with Frank Costello 's activities , whatever they are , to be perturbed by the patent disregard of his constitutional right to invoke-the Fifth Amendment . If the newspaper stories are accurate , Mr. Costello justified his refusal to answer questions exclusively on the ground of the privilege against self-incrimination . Why , then , was he held in contempt , particularly since the evidence in the case actually seemed incriminating ? Surely a suspected racketeer has the same justification to invoke the Fifth Amendment as a conspiratorial Communist . There seems to be a double standard of legal and moral bookkeeping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Amendment cases , depending upon the individuals involved . Legally , if an individual invokes the privilege against self-incrimination whenever there is objective danger that a truthful answer would tend to in- , criminate him ( i. e. , if he is not using the privilege perjuriously ) , he should be protected in that right whether he is in fact guilty or innocent . Morally , of course , this does not mean that the invocation of the privilege is something to which we should be indifferent . If Costello were holding , or applying for , a position of public trust , his invocation of the privilege with respect . to a question bearing on his duties would certainly be a prima facie , if not conclusive , ground for declaring him ineligible after a hearing . No one could reasonably deny this , although , unfortunately , some have done so when individuals holding positions of public trust have invoked the privilege against selfincrimination in reply to questions about Communist party membership . But the legal and moral principles involved should be applied equitably to all members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the confusion is a failure to distinguish between two propositions ? one false , the other true . The false proposition is that the invocation of the privilege constitutes conclusive evidence of guilt . The true proposition is that the invocation of the privilege constitutes some evidence of guilt whose weight must be evaluated in the light of all the other relevant evidence available . SIDNEY HOOK . New York , May 8 , 1957 . Operating Educational TV Boston Experiment in Establishing Non-Commercial Station Described To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In your issue of April 21 you published an article about the pending negotiations for the acquisition by the Metropolitan Educational Television Association of a TV station . It may interest the Metropolitan company and your readers to know what has been accomplished in Boston . In 1946 President James B. Conant of Harvard : . sked Ralph Lowell , president of the Lowell Institute , whether he thought it practicable to establish a radio station in Boston which would have no advertisements and would produce programs of educational value . Mr. Lowell said it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an audience such radio programs could command . They brought together representatives of Boston College , Boston University , Massachusetts Institute of Technology , Northeastern University , Tufts University , Harvard University and the Lowell Institute , and formed the Lowell Institute Cooperative Broadcasting Council . This i body offered its program to the commercial companies free . After three or four years of experimentation they decided to have their own FM radio station , and that has proved a great success . The Boston Symphony Orchestra , the Museum of Fine Arts , the Conservatory of Music and the Museum of Science joined the council . When they started , 15 per cent of the sets were FM , and now it is over 43 per cent FM . A few years ago the Federal Communications Commission decided to reserve certain television channels for purely educational stations and the Lowell Council took on a TV station . This involves a considerable increase in expense and the council is now operating on a budget of $370,000 . I hope the Metropolitan Television Educational Association will obtain a isadio as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follow the example of the Boston Council with no advertisements and with programs of the highest quality . C. C. BURLINGHAM . New York . May 8. 1957 . Approach to Disarmament To THE EDIToR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial of May 3 gives an excellent analysis of the catches in the recent Soviet disarmament proposals . . While shunning what you refer to as " another Soviet snare " let us not close our eyes to the fact that from their standpoint some of our proposals may also have contained pitfalls . For example , the Eisenhower " open skies " proposal may have been interpreted by the Soviet Union as a plan to enable out . planes to pierce their Iron Curtain , whereas we have none for their planes to pierce . One fact is obvious  --  namely , that no nation today can afford to make or accept any proposal for partial disarmament which might be militarily disadvantageous to itself , since to do so might mean defeat in World War III . Therefore , disarmament discussions tend more and more to become the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while the arms race grows apace and threatens annihilation to millions . How long will it take the leaders of both sides to realize that the only approach to disarmament which can give no military advantage to either side lies in an over-all plan for complete , universal , enforceable disarmament under world law ? JOHN H. ARNETT , M. D. Philadelphia , May 6 , 1957 . Ceylon 's Policies Communal Exclusions , Religion 's Role Criticized To THE EDITOR OF  --  THE New York TIMES : The recent opinion expressed by Cyrus Sulzberger that the policy of - the present Government of Ceylon has embittered religious feelings and created communal hatred will be endorsed by the vast majority of people of Ceylon of education and of culture . It may be necessary to mention that the writer of this article is a Sinhalese and senior practicing lawyer of the southern area of Ceylon . With the grant of independence to Ceylon nine years ago the British parliamentary system in all its details with universal suffrage was adopted . Thus every general election is virtually decided by the votes of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are influenced by the religion and community of the candidates . A little before the last election politicians went among the people declaring that their ancient civilization and , greatness were lost owing to European colonization and European influence , and that they could now be revived by adopting the " Sinhalese only " policy . It was a successful appeal . But a slight knowledge of history would have informed the speakers that all the great works constructed by ancient Sinhalese kings , second in magnificence only to those of Egypt and Rome , had without exception been reduced to ruins and cove:ea by the jungle-tide centuries before Europeans stepped on this island . Early Colonists The Portuguese came in 1505 , the Dutch in 1642 and the British in 1796 . Those colonists restored much that had been lost , made roads and waterways and greatly contributed to the progress and prosperity of the country . They introduced the Roman , Dutch and English legal system now administered by Ceylonese judges . Assisted by political Bikkus ( Buddhist Priesthood ) Prime Minister Bandranaike 's party came into power pledged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was immediately opposed by Tamils , who form a fifth of the population occupying the northern and eastern provinces . This opposition provoked a large section of the masses of Sinhalese and it re ' suited in over a hundred cases of homicide . The Tamil members elected to the Parliament , some of whom are eminent queen 's Counsels , boycott the Parliament and a serious impasse has thus been created . The Tamils demand a federal form of government , language parity or a partition . On the principle of self-determination it is difficult to realize how that demand can be resisted . With respect to religion , to which Mr. Sulzberger refers , the bane of public life in Ceylon is the placing of religion in the forefront of politics . This consciousness that to be devoutly religious is a sure way to political advancement creates hypocrites who make a big show of religion in public . We believe Prime Minister Bandranaike is an able liberal-minded statesman . But I trust it is not presumptuous in me to suggest that he should stay out of international disputes like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much and use his genius to settle the local disputes . Also he should leave religion entirely to priests and religious leaders . Otherwise this country will become the plaything of rival political parties trying to gain power by appeal to the masses . SAM S. NVLERASOORIYA . Galle , Ceylon , April 19 , 1937.                     