@@712712

txt " It wo n't last . " That 's what most Britons are saying about the government they elected Thursday . The Labor Party managed to squeak through with a bare majority in the House of Commons ? not enough to give it effective control . With returns in from 619 constituencies out of 625 , Labor got 314 scats , the Conservatives 295 , the Liberals S and independents 2 . " There 'll be such a small Laborite majority in Parliament they 'll need every man on the floor all the time , " says a vengeful Tory . " A Labor M.P . wo n't even be able to take time for a smoke . " With its unworkable majority , a Labor government could founder at almost any time on almost any important issue . Many Britons give the new government no more than six months before it collapses , though they think it could conceivably last a year or a year and a half . In theory a British government can last five years , but this one might break down next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will last a hit longer than that , if only to draft a new budget which is due in April ? For another thing , nobody wants new elections right now . Both major parties have about exhausted their campaigning funds and individual candidates who have been elected want to start drawing their pay . " I 'm broke , " is the succinct summation of one new member of Parliament . Things Will be Tough While this government lasts things are going to be tough . " This is the worst thing that could have happened , " says a leading London businessman . " With the ever-present possibility of the government falling , businessmen wo n't be able to plan from week to week . The Socialists may he calling the tune one day , the Tories the next . " Says another : " Even if the government does n't go down on some Parliamentary issue , business will le:g and sag so badly that an economic- crisis could force a new , election by , the end of the year . " Comments a third : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been an upsurge of confidence even if they had n't done a blessed thing fora whole year . If the Laborites had got a working majority we 'd at least have known what to expect . " Such gloom is not universal , however . The instability of the new Labor government suits some businessmen to a tee . They figure this ' %vay : Labor wo n't dare to go through with its ambitious schemes for nationalizing steel , cement , sugar . industrial insurance and halfa-dozen other things . They reason further that Labor 's small majority will embroil it in so many difficulties that it will make a poor showing : when it collapsei. these folks hope , people will turn Tory in a big %van Uncertainty was reflected in behavior of the London stock market yesterday . Stocks and government bonds fell sharply on the opening when it appeared the Laborites would win a clear victory . As the Socialist tide ebbed , prices were marked up some , but the market closed generally lower than the day before , when it was considered possible- the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's pace . ( Story on Page 7 . ) U. S. officials in Washington believe the instability of the British government will impede negotiations to put Britain and Europe generally on their feet , Story below . ? Continued Discomfort Meanwhile , the Socialists already have on the books enough legislation to make things uncomfortable without embarking on any new schemes . A Socialist budget would be unlikely to show any tax reductions , which business people had fervently hoped for from a Tory government . Controls will continue to circumscribe all aspects of business activity and everyday ? life . " If the Tories had got In , " says Charles 0 . Stanley . Chairman of Pye , Ltd. , makers of television and radio receivers and transmitters . " we would have expanded our factories in the north of Ireland , built a laboratory at our Australia plant , and reequipped our Cambridge plant . Under Socialism , taxes and mountains of red tape have precluded any such projects since the war . " Sir Eric Bowater , Chairman of Bowater Paper Corp. , Ltd. , describes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to control , every step of his company 's operations : " The government is the sole purchaser of all our raw materials ; therefore it determines the prices we pay for them . It tells what we can use these raw materials for and even lays down the perCentage of these raw materials our product will contain . It then tells us to whom we must sell and sets our selling price to boot . " Fears of the Middle Class It is n't only big industrialists who dislike the idea of more socialism  --  even temporary socialism . Millions of ordinary Britonsmiddle-income folk , the butchers , grocers , garage owners and other small business people ? are worried , as the close balloting slrewisn ? They fear the Labor government might of power long enough to squeeze them out business . " The Laborites have finished off our aristocracy with income and inheritance taxes , " says one small shopkeeper . " They 've cracked down on our big industrialists with nationalization and controls , It 'll he our turn now if they Stay in any length of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liquidated as a group through heavy direct and indirect taxation , controls , restrictions and government business competition , If the Labor government could last a full five years they fear they might be put out of action as effective opponents of socialism . " The Labor government wants to eliminate middle-class people like us , " says A. L. Ambler , owner of the Eaton Square Garage . " They would n't have to nationalize us to do It either . They 'd just quietly force us-out . " Mr. Ambler is feeling the squeeze already . At present he 's parking only 75 autos each night in his 120-car garage , fifteen less than a year ago . " With taxes as high as they are , lots of people ca n't afford a car anymore , " he explains , " Many others put them in storage because the gas ration of 90 miles a month is so small . " Labor and the Retailer ( British butchers are in even worse plight than Mr. Ambler . The Labor Party had planned to encourage further development of mammoth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sounds pretty ominous to A. B. Arnold , owner of a 70-year-old family business which includes five butcher shops scattered around the British capital . " Our meat supplies will be cut in favor of co-ops , " thinks Mr. Arnold . " They 'll get the most and best meat from the government . " He also foresees further government crackdowns on butchers ' profits . Recently the Food Ministry boosted the surcharge en every $2.80 worth of meat it sells to butchers from the British equivalent of two cents to 10 cents . " They might easily slap on some more , " says Mr. Arnold . " But my overhead goes on just the same , and if my profit continues to be reduced I 'll have to close up . " The new government can also  --  without further legislation  --  compete with small businessmen . It is already in the retail electr " cal supply business . " Now that the government has nationalized a number of big industries , " says R. L. Richardson , who runs an electrical service , " they 've begun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already selling electric cookers and refrigerators ; now they 're going to sell electric clocks , heaters and radios . They 'll he going into television soon . " Living on Capital Under a new Socialist government many middle class people will go on living on their capital . They 'll have to , with no prospect of reduced taxes . What they 're wondering is how long they can keep it up even if the Laborites are too weak to put through a new capital levy . Says a hank manager : " I do n't have any : , capital anymore . I used the last of it to pu ? my boy through preparatory school . I 'm wondering where I 'll get the money to send him ; ' throng ! , college . " Would a fragile Socialist government risk putting any more pressure on this kind oft middle-income folk ? The answer is that they 've been doing it right along and the process may continue on its own momentum . " The mere fact that they 're in at all , " says a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class further . " Britain 's muddled economic problems have been pushed a little further from solution by the close results of . yesterday 's election . That 's the view of many experts in the State and Treasury Departments and the Economic Cooperation Admin. istration . For months U. S. officials have been trying to get together with British negotiators on , economic and political matters affecting both . nations . But nearly every time the tall ' reachedthe brass-tacks stage , the Britisr have proposed : Let 's wait until after the elections . Now the elections are over . chances for an immediate agreement with England on any ' ? , major problem seem remoter than before . " It looks as though it will be harder that ever to pin the British down because their representatives will he hesitant to make clear . cut , binding commitments , " a State Depart . ment authority declared . One chief aim of any talks would be to attempt a solution of Britain 's sterling debt  --  the so-called " sterling balances " that were pig : . ing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Egypt , Australia another Commonwealth nations . Other major problems involve the recenBritish ban on imports of oil from Americar companies in the sterling area and a so-caller European payments union which E.C.A. want - to form to expand trade on the Continent . Some E.C.A. officials privately suggest there may be embarrassing delays in further European economic cooperation , in which England land plays a key role . At a House Foreign Affairs Committee meeting on foreign aid yesterday , E.C.A. chief Paul Hoffman commented ! " As long as people have the free ballot , give them time and they will get pretty sick of somebody else making decisions for them . " He was referring to the socialist economy in Britain .                     