@@714737

txt Equipment failure and fire in an electricity generating plant cut off power to much of Chicago 's north side from 3:40 p. m. to 8:05 p. m. yesterday and tied the area in knots for hours . All devices operated by electricity stopped . It was the most widespread power failure in the city 's history . The shut-off stemmed from failure of an insulator on one of three huge transformers in the yard of the Commonwealth Edison company plant at 3400 N. California ay. , a company spokesman said . As the insulator , carrying 132,000 volts , failed , an arc of flame set fire to the transformer , which is immersed in oil . The fire spread to the two other transformers , each of which has 60,000 kilowatts capacity . When these went out , other equipment and the generators inside the plant stopped . Street Cars Halted Commonwealth Edison officials said the cost of repairing and replacing the ruined equipment will be $200,000 . The results were far reaching . Street cars and trolley buses stopped running . Homes , stores , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equipment from machines to electric stoves was out . Traffic lights failed . Movie screens were darkened . Television and radio sets quit as the Cubs were in the second half of the 15th inning . Elevators and escalators halted . Freezers and refrigerators went out in homes and stores . Air conditioning equipment quit functioning . Dental equipment was useless . Hospitals faced the prospect of performing operations under emergency power . Other equipment , such as oxygen tents , could not be used . Sales people in stores found that cash registers would not operate . Beauty shops sent patrons into the streets to dry their hair ill the sun . Wide Area Affected The area affected was roughly from Fullerton ay . to Devon ay . and from the lake to Harlem ay . Some spots within these boundaries continued to receive power because only seven of 13 substations which get power from the generating plant were knocked out . Hospitals got first priority as crews restored power by pouring juice into the affected lines from the Fisk substation at 1111 Cermak rd. and the Crawford plant at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where patients were taken from oxygen tents , Ravenswood , Belmont , Swedish-American , and Augustana . Police stations and newspaper switchboards were flooded with calls from persons asking the cause of the failure . Emergency power supplies were used to operate telephones of five exchanges housed in the building at Irving Park blvd. and Sawyer ay . and eight in the building at 3528 N. Sheffield ay . Traffic Lights Fall All available police were sent to direct traffic at intersections , where long lines of vehicles formed when light signals failed . Jams persisted for hours , however . Chicago transit authority vehicles were held up for as long as 40 minutes . Included were such busy lines as those in Irving Park blvd. , Broadway , and Clark st . CTA substations convert the Edison company 's alternating current into direct current for vehicle use . Also knocked out temporarily were city pumping stations . The area served by the Thomas Jefferson station , 2250 Eastwood ay. , had no water pressure for more than an hour until auxiliary pumps at the Lake View station , 742 Montrose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ park were marooned in midair on amusement rides when the current shut off . Some were led down catwalks ; others descended ladders from such rides as roller coasters and ferris wheels . There was no panic .                     