@@715307

txt This face-to-face confrontation followed earlier charges by General Van Fleet which roused some senators to angry denunciation of the alleged shortages . The decision was taken to thresh out in a round-table discussion differences of opinion which Chairman Leverett Saltonstall ( R ) of Massachusetts explained in an opening statement " simply do not square . " The respective views of the two sides , Senator Saltonstall said , " flatly contradict " each other . The nation 's defense chiefs were laudatory of General Van Fleet as a field commander but they did not mince matters . " As a result of my inspection in January , 1953 , I can report that the ammunition situation in the Far East Command is generally good , " General Collins declared , He said that the Eighth Army stocks are , " on the whole , up to the authorized level of supply . " General Collins reported that in 1952 UN forces fired " nearly 10 times as much as  --  the enemy did . " Even at the peak of the enemy 's firing , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Witnesses agreed ( a ) that there had been a past delay in supplying ammunition and ( b ) that even now conditions are not wholly satisfactory but are rapidly being improved . Regarding General Van Fleet they made the point , as expressed by General Collins . Different Viewpoints " It is not only natural ? it is the duty of a field commander in battle to concern himself with the situation in his particular command . At times he may even disagree with a higher commander on what he thinks he needs to accomplish his mission . And it is entirely possible that both may be right , for they are making their estimates from different points of view and with different responsibilities . " It was in this placatory mood that General Van Fleet heard some of his recent charges to senators answered . It was thought likely that the prompt action of Senator Saltonstall in bringing the two sides together would help Congress to determine the rights of the matter and satisfy the anxious public . Observers could not help contrasting the present mood with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had precipitated the argument dur-. ing the recent campaign . There is every evidence today that the senators will weigh the matter cAlmly and without partisan rancor . Another witness , Army Undersecretary Earl D. Johnson , told the committee United States factories by June will be turning out shells almost three times as fast as they are now being shot in Korea . Some $6,800,000,000 has been made available for ammunition since the war started , he said , of which 94 per cent has been spent or obligated . Ammunition output is 75 per cent ' higher this January than a year earlier , and will rise another 60 per cent by June . Ammunition for ROKs Army Secretary Stevens said that since taking on his job , he has requested reconsideration of " inadequate " amounts for Kota ammunition in the new ( fiscal 1954 ) budget so that money will be provided to supply " not only United States forces in Korea but also in support of the Cur .. - rently authorized ROK divisions. , Mr. Stevens 's talk pointy the fact that by increasing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for ammunition and equipment will be greater . The Eisenhower administration already had agreed that hopes of budget balancing are diminishing . First witness was Secretary Wilson : " As of now we have the ammunition necessary for operations on the present scale , " he said , " soon , it is fair to state , we shall have the amounts necessary to give the field commander considerable latitude in determining upon and supporting a more active type of operations . " The %anti-Van Fleet team of witnesses did not minimize the ammunition problem . General Collins , for example , agreed that he is " still not satisfied with our ammunition reserve stocks . " These , he said , are really one of the true measures of our complete readiness to fight . " He referred to General Van Fleet as " one of the finest Army commanders to wear the American uniform . "                     