@@715188

txt Discloses Alleged Graft Methods Twenty-eight ways in which Chicago policemen are alleged to take graft and otherwise violate t he law were described yesterday by Aaron Kohn . The deposed chief investigator for the city council e m e rgency crime Kelm committee gave details of the alleged practices to reporters at a press conference . He explained that all the alleged methods were described in volume 6 of his report on crime , and he angrily accused Ald. Du Bois 9th , chairman of the committee , of omitting this portion of the report from a summary released Tuesday . The full report , except for deletion of about 20 names , is to be made public tomorrow . Says Cops Revealed Methods Kohn said instances of each " vicious practice : ' are recited in the report with evidence to support them . Much of the'information came to him , he said , from policemen themselves . One supporting document , he asserted , is a 14 page letter from a policeman explaining how the policeman was forced to pay for his appointment to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collected protection money from illegal enterprises . " This policeman , " said Kohn , " has assured me that he would testify under oath concerning these practices if he were convinced that the committee honestly wishes to expose graft and vice . Ready to Take Stand " Furthermore , I am ready to take the stand myself and testify concerning all the information I have placed in the report . " Earlier in his press conference in his apartment in the North Park hotel , Kohn had charged that Du Bois had withheld at least half of the recommendations in the report . Kohn had said that he did not intend to disclose the remain ? der of the report because it is to be made public , but he changed his mind . Earlier in the day Mayor Kennelly stoutly defended Police Commissioner O'Connor and denied that O'Connor would be fired . Du Bois had said that Kohn recommended dismissal of the police commissioner . Kohn Enumerates Charges Kohn 's charges against the policemen follow : 1 . Framing charges against private citizens and business men to extort bribes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to report crimes committed by them . 3 . Permitting gambling to operate on payment of bribes . 4 . Allowing saloons to operate after hours ; allowing unlawful dice games , lewd shows , defrauding of customers , solicitations on behalf of prostitutes , all in exchange for regular payments . 5 . Open drinking by policemen in saloons violating the law . 6 . Regular or constant shakedowns of prostitutes . " Sell Special Privileges " 7 . Extorting money for prompt booking of prisoners ; for contacting bondsmen ; for making contact with lawyers ; for withholding evidence as a means of reducing the ' charge or making prosecution impossible ; for prompt processing by the bureau of identification as a means of shortening detention in bullpen cells , and for special privileges or comforts in lockups. 8 . Providing liquor and narcotics for prisoners . 9 . Accepting payments to permit visitors to see prisoners ; outright thefts of money from prisoners . , , 10 . Accepting bribes in lieu of issuing traffic tickets . 11 . Using department time to perform personal services for pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of peddlers without making arrests. , Charges Stimulation of Crime 13 . Stimulating commission of crimes by narcotics addicts in order that they may obtain money demanded by policemen for withholding arrests . 11 . Extorting money from exconvicts. 15 . Indiscriminate arrests of persons with known records to satisfy departmental requirements for arrest statistics . 16 . Use of police authority to harass those who complain about police conduct . 17 . Indiscriminate harassment of slum area residents . 18 . Bringing of false charges against private citizens who fall to cooperate with extortion demands . Alleges Christmas Extortions 19 . Annual practice of Christmas extortions , including sending of lists by the district of approved police recipients to those expected to make gifts . 20 . Collection of vacation money from business men and criminals . 21 . Solicitation of beer for police parties . 22 . Brutal and unnecessary use of weapons . 23 . Widespread use of blackjacks in violation of the law . 24 . Collusion with garages in accident cases . 25 . Conspiring with ambulance chasing attorneys. 26 . Creating false records of crimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soft pedaling bona Ade charges . 27 . A standard $10 a man fee for bringing a body to an undertaker. 28 . Harassing of private citizens on behalf of favored politicians or hoodlums . Assails Politicians , Too Kohn also turned his fire on politicians . He recommended that a commission on political ethics be set up to screen candidates and eliminate those with criminal records . He also recommended state legislation to bar felons from acting as ward committeemen or precinct captains . The former chief investigator assailed Du Bois for what he termed " distorted " interpretations of Kohn 's recommendations in the ibport . Kohn charged that Du Bola , in summarizing the report Tuesday , had created the impression that Kohn favored legalized and licensed gambling . " I said in the report that the community ought to decide whether it wanted to legalize gambling or stamp it out , " said Kohn . " Of course , if Chicagoans vote to legalize gambling , that is one solution to the problem ; but I never would advocate that solution and I do n't think the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Says Peterson Virgil Peterson , operating di . rector of the Chicago Crime commission , warned that making gambling legal would not nate its evils . He asserted that . Nevada , the only state where gambling is legal , is the " biggest nest of hoodlums and criminals in the country . " Du Bois said he would ask State 's Atty . Gutknecht to examine the Kohn report to determine whether it contains information that should be presented to the grand jury . The committe is to meet today to consider this possibility and to discuss whether the names of seven aldermen named in I the report should be disclosed . Mayor Kennelly withheld detailed comment on the report until he has read ' it . Asked if he intended to fire O'Connor , he snapped , " I-feel that Police Commissioner O'Connor is one of the best police administrators in the country . " Kennelly added that O'Connor 's job is " absolutely safe . " Judge Casimir Cwiklinski of Municipal court , criticized in the . Kohn report for his disposition of traffic charges against Atty . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case . Serritella is the son-in-law of former State Rep. James J. Adduci . Judge Cwiklinski said he had discussed the criticism with Chief Justice Edward S. Scheffier , and they had decided to submit a complete transcript of the hearing to Ow Chicago Bar association for review .                     