@@714574

txt Gov . Adlai E. Stevenson of Illinois said today that he had informed President Truman that he would not seek the Democratic nomination for the Presidency . In response to an inquiry from THE NEW YORK TIMES Governor Stevenson refused to confirm or deny a St. Louis Post-Dispatch article to the effect that Mr. Truman had asked him to be the Administration 's candidate and had promised to support him at the Democratic convention if he agreed to do so . Mr. Stevenson said he would not under any circumstances discuss what the President had said to him , but he added : " I feel sure the President has absolutely no doubt about what I intend to do . " The only thing I can honestly do is what I am pledged to do ? run for the Governorship of Illinois . I can not run for two offices at the same time . I decided to seek the Governorship again only after the most serious and prolonged discussion and that is my only ambition . " One thing that seemed fairly clear from this statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stevenson  --  as this newspaper reported last January ? that he was hoping to turn over the Democratic candidacy this year to another man . Just when and how Mr. Stevenson 's views had been made known to the President could not be learned , but there was some indication that it had occurred within the last two weeks . Draft Believed Possible Mr. Stevenson would not discuss this evening whether he would accept a draft by the Democratic convention , which meets in Chicago in July . It would be a presumption on his part to do so , he said . Several of his intimate associates in Chicago said today , however , that they felt sure he would accept the nomination . The professional politicians in Illinois  --  who have to think about another candidate for Governor if he is nominated  --  are definitely basing their plans on the assumtpion that Mr. Stevenson will be available if the convention wants him . These politicians believe , however , that Mr. Stevenson 's decision not to seek the Democratic nomination may postpone , or even determine the President 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under considerable pressure from the liberal wing of the party to make a decision one way or the other . The Democratic liberals feel that if they do not decide on a candidate fairly soon , even the President may not be able to control the convention 's actions in July . There is expected to be much talk about this here this week-end when the Democrats convene Saturday night for the annual Jefferson-Jackson Day dinner and political rally . President Truman is expected back in the capital tomorrow from his working vacation at Key West , Fla . Governor Stevenson and a group of Democratic politicians are also coming here for the dinner , at which time the Governor is expected to be under some pressure to reconsider his decision not to seek the nomination . He Has No Appointment Mr. Stevenson said tonight , however , that while he was looking forward to hearing the President speak Saturday night he did not have any plans to seek an appointment at the White House . The Democratic primary election in Illinois will be held April 8 . At that time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Governorship . He is expected to be opposed by William J. Stratton of Morris , the leading Republican candidate . The other contenders for the Republican nomination are Park Livingston of Chicago and Richard Rowe of Jacksonville . If Mr. Truman and the other party leaders do not succeed in persuading Mr. Stevenson to change his mind about entering the race for the nomination against Senator Robert Kerr of Oklahoma and Senator Estes Kefauver of Tennessee , and Senator Richard B. Russell of Georgia , Governor Stevenson will continue his Administration in Springfield and campaign actively for re-election . In the event that he is nominated for the Presidency in July , and accepts , the State Central Committee in Illinois will then be called to select another Democratic candidate for Governor . Among those now being prominently mentioned are Scott Lucas , former Democratic majority leader in the Senate ; Sherwood Dixon of Dixon , Ill. , now Lieutenant Governor , and Edward Barrett , now Illinois Secretary of State . Difference of Opinion The St. Louis t'c ) st Dispatch article that revived the TrumanStevenson reports today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the most responsible men in the business . The editor of his paper , Irving Dillard , is a personal friend of the Governor , and for these reasons Mr. Brandt 's dispatch attracted considerable attention here this afternoon . On the new point in the article , namely , that Mr. Truman had made a flat offer to support Mr. Stevenson for the nomination , there was considerable difference of opinion . One official in Springfield said the story was " 100 per cent correct . " Others here said that Mr. Truman had merely urged Mr. Stevenson to run for the Presidency and had asked him to let him ( Mr. Truman ) know fairly soon so that the President could make up his own mind what he wished to do . An intimate friend of the President , who recently discussed with ' Mr , Truman the political prospect " from here to November , " said that everything in their discussion , including several mentions of Governor Stevenson , controverted the existence of a firm offer by the President to support the Governor ' for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reviewed many phases of the situation , " he said , " in a way that would have been pointless if this offer had previously been made . The President just does n't deal with his friends that way . " I am sure he wants to know soon if Mr. Stevenson is out or in , but he also wants to know that about several others and is watching the primaries for that purpose . I remain confident the President has not yet made up his own mind ( 1 ) whether to run again , ( 2 ) if he does n't , whether to support some other Democrat , and ( 3 ) who twat Democrat will be . "                     