@@714388

txt Prime Minister Churchill will offer Gov . Gen. Harold Alexander a high aclive post this week-end , possibly in the Conservative g o v - ernment cabinet , it was predicted in informed quarters here tonight . Alexander , Alexander Canada 's nominal chief of state as the king 's personal representative , will be Churchill 's official host in Ottawa from Friday to next Tuesday . The expectation is that the prime minister wilt want I to regain the services of Alexander , a British field marshal and 1 viscount , who has been on the political and military shelf since ht accepted the Canadian governor generalship in 1946 . His term was extended last year . May Be Defense Minister One strongly rumored suggestion is that Churchill will want to take Alexander back with him as minister of defense . The prime minister has held the defense portfolio himself since his reelection . It is also possible , some observers have suggested , that Churchill may want to name Alexander as the first British minister for North Atlantic Treaty Organization NATO Affairs . Churchill has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a NATO council . The job of commander in chief in the middle east , where Alexander has had military experience , also is enen , Ilan No Comment At Alexander 's official residence , Rideau Hall , the governor general 's aids said he had no comment on the rumors. 1t was learned , however , that he recently said : " It is very interesting to hear about all these jobs I am to be given . " Alexander , now 60 , was commander in chief in the middle east and in North Africa , commander in chief in Italy , and supreme commander in the Mediterranean theater in World War II . As governor general , he has no political or military power in Canada , and can not even make speeches which express opinion . His duties are to represent the crown in rubber stamping government acts , laying corner stones , and addressing various organizations . He receives a tax free salary of $50,000 . May Abolish Job One reason for the extension of his appointment beyond the usual five years was the Canadian government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take the job or appoint a Canadian . An alternative plan being considered is to abolish the role of governor general , and create the job of crown administrator to give royal assent to Canadian legislation . Canada is pulling for Churchill get all he wants out of the Vatted States , while this country , which has stopped calling itself a dominion , is prepared to give him nothing except good will . Officials are cool about his chances of getting any aid while here .                     