@@713477

txt 12 NATIONS CONCUR Eisenhower Is Expected to Get Truman Offer of Command Today DIVISIONS MAY EXCEED 62 Some Delegates Doubt Kremlin Bluffs on . Implied Threat if Bonn Raises Troops By C. L. SULZBERGER Special to TEE NEW YORK Trhtzs . BRUSSELS , Belgium , Dec. 18 ? The foreign ministers and defense secretaries of the North Atlantic Treaty powers agreed in a joint session today to establish an integrated armed force for the protection of Western Europe . They approved the principle of Western Germany 's eventual participation in such an army and they requested President Truman to appoint a United States commander in chief to head it . It is understood that the President will formally name Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower to the post tomorrow . This act would be communicated to the North Atlantio Council immediately . The eleven other member nations would then individually notify General Eisenhower of their agreement to his appointment to command their forces . The general is expected to fly to Europe soon to establish temporary headquarters in Paris before finding a permanent seat . in France  --  probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon as General Eisenhower signifies that he is ready to assume the actual command , all United States , British , French and other North Atlantic power forces on the Continent will be placed under him . Earlier this year there had been frequent discussion of an eventual army in Western Europe of from fifty-five to sixty-two divisions by the end of 1953 . It is believed that these figures may well be advanced by the commitments of today to accelerate the national obligations . Each North Atlantic country has already pledged in principle what troops it can subply immediately , although , because of varying constitutional limitations , legal contracts to that effect are difficult to draw up . . General Eisenhower 's command will include the armies in being and . the trained additional troops as they are raised according to time schedules already prepared . This constitutes an unprecedented peacetime military agreement and establishes a blueprint for a truly international police force whose purpose is to safeguard peace by warning a potential aggressor , " Do n't tread on me . " Indeed , some military experts here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he held in ! World War II or than that given to Marshal Foch in World War Initial Hurdle Surmounted Thus the first hurdle of this sixth Atlantic Council session has been cleared swiftly and harmoniously . The procedural method of selecting General Eisenhower was agreed upon after Robert Schuman , French Foreign Minister , had suggested that each nation should separately notify the general of its agreement . Some delegates feel that the French wanted to specify General Eisenhower 's future relationship to each Atlantic pact country to avoid future confusion concerning the responsibility for his authority . The background to such thinking was a comparison with Gen. Douglas 's Unified Command in Korea . But a second hurdle is that which will stand high tomorrow and surmounting it may be less easy . The ministers are scheduled to discuss two vital agenda items : the planfling of eventual Western German participation in the pact and how it should be presented to Bonn and the over-all international crisis . The French are not exactly , // happy about German participation at all , although they accepted the compromise plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . anything to implement that aspect of the agreement in a hurry ? and above all before a new four-power Council of Ministers meeting with Russia . The Germans are by no means pleased by the limitations placed upon their eventual contribution and , when the three Western high commissioners are instructed to discuss the matter with Chancellor Konrad Adenauer , they may find him unwilling to agree . Although the Americans are maintaining that agreement on immediate action for the first approaches is necessary , they seek to calm French fears by declaring that it will take months of discussion and arrangement before any Germans can be recruited . Soviet 's Reaction Feared Meantime , however , many delegates  --  and by no means only the French  --  are nervous about the possible Soviet reaction to Western German rearmament , even on the small scale foreseen . Americans incline to believe that Moscow will seek by all possible diplomatic methods to sabotage these Continental defense plans . They think it is even possible that the Kremlin may for a while adopt a new and sweetly reasonable attitude , even agreeing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Germany with " free " elections for the sake of removing Bonn from the Atlantic Treaty organization . Among those forecasting such a development , there is a fear that the British and French attitudes might weaken at a new meeting of the Big Four Foreign Ministers . Tomorrow Secretary of State Acheson , Foreign Secretary Bevin and M. Schuman are expected to meet privately to agree on the final wording of their notes replying to Moscow 's request for such a four-power meeting- . Unsound Basis Suspected Other diplomats here fear the possibility that Moscow 's reaction may be more grim . One such participant says : " This meeting has been harmonious , but it is essentially unsound . Acheson is expected to press for the speedy inclusion of Germany in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization  --  so far the plan we 've agreed on mentions no timing . " And yet we gather from your press that Acheson 's position has been so weakened at home that he will not be Secretary of State for long . " He is urging participation by the Germans , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least on our terms . Furthermore , there is always the danger that , should they agree , the Russians might march to break up the combinations . " Hints of possible future disagreement within the framework of the agreement voted today are already evident . French sources maintain that the plan approved includes " an escape clause . " The plan approved is that voted in London by the deputies , which compromised between the previous French and United States differences on the size of German units . It includes a brief clause specifying that under certain circumstances it would not be implemented , or else it could be modified . Escape Clause Minimized Americans tend to minimize the significance of this clause . However , the French imply that it could be interpreted as operative should a council of foreign ministers ' meeting with the Soviet be convoked . Some non-French delegates consider it significant that the Paris delegation should have " leaked " the existence of this clause during this supposedly secret meeting . The plan for an integrated defense force approved today provides for including German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It may be found that smaller units may prove more adaptable . This size limitation , it is believed , could be altered at a later date by mutual agreement , either if General Eisenhower tells the North Atlantic standing group that it proves unfeasible or if the Atlantic Council itself decides to reexamine the question . Some participants at today 's meetings expressed the private view that the need for German manpower is today temporarily less rather than more urgent in view of the world crisis . They reason this way : At the request of the United States , the member nations have agreed to step up their contributions to the defense force . By pledging the quicker availability of more troops , the problem of supplying and equipping these units arises . Material will be limited for some time until new production gets under way , especially in view of the requirements in Korea and Indo-China . To such reasoning , or rationalization  --  depending on who describes it  --  is added a Continental fear that Moscow is not bluffing when it implies that it will not stand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has said privately that he does not think the Krem lin is fooling , and that French in- I formation indicates that Moscow means business . One foreign minister says , sadly : " We do n't really know either the German or Rtissian attitude onl this question . We must remember Goethe 's remark that it is always useful for a man to remember what he himself would do were he in the position of an enemy . " There are still delegates here tonight who believe that as a result of tomorrow 's discussion  --  no matter what the final communiqu ? may say  --  the Council will agree only to increase Western Allied forces in Germany and to revise the Occupation Statutes ; but not to implement at this time the decision on the actual rearming of Bonn .                     