@@715009

txt City Veiled by- Smoke of POrest . Fires The New ' York Times ( by George ** A haze that hung over the metropolitan area yesterday was smoke from forest fires down South . It should roll away this afternoon when the wind shifts from southwest to northwest and Election Day should be fair and cooler . Weather Bureau tracking indicated the acrid blanket had spread over nearly a sixth of the nation , from Portland , Me. , down along the Atlantic seaboard to Raleigh . N. C. , and inland to Kentucky and Indiana . This eighteen-state area approximates 500,000 square miles . The Weather Bureau registered the beginning of the haze here as of 2 A. M. Friday . The smoke , said to be from smoldering forest fires in . West Virginia , . the Carolinas and Tennessee , . vas wafted northward by winds that traveled a sluggish three to seven miles an hour . The clouds thickened-yesterday , and heavy fog was reported last night in many parts of the metropolitan area . The obscurity caused flights at Newark Airport  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  to be canceled , as they had been since Saturday afternoon . The ceiling was reported at 200 feet , with visibility of three-quarters of a mile . Airports Closed Briefly Operations at the New York International Airport , Idlewild , Queens , and at LaGuardia Airport were suspended briefly during the hours of darkness . At Idlewild , theli suspension was ordered ' at 10:20 , P. M. ' and continued until 12:15 o'clock this morning . The shutdown at LaGuardia was in effect from 10:45 to 11:20 P. M. At both airports it was said that restricted visibility miOit prevail until noon today . Before the suspensions , delays of only five and ten minutes had been reported from Idlewild . At La Guardia delays of a half hour on incoming flights had been reported only a short time before the cessation of activities . In the afternoon delays of a half hour on take-offs and thirty minutes to an hour on landings had been reported as pilots resorted to instru // ments under conditions of dwindling visibility . Both La Guardia and Idlewild reported that it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the late afternoon ceilings were , as high as 12,000 feet at La Guardia and 20,000 feet at Idlewild . With an exceptionally dry October . having parched woodlands ? Governor Dewey ordered New York State forests closed to the public as of last midnight because of the fire hazard  --  the State Conservation Department reported thirty-two fires in the state over the week-end . The Governor 's order exempts all Long Island , as well as lands within city or village limits . The worst damage in the state resulted from a fire that burned 1,000 acres Friday and Saturday along the southeastern tip of Honeoye Lake , Ontario County , and 200 acres more yesterday when it leaped across a ten-foot fire line . The most damaging blaze in the Adirondacks blackened 800 acres near Brant Lake . Another burned over 125 acres near Stony Creek , : and a third enveloped 100 acres near Lincoln Pond , Essex County . Palisades Interstate Park authorities banned the use of hiking trails in the park system , both in New York and New Jersey . Motoring , parking , picnicking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make , fires for cooking . Woods of Massachusetts and Rhode Island remained closed , while snowfalls had eased the situation in Vermont And New Hampshire , where there were limited ( bans . More than 100 brush and forest fires in Massachusetts Saturday caused damage estimated at 5200,000 . Elsewhere , North Carolina reported most of its fires had been brought under control over the week-end . Missouri declared a state of emergency Saturday . Oklahoma reported 48,000 acres burned last week , for a total of 202,000 . Fires also were burning in Texas and Southern Illinois . The smoke , pall was the heaviest in the East since Sept. 24 1950 , when a 200-mile-wide curtain rolled in from forest fires in northern Alberta and the District of Mackenzie in Canada , prohibiting New Yorkers from viewing a total eclipse of the moon .                     