@@718887

txt President Eisenhower was confined to his bed at the Whit* House today with what his doctors described as a " mild stomach upset . " A panel of three physicians said that he was making a good recovery , and that they hoped he might be back at his White House desk by Wednesday after another day of rest tomorrow . His doctors declared the new illness had no relation to the heart attack he had suffered in Denver on Sept. 24 , 1955 , or to the attack of Ileitis that resulted in major surgery just one year ago yesterday , The causes of the new illness were not known definitely , but the doctors believed that it was something the 66-year-old President had eaten and failed to digest properly in the last few days . John Foster Dulles , Secretary of State , said on Capitol Hill he had heard the illness had been caused by blueberry pie , but the White House did not confirm this . 3 Doctors in Attendance In attendance were three doctors who have had long experience in treating General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Snyder , the President 's physician of many years ' standing ; Maj. Gen. Leonard D. Heaton , commanding general of the Walter Reed Army Medical Center who performed the ileitis operation last year , and Col. Thomas W. Mattingly , Walter Reed heart specialist who was summoned to Denver when the heart attack felled the President . The official word at all levels of the Administration was that the latest illness was no more than a bad stomach ache and that there was no reason for alarm . Vice President Richard M. Nixon presided over the Senate as usual , telling newsmen he expected the President back on the job quickly . The White House said Maj. John D. Eisenhower , son of the President , was on a Florida holiday with his family and was being told not to return . There were no immediate plans to summon back Sherman Adams , the President 's principal deputy who planned a short vacation in the Maine woods after participating in commencement exercises at Middlebury College , Middlebury , Vt . The President had complained of an upset stomach and threatened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to speak briefly as he received an honorary Doctor of Laws degree . He also participated in ground-breaking ceremonies for a new School of International Services . Mrs. Eisenhower , acting independently of her husband , summoned Dr. Snyder about 10 o'clock , or . at approximately the time the President was returning to the White House . The doctor spent the night there . Mattingly Is Summoned President Eisenhower vomited three times during the night , and early this morning was fed intravenously with a solution of glucose and saline to provide energy and combat dehydration . Later , Colonel Mattingly was called to take an electrocardiogram , a tracing of the heart ' action that could be compared with earlier such readings to determine whether there was any cardiac disturbance . Dr. Snyder and James C. Hagerty , the White House press secretary , delayed any announcement of the President 's indisposition until they could accompany it with word that it did not indicate a recurrence either of the heart attack or the ileitis attack . Both these major illnesses initially had been described from the White House as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and as no cause for concern . In the ileitis attack , President Eisenhower was operated on to relieve an obstruction in , the ileum , the lower part of the small intestine . Mr. Hagerty made public a steady stream of medical reports through the day , each more reassuring than the other . He said there had been no nausea since early this morning , and that by afternoon the President had been able to receive and retain liquid refreshments by mouth . These included several cups of tea , and later the President had a small portion of milk toast . More milk toast and some chicken broth were ' eaten by General Eisenhower later in the evening . During the day , the President slept a lot . Mr. Hagerty said he had not received any sedation of any kind . Mr. Hagerty said the only medication was the intravenous introduction of the glucose and saline solution , and the regular treatment of anti-coagulants , a drug designed to keep the blood thin and thus reduce the possibilities of future heart attacks . Mr. Hagerty volunteered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last Saturday when he told newsmen that the administration of this drug had been halted completely about a month Associated Press Col. Thomas W. Mattingly ago . Mr. Hagerty said that he had misunderstood the doctors . He said the correction was essential in fairness to Dr. Snyder 's reputation . In his final medical bulletin of the day , . Mr. Hagerty , for the first time , characterized the stomach upset as " mild . " He had declined use of adjectives earlier when asked to say whether the illness , was " serious " or " notj serious . " The 4 P. M. bulletin also said the physicians had recommended cancellation of all the President 's appointments for tomorrow " to permit the President to complete his recovery . " Asked if this meant the doctors expected full recovery by tomorrow night with a return to his White House desk by Wednesday , Mr. Hagerty responded : " So far as they can expect now . " Still later , he said Dr. Snyder would see the President again after dinner , but would not again stay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this visit and left the White House at 9:35 P. M. Asked if he thought the President would be confined to his bed all tomorrow , Mr. Hagerty said he doubted it . Ironically , the new illness requiring General Heaton 's presence at the White House fell on the day he was decorated at the Pentagon with the Army 's Distinguished Service Medal for his skill in performing the ileitis operation on the President last year . By late afternoon , when the ceremony was held , the President was sufficiently improved so that Dr. Snyder went to the Pentagon with General Heaton for the presentation . Colonel Mattingly remained at the White House . Mr. Hagerty was the center of intense questioning on the causes of the Presidential indisposition but was unable to shed much light . All he could do was to repeat the suggestion of the President and his doctors that perhaps he had eaten something " that did n't agree with him . " Mr. Hagerty said in response , to questions that the President ' and Mrs. Eisenhower had dined alone at the ' White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things , " he said , but Mrs. Ei-I ; senhower showed no signs of stomach upset . Asked for the ; precise menu , the press sec-1 retary declined to provide it i until the doctors have had and opportunity to find out whether any of the food eaten had caused'I General Eisenhower 's illness . Mr. Hagerty said the President had violated in recent days ' the diet imposed to keep his weight down . He said " very rich food " had been served the Pres- , idential party on the new super . aircraft carrier , Saratoga , on which the President cruised on Thursday and Friday to watch naval maneuvers . Except for lunch on Saturday at Burning Tree Club , where he played golf , the President has eaten his other meals at the White House , Mr. Hagerty said . The White House spokesman said cancellation of the Tuesday appointment list was a precaution urged by the physicians so the President could recover his strength fully before going back to work . One of the canceled appointments was the regular weekly meeting with the Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schedule is a Wednesday breakfast for forty Republican members of the House of Representatives , the first of five such breakfasts . This , of course , would be canceled tomorrow if the President did not feel well enough to go through with it . Asked if the President would hold his regular news conference on Wednesday . Mr. Hagerty replied " I wouldn't. know . "                     