@@720273

txt Labor racketeering , g a m - bling , and other crimes will rouse citizens to vote against t h e Democratic administration in City hall April 7 , Timothy P. Sheehan , Republican candidate for mayor , told an audience of 1.500 Wednesday night . Sheehan made his f i r s t major speech of this campaign before diners who contributed $155,000 to help him in his uphill fight . He told the capacity crowd in the Grand ballroom of t h e Conrad Hilton hotel that Mayor Richard J. Daley , who also is Democratic county chairman , tries to conceal " moral decay " thru a vast . publicity apparatus . " Breakdown of Law " Current disclosures by a Senate committee of the coin machine and juke box rackets in Chicago are symptomatic of " the breakdown of law and order in o.0 r great city , " Sheehan charged . Sheehan 's running mates , Craig Phelps for city clerk Wand Joseph W. Mioduski for city treasurer , also spoke . Mioduski said there can be a practical crusade to beat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reaction " is started among citizens by those who will pledge other voters to go to the polls April 7 . Gov . Stratton said in a telegram from Tennessee that he " expects 100 per cent efforts " ' of the G. 0 . P. organization for Sheehan , Phelps , and Mioduski . Vice President Nixon sent his best wishes to former Congressman Sheehan in a telegram hailing him ' as an " able and dedicated public servant . " " Must Go Forward " " The Republican - party in Chicago must go forward from this night , " Gov . Stratton 's message said . " It is imperative that we man the precincts , rally the woolen , talk to independents , and encourage young people for help . You can crack the strongest Democratic machine in the nation . " Francis X. Connell , Republican county chairman , introduced James C. Worthy , president of the United Republican fund , who led up ? to Sheehan 's speech . Recently the outside of City Ilan was cleaned at great expense , Sheehan said , adding : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great saving  --  we can all join together now in cleaning out the inside of City hall . " A One Party System ' Daley as mayor and Democrat is county chairman has directed a " drift toward a one party system or dictatorship , " Sheehan said . Certain union bosses favor continuation of the present regime because Mayor Daley and his clique " will not interfere with the alliance of racketeers and union officials , " he said . Gambling has spread in Chicago until " you can place your horse bets in practically every neighborhood , and reports are that they even take bets in City hall , " Sheehan said . On the south side , the jobs most sought by many Democratic precinct captains are as " runners " for the policy wheel racket . . Gamblers ' Help Admitted " A prominent , highly placed official of the Democrat party at the national level , who controls at least 10 per cent of the Democrat ward committeemen here , admitted some time ago that there are gambling places in his ward from which he does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sheehan asserted . He told a reporter his reference was to William L. D a wso n , congressman , 2d ward committeeman of Daley 's organization , and vice chair , man of the Democratic national committee . The disclosure was in a 1954 report of an earlier interview wit h Dawson by staff members of the Chicago Crime commission . Crime Report Cited Sheehan said that Mayor Daley 's police department distorts its crime reports to the Federal Bureau of Investigation . He quoted the Chicago Crime commission report of three months ago which said : " It does not make sense for the police department to ' report less crime and yet ask for more manpower . The insurance companies are not fooled by police figures because Chicago has some of the highest burglary and auto theft rates in the country . " Sheehan . appealed for the support of women voters Wednesday at a tea spon-1 sored by the Woman 's Natjon Repuolican Club of Chicago , in the Pick-Congress hotel . He told them there has been " a breakdown of morale " in Chicago 's @ @ @ @ 