@@713580

txt Letters to The Times LEWIS GALANTIERE.JAMES N. ROSENBERG.WALTER D. HEAD.EDWARD CHARLWOOD.FELIX E. ... pg . 140 Letters to The Times International Decorum Use of Proper Channels Asked in Dealing With Other Nations The writer of the following letter , a member of the Council on Foreign Relations , is  --  a frequent contributor to political and literary journals . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : If there is one thing about which most Americans are in agreement it is that the State Department runs a pretty poor propaganda show . I have long dissented from this view . The fact is that each time that the department builds up a favorable propaganda position an individual citizen , or a body of citizens , or an agent of another department , or a member of Congress steps in and tears it down . I beg space to cite two recent instances . The first is an example of a minor irritant . On Jan. 29 , without the knowledge of the British Government , and while the French Prime Minister was en route to this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Army announced that Field Marshal Montgomery had been seconded to General Eisenhower 's staff as Deputy Supreme Commander and General Juin had been appointed Ground Force Commander . This was an outrageous discourtesy , for of course the British Government should hive been given the chance to speak first about its field marshal and the French Government about its general . Interpretation of Move But it was worse than that . Propagandistically , it allowed the European anti-Americans to say that we did with Britain and France what the Russians do with the satellites ; we gave orders to British and French officers ; we were " imperialists " equally with the Russians . In any other country the responsible officer would have been publicly reprimanded . In this country we laugh and look upon it as a newspaper man 's " beat . " The fact is , we are as brutish in our way as the Russians in theirs . My second instance is more serious because it goes to the heart of the European objection to our leadership . On Friday , Feb. 3 , you reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had addressed a letter to the German Consul General in this city , protesting against the Adenauer Administration 's acquiescence in German labor 's demand for a 50 per cent voice in the management of the great Ruhr properties . Mr. Bunting 's objections were of that unrealistic and dogmatic kind that passes for political science and political economy at the N. A. M. and in some of our leading law firms and banks . They are not worth dealing with here . But I must mention that his letter concluded with a veiled threat that the Germans need expect no loans from America if they knuckle under to their own organized labor . In the first place , that letter was a sterling specimen of international bad breeding , particularly as the matter is not settled but is being bitterly debated by the German political parties . I do not know what Mr. Bunting would think if the Reichsverband der deutschen Industrie ( assuming it still exists ) or the Federation of British Industries had addressed a letter to . an American chief of mission in which one American party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Procedure for Representations Decorum in international relations is as obligatory as decorum in church . Representations concerning the internal affairs of a foreign people are made through one 's Foreign Office and not otherwise . Only the State Department can judge whether such representations , at any given time , are in the interest of the American people . More important is that Mr. Bunting and his staff of politico-economic assistants played straight into the hands of the European anti-Americans  --  both the non-Communist anti-Americans ( of whose existence the N. A. M. is probably unaware ) and the Communists . letter will be produced by them as proof irrefutable of their charges that we are a nation of economic imperialists ; that all our acts ( including the Marshall Plan and the Military Assistance Program ) are designed to insure American hegemony over the rest of the free world ; that even if we won a war against the Soviet Russians the result would be merely direct American interference in other peoples ' domestic affairs instead of direct Russian interference . The sad thing is that the N. A. M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ignorance , not ill intent . I have had some experience in international propaganda . I can assure Mr. Bunting that if anything emanating from the Kremlin , or the Soviet automotive industry , half as good as his righteous little homily to the German Consul General ever fell into my hands I could stir up Western Europe for a month with it . Some of your readers are aware that I have been at considerable pains to show Europeans what is thoughtful , public-spirited and even moral in American business . The State Department has been engaged upon the same task  --  for the sake of the American " way of life , " which is to say , of American business itself . American business does itself a disservice when . it comes roaring , bull-fashion , into the diplomatic china shop . LEWIS GALANTIERE . New York , Feb. 8 , 1951 . Our Unknown . Policy will Britain , France , Italy , the United States do ? Will there be a Munich , a Korea , or a third world war ? How do President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these crucial problems ? Will a present public declaration of United States policy bring on or avert a third world war ? Will it stay or will it move the Kremlin 's hand ? What , in fact , is our policy ? Should these grave issues be the subject of secret diplomacy ? Or should we , the people , be now informed where our country stands  --  now , before the threatened shooting begins ? JAMES N. ROSENBERG . New York , Feb. 7 , 1951 . To Defer Students Preservation of Learning During Periods of Crisis Asked The writer of the following letter is a member of the faculty of Bergen Junior College . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : sA discussion has been going on both in the press and in Washington in the last few weeks relative to the drafting of college students or of boys who are completing their secondary school course and are candidates for admission to college next September . It seems largely to ignore certain fundamental lessons or principles which we learned or should have learned from our experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ draft is to secure sufficient personnel to meet the needs of the armed forces . This is cardinal , but it must not be allowed to obscure the fact that the defense of our country involves more than mere military efficiency . As one who has spent many years in the field of education and who has had opportunity to observe the workings of the draft in two wars , may I set down two points which should be incorporated in the present draft . For both peace and war we must have a reasonably adequate supply of doctors , ministers , scientists and even men teachers . Young men of proved ability and sincere intentions of entering these professions should be given special consideration . In order that they may avoid the charge of slacking it might be possible to put them all in " uniform " but assign them to selected institutions for their training . It is most important that even in time of war the arts  --  music , painting , literature , home-making and others ? be kept alive . War is essentially negative , destructive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cease . Then is the time that the positive values must be emphasized , but they are the basis on which any life worth living is founded . In our rush to prepare for war let us not forget to prepare for peace and a world to live in . Much , but not all , of this can be left to the distaff side . Hence those who form the draft laws will do well to consider carefully how best to meet their primary needs of manpower and at the same time conserve these long-range but essential values above referred to . As to how best to do this they will find all college and school administrators ready and willing to advise them . WALTER D. HEAD . Teaneck , N. J. , Feb. 4 , 1951 . No Monopoly on Errors To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW Yonx TimES : It is not uncommon to hear criticism of current international conditions as though the fault were of the Truman Administration exclusively . No one need tell us that the President has made errors  --  that is the one thing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ However , it can not be denied that the entire free world has matched us error for error , mistake for mistake , in the things that matter dearly , nor can it be claimed that any one nation or party has a monopoly of merit or of brains . Can any nation point with pride or complacency to the superior wisdom of its affairs since the end of the Second World War ? Since we of the free world find ourselves in the same boat today , it is well to be reminded that no special dispensation absolves any one of us from the rule of human limitations . Americans , British , French , etc. , all may be motivated by sincerity , all may be working as they see best for their own and mankind 's good . It is poor consolation , but it is consolation of a sort , that our common efforts are tied to a level . When one nation advances , mankind advances . When , as at present , nations are struck by the perplexities of fate , all men suffer as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ felicity , no sure guarantee against mistakes . EDWARD CHARLWOOD . Sarasota , Fla. , Feb. 5 , 1951 . Opinion in Canada Our Foreign Policy Said to Be Viewed With Reservations The writer of the following letter , onetime political editor of the Berliner Tageblatt , is Professor of History antic Librarian at Bard College . To THE EDITOR OF THE ** YORK TIMES : The five-billion-dollar three-year de= fense program of the Canadian Government , which was so ably analyzed in THE NEw YORK TIMES of Feb. 6 by your Ottawa correspondent , P. J. Philip , demonstrates the firm determination of our northern neighbors to do their full share in the defense of free : dom against any aggressor . This willingness to make a real sac : - rifice for the protection of the Western Hemisphere and for the sake of collective security will certainly be welcomed in this country . However , it should not necessarily be taken as an indication of whole-hearted Canadian ' agreement with our present foreign policy . This writer has just returned from a lecture tour in Canada , undertaken following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On his journey through the Maritime Provinces and the Provinces of Quez bee and Ontario he met in practically every city in which he stopped people of evident goodwill ' and considerable background in international politics who would inquire in private conversation rather anxiously about the current state of American public opinion arid about our basic aims in world affairs ' . Views on . Major Issues Some expressed regret about indications that there seems to have deveroped a real gulf between the outlook of the United States and that of some Commonwealth nations on Far Eastern policy . For the first time since the Second World War , they said , Canadiz ans could not understand our approach to certain major issues . Until now they had usually tried to take a course somewhere between the policies of London and Washington , but in this case the British , with many generations of experience in Far Eastern affairg to draw from , seemed to be much more realistic about Asian psychology . These Canadians gave more credit than is now customary in the United States to the cautious handling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were especially proud of the attempts at mediation made by the Canadian Prime Minister , Louis St. Laurent , and his Foreign Secretary , Lester Pearson . This serious disturbance about American foreign policy has found its way also into the Canadian press . Newspaper editorials in various parts of the country contain unfavorable comment on American conduct at Lake . Success . It is characteristic that on one day , Feb. 1 , in the Province of Ontario The Ottawa Morning Citizen and The Toronto Globe and Mail voiced . their grave concern . The Ottawa paper doubted the wisdom and timeliness of condemning Red China . " As a move on the international chessboard the American resolution ' is likely to result in a tightening of the links between Peiping and Moscow , " The Ottawa : Morning Citizen claimed in its leading . editorial , entitled " Divisions in the United Nations . " Editorial Cited The Globe and Mail , a widely read morning paper in Toronto , complained at the same time about too manyAnierican " voices making policy statements which are heard around the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to find a consonance among all these voices . This " is not a situation which promotes harmonious discussions . Diplomats of other lands do not like to be shouted at from all directions at once . If they are friendly , they try patiently to get at the heart of the issue , " but if they are antagonistic , like Moscow and Red China ; they seize every opportunity to promote and prolong a wrangle . The Toronto paper concluded :                     