@@718182

txt A trusted woman bookkeeping supervisor at the Lawndale National bank , 3337 W. 26th st. , was grilled by federal ti Miss Bessie Roth agents last night in connection with the disappearance of $467,228 of the bank 's funds . Authorities said Miss Bessie E. Roth , 49 , of 1426 S. Clinton ay. , Berwyn , would be charged this morning with " improperly and illegally honoring overdrafts " on a national bank . The complaint will be filed before United States Commissioner C. S. Bentley Pike . Miss Roth , known as a devout woman with a previously flawless reputation , spent last night in the women 's lockup at the central police station . Did Not Benefit Frank J. , assistant United States attorney , and Donald Hostetter , agent in charge of the FBI office , said the money had disappeared from the bank over a three year period but Miss Roth apparently had received none of it herself and had not benefited from the loss . said Miss Roth was responsible for the loss ber. ? Miss Roth 's home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , allowed known customers of the bank to cash postdated cheeks . She also accepted " holdout " check s . These , he explained , were checks the customers did not have money in their accounts to cover . Miss Roth , he said , would approve such checks for payment and then would " hold out " the checks so they would not be debited against the . customers ' accounts . Discovered During Vacation Bank officials discovered the loss a week ago while Miss Roth was on vacation . Federal investigators questioned bank officials and finally Miss Roth on her return . ? The bank job was the only job Miss Roth had ever held . She got it after she was graduated from high school in 1923 . Her father , Emil , said she had " always been a nice girl " who had a good record in high school business courses . A slender and severely trim woman , with graying black hair , devoid of make-up and  - -  - jeweiry , Miss Roth covered her face with a handkerchief as she was taken from a car @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lived with her father , 72 , and her mother , Emma , who has been bedridden since she suffered a stroke three years ago , in a one-story bungalow row dwelling built a generation ago . The home , neat and clean , showed no evidence that any of the missing funds had been used there . As a bookkeeping supervisor , Miss Roth earned $280 a month . Her father is a retired milk wagon driver . Comment Refused Federal officials could not Immediately explain how the disappearance of bank funds over a three year period had escaped the attention of bank officers and examiners . Frank Vasek , 1604 61st ct. , Cicero , a vice president of the bank , refused to discuss the disappearance of funds or Miss Roth 's role in the case . " We have no troubles to discuss , " he said . " Everything is all right . " Hostetter said bank officials declared that surety bonds would cover the loss . 