@@718671

txt President Nasser intends to accept no compromise on the question of Suez Canal tolls when the waterway is reopened to shipping of maximum tonnage . This is one of the facts which emerge clearly from the memorandum which the Egyptian Government has sent to all diplomatic missions in Cairo and to the United Nations Secretariat . Among other things , the memorandum stated : " Canal tolls are to be paid in advance to the Suez Canal Authority in Egypt or its nominees . " Meanwhile Israeli Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion said Israel 's Army will march against Egypt again if Colonel Nasser " tries to block our historic and legal passage into the Gulf of Aqaba . " He voiced these views in an interview with a Newsweek magazine correspondent , Curtis G. Pepper , at Tel Aviv , according to the Associated Press . Bid for Tolls Checked When the Egyptian Government nationalized the Suez Canal Company last July , Egyptian authorities said the tolls must be paid to their own new Suez Canal authority , or into the authority 's account in a certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and France , continued nevertheless to pay tolls into the account of cld Suez Canal Company in banks outside Egypt . United States vessels , however , did comply with Egyptian instructions and paid tolls to the new Suez Canal Authority  --  but attached a formal reservation to their checks . At no time after nationalization of the Suez Canal Company was Egypt getting more than about 40 per cent of the dues being paid by ships passing through the canal . The remainder was going either into the account of the old , Suez Canal Company or into blocked accounts abroad . However , to prevent an immediate and serious crisis such as would have arisen had ' any ship been denied passage over the question of dues , Colonel Nasser continued to let ships through the canal , even though Egypt was getting nothing from tolls which they were paying . Likely to Win Point Now with the canal soon to De fully operational again , it looks as if Colonel Nasser will insist on settling this issue once and for all ; and since possession is regarded as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is in a very strong position and will win his point . A memorandum circulated by the Egyptian Government says : " The system of levying canal tolls will remain as it used to be , according to the last agreement concluded between the Egyptian Government and the nationalized Suez Canal Company . " In recent weeks there had been reports that the Western powers , through UN Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjold , had suggested that , when the Suez Canal reopened , 50 per cent of the tolls should be paid to Egypt and the remaining 50 per cent into a special reserve fund to be held by the World Bank . The Egyptians soon made it clear that any such proposal was inacceptable to them . Colonel Nasser is convinced that his legal right to nationalize the Suez Canal Company can not be challenged and he was , therefore , from the start unlikely to acquiesce in any arrangement which implies that it could be . Furthermore , after his experience with the proposed loan to help financing of the high clam on the Nile at Aswan , Colonel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World Bank as an impartial international organization . At the time the United States withdrew its offer to consider funds for the dam , it cited Egypt 's shaky economic situation as one of the reasons for withdrawing from discussions of a large Aswan dam loan . Cites 1888 Agreement The latest Egyptian memorandum makes no reference to special provisions for the shipping of any particular nation  --  Israel or any others . It states simply : " Egypt is still determined to respect in letter and spirit the Constantinople Convention concluded in 1888 . " This is the conVention whose first article reads : " The Suez maritime canal shall always be free and open in time of war as in time of peace to every vessel of commerce or of war without distinction of flag . The canal shall never be subject to exercise of right of blockade . " To justify their ban on the passage of Israeli ships through the canal , the Egyptians usually invoke Article 10 of the convention which they argue permits " any measures " which they " might find it necessary to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egypt and the maintenance of public order . " The Egyptian memorandum shows what the Egyptian position will be when Mr. Hammarskjold arrives here later this week to seek an agreement with Colonel Nasser on operating arrangements for the Suez Canal . ' UN chief speeds to Mideast talks : Page 6 ,                     