@@717177

txt Some 950,000 farmers who grow wheat in 36 states of the nation have an extra chore today  --  and an important one . Tnis is the day they will mark ballots that will spell the difference between wheat at $1.81 a bushel and wheat at $1.19 a bushel . The ballot June 25 says : " Are you in favor of marketing quotas for wheat for the 1956 crop ? " Beneath , in smaller type : " If for quotas , put X in this box . " ? If against quotas , put X in this box . " The " marketing quota " for a farm is the number of bushels of wheat which may be produced on the acreage , to which a farmer is entitled under the 55,000.000 national acreage allotment set by the Secretary of Agriculture , under the law . If two-thirds or more of the country 's wheat farmers vote for acceptance of these quotas , it will mean that they can not grow all the wheat they may want to on their land , but by this compliance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent of parity , or about $1.81 a bushel . If two-thirds or more vote against the acceptance of quota control , they may grow more wheat , but the government will support wheat prices at only 50 per cent of parity , or at about $1.19 a bushel . This is the first time in recent years that there has been any question as to how wheat farmers would vote on this issue . Some of the margin of doubt lies in the fact that farmers do not like to cut back on planting and production at a time when their income is dropping . The natural impulse is to plant and sell wheat in an effort to make up the loss in volume . This year 's acreage allotment is the lowest permitted under the law . Congress set aside the 55,000,000 limitation for the year of 1954 to permit an allotment of 62.000,000 acres and allow farmers more time to make the needed acreage cutback . In 1953 , before acreage allotment was imposed , wheat farmers planted 78,000,000 acres to wheat . But with the government today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the price support program , the necessity for acreage reduction to its lowest minimum is seen as imperative . The farmers ' decision this year is a vital one . It will have far-reaching effects , politically as well as from an economic standpoint . The National Farmers Union , the most radical farm organization , has been so deeply concerned over the possibility of a " no " vote undermining the price-support program that it has been actively campaigning on the issue in paid advertise- ' ments and posters . Ti the farmers should vote out controls , there would be no immediate effect , since the vote concerns the 1956 crop . But , eventually , in such a circumstance , wheat would come flooding into the free market in price-depressing volume . Other grains would be affected . So would the price of livestock .                     