@@715341

txt The New York Legislature adjourned its regular session , which began on January 7 , with a rush of business done in the final three or four days that considerably redeemed a barren previous record and that , in respect to New York City 's affairs , wrought a major change in the administration and fiscal policy of the transit system . The session 's notable achievements were restricted largely to the reform that may be imposed or encouraged as to New York City 's governmental management . Nevertheless quiet progress was made in general legislation . But some bitter disappointments were suffered also . It is a matter for regret that the home rule principle for cities had to take such a trampling in the program adopted to straighten out New York 's financial difficulties . But in our opinion Governor Dewey had no. alternative . The decision to intervene was taken late , and only after the city administration had chronically and obstinately refused to apply the correctives within its power . The state itself had been slow to intervene in the transit deficit problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor Dewey stepped in when hope had been exhausted that the city would conduct its affairs in a business-like fashion . The city 's policy was well expressed on the closing night of the session , when a Brooklyn Democratic Senator said : ' We want to maintain that 10-cent fare come hell or high water . ' ' * * It is my hope that my party in New York will stick to their stand and stick to the 10-cent fare , no matter what they have to eliminate . " The city can not enjoy the . revenues from either a real estate tax increase or the newly authorized and unwise payroll tax unless it accepts a transit authority , with an operating deficit barred . Since it seems incredible that the city could get along without one or the other of these tax sources , a transit authority will take over sooner than anyone would have dreamed possible a month ago . Although it will lie the last to admit it , the city administration may well feel relief that it is escaping from the transit headache , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for November in the brusque treatment ( for which the city was alone to blame ) received from the Governor . On the plus side the legislative session made progress toward eventual lifting of rent controls , advanced some beneficial Constitutional amendments to referendum vote , including relief of court congestion and preservation of natural resources , revised the public welfare formula , reformed state civil service administration , took limited steps to improve highway safety , advanced Nassau highway construction , opened social security to some unpensioned civil service employes , passed legislation beneficial to public libraries , liberalized Sabbath laws somewhat , and offered the Governor an opportunity , if he thinks it equitable , to relieve bus lines of one layer of double taxation . A. /broad inquiry into the state 's judicial system was voted , but with a damper put on the single major reform that could do most to improve the quality of the courts : a better system selecting judges . Some improvements , but not enough , were made in eltic ! cion law and in law governing political parties , and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including the drafting of a local option act for Permanent Personal Registration . This limited advance may be considered a victory in defeat for P. P. R. Time will tell . Ontheminus side the major disap- pointments were the surrender to the " rich and ruthless " insurance company lobby that kept compulsory automobile liability insurance from coming to a floor vote ; the failure again to adopt compulsory inspection of automobiles , and the defeat , encouraged by Governor Dewey , for state sponsorship of television for education . The Feinberg law on subversives among public school personnel was extended to public institutions of higher learning , a consistent step perhaps , but not one that makes this bad law better . The Legislature refused to set up a study of the divorce law , although for the first time there was a committee hearing and a floor vote . Some dubious pension legislation was passed . Finally , the Legislature did not reform its habits of doing business . There were some other omissions , some of which may be rectified at a special session . An appraisal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commend heartily the leadership shown by Governor Dewey in challenging powerful interests and displaying otherwise ' a courage reckless of political consequences , as in his prescription of bitter medicine for New York City . It is too soon , of course , to assay the result . But courage may be good politics as well as a vital ingredient of good government .                     