@@718358

txt A Moscow broadcast threatening that Soviet " volunteers " might go to Egypt disturbed French officials tonight . The first question asked was what President Eisenhower we aid do to prevent such intervention in the Middle East , ' against which he warned Monday night . It was felt here that the fate of the area was in the President 's hands . The conviction has grown that Britain and France have fumbled dangerously in occupying the Suez Canal zone and are incapable , without the active backing of the United States , of fending off the Soviet threats that resulted . In London , the Soviet move was discounted as propaganda . There was less concern than had been manifested in France . The immediate reply made here to a Soviet accusation of a breach of the cease-fire in Egypt was that Britain and France had announced their intention to withdraw their troops as soon as they could be replaced by an international force under United Nations auspices . Parts of this force were already en route . Britain announced yesterday that she had ordered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations force . The French were expected to , take similar measures . Officials here pointed out that the United-Nations call for " immediate " . withdrawal of British and French troops had been interpreted by Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. , United States representative in the United NatiOns , , as meaning they would leave when the international force arrived . It appeared that Moscow was now pressing for the allied troops to leave before there was an international force to supplant them . This would mean that Egyptian forces would reoccupy the canal zone . This was assumed to be Egypt 's purpose in agreeing that United Nations troops occupy the cease-fire line between Egyptian and Israeli troops . If the . United Nations force occupied that line , it would not occupy the canal zone , officials here said . Thus the two European allies would be deprived of what they considered one gain of the expedition : the removal of the canal zone from the control of President Gamal Abdel Nasser of Egypt , at least temporarily . Officials flatly denied Moscow 's charges that British and French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and bringing in new troops . They considered Lie charges to be at least part of a war of nerves , if , not an excuse for sending Soviet " volunteers " into Egypt and near-by Arab countries . There have been reports of Soviet jet ; planes newly arrived in Syria , but official versions of this in Paris , London and Washington have differed . These reports ? were taken sufficiently seriously here for the Foreign Minister , Christian Pineau , to mention them to the Foreign Affairs Committee of the National Assembly Thursday . He did not specify the type of planes or their national origin , but all assumed they were Soviet . . British Discount Threat Special to The New York Times . LONDON , Nov. 10 ? British observers are discounting as propaganda the Soviet Union 's threats to send " volunteers " to fight in behalf of Egypt . ? It is believed here that the Soviet Union 's objective still is , as it has been throughout the Middle Eastern crisis , to appear as " the savior of the Arab world " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broadcast thus reflected less concern than has appeared in France . But that has been true , too , in the case of other Soviet threats of military intervention . The Foreign Office declined to make any formal comment on the Soviet move . However , observers did not overlook the contrast between Soviet intervention in Hungary and tonight 's statement that Soviet citizens would be free to " take part in the struggle of the Egyptian people . " One immediate reaction was the question of whether it is possible be a " volunteer " in the Soviet Union ! It was suggested that Moscow 's propagandk tactic , which was linked with the charge that Britain was building up her forces in the area , actually revealed a determination to distract the world 's attention from the atrocities in Hungary . The allegation that British forces were being built up in Egypt was denied here . It was noted not only that paratroops and bombers already had been pulled out but also that Britain had announcefl as early as Friday her intention to withdraw when the United Nations police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              