@@713260

txt The United States , British and French foreign ministers did not resolve all their differences over rearming the Germans yesterday , but they did reach agreement on a number of other questions . Specifically , they decided to : 1 . Announce that an act of aggression against the West German Federal Republic would be regarded as an attack upon the United States , Britain and France . 2 . Raise the West German police force to 30,000 in one phase to deal with the problem of internal security , and in certain circumstances , permit it to rise to 50 , - 000 in a second phase . This force would be under the German states , but would be available to the Adenauer Government in an emergency . 3 . Raise German steel production to a point that would enable the West German Government to increase substantially its industrial contribution to the defense of the West . 4 . Utilize the German " labor forces " more effectively in indirect support of the occupation authorities . 5 . Create a German foreign office with authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commissioners . This would not , however , mean the reopening of German embassies in Washington , Paris or London . 6 . End the state of war with Germany , relax certain economic and legislative controls contained in the present occupation statute , and begin at once to consider the controls that will remain with a view to relaxing some of them in a few months . The British in the last fortyeight hours moved toward Mr. // Acheson 's view that German manpower should be used under the direction of the North Atlantic joint command . Mr. Bevin said that Britain was prepared to accept the principle of using German troops , but felt that because of the numerous reservations that existed in his own and other countries of the West at present , the problem should be studied further . Robert Schuman , French Foreign Minister , agreed to discuss the problem of using German military manpower , but did not accept the principle of such action at this time . , French Fear Crisis Jules Moch , French Defense Minister , an influential Socialist , held ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French view was that any attempt to force acceptance of Mr. Acheson 's proposals at the current meeting would produce a Cabinet crisis in Paris and lead to the fall of the French Government , The decision to declare that an act of aggression : . gainst the West German Government would be regarded as an attack against the United States , Britain , and France was at least a reaffirmation of the commitment contained in the North Atlantic Treaty . This treaty bound its members , including the Washington , London and Paris Governments , to assist any member subjected to an " armed attack " . In defining an armed attack , it stated specifically that . such an attack upon " the occupation forces of any party in Europe " would bring the treaty into operation . The new declaration , however , would oblige the United States , Britain , and France to take action in event of any attack against the West Germans , whether or not occupation forces were attacked immediately by an  --  aggressor . . Mr. Acheson 's urgent request to include West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in part , at least , on a grave estimate of the Communist army in eastern Germany . He estimated that at the present rate of increase , the East German Communist army , supplied and organized by the Soviet Union , would be 150,000 strong by spring and might by that time include at least one armored division . What United States officials fear and what Mr. Acheson has stressed in the Waldorf meetings is that the East German Communists might attempt to repeat the adventure of the North Korean Communists . Thus , the East German army would be built up , the Red Army withdrawn and the East Germans left free to use force to attain their objective of a " unified " Communist Germany . The declaration by the three . occupying powers apparently was intended to remind the East Germans that , unlike Korea , the Western allies had no intention of withdrawing their forces , and that they would regard any such adventure not as a civil war , as the Soviet Government regards the Korean war , but as an act of aggression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials of the three nations last night about what role , if any , the enlarged West German police forces could play in event of an attack from the east . These forces are intended to be used primarily to deal , not with any aggression from East Germany , but with any Communist uprisings in West Germany that might serve as a pretext for an invasion by East German military units . However , how the German police force is equipped and what use is made of the supplementary West German labor units will in the end determine the role that West Germany is to play in the defense of Western Europe . Under decisions taken here , this police force could be developed , at least in the near future , to . a point where it could make an indirect contribution to Western defense . ? Similarly , it was hoped by the three foreign ministers and their High Commissioners in Germany that the raising of German steel production also would enable West Germany to help in the race to restore Western Europe 's defenses within the next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , no specific new limit was mentioned in the agreement . The principle adopted was that Western Germany , without being permitted to build up a military ' arsenal , should be requested . to contribute what it was called upon to contribute - in the new rearmament program . " Pooled " Defense Stressed One imponderable stressed by those who participated in the meetings was that all the foreign , ministers had accepted the principle that no one country could hope to defend itself against aggression ; that there had to be a " pooled " defense under a unified command . This conviction was written into , the agreements of the North Atlantic ministers . While the ? Nor , wegians and one or two others asked for a few days to . get the views of their associates at home on the unified command problem , there was no doubt that this prin-. ciple had been accepted by all the nations in the treaty . Various rearmament production and financial problems remained to be solved , but the main barrier to agreement was . Mr. Acheson 's proposals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question of timing seemed to most of the ministers to be more important than the question of principle . Mr. Bevin , for example ; received Mr. Acheson 's notice that he wanted to discuss German rearma , ment only the day before he had left London for New York . While M. Schuman 's enthusiasm for rearming the Germans never could be expected to be excessive , the I suddenness of the Acheson proposal led to suggestions from several quarters that more time be given for study .                     