@@718096

txt Britin is sending a new Ambassador to the United States and at the same time shaking up the chieftains of the famed British Civil Service . Sir Harold Anthony Caccia , little known but highly regarded Deputy Undersecretary of the Foreign Office , is scheduled to succeed popular Sir Roger Makins as British Ambassador in Washington . The change-over is expected soon after the presidential elections in November . Sir Roger , who went to Washington at the time President Eisenhower was elected , is returning to London to take over a new post as one of two permanent secretaries to the Chancellor of the Exchequer , essentially the economic and financial chief of the Treasury . Appointment of this top diplomat to a Treasury rather than a Foreign Office post shows the importance Prime Minister Sir Anthony ' Eden now attaches to meeting Britain 's economic problems . Trade War Chief In his battle against inflation I and an economy that does well at home but sometimes poorly abroad , Sir Anthony is seen as shaking up the Treasury by making Sir Roger what amounts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasized in recent speeches that the East-West struggle appears to be turning into trade competition ? and indications are that he has picked one of his best career diplomats to do the economic planning for what the British visualize as perhaps the toughest trade war in their history . Notably , moreover , the men coming to the forefront of British activities today are Eden men . First Chancellor of the Exchequer Harold Macmillan moves from the Foreign Office to the Treasury . Now Sir Roger , a Foreign Office man under Sir Anthony , moves there , too . And Sir Harold , another Eden man , goes to Washington . Although the Caccia appointment comes as somewhat of a surprise here , British officials are confident Sir Harold will prove to be another in the long line of well-liked and effective representatives of Her Majesty 's Government in the American capital . Impressive Record During World War II , the new Ambassador was a member of Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower 's staff in North Africa . Sir Harold reportedly is well known to the President , to Secretary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . After the war he was British High Commissioner in Austria , while before the war he served in Peking and Athens , as well as being Sir Anthony Eden 's private secretary in 1936 . Meanwhile , an important element of the ambassadorial change in Washington is the fact that Britain 's Prime Minister has decided to divide the functions of permanent Secretary of the Treasury and official head of the Civil Service here . These two functions have been vested in one official for 35 years . Although Americans may presume the more important news concerns the Washington ambassadorship , Britons regard simultaneous news about splitting the top control of their world renowned Civil Service as more important  --  and it takes the headlines here . Two Rey Commands Following the retirement this autumn of Sir Edward Bridges , present permanent Secretary of the Treasury and also head of this counrty 's powerful , efficient , widely copied Civil Service , and of his deputy , Sir Bernard Gilbert , there will be two permanent treasury secretaries . One will be Sir Norman Brook , who will become head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to his present post as secretary to the Eden Cabinet . The other will be Sir Roger , who upon his return from Washington will take command of the Treasury 's vital financial and economic work . In his new assignment , Sir Roger will be responsible directly to Mr. Macmillan . He will have charge of home and overseas finance , supply expenditures , home and overseas planning , and will be chairman of the economic planning board . Before taking the Washington post in the autumn of 1952 , Sir Roger was in charge of the Foreign Office department dealing with economic and financial aspects of foreign affairs .                     