@@717613

txt Bruised and battered by an unprecedentedly violent election campaign that has brought new faces . to more than a third of the seats in the National Assembly , the " national " or pro-parliamentary parties are morosely seeking how they can achieve some sort of unity in face of the definite threat represented ' by nearly 200 anti-parliamentarian Communists and Poujadists . To make matters worse , a group of hitherto loyal Algerians has turned against the government . Sixty-one leading Algerian officials - on Jan. 4 presented a three-point ultimatum to the new National Assembly . This Moslem " Group of 61 " threatens to stop cooperation with the French Government unless Algerian national aspirations are recognized within a month . It demands recognition of Algerian nationality as distinct from French nationality , the holding of direct talks on Algeria 's future , and immediate release of Algerians imprisoned for political reasons . Campaign Rankles Picking up the pieces and trying to stick them together again is likely to be a lengthy task in the postelection atmosphere of remembered insults and personal rivalries , but it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to be found after the Assembly meets again on Jan. 19 . The first sign of activity in the deserted Palais Bourbon was when a handful of " old-timers " met to recount their election ups and downs , some to bid a sad farewell after a decisive " thumbs down " from the electorate . Animation came as representatives of each of the many groups ranging from the Socialists through the mutilated Democratic and Socialist Union of the Resistance ( UDSR ) , the Radical Socialists ( pro MendesFrance ) , the followers of Edg-ar Faure , the Roman Catholic Popular Republicans , the Independent Conservatives ( the Pinay group ) , and the Peasants , and the debris of the two Gaullist groups began the hunt to round up waverers . Their aim is to get as many names as possible officially written down on party lists so as to swell numbers and obtain better representation on the Assembly 's committees and in its bureau , all posts allocated according to proportional representation . But the news that M. Faure , outgoing Premier , ? intends to . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parties , into a compact , if tiny , party , is not the best omen for unity . Although M. Faure himself advocated a governmental majority running from the Socialists right across to the Independent Conservatives , it was clear he has not buried the hatchet where Pierre Mendes-France is concerned . Mendes-France Hit However , each group is becoming increasingly aware that some sort of compromise must be found . The Popular Republi cans , who proposed a search for a common program even before the election results were out , have renewed this conciliatory offer . The Independent Conservatives , while taking a hit at M. Mendes-France 's friends for trying to prove that his " Republican Front " has won some sort of a victory , issued a communique saying : " . . . All national parties have lost seats . . . . The only winners are the Communists and Poujadists . ... The national parties would do better to prepare speedily for some reform of our institutions , electoral reform , and an audacious but realistic program . " Against the background of internecine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and old grievances dropped is gradually gaining ground . M. Mendes-France and Socialist leader Guy Mollet met to discuss tactics for the " Republican Front . " Rumor is busy suggesting a Socialist candidate for Premier , whereas M. MendesFrance 's friends are claiming he is the only possible choice , thotigh apparently an impossible one from the rightist and centrist point of view . On Jan. 14 the Socialists will hold a special congress , and two days later the Radical Socialist executive committee will meet . The Popular Republicans have announced a national council meeting for Jan. 21-22 . All these meetings will see an attempt to thrash out possible compromises . Finally , the 51 Poujadists will get their ' instructions at a national congress in Paris on Jan. 14 , 15 , and 16.                     