@@715482

txt President Eisenhower said tonight that a " fair and humane " settlement of the prisoner-of-war issue in Korea must rest on four " basic " principles that are " not subject to change . " In a formal statement issued at the White House , the President defined these principles as follows : 1 . No prisoners of war in Korea will be repatriated by force . 2 . No prisoners will be coerced or intimidated in any way . 3 . There must be a definite time limit to the period of their captivity . 4 . All the procedures to be followed in arranging for the exchange of prisoners in the course of an armistice must reflect these principles . The President 's brief statement , issued at the end of a day in which Korean truce issues were the subject of comment from Washington and London to Seoul , made three additional points : that the four principles had the support of " our Allies " ; that they were in accord with the prevailing view of a " representative bipartisan group of Senators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Indian resolution adopted by fifty-four members of the United Nations General Assembly last December . Major U. N. Bid to End War The four principles were contained in a note delivered to the North Korean and Chinese Communists at Panmunjom yesterday . The note , which represents a major United Nations bid to end the fighting in Korea before the third anniversary of the war next month , is under study by the Communist delegation while the truce negotiations stand recessed until June At the request of the Communists in Korea early Wednesday , a meeting of United Nations and Communist liaison officers of the truce delegations was called in Panmunjom for 3 P. M. , Korea time , or 2 A. M. , Eastern daylight time . Tokyo thought the Reds sought more information on the new United Nations proposal . The truce delegates themselves last met Monday afternoon , when they recessed until next Monday . In other developments in the truce situation , the South Korean Ambassador . Dr. You Chan Yang , called on Acting Secretary of State Walter Bedell Smith at the State Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations proposals were " completely unsatisfactory " to his Government . Dispatches from the South Korean capital reflected this same view . At the same time , Senator H. Alexander Smith , Republican of New Jersey , who previously had opposed any further compromises with the Communists in Korea , talked with Acting Secretary of State Smith and then said he was going along with the Administration 's proposals . However , Senator // William F. Knowland , Republican of California , and Representative Walter H. Judd , Republican of Minnesota , expressed doubt about some of the afirninistrative changes proposed by the Administration . It is understood that the principles defined by the President this evening were carried out in a series of specific terms put forward in the latest note to the Communists : 9N0 forcible repatriation : The United Nations plan insists that if a prisoner does not want to go home , he will not be forced to do so ? by the Allies , by any " political , conference " on the captives ' fate or by the United Nations . 9N0 coercion or intimidation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Communists ' proposals that the unwilling prisoners be turned over to a neutral commission , composed of representatives of Poland , Czechoslovakia , India , Sweden and Switzerland ; that troops from these nations supervise the prisoners ; that the Chi-j nese Communist and North KoH rean regimes be given access to I their prisoners in the United Nations camps , and that all prisoners who certified within four months of this that they wanted to go home be permitted to do so . The United Nations note , laying down an elaborate system of precautions in order to deal with the possibilities of coercing the prisoners into signing certificates of return , insisted that no troops but those of India be sent to Korea . It agreed that the Communists could have access to their prisoners , but only in the presence of representatives of all the neutral representatives . flA time limit on the period of captivity : It is understood that the United Nations note , which was drafted here and discussed with legislators and Allied Governments during the last fortnight . did not spell out this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a specific procedure for dealing with the prisoners . In Case of Coercion If , for example , a Communist prisoner now in United Nations hands had refused in the past to_the return to Communist China , he would be turned over to the control of the neutral commission and would be allowed to talk to representatives of his regime in the ' presence of representatives of the , five neutrals . If he then signed a certificate saying he had changed his mind and wanted to seturn to Communist China , and if the ' United Nations authorities had reason to suspect that he had done so through coercion , he would be brought before the neutral commission itself . At this point there is a change in the United Nations proposals for dealing with this problem . The I United Nations note of May 13 in- , sisted that the neutral commission , in such a case , should have to vote - unanimously to approve this cer- , tificate of return , but the latest United Nations note agreed that this vote could be taken by a majority of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the United Nations insisted , however , that this question be put in a specific way . Under the plan , the neutral commission would have to vote 3 to 2 that the new certification of return was proper and that there had been no fraud or duress . In this way , the State Department and the Allies feel , the principle of no forcible repatriation and no intimidation would be preserved , without demanding the right of veto for all the members of the neutral commission . Senator Smith of New Jersey ' went along with tills interpretad Wm , though he expressed some doubts about it , while Senator Knowland and Representative Judd insisted that the veto should have been preserved . Their argument was that if a iman had refused for months to return and then suddenly signed a certificate of return , there was something suspicious about it . Accordingly , they argued that the man might have been forced to sign in some way , that his life might be at stake in going back , and that , in such an event , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trial  --  should apply . The State Department sought to calm the doubts of the two legislators by pointing out that a veto works both ways and thus could be used by the Poles and the Czechs against the United Nations in dealing with Allied prisoners now in the hands of the Communists . Despite the President 's indication that a representative group of legislators agreed with his proposals , the opposition to his plan on Capitol Hill had not disappeared . Messrs . Knowland and Judd may have agreed with his principles , but not with the procedures contained in the United Nations note to carry out the principles . Nevertheless , the Administration is convinced it has conceded enough to advance the prospect of a truce without violating any basic concept . For example , officials point out that two other safeguards are contained in the Allied plan : ( 1 ) If a decision goes against the Allies in the neutral commission , the case can be appealed to the political conference proposed to settle the political fate of Korea after an armistice ; ( 2 ) If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stipulated number of days ( reports here on the number differ from thirty to sixty ) the question then will be submitted to the General Assembly . Thus , it is noted , a prisoner would have two possibilities of appeal in any doubtful case .                     