@@717445

txt With a simple but impressive flag-raising ceremony at the new Greek consulate general here , Turkey has officially made amends for insults to the Greek flag and for the anti-Greek riots over Cypress of Sept. 6 and 7 , The onlooking officers of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 's South European subcommand located here hoped the gesture would assuage the Greeks ' slighted honor and seal the breach in the free-world alliance without further ordeal . Thus the threat of a modern Greek tragedy in ? the classical tradition would be avoided . No hitches or untoward incident marred the occasion . The unfailing Mediterranean sun warmed the proceedings . A platoon apiece of Turkish and Greek soldiers and a Turkish military band lined up on the waterfront facing the consulate . A group of self-effacing but interested bystanders included NATO high brass , among them United States Lt. Gen. George Reed , United States Air Force Major General Grusendort , and the United States consular staff . Also present were senior Turkish and Greek officers attached to the command , including several Greeks whose homes and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Regret Voiced On the stroke of 10 , Turkish Minister of Communications Mammer Cavusoglu , representing his government , hoisted the flag while the Turkish military band struck up the Greek national anthem . The flag having been duly raised , the Communications Minister delivered a brief address wherein he voiced the Turks ' " deep regret for events that took place in Izmir and Istanbul the sixth and seventh of September , " and added , " A most sorrowful event for us was the disrespect toward the flag of our friend and ally , Greece . " He further recalled that Turkey and Greece " are linked by two alliances , " recalled that Greek-Turkish friendship was established 30 years ago by Kemal Ataturk of Turkey and Eleutherios Venizelos of Greece , and concluded that the flag raising gave a " moral satisfaction for disrespectful acts that were committed in our country during the nights of the sixth and seventh of September toward the Greek flag and the honor and pride of Greece . " The Greek ambassador to Ankara , who was away from his post at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occasion , then delivered a brief reply thanking the Turkish Minister for his " friendly words " and describing the ceremony as a " sincere expression of regret by the Turkish Government " and a " formal manifestation of the Turkish Government 's desire to restore the injured honor of the Greek nation . " Beginning ' of Amends At the same time , he indicated that his government considered the ceremony as a " beginning " of Turkish amends and referred to " our request for quick and complete material compensation of damages suffered . " The local Greek consul , whose consulate has been burned by rioters and who got a much better consulate out of the deal , seemed fairly radiant and all other Greeks present seemed pleased , and the prevailing atmosphere , after so much tension , was one of cordiality . It remains to be seen whether the Athenian press , which has hitherto played the role of Greek chorus with rather raucous relish , will alter its tone and tune accordingly . The Americans who have had part in promoting the present conciliatory efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tragic incidents , have shown every desire to make amends . The flag-raising ceremony , though simple and brief , was actually far from simple to arrange , but required plenty of behind-the-scenes patience , perserverance , tact and diplomacy . Red Tape Cut The chief problem facing the sponsors was how to free the house intended for the Greek consulate from its previous Turkish civilian occupants . The house in question was willed to the Greek Government by the late owner , a Greek citizen named Kapitanidis back in 1950 . But many legal complications had intervened to prevent the Greeks taking possession as the tenants fought a long delaying action through the courts . It was only thanks to the vigorous cooperation of Turkish authorities in cutting through angles of legal red tape and in particular to the Governor of Izmir who finally convinced the previous occupant it was in the national interest for him to move promptly without further delay ? at government expense and into a new house the authorities had secured for him  --  that the premises were readied for the ceremony , at the conclusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consul .                     