@@719261

txt Fifteen hundred serious-faced people , about 90 per cent of them women , sat across long tables one night last week in the parochial school attached to a Roman Catholic church in Brooklyn . They were fitting tiny chips onto numbered squares on bingo cards . It was " game night " or " social evening " at the church . The visitors had arrived in chartered buses and private automobiles , by public transportation and on foot . As they approached the church , they were accosted by solicitors who told them of a forthcoming social evening at a neighboring synagogue . The gathering was mixed . The visitors included Catholics , Protestants and Jews ; Negroes , and women , men and adolescents . They paid an admission fee of $3.50 to play thirty-five . games of bingo for cash prizes that totaled about $3,500 . The proceeds , after expenses , went to the church maintenance and building funds . Actually , the game is illegal . But it is widely played throughout the state . So , next week voters will be asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a proposed constitutional amendment that would legalize bingo and similar games of chance when played under religious , benevolent or like auspices . Scenes similar to the one described in Brooklyn are enacted every night of the week in religious , fraternal and patriotic meeting halls throughout New York State . The yearly proceeds from these games of chance , held for worthy causes , total many millions of dollars . Strictly speaking , the people who now gather for game night in the churches and fraternal meeting places are violating the state gambling law . The fiction that they are not is maintained by the pretense that they are paying an admission fee to an entertainment in which free bingo is provided . A record player supplies a brief musical interlude , or sometimes a singer , dancer or comedian entertains . This meets the requirements of a 1952 State Court of Appeals decision that permits bingo when it is a free attraction of at paid-for entertainment . The truth is , however , that those attending the bingo games go to gamble . Even the pretense that it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inside , and the admission requirement becomes meaningless under such circumstances . Raids Cause Furor When Deputy Chief Inspector Louis Goldberg , in legitimate pursuit of duty , began in 1954 to raid bingo games in Brooklyn churches and synagogues , he caused public furor and consternation . Until then , few had bothered to use the entertainment gimmick . Inspector Goldberg had challenged existing mores . Everyone knew , and most persons accepted , the fact that in respect to bingo or lotto and similar games of chance the state law against gambling was more honored in the breach than the observance . Many public benefactions were and still are dependent on receipts from the games . It was estimated in 1954 that bingo proceeds in the state were about $25,000,000 a year ; threefourths of it in the metropolitan area . About 25,000 persons were said to be attending the 200 games held in the area on.a once or several-times-a-week basis . There is little evidence that the number of bingo games in New York State has decreased very much since 1954 . They are still flourishilig here and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communities , and they are not advertised openly . Weekly games are in session throughout the city . In Westchester County , the games are slightly fewer and not so wellattended . However , in Rockland and Suffolk Counties , there does notseem to be any diminution in the number of games held . Only in Nassau , where there has been in effect a longtime ban on bingo , is there a dearth of games . No Arrests Made Nor is the police enforcement any more vigorous generally than in the past . There is no record of the New York Police Department 's having made even one arrest for bingo in 1956 or 1957 . The record for the rest of the state is virtually the same . In Suffolk , bingo games are played across the street from a police station . As a reward for his conscientious police work , Inspector Goldberg was reduced in rank and ultimately forced into retirement . But his zeal did produce results . The Democratic , and Republican parties immedi-1 ately pledged themselves to work for a constitutional . amendment that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state constitution can take effect , it must be approved at two separate sessions of the Legislature , with a general election intervening . It is then submitted to the voters at a referendum and , if approved , becomes effective at the start of the succeeding year . The 1955 and 1957 Legislatures passed the enabling bills . Should the amendment carry next week , as most politicians think it will , a player will be able to sit at a bingo table starting next . January without figuratively looking over his shoulder for a policeman . New , York would become the ninth state to legalize bingo . Although the proposed amendIment has not produced much pre-election discussion of the subject by the general public , powerful blocs have been working for and against it . e opposition to the legalization of bingo is being led by the , ProtestantNew York State Council of Churches , with more than 2,000 of its member churches taking part in the campazign . Also on record against the amendment are the Young Men 's Christian Association , the New York State Grange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York State Christian Youth Council and the Citizens Committee Against the Bingo Amendment . Although the New York Board of Rabbis has declared itself in opposition to the amendment , not all of ifs members subscribe to that view . The New York Federation of Reform Synagogues opposes legal bingo , but bingo games are played on weekly basis in some Reform Jewish synagogues in the metropolitan areas and in meeting places of the Young Men 's Hebrew Association . The State American Legion and the Veterans of Foreign ' Wars are sparking the efforts to line up votes for the amendment . ' So , too , are other veterans ' organization and volunteer firemen 's associations . Officially , the Roman Catholic Church has taken no stand on the controversial issue . However , since a large number of the games are played in its churches , many of its priests are supporting the amendment . Bingo has flourished in Catholic churches because , unlike most Protestant churches , they support parochial schools . Also , most Catholic theologians do not consider gambling immoral . In the present campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " discriminatory , " since it permits to religious and benevolent organizations a privilege that would remain criminal for individuals or non-beneficient groups . They also contend bingo is immoral and habit-forming and encourages persons to lose money they can not afford . Proponents of the measure point to the needed income that bingo , provides for worthwhile organizations . They dispute the immorality of bingo playing pointing out that many European countries have legal gambling without impairment to the morals of their citizens . Neither Mayor Wagner , nor his Republican opponent , Robert K. Christenberry , has spoken out on the bingo issue during the current political campaign . However , Mr. Wagner is on previous record as in favor of legal bingo . Mr. Christenberry has not repudiated State Senator Walter G. , his Republican running mate for City Controller , Mr. is coauthor with Assemblyman Anthony P. Savarese Jr . of the bingo amendment . The proposed state amendIment would permit cities , villages and towns to authorize bingo games conducted by " bona fide religious , charitable or nonprofit organizations of veterans , volnnteer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to " the lawful purpose " of the organization holding the game . Single prizes could not exceed $250 and no series of prizes on any occasion could be more than $1,000 . Only a member of the nonprofit organization could manage the game , and no one could be paid for this function . The restrictions that would be placed on legal bingo in New York are somewhat similar to those existing in other states where bingo is permitted . These include Vermont , Connecticut , New Hampshire , Minnesota , Maine , Rhode Island , Maryland and New Jersey . Cash prizes are not , permitted , however , in Connecticut . If the New Jersey experience is any criterion , legal bingo would probably prove popular in New York State . From April , 1954 , when the games were legalized in New Jersey , until October , 1957 , gross proceeds to churches and other charitable organizations totaled $52 , - ' 403,840 . Expenses took about 30 per cent of the gross . Limitation of the size of the prizes has kept the proceeds from going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bingo is its simplicity . It requires no skill . Winning numbers are selected blindly . Probability of success certainly can not be the lure . Experts estimate a player has one chance in 235 of winning a game . Each player has one or more cards . The cards are blocked out in squares . At the top of each row of squares are the letters BINGO . There is a number in each square . The person operating the game draws a number by , chance and calls it out . For example , B-23 . Players who have a number 23 in the B column of their cards place a chip in that square , or cross out the number . The idea is to get five numbers in a row in any direction , whereupon the player cries " Bingo ! " and that game is over .                     