@@717997

txt Navy and Air Force planes smashed an attempted Peronist counter-revolution early this morning . Fulfilling a threat made before dawn by the Vice President , Rear Admiral Isaac F. Rojas , the planes bombed and strafed two large focal points of rebel resistance into submission . Approximately forty rebels , mostly civilians , were summarily executed during the night after martial law had been imposed on the country . Further executions were announced during the day . Additional scores of suspected plotters were arrested in this capital and put in jail . Late tonight the Supreme Council of War was convened to study charges against Army officers involved in the revolt . The council will have to decide how many captured officers and civilians will face firing squads . The Government ordered a curfew throughout the Province of Buenos Aires . To Air Force intelligence officers the attempted counterrevolution was known as " Plan T. " The officers described the revolt as " an audacious but illconCeived and poorly executed " operation to overthrow the seven - month - old revolutionary government of Provisional President Pedro Eugenio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in an address to the nation from Government House , said : " In a very few hours much fine blood has been shed . " There was no official estimate of the casualties . General Aramburu reassumed control of the nation after hurVedly returning from a trip to the interior of the country . The revolt broke out late last night when the President was in the city of Rosario . Rebel leaders met with some success in only two cities . These . were Santa Rosa , 375 miles southwest of Buenos Aires , the capital of La Pampa Province , and La Plata , thirty-five miles southeast of here , capital of Buenos Aires Province . In broadcasts from a radio station at Santa Rosa that they had captured in a surprise attack , the rebels said their national leaders were two former Peronist generals . They were identified as Gen. Raul Tanco , former chief of the Superior War . College , and Gen. Juan Jose Valle , former director of Army engineers . Both men were ousted from their jobs after the revolution that toppled the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ escaped from confinement several weeks ago , and the Aramburu Government subsequently called upon General Tanco to surrender or be declared " in rebellion . " Late this afternoon the state radio issued a communique calling on all authorities to aid in the capture of General Valle and General Tanco . The communiqu ? said the two men were wanted for " malfeasance and rebellion . " The rebels , according to proclamations they broadcast , sought to establish a " government of recuperation " built on the same social doctrines ? as those of the Peron regime . The proclamations called for an immediate amnesty for all political and trade-union prisoners , the restoration of trade unions to the power they wielded under Senor Peron and general elections within 180 da3-s . Workers Exhorted to Join Approximately forty noncommissioned officers and soldiers under the command of Capt . Waiter Phillipeaux seized , with the a:d of some police units , all etrategic locations in Santa Rosa . The radio station was used to exhort workers to rise against the Government throughout the country . Informed that the Government intended to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would hold local government chiefs as hostages . Nevertheless Admiral Rojas ordered they planes into action . About fifty bombs Were , dropped around the Santa Rosa ' radio station at 8 o'clock ' this morning , putting it out of action ' and sending the rebels into flight . Ground troops finished the operation . Similar measures were taken against the rebel stronghold in La Plata , where elements of the Seventh Regiment had rebelled . A group of noncommissioned officers , joined by several scores of armed civilians under the leadership of retired Lieut . Col. Oscar Lorenzo Cogorno , seized and held for almost nine hours the regiment 's headquarters , which is only a dozen blocks from the teeter of the city . Other civilian groups captured the city 's telephone center and cut off communications with Buenos Aires for hours , Loyal Army troops and marines were dispatched immediately to contain the rebel movement to the regiment 's barracks . Thousands of civilians followed the Government 's instructions to evacuate the area shortly after dawn . Planes Attack Barracks At 8:45 A. M. a squadron of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fire was directed against the planes for a few minutes . Then loud explosions were heard and clouds of smoke rose from the barracks site . It was believed the regiment 's powder magazine had been hit . Colonel Cogorno escaped but was captured a few hours later . He was believed to be one of three officers reported scheduled to be executed in the afternoon by a firing squad . Tonight it was announced that six persons , including two reitired army officers , had been summarily shot in the industrial city of Avellaneda early this morning . Lieut . Col. Valentin Irigoyen was executed for having been found with a portable transmitter and revolutionary pamphlets , while Capt . Jorge Nugal Costales was executed for leading an armed group of civilians . Four civilians were executed at the same time . The regime 's uec of firing squads gave an indict on of the strength of its determine ; ; ion to stay in power until it is succeeded by an elected government . ' In the last twenty-five years no Argentine revolutionary plotters have been sentenced to death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them to prison or send them into exile . Reports from Campo de Mayo , a large Army base eighteen miles northwest of Buenos Aires , said that infantry soldiers also had rebelled there under the leadership of noncommissioned officers . Loyal cavalry . troops under . Gen. Juan Carlos Lorin put down this rising after sev- , eral hours of fighting . Rebel attempts to seize other key sites were much less successful . A local news agency reported that 1,800 armed civilians had attempted to capture the Army 's arsenal in Buenos Aires . Prompt action by the Army 's First Division frustrated this attempt . however , and the few rebels within the arsenal were captured . An attack was launched against the Army mechanics ' school by former noncommissioned officers recently discharged from the Army and by armed Peronists . The rebels seized the school 's guards , but re-enforcements , attracted by the shooting , quickly drove them into retreat . By 11 A. M. Admiral Rojas was able to broadcast to the nation that the . rebellion had been ended . At 2 P. K @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area to greet President Arambutu upon his return . About 70,000 persons thronged into the Plaza de Mayo to await the President 's appearance on the balcony of Government House . Peron Declines to Comment Special to The New York Times . BALBOA , C. Z. , June 10 ? Juan D. Peron was reported to be following accounts of the Argentine uprising with close attention , but has declined to make any public comment on it . The former dictator , who is now living in Colon , Panama , spent must of today in bed with a cold . He is said to feel that any comment would prejudice his position in political asylum .                     