@@714191

txt It may be that the St. Lawrence River shipway and power project now has a better chance to get through Congress than ever before . At any rate it is now proclaimed to be essential to national security an indispensable route for Labrador Iron ore to our furnaces and the sole means of supplying northeastern states with electric power they must have . And finally , the government of Canada asserts its willingness to construct both ship canal and hydroelectric if the Washington government continues to hang back . Quite a library of reports , opinions and more or less expert advice on the subject has been built up , for the project and against it . Probably the bulk of this " literature " consists on the one side of enthusiastic exposition of the advantages of making all the Great Lakes cities ocean ports and , on the other , of gloomy prophecies of the disasters it would visit upon cities of the Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico seaboards . That is , the country has heard chiefly a two-way propaganda . As far as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given to the question whether shipowners could afford to use it for freighting between Great Lakes cities and overseas ports . A few years ago some inquiry directed to steamship companies on this point brought discouraging results . The comparatively slow movement of vessels between the Gulf of St. Lawrence and the up-lake ports ? reducing the number of voyages any ship could make in a year , was and naturally always would be a matter of serious concern to ship owners . Technical questions respecting the adaptability of the same ship to both ocean and Great Lakes navigation were raised and then ignored . Representative Blatnik of Minnesota has introduced a bill which , though its author assumes the great merits of the shipway scheme in wholesale fashion , at least calls for advance study of certain controlling issues . As the Associated Press quotes him , Mr. Blatnik describes his bill as calling for " complete advance information " on costs that must govern the fixing of toll rates and all factors bearing on such charges . Obviously , the practical usefulness of this water route to those w. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in fact on the still unanswered question whether the traffic %Yin hear tolls heavy enough to render the ship-way self-sustaining . The assertion frequently heard that the combined ship-way and power project Nvill see cheap power paying for the canal works over a run of years can not be accepted without critical analysis . If we can assume that Mr. Blatnik 's bill would require thorough and unbiased inquiry into the business aspects of cargo movement via the pi opened shipway , well and good . Such a study would delay its construction , but it is necessary if the country is not to plunge blindly into an enterprise of enormous cost vs hi- out knowing just what it is doing . The Army Corps of Engineers has provided an abundance of data on the capacity of a canal of this or that depth . But capacity figures do not show what volume of traffic would actually move , either toll-free or under tolls None of the current assertions of the emergency nature of the dual project are at all convincing . Development of Labrador iron deposits is going ahead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Great Lakes and St. Lawrence River would be at least an vulnerable to enemy interference as existing channels and probably more so . Hydroelectric power can be produced at the International Rapids without constructing the shipway and even without making it an undertaking of the federal government , already compelled to borrow by the billion . We do not think that the Canadian government 's expressed willingness to go it alone need be taken too seriously at this stage of the discussion . But regardless of that , our own government should disregard sectional propaganda and dig deep into the business realities of the matter before it decides to spend hundreds of millions on what might conceivably turn out to be a dead horse .                     