@@713822

txt ACHESON SAYS U. S. HEEDED ' 47 REPORT Actions in Korea ' Paralleled ' All but One of Wedemeyer Proposals , He Relates By WALTER H. WAGGONER SPeclai to The NEW YORK Ttms WASHINGTON , May 2 ? Secretary of State Dean Acheson declared today that United States actions in Korea " paralleled " those urged by Lieut . Gen. Albert C. Wedemeyer and followed all but one of the general 's recommendations . The Secretary 's defense of the Administration 's Korean policy , set forth in a statement released at his news conference , was made in the face of deeply-rooted Congressional criticism that included a proposal for a Presidential ultimatum demanding heavier contributions to the Korean fighting by other members of the United Nations . The heretofore top-secret Wedemeyer Report , submitted to the White House in September , 1947 , warned that " Soviet-inspired " North Korean forces might invade the Republic of South Korea . Republican opponents of Administration Far Eastern policy were quick to cite the Wedemeyer Re'port as evidence that the Government had rejected the best advice it had at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference with a prepared // statement on the Wedemeyer Re , port but he did not issue it until he was asked if he could " indicate the extent " to which the Wedemeyer Report influenced the formation of United States policy on Korea . The Secretary replied that he could sum it up by saying that the actions taken and the actions recomended coincided in all cases except for the creation of a Korean scout force with American officers . His prepared statement said at the outset that " the record of our action in Korea is plain . " " Certainly , " it went on , " our course in Korea has paralleled the recommendations of General Wedemeyer . " In continuing , the Secretary noted that United States policies , actions and aims in Korea were blocked at many points by the Soviet Union and that the Government 's actions were adjusted to meet that obstructionism . He pointed out that the United States sought from 1945 to 1947 to reach an agreement with the Soviet Union on the " broad problem of Korean freedom and independence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Senate today by Senator Homer E. Capehart , Republican of Indiana , an unrelenting critic of most aspects of the Administration 's foreign policy . The Senator 's proposal was in the form of a concurrent resolution , a statement of Congressional wishes that does not require Presidential signature . The resolution would have the President notify other United Nations members with troops in Korea that unless they substantially strengthened their forces within thirty days , the United States would withdraw completely . The resolution would have American troops used to garrison Japan and Formosa if they were withdrawn from the fighting in Korea . In a statement , the Indiana Senator accused Secretary Acheson of having a " soft attitude on communism , " and thus opposing " stronger action against Communist intervention in Korea . " Creation of Republic Recalled This proved unavailing , the Secretary noted , and the United States then introduced in the United Nationsa resolution calling for allKorean elections under United Nations supervisicn and the establishment of a free and independent nation . Again the Soviet Union balked , refusing to recognize the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Acheson said . The Republic of Korea was created on Aug. 15 , 1948 , as a result of the South Korean balloting . Without referring specifically to General Wedemeyer 's recommendations for military and economic aid to South Korea , the Secretary , nevertheless called attention to deleted 10 lines Mr. Acheson called attention to the fact that the United States did not withdraw its forces until six months after the " announced " withdrawal of Soviet troops . Instead of following the general 's recommendations for a Korean scout force commanded by United States officers , Mr. Acheson said , the Government provided deleted 10 lines the suppression of the section of the Wedemeyer report relating to Korea until yesterday , when it was made public by the Senate Armed Services and Foreign Relations Committees , was justified , the Secretary said he did , on the ground of national security . The proposed ultimatum to other deleted 30 lines                     