@@719003

txt Tlie Soviet Union reports sharp increases in industrial and agricultural production . Moscow radio said gross industrial output rose 10 per cent in the first six months of 1957 over the same period of 1956 and the industrial target was fulfilled 104 per cent . A July 20th announcement by the Central Statistical Board did not list one target that had not been reached in the first six months of 1957 . The broadcast gave no actual production figures . Moscow said the number of factory and office workers had increased by 2,100,000 persons over 1956 . No total was given . " Average earnings of factory and office workers went up 5 per cent , " the announcement cont inued . " Pension allowances . have been considerably increased and more than 17,000,000 persons now receive government pensions . " Increased food production , one of the goals of Party Chief Nikita S. Khrushchev , also was reported . Cainsin Meat The broadcast said the Soviet Union has 5,300,000 more pigs and 3,000,000 more cattle than in the first half of 1956 . " Production of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 20 per cent , " the broadcast said . The Soviet grain crop acreage increased by 3,705,000 acres over last year . " Owing to growing cash incomes of factory and office workers and peasants , total deposits in savings banks have gone up by more than 9 billion rubles , " said the broadcast , The ruble is pegged at 4 to $1 . Moscow said foreign trade expanded 18 per cent over the same six-month period , mainly with Communist countries and India , Egypt , and Finland . The Soviet Communist Party newspaper credited Mr. Khrushchev 's plan for decentralization of industry for the boost . The sweeping plan for decentralization and reorganizing the Soviet Union 's gargantuan industrial administrative machinery officially was put into effect only last May . Purge Held Justified The Pravda editorial , broadcast by Moscow Radio , said the statistical board 's report justified last month 's purge of four Communist leaders who opposed the decentralization programVyacheslav M. Molotov , Georgi M. Malenkov , Lazar M. Kaganovich , and Dmitri T. Shepilov . " In the light of these facts and figures , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Malenkov , Kaganovich , Molotov and Shepilov to minimize achievements in Soviet economic construction to slander the party line and its great and fruitful efforts for the good of the Soviet people look especially pitiful and groundless , " the broadcast said . Pravda said reorganization of management in industry and construction ? " so zealously opposed by members of the anti-party group " ? is already yielding fruit . " This reorganization has eliminated the departmental barriers and created conditions for an even more powerful upsurge of all branches of the Socialist ICommunisti economy . "                     