@@718583

txt There is one solid rock of certainty in these times . All else may change , but when the Soviet Government deliveis a note to the United States Embassy in Moscow the White House and Department of State jump on it befot e they have even read the full text . The note in question was the one of Feb 12 proposing a six-point Soviet-drafted program for neutralization of the Middle East . A A Tne note was largely a propaganda document . It was full of gimmicks . But it was a set of Soviet proposals which was not presented on a take-it-or-leave-it basis . It was probably not intended to be taken very seriously . But there were two ways of handling it . Official Washington could have set forth an alternate set of proposals and invited discussion of possible corn-promise . Or it could condemn it out of hand as a propaganda gesture . There was one feature in the Soviet note which might have been interesting in Washington . It was a proposal for a joint East-West ban on shipment of any more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a ban would be to stabilize the military situation on a level toughly equal to the one which prevailed before Communist arms were sold to Egypt . Those Soviet deliveries set in motion the chain of circumstances which led to the November explosion . They were largely destroyed or captured during the fighting . Until or unless they are replaced Israel again enjoys the military superiority vis-a-vis Egypt which it possessed previous to the Communist shipments to Egypt . Had the United States proposed a freeze on further arms deliveries to the Middle East . Moscow would certainly have screamed that Washington was trying to load the o.ilance against Egypt . There is little doubt . considering the speed and deasiveness of the Israeli op- eration in November . that a withdrawal of great-power intervention now . plus a ban on arms deliveries , would leave Israel capable of defending itself against the Arab countries . It is rather surprising that Moscow has made such a proposal , considering that its policy has for long been to side with the Arabs against Israel . The quid pro quo offered in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bases in the area . the most important of which is the air-base pact just concluded in Washington with King Saud of Saudi Arabia . This particular base at Dhahran is not of major military importance . It is not a United States military base in the real sense of the word . Landing rights are involved , but not troops . It is of diminishing military value as the range of aircraft goes up and the time approaches when guided missiles will take over the strategic function from piloted planes . The Soviet note could have been the basis for some rather interesting discussions had one wanted to take it as that . It might not have led anywhere . Differences of interest are probably too large . But it need not have been denounced out of hand even before the full text had been received and studied . But there has to be some stability in a too-fast-changing world . The fact is that as of the moment both East and West are somewhat out of breath from the violent convulsions of November . Both have reacted reflexively to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 12 Soviet note is merely one example of how sensitive the great governments are to change . Washington appears to regard even the post-Suez situation in the Middle East as preferable to negotiations with Moscow which might reopen the way to further change . And Washington is certainly monumentally reticent about doing or saying anything to interfere with Moscow 's steady reestablishment of its grip on Hungary . A A A It is almost as though Washington and Moscow were leagued in a vast pretense that the world is still precisely what it was during the cold-war era . Yet this Potemkin village appearance becomes daily more out of line with actuality . Washington has propped up the appearance that the Western alliance is again what it was before the great break with London over Suez . Moscow has put its Eastern European alliance back together with bailing wire and the hangman 's noose . But Moscow knows it could n't count on the loyalty of a dozen satellite soldiers in the event of a real showdown . And if anyone in Washington thinks that the Western affiance has been untouched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quick trip to London and Paris and learn the facts of life . One of the more telling symptoms of the new realism is that Poland and West Germany have resumed trade and journalist relations , are negotiating for resumption of diplomatic relations , and that both recognize that the %latter of their frontiers is something which can best be left in abeyance for the time being because it would exasperate United States-Soviet relations without doing either of them any real good .                     