@@714807

txt Although the circumstances of . Vice President Barkley 's withdrawal as Can. , ' didate for the Democratic Presidential nomination constitute a personal tragedy , its significance has broader cations. - - Mr . Barkley 's withdrawal statement emphasized his belief that his party should serve- without favor the . best interests of all segments of American life , none of which should be permitted to dominate or control it . Yet , - he continued , he had learned that " certain self-anointed political labor leaders " had taken it on themselves to oppose - his candidacy and had admitted previous pledges to other candidates " which would give them greater control of the machinery and policies of the Demo-. cratic party . " Even though Mr. Barkley was precise and accurate in limiting his observations to " certain " , leaders , the general but erroneous impression ' has gone outthat the A. F. L. and the C. as a whole both officially back the action of the group which served notice on the Vice President . As a matter of record , it is known that certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ L. leader decided over the week-end to oppose the Barkley nomination . The A. F. L. leader was George M. Harrison , president of the Brotherhood of Railway Clerks , who committed himself some time ago to the candidacy of Mr. Harriman . But neither A. F. L. President William Green , nor Secretary George ' Meant ' , nor any other top A. F. L. official aligned himself with this move . Nor did Mr. Harrison claim he represented the entire A. F. L. Except in 1924 , when it supported the candidacy of Senator Robert M. La Follette , the A. F. L. has never endorsed any Presidential aspirant , either at the general elections , in the pri maries or in convention . The C. I. 0. , a more centrally controlled organization , however , supported President Truman four years ago after having maneuvered actively against hint in the Democratic convention . Not content with their veto of Mr. Barkley , this labor group communicated its decision to the White House . We can not vouch for the accuracy of the report that President Truman then sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " clear it with the labor people . " We do know that following the labor bombshell Mr. Barkley invited a number of labor officials to breakfast on Monday . Mr. Green and other A. F. L. associates who had been invited ostentatiously absented themselves , thus indicating disapproval of what had already gone forth seemingly in the-name of all of labor . Officially , the anti-Barkley labor group opposed the Vice President . because of his age. - But if a majority of Democratic ' delegates had felt that this was , no barrier to naming him , It is difficult to see why a segment of a minority group comprised almost entirely of non-delegates should have sought to intervene . Unofficially , the self-appointed labor steering body indicated fear lest Mr. Barkley be supported by conservative Democratic forces . This view certainly denigrates Mr. Barkley 's record , his sympathy for and understanding of labor problems and his support of virtually all New Deal and Fair Deal policies as well as his meticulously prompt , constant and generous response to labor 's pleas for cooperation in matters large and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             