@@714735

txt James R. Wilson , 71 , state mine inspector under fire for his safety reports at the West Frankfort mine where 119 men were killed last December , was dismissed from the service today on charges of incompetence and neglect of duty . The action was announced by Walter Eadie , state mines director , after receiving a report on a hearing Wilson demanded when he was suspended May 1 . Wilson disclosed recently that he and other mine inspectors contributed $100 each to the Democratic campaign fund in 1950 at the request of Eadie , an appointee of Gov . Stevenson who claimed to have taken politics out of the mines department . Wilson also said he was asked to contribute to the Jackson day dinner , a Democratic fund raising venture , but refused . Civil Service Holds Hearing The hearing accorded Wilson was conducted here May 26 by Michael Greenebaum of Chicago , a member of the state civil service commission . State mine inspectors are not under civil service but are subject to a stringent merit system , under which Wilson asked the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for 10 years , " did not properly or truthfully report the conditions existing in ' , Orient No. 2 mine where the fatal blast occurred and there , fore was neglectful of his duty and incompetent . " Greenbaum said testimony at the hearing showed five other mine inspectors who went into the shaft May 19 and 20 discov1 ered faulty conditions not reported by Wilson . Find Dust A &mmulations; The five inspectors testified they found accumulations of coal dust not noted by Wilson . Some of them criticized the condition of air stoppings and recommended improvements . The charges against Wilson , raised by Eadie , were based mainly on his reports following the explosion , particularly for February , March , and April , when the mine was preparing to resume operations . Eadie said that in three reports Wilon four times the word " fair " in describing conditions in the mine , nothwithstanding an order prohibiting use of the word as too vague . Eadie had banned the word in January , holding that reports either should show a mine as safe or give recommendations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had worked in and around mines for 57 years , admitted using the word " fair " and said it was from force of habit . He said the conflicting figures on rock dusting must have resulted from an error in transcribing . Five character witnesses , including Robert Cruse , former state mines director , testified Wilson was competent and a man of integrity but some termed his book work careless . The hearing officer noted Wilson 's defense that in 10 years as a state mine inspector he received no criticism from superiors until last April , but he deemed it insufficient . " The lives of thousands of men working in the mines are always at stake and therefore very little , if any , leeway or tolerance can be permitted , " Greenebaum said . He said it is important , in the interests of centralized authority and responsibility , that the mines ! director have control over his inspec tors.                     