@@713590

txt The Wage Stabilization Board tonight modified the more rigid features of its " freeze " order of a week ago to permit merit rises and lengthof-service pay increases . The object of tonight 's order , it was explained , was to permit normal changes in pay scales without sanctioning a rise in the general wage ceiling . The action was taken in response to thousands of telegrams and letters from employers who complained that the normal functioning of their personnel operations had been literally tied into knots by last Friday 's " freeze " order . The " freeze " edict made no allowance for the thousands of normal pay rises , transfers to other jobs or promotions which ordinarily occur each week in industry . All members of the nine-man wage board were in unanimous agreement upon most features of tonight 's order , but labor members dissented on one section because the board did not include " bargaining agent " of unions along with its representatives as persons privilegeT to inspect employers ' records of wage or salary adjustments . The board is composed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor and three Government representatives . The public and Government members insisted that the question of the rights of bargaining agents to inspect wage and salary records should be left open until a permanent policy is established by the board . Tonight 's order , they held , was an interim measure necessary to unreasonable features of last week 's order . Meanwhile , the Office of Price Stabilization acted to allow retail coal prices to rise , along with price advances allowed yesterday to mine operators . The retail rise would reflect the exact increase allowed the mine owners ? an average of 25 cents a ton for bituminous and 90 cents for anthracite . Under tonight 's wage order , merit and length-of-service wage . increases are permitted along with transfers and promotions provided : 1 . That the changes are made in accordance with a formal agreement in effect prior to midnight Jan. 25 , when the wage " freeze " went into force . 2 . That in the absence of a formal agreement changes made in salary and wage levels follow the pattern of a company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes do not exceed the proportions of those made last year . In cases where no agreement existed and where an employer may be in doubt as to the legality of contemplated wage changes , it was added , he may apply to his nearest Wage Stabilization Board office for a ruling . The order also permits men to be shifted from one job to another which pays better . It allows , too , the creation of new jobs at higher wages provided the changes are in line with the existing practices of the company . The normal operation of incentive plans is also permitted . In companies where premiums are paid for those on the night shift transfers of workers from day to night work are allowed and the premium rate is permitted provided it is similar to that of before the price freeze . Hiring Rule Laid Down In hiring new employes , for jobs in which the pay scale is varied , the new worker must be taken on at the minimum scale . Where a single rate governs , the new employe is entitled to that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the general price and wage structure the W. S. B. included a special section providing : " Increases in the wage rates of employes granted under the terms of this general regulation shall not furnish a basis either to increase price ceilings or resist otherwise justifiable reductions in price ceilings . " It was Section 7 of the order which brought the dissent from the labor members . The section in question reads : " The employer shall keep records of each wage or salary adjustment made pursuant to the terms of Sections 1 through 4 of this General Regulation in readily accessible form for inspection by the Wage Stabilization Board . " Emil Rieve , Elmer E. Walker and Harry C. Bates , the board 's labor members , dissenting , insisted that " the action taken under such agreements must be affirmed by both parties ( employer and union , if a union is involved ) before they are found to have taken place , and certified to the Wage Stabilization Board as having been properly taken under the terms of such agreements and practices . " " We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the protest continued , " the adoption of a provision which will assure access by the collective bargaining agents to all records kept of action taken under such agreements and practices and their certification by such agents to the Wage Stabilization Board . " Members of the board , in discussing tonight 's order stressed the point that its purpose was not to permit general wage increases to take place but was aimed at solving the " day-to-day problems which arise by the thousands in industrial and business establishments of the country . " In an effort to clear up a few of the more pressing questions created by its price " freeze " of a week ago , the Office of Price Stabilization tonight issued an additional " question and answer " release for the guidance of , distributors . Included in the release was a question from a purchaser of a house in a development . The buyer reported that he closed a deal for a home last Monday but the price charged him was higher by $1,000 than those charged to those who had made their purchases before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the price freeze does not apply to real estate transactions which are specifically exempted under Section 14 ( b ) of the freeze order . The agency also said that when a private individual sells his own used car the sale is not covered by the price regulation . Sales of used cars by a dealer , however , are subject to the freeze , it was added . A large number of questions regarding prices on apparel were answered by 0 . P. S. with the statement that : " all clothing prices are frozen at the base period level " and increases in these prices are not allowed .                     