@@717364

txt A split developed in the American Legion today over the Fund for the Republic and its activities in support of freedom of thought . Irving Breakstone , past commander of the Illinois Department of the Legion and chairman of the Committee on American Citizenship of the Illinois Bar Association , deplored criticisms of the Fund made last week by Seaborn P. Collins , national commander of the Legion . Mr. Collins had said that the Fund " is threatening and may succeed in crippling the national security . " Mr. Breakstone today made public letters to Mr. Collins and David F. Freeman , secretarytreasurer of the Fund for the Republic . He declared that the Fund was a principal supporter of the Legion 's Americanism program in Illinois . The fund was set up in 1951 by the Ford Foundation to study civil liberties and individual freedom in the United States . Now independent of the Ford fund , it is headed by Robert M. Hutchins , former Chancellor of the University of Chicago . In his letter to Mr. Freeman , Mr. Breakstone said : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the American Legion , Seaborn Collins , in his critical observations concerning the Fund for the Republic * * * I would certainly like to see the evidence , if there is any , to justify his findings . " On Sept. 11 Mr. Collins had called on the nearly 3,000,000 members of the Legion to " avoid any identification " with the activities of the fund . Mr. Collins ' message to Legion members was described as an " alert " against what he termed threats by the fund to cripple national security . Mr. Breakstone , In his letter to Mr. Freeman , said : " We have met with wonderful success here in the American Legion in the Department of Illinois with the Education for Freedom program operated in cooperation with the American ' Heritage Council . The impact of our program has been nationwide in its influence . " The American Heritage Council operates under grants from the Fund for the Republic and provides leadership training and education for the Education for Freedom program . In his letter to Mr. Collins , Mr. Breakstone said : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear to your many Legion admirers in Illinois that your criticism of the Fund for the Republic is not meant to reflect on the program of Education for Freedom which Legionnaires have been conducting for the past three years in Cook County Chicago and suburbs and the past year in downstate Illinois ? " Education for Freedom , you will remember , " Mr. Breakstone continued , " is the program you praised so highly in your address before Police Post No. 207 , the American Legion , in Chicago last February . " Mr. Breakstone said that personnel and operations of the American Heritage Council were thoroughly investigated and approved when the program was started . " The council turned over their complete facilities to our Committee on Education for Free , - dom , helped us to set up leadertraining workships , provided secretarial service , meeting places and even an automobile for exclusive committee use , " Mr. Breakstone wrote . " Last February the American Heritage Council was given a grant of $50,000 by the Fund for the Republic to ' support its program of education on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Constitution of the United States . ' The council promptly announced that the major portion of this grant would be used to provide leadership training and other assistance to the Education for Freedom program . " The Fund , for the Republic had nothing to do , directly or indirectly , with establishing education for Freedom or the American Heritage Council . Neither the Fund nor the American Heritage Council has ever attempted to influence American Legion or Education for Freedom policies . The board of directors of the American Heritage Council are outstanding Chicagoans of irreproachable character . The council was created by a State of Illinois commission and a committee of distinguished citizens , including Past Department Commander Ferre C. Watkins , American Legion , and Vernon L. Nickell , State Superintendent of Public Instruction . "                     