@@712971

txt VJ-Day . As to Russia , our official attitude is one of negation , frustration and defeatism . Surely this does not represent the conviction of the country that has always faced the future bravely and has hopefully gone forward from day to day to achieve . I wonder if it is your position that the Congress should not consider a fair and honorable solution because the Soviets might reject that solution ? Is America to disregard moral factors altogether and thus invite the Communists to blacken our motiTs ? What , except good , could possibly come of the resolution ? If the plan it sets forth were universally accepted , mankind would start along the road to real peace and unprecedented abundance . If Russia should oppose the plan , at least we would have continued striving positively and affirmatively for peace . This at the very least would improve our morale while giving Us the advantage of moral leadership in world affairs . At least our country would have proven  --  and proof is needed in the eyes of millions  --  that it stands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ L. ICKES . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your June 8 editorial entitled " A Disarmament Plan " attacks a resolution which ten other Congressmen and myself introduced into the Senate and House . I was not a little puzzled when I read your words of warning . I thoroughly agree with them , as do my co-sponsors . As a matter of fact , in our resolution , we tried to bend over backward in repudiating the very evils you so rightly condemn . You say , for instance , that " to agree to a one-sided disarmament plan now would be national suicide . " We heartily agree with you . For this precise reason , our resolution stresses again and again that if our nation is to disarm , there must be effective and certain guarantees ( through inspection and other means ) that Russia will also disarm in the same degree and under the same conditions . You observe that making ourselves impotent while Russia remains powerful would be the height of folly " and would bewilder and dismay our European allies . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agree with you . That is why we took great pains to underscore the imperative necessity for world-wide , foolproof safeguards against bad faith in any agreement controlling weapons . If these conditions are observed ? and only then  --  we ask that all countries take the money they would otherwise have spent on weapons and give it instead to a United Nations fund ? where it would be used for constructive purposes throughout the world . Given . the necessary safeguards and methods of enforcement , this proposal should grip the imaginations of people everywhere and make dramatically clear the sincerity and ardor with which Americans seek a just peace . Our resolution also calls for an immediate session of the United Nations General Assembly to consider international control over weapons . Surely you favor , rather than oppose , U. N. debates on this subject . If they lead to an acceptable agreement , mankind will have taken the first step on the road to salvation . If the debates lead to nothing , we Americans will at least have tested one more possibility ; at least we will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , hopefully and positively for peace with justice . I wonder if a re-reading of our resolution will not persuade you that it not only bespeaks common sense but voices America 's conscience as well . BRIEN MCMAHON , Chairman , Joint Committee on Atomic Energy . Washington , June 9 , 1950 . Plan Not One-Sided To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : When seven prominent Senators and four prominent Representatives all strong supporters of Administration foreign policy  --  introduce a bipartisan resolution proposing what they regard as a method of effective international disarmament and control over weapons , I think that your editorial writer might do them the courtesy of reading what they propose before ridiculing their idea . If your editorial writer had in fact read the resolution , he could not have talked about " a onesided disarmament plan " and " making ourselves impotent . " This resolution declares that the United States " is unshakably determined to keep strong " so long as the arms race continues . In six separate places it refers to the necessity for " effective and enforceable " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the last thing that the resolution 's sponsors want is a one-sided disarmament plan . On the contrary , they insist upon foolproof guarantees in the way of inspection and otherwise . The resolution goes on to advocate an immediate session of the U. N. General Assembly to discuss a firm system of control over armaments that would be as binding and as tough on Russia as on ourselves . Next , it proposes " that the Congress of the United States , as tangible evidence of its good faith , pledge itself to appropriate and to make available to the United Nations  --  when an effective *and enforceable system of world-wide disarmament and control takes effect ? all sums which would otherwise have been spent upon weapons for a period of five years , such sums to be expended by the United Nations for peaceful development of atomic energy , . technical assistance programs to underdeveloped areas ; and general economic aid and assistance to all warravaged Countries . " Finally , the resolution would have " the Congress of the United States call upon all other governments to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggest that you must either write at the head of your editorial page , " Abandon all hope of peace , ye who read these columns , " or else you must approve this kind of resolution . It can not be denied that , in. the past , armaments races have always led to war . Who can deny that the greatest armaments race in history will inevitably lead to the greatest war in history ? Moreover , the present armaments race , if continued indefinitely , will cause our national budget to double and then redouble and then redouble again as we spend money lavishly for civil defense , attempting to keep pace with the enormous Soviet arms expenditures and generally converting ourselves into an armed camp . And yet the attitude of THE NEW YORK TIMES , as evidenced by the editorial in question , seems to support the deplorable attitude of our Government so far as foreign affairs are concerned : we can not come to an understanding with Russia because we have never been able to do so since Proposed Patent Licensing Opposed To THE EDITOR @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ April 28 to compulsory licensing of patents after three years is well taken . A summary of the problems which faced one inventor will serve to emphasize the importance of your objection . This inventor had a patent which was declared to be basic and a new development when reviewed by an important firm of patent attorneys . Engineers and research men for ' one chemical company and a manufacturer of power equipment declared the inventor 's estimates of operating and capital costs , power development and sales possibilities were correct . One hitch was that nobody could estimate with any assurance the cat of development , as numerous problems could be anticipated . The consensus was that such costs could be $1,000,000 or more . Risk money of that amount was not easily obtainable then and is not today . Another chemical company which bought from the preceding chemical company faced the obsolescence of one of its plants , or about $25,000,000 on the . basis ? of pre-war prices , if the patent were develpped successfully . A large petroleum company , during the last war , was desirous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patent would have made possible . The patent has since expired and the inventor is deceased . If it could have been developed , new industries and much obsolescence of existing industries could have been- anticipated . Jobs for men would have been one result and not the dearth of jobs claimed by Seymour E. Harris in " The Market for College Graduates , " 1950 . The proposed three-year compulsory Returning Army Captain Voices His Appreciation for the American Way To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I am a Regular Army officer stationed in Germany , who will soon board a ship in Bremerhaven , and after three years on foreign soil set sail for the United States . Why should I be so happy ? Over here I have a lovely home , two servants , my wife and two healthy , happy sons ( one born in Germany ) , plenty of money , friends , hunting , fishing and a splendid professional assignment . In the states prices are higher , housing inferior , and perhaps a less happy assignment . Yet we can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different than in wartime because our families are with us over here now , I think it can only be explained in ideas . rather than practicalities . The idea of America . Not our automobiles , washing machines , television . We do n't miss ( or did n't miss ) our tremendous city and the beaches . We have traveled throughout Europe . Ever here in Germany now we get the " hard " goods so available in the United States . But the idea ! The idea of democracy . Nowhere in Europe have we found the concepts that , mean our way of life . France , Italy , Germany , England  --  all have classes of people . Birth means almost everything and the exception is the poor boy grown rich . Our freedom of thought and sense of security , our right to individualism , our vastness of distance , our pride in national achievement , our family fights that solidify as soon as outside interference is evident , our morals  --  our way of life . This seems the idea of America . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Europe that we seem to be able to reach out and touch it . Perhaps it sounds like homesickness . Perhaps it is the happiness of an invalid returning to health . Europe is still sick politically , still corrupt internally , so far as the layman can see . I suppose my wife and I have idealized America a bit too much . Perhaps we 'll be disillusioned on our return . I really do n't think so . We 'll take our country , recognize her imperfections , and if doubts arise in our minds as to her soundness we 'll just look back to our three years over here . MELVIN GARTEN . Nuremberg , Germany , June 3 , 1950 . School Survey Praised To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your well-informed education reporter , Benjamin Fine , has rendered a public service by his comprehensive study of the need for a large number of new school buildings in all the boroughs of our city . These are needed to replace hundreds of ancient structures and for our increasing school population . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we are never in advance in our provision for our school needs . We are paying dearly for our lack of vision . In Brooklyn we have had to agitate and wait twenty and thirty years for a new school or an additional wing . It is to be regretted that the large number of state , municipal and private housing projects were not obligated to provide space for schools . Some of these projects have as many as 2,500 families . Our Board of Education recommended this provision , but no attention was paid to it . I hope that Dr. Fine 's report will awaken our citizens to our school needs and stir them to action . GREGORY WEINSTEIN . Brooklyn , June 7 , 1950.                     