@@713615

txt The government today ordered tough credit restrictions on the financing of new commercial construction such as office buildings , stores , and hotels . Nonresidential building already is under controls , imposed a month ago , which prohibit this type of construction unless specifically authorized by the national production authority . Today 's order , by the federal reserve board , requires at least a 50 per cent cash down payment , effective tomorrow . The order , amending the reserve hoar d 's " regulation X " of last October which required larger down payments and limited loans on private homes and apartments , fixes the maximum loan on new commercial construction at 50 per cent of the value of the property . Alterations Also Covered Value is defined as " the bona fide sale price . " Major additions and improvements to nonresidential property , including enlargement , reconstruction , alteration , and repair , also are covered by today 's order if the cost exceeds 15 per cent of the appraised value of the property . This means that not more than 50 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ment may be borrowed . The new . regulation further limits loan maturities to 25 years ! and requires amortization of the loan  --  payment of the principal in instalments instead of in a lump sum at the maturity of-the loan . There was no provision in the regulation for special treatment of n e w construction in " defense areas , " but the board said special treatment will be provided by an amendment to be issued " as soon as practicable . " Past Credit a Factor Under the forthcoming amendment , it said , " different terms may be permitted with respect to projects or structures , in limited areas , which may be designated by the appropriate authorities as necessary in the defense program . " The order requires lenders , in determining the amount of loan permissible , to take into account all credit previously extended on the property and still outstanding , as well as the amount of additional credit being extended . This means that total credit can not exceed 56 nor cent of the value . The order covers construction of office buildings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motels , motor courts , garages , automobile service stations , restaurants , theaters , clubs and " other new structures used for nonresidential purposes . " There are , however , a number of exemptions , for the benefit of . hospitals , churches , pubI I tic utilities , and property con4 strutted for use by the government or any political subdivision , " among others . Prior Agreements Binding Also exempted are cases of credit " extended pursuant to firm written agreements " made prior to Feb. 15 . Further exemptions are certain types of construction in connection with manufacturing , farming , and mining . The credit restrictions are for the stated purpose of fighting in , flation by limiting credit available for financing and to reduce build ! ing activities and thus conserve materials and labor for the defense mobilization program . BLOW TO BUILDERS Building industry spokesmen last night described the new government credit control on . commercial construction as " another damaging blow " to a major segment of the economic life of the Chicago area and the nation . The consensus was that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down payments on new nonresidential construction , and major improvements to such buildings would virtually stop all such projects . An exception , it was explained , would be new manufacturing plants , which were exempted under the new credit regulation . New Buildings Needed H. Mayne Stanton , executive secretary of the Building ? Construction Employers association , said that the order would kill many plans for new stores and small office buildings needed for COMMUnitie6 which have sprung up in the home building boom of recent years . He explained further that as applied to hotel , theater and several other types of buildings , the order is virtually meaningless , inasmuch as there has been only negligible activity in these fields . Stanton said the new order also Would probably force many small operators in the building industry out of business . He said this would be especially true of small shops fabricating special lines of building materials . The building industry , which is one of the most important parts of the national economy , is by no ? means opposed to the national defense program , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feel that it is grossly unfair for the government to interfere with certain types of construction work that could be ? carried on without any effect on the defense effort . " Clubbing Industry George H. Dovenmuehle , president of Dovenmuehle , Inc. , Chicago mortgage firm , said the new . " federal reserve order is a case of the government beating the construction industry with another club after it already has been beaten down . " He explained that the credit regulation is a supplementary control to the regulation of the national production authority requiring NPA permits for new commercial construction . Dovenmuehle said many sponsors of store and office buildings are in no position to raise the necessary down payments . In the past , mortgages on such construction in many instances have amounted to twothirds of the ' cost , making the down payments one-third .                     