@@717731

txt The conclusion is that the party congress in Moscow confirmed , announced , and concluded a political transition in the Soviet Union which is at least as extensive in all its implications as was the transition in the Unit0 States when the Democrats won the election of 1932 or the Republicans the election of 1952 . When the members of the Politburo stood up one by one and denounced the " cult of personality " of the Stalin era , they committed themselves publicly to the break with Stalin . They could not , it is reasoned by the experts , do this unless they had completed the process of taking control of the party apparatus out of the hands of the Stalinists and putting it into the hands of what , for want of a better label , might be called the anti-Stalinist party in Soviet politics . Some , though not all , Western experts on Soviet affairs have long believed that the embryonic equivalent of a two-party political system has been forming in the Soviet Union out of the difference of personal interest between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stalin and evolved doubts about his omniscience . There is no longer any serious . Transition Traced Their assessment of the political story of the past three years in Moscow is as follows : Georgi M. Malenkov was the designated heir of Stalin . The party congress of 1952 was attended heavily by Stalin-Malenkov pupils and represented an effort by Mr. Malenkov to put his young boys into decisive power . This very effort precipitated the crisis which was raging when Stalin passed on  --  in fact , may even have provided the cause . But Mr. Malenkov had not progressed far enough in time . His power was restricted withih the first week , when he was ousted from the party secretariat . Stalinism Repudiated i So now the new regime is I established and publicity acclaimed . It has not only demoted the Stalinists . It also has publicly repudiated Stalinist teaching . Stalin 's " Short History " of the Communist Party was called neither popular , factual , nor Marxist . A major tampering with old and accepted doctrine has been dared . This again confirms the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it is in power for a long time to come . One of the prime theses of Stalin doctrine was that communism can not operate usefully or successfully through the parliamentary system in other countries . This has been repudiated . The speeches are full of appeals directed to all left-wing parties . The experts agree that one immediate , certain result will be a revival of the " popular front " strategy of pre-Stalin-dictatorship times . This will be only one of many operations reflecting a boldness which was unpalatable to Stalin . Stalin was essentially- timid , in the opinion of the experts  --  timid in the sense that he was afraid he might lose control of the Communist Parties outside of the Communist bloc if he allowed them to play the " popular front " game or attempt to work through parliamentary institutions ; timid also in the sense that he would not risk a rebuff by seeking friendship with such countries as India . Old ** Kept None of this means for an instant that the new regime in Moscow has renounced the old purpose of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole world , the dictatorship of the proletariat , and the revolutionary transformation of society . But the methods have been revised , drastically . The immediate danger to existing Western policies and purposes is probably greatest in France and Italy . The new line from Moscow is unquestionably more appealing to a broader range of people than was the old Stalin line . These are the tentative views and conclusions being presented to the highest officials of govern : ment in the West . It remains to be seen when action will be based upon them . The views of the experts coincide with a rising uneasiness in Washington about the trend of foreign affairs . Secretary of State John Foster Dulles is under heavier criticism on Capitol Hill now than at any time since he took office . The criticism is not limited to Democrats , although they have been the quickest to express it . There is a general feeling that the old policies of the past are not adequate to the new situation which is confirmed by the events of the week in Moscow . Gains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ triumph from the fray by emphasizing the way the Soviet Union is revamping its 30-year creed of " intolerance " and violence " ? changing its political tactics " from A to Z " and adopting " a system and habits closer to ours . " Mr. Dulles interpreted this as a massive failure of Soviet policy and as meaning that the free world is in a stronger position today than it was a year ago . Mr. Dulles ' claim of Western gains and Soviet weakness in the past 12 months  --  sharply at variance with widespread opinion in diplomatic and embassy quarters generally  --  won rounds of applause from the massed spectators and produced press headlines playing up " failure " of Soviet policy . It is the considered opinion in many Western circles that , contrary to Mr. Dulles ' optimism , the United States is losing the worldwide battle of ideas and that the Soviet " soft " policy has been extremely effective in neutralist and even many proNVestern areas of the world . These circles say there is no justification for United States complacency and fear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of State achieved a long-run political advantSge in this exchange with critical senators remained to be seen . He produced headlines favorable to his point of view , although he conceded that in " heavy industry " and in military preparations the Soviets were indeed making powerful strides . Moreover , he made the telling point that it was only now that Moscow was trying out a foreign-aid or mutual security program , while the United States had " had one for ten years . " Responsibility Set But tfi this session , Mr. Dulles showed that , however the world may regard him as a success or failure in diplomacy , he is a master of political impact . He made no apologies for the mixup of the Saudi Arabia tank deal , in which the State Department first cleared , then halted , and then again released a shipment of 18 tanks to the oil-rich Middle East kingdom . He assigned the main responsibility for the tank decision to Undersecretary of State Herbert Hoover , Jr. , and Mr. Hoover , at his elbow , accepted the responsibility totally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate Foreign Relations Committee before which Mr. Dulles sat , bore down with sharp interrogations , mindful of the sense of lack of direction or explanation of basic foreign policy which has pervaded Washington of late  --  since the new Soviet behavior . But Secretary Dulles mixed a strong defense of administration policy with exhortations for responsibility and wisdom in dealing with the explosive Arab-Israeli tension , and though many times on the defe-sive , he was never wholly thrust into retreat . On the tank deal . Mr. Hoover United Press John Foster Dulles testified and offered the new explanation that he had held up the shipment primarily because of the " large amount of speculation in the press and on the radio " that the shipment might be violating some American regulation . Mr. Hoover admitted that he ultimately talked with President Eisenhower on the phone in Georgia regarding the tank-deal suspension , but refused to divulge conversations within the administration . He said only that he held up the tank shipment temporarily " after full consultation " with the President . Key Points Outlined In answering questions and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ points and pleas regarding developing Middle East policy , to wit : 1 . He feels that Israel can not win an arms race : therefore arms sales by the United States to that nation would have only " ephemeral value . " 2 . A " preventive war " by the Israelis is not beyond the bounds of probability , but if it comes the United States will not automatically be involved on the side of Israel . It is committed to oppose whichever is deemed the aggressor . 3 . The United States might consider appealing to the United Nations to apply sanctions against the Soviet bloc if these nations persisted in sending arms to the Arab countries . Mr. Dulles said he hoped the Czech-Egyptian arms deal would be a one-shot affair . 4 . The greatest problem the United States faces in mediation between the Arabs and Israel is the belief in the Arab world that Washington 's approach and ultimate reactions will be guided by domestic political pressures . 5 . Political pressures are being applied to attempt to force Washington 's hand , Mr. Dulles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that in the political campaign ahead the discussion will be on such a level as to dissipate this idea that United States policy is dominated by local domestic politics . "                     