@@713220

txt The shooting down of a Russian-marked bomber off Korea and recovery of the body of a Soviet flier gives Washington what one informed party termed the " cleanest " piece of evidence to date that the long arm of Russia is directly touching the Korean war . What the United states will do with this diplomatic hot potato is presently getting the most serious consideration by top Washington officials . The feeling in Washington at the moment ' is that the United States is not yet prepared to come out and openly charge the Soviet Union with violating a United Nations resolution , with openly aiding forces that have been labeled " aggressors " by the Se-r curity Council and by 53 of the 59 members of the UN . But it is already evident that Washington is not going to try and cover up for Moscow ; that it is going to call the UN 's attention to any such incident and let the whole world know whatever Russia is doing . The report of the Russian plane incident reached Washington only a short time before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American delegation at Lake Success and UN Secretary-General Trygvie Lie of the incident . At the moment this is an isolated incident , but it could of course be the most crucial single event of the war if it proved to be the signal for Soviet participation in the Korean war or a Kremlin move to reoccupy North Korea . If Washington should charge Soviet violation of UN resolutions , it would have to follow through with steps that could well mean the wrecking of the UN . The Soviets undoubtedly would end by being branded aggressors or violators of UN deci sions . Any such result might spell " finis " to the UN as an East-West forum . It is such considerations that may keep the United States for the time being from publicly charging Russia with outright aggression in Korea , at least until there is such a series of overt acts that no nonsatellite state could refrain from condemning Moscow . Rumors of Aid There have been numerous rumors and reports in the last month of Soviet aid to the North Koreans . Responsible Washington officials have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down to division commanders at least . The United States delegation at the UN has informed Mr. Lie officially that captured North Korean , equipment was . manufactured well after the Soviets withdrew from North Korea . Tokyo reports have included accounts of Russian soldiers operating some of the tanks in the North Korean forces . There have been stories of Soviet Army planes strafing UN vessels off the Korean coast . But this incident , it appears , is the first one with indisputable evidence  --  in the form of a slain Soviet flier with identification papers on him , Weighs Moscow Aims With every indication that in time the UN forces would be able to turn the tide of battle in Korea and begin rolling the North Koreans back , Washington has had to give the most serious consideration to what Moscow might do . Speculation has followed three lines : That Moscow might repudiate its North Korean satellites , once the war went against them . That shortly after the tide of battle turned , Moscow overnight would reoccupy North Korea , as it would not permit UN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to give overt bid to North Korea , signalizing a willingness to make a final break between East and West and force the West to decide if this is to be the final Armageddon . But while the United States is deciding just how much weight to put on this single incident , it not hesitating to publicize it to the full . It wants every UN member to be fully aware of what Moscow is up to in the Korean war ; it then is prepared to accept whatever decisions , the UN makes . .                     