@@720037

txt Democrats scored one of the biggest victories since Roosevelt clays in the 1958 midterm election . But in the political Niagara Falls , Nelson A. Rockefeller in New York serenely sailed up the Democratic cataract , With a number of seats still not reported , the line-up in the next Congress was shaping as follows : Senate : 34 Republicans to 62 Democrats ( as against 47 Republicans to 49 Democrats in the present . Senate ) . House : 157 Republicans to 277 Democrats ( as against 200 Republicans , 235 Democrats in the present House ) . This-indicated Democratic gain of 13 senators and 43 House members gave the party a powerful majority in Congress in the last two years before a presidential race . President Eisenhower is the first Chief Executive in history to face his third Congress dominated in both houses by an opposition party . 1960 Curtain Raiser On the score card of governors with 20 Democratic and 13 Republican seats at slake , the Democrats had elected 22 and were leading in 3 others ; while Republicans had won 7 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stressed that the election is the curtain raiser for the 1960 battle . The results showed that President Eisenhower and Vice-President Richard M. Nixon were not able to carry a majority of the voters with them in their attacks on " radicals " and in raising the possibility of " socialism . " The so-called " right-to-work " referendums were defeated in two big industrial states , California and Ohio , where they played a role in important events , the defeat of Republican Senator William F. Knowland for the governorship in California , and the defeat of veteran Republican Senator . John W. Bricker in Ohio . . The " right-to-work " drive was also defeated in Colorado . Idaho and Washington . It won only in Kansas . Spotlight on Indiana Labor outpouring in these states was a feature of the campaign . It entered into the heavy Democratic victory in Indiana . Republican Gov " . Harold W. Handley , who permitted a ' right-to-work " bill to become law , was defeated in his try for the Senate by Democrat R. Vance Hanky , The Democratic majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indiana right-to-work statute  --  the only one in an industrial state  --  may be thrown out on a later petition . Many of the ' major races featured possible presidential candidates in the 1960 curtain raiser . Most conspicuous was Nelson A. Rockefeller , smiling multimillionaire Governor-elect of New York , who beat out fellow multimillionaire Averell Harriman . This seemed a victory of personality rather than party , for Mr. Rockefeller refrained from stressing his Republicanism . Mr. Rockefeller , like most of the other presidential possibilities , is coy about White House aspirations . But for the next two years any discussion of GOP prospects will include his name along with front-runner Mr. Nixon . Democratic Possibilities Mr. Nixon sent his potential rival a warm congratulatory telegram . Senator Knowland 's defeat in California and that of Governor Harriman 's in New York to all effect removes them from the presidential possibility list . On the Democratic side at least four presidential possibilities were either reelected to state offices , or brought in handpicked candidates to emphasi7.e their prestige . In Massachusetts , Senator John F. Kennedy ( D @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state ticket with him . He will go to Alaska immediately to campaign . The Alaska election comes Nov. 25 . Incidentally , Democrats won the state Legislature in Massachusetts , which means they probably will regerrymander the state which has long been under Republican control . Gov . G. Mennen Williams won for the unprecedented sixth straight time in Michigan , where he is identified with the labor y , , ingsofhis In New Jersey , Gov . Robert B. Muriel. , another presidential hopeful , was not up for reelection himself , but with his support succeeded in electing Harrison A. Williams as senator , the first Democrat in 22 years .. Again , in Missouri , Senator Stuart Symington , , another man mentioned for the . presidential nomination , was reelected overwhelmingly . Results here and there showed the extent of the Democratic triumph . For the first time in 100 years a Democratic representative was elected from Vermont . Again , in Utah , veteran Republican Senator Arthur V. Watkins was defeated in a three-cornered race by Frank E. Moss , while ultraconservative J. Bracken Lee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bad thirrl Republican Consolation In West Virginia , the only state with two senatorial races , Democrats won both ' of ' them  --  the new senators being Robert C. Byrd and Jennings Randolph . Democrats did not have it all their own way , howeVer . Republicans got victories in - the big Rockefeller success in New York ( which also carried over to the Senate seat where Kenneth B. Keating ? won over the Democratic nominee Frank S. Hogan ) . In Arizona , Republican Senator Barry Goldwater , one of the most conservative members of the body , won a victory as did the Republican gubernatorial candidate there . In Oregon , Republican Mark Hatfield won the governorship over Democratic incumbent Robert D. Holmes ; and the same thing was true in Rhode Island , where Republican ChriStopher Del Sesto beat the Democratic incumbent . These were only isolated cases , however . In most places the Democratic tide was unmistakable . Many interpretations were forthcoming . Most impartial observers attributed it to dissatisfaction over bread-and-butter issues , coupled with labor unrest , farm dissatisfaction , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , this was a bigger than ordinary mid-term tide . It spelled bad trouble for the Republicans in 1960 . Other political stories : Pages 3 , 8. 9 , 13 , 16 , and 20. 