@@714651

txt Both the French Government and presidential candidate Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower are considering a plan , brought here by Republican foreign-policy expert John Foster Dulles for their joint attention , to revise the whole Allied strategy of the defense of the Far East . Mr. Dulles outlined his plan formally in. a speech to the French Political Science Institute , but is understood to have presented it previously to General Eisenhower . Its importance lies in the fact that General Eisenhower now is aware that he must quickly acquire some fresh proposals for home presentation next month . Thus what Mr. Dulles proposes here may well be General Eisenhower 's first act of policy initiative when he emerges into the political limelight . General Eisenhower arrived by plane in Udine , Italy , May 5 , from Paris , for a farewell inspection tour of Atlantic Pact forces in Italy , the United Press reports . Mr. Dulles ' idea is that America 's present Far East policy is too static  --  that so far it is only an effort to apply to the Far East the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aggressor Proposed This Mr. Dulles regards as suitable for Europe but unsuited for the problems of Asia . He proposes that instead there should be negotiated an agreement among the Western Allies to meet any further Communist aggression in Asia by retaliation against the aggressor rather than by local resistance . He would negotiate an agreement within the framework of the United Nations Charter . The essence of his idea is that the certainty of retaliation would be a more effective deterrent to further aggression in Asia than the mere local resistance which has saved South Korea and is holding bridgeheads in Indo-China , but which can not be multiplied many times more without straining the West beyond endurance . This is not precisely a new idea . It is a variant on the proposal urged by Gen. Hoyt S. Vandenberg last winter that the UN threaten to bomb and blockade China in the event of a re-eruption of the Korean war or a new act of Chinese Communist aggression elsewhere , and in a small part it already has been put into semiofficial operation by various British and American public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Formal Allied Agreement Urged However , so far there is no formal international agreement binding the major Western Allied powers to take retaliatory action in the event of new aggression . Mr. Dulles proposes that steps be undertaken at once to achieve such an agreement . He suggests that the French might care to launch it , as they did the Schuman Plan to pool Western European coal and steel . Also , it would provide General Eisenhower with an opportunity to open his campaign by proposing something relatively new and positive . The plan 's biggest attraction in French eyes is that it would open some prospect of a means to reduce the burden of French military operations in Indo-China and incidentally release French strength for European uses . From General Eisenhower 's point of view , the plan might fill an urgent need . Preparing for his home political emergence is not easy . While he has been receiving hordes of political visitors , all equipped with ideas for his possible use , it is a fact that he has kept his eyes largely on his European problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Inevitably he either will be dragged into old issues and feuds or produce new ideas and policies . But emerging Pallas Athenelike was easier in Greek mythology than in present American politics .                     