@@714467

txt Allied and Communist truce negotiators now have reached agreement on almost all of the points connected with exchange of war prisoners . There is still a wide gap , however , over the question of whether all prisoners should be exchanged or whether exchange should be on a voluntary basis . The senior Allied member spent . three hours Feb , 15 discussing.den. tails of the exchange question pointing out while many clauses show virtual agreement and others require only a minor revision Allied demands that all war prisoners be granted the right to voluntary repatriation have not been properly specified . Toward the end of the long session Feb. 15 , the Communist representatives declared that the many points of difference " merely I are matters of idiom and trans ' lation , " according to the official communiqu ? from the armistice conference . Allied officers were invited by the Communists to suggest other wording for the controversial paragraphs . Staff officers discussing the armistice enforcement and supervision , meanwhile , continued to argue over the questions of troop rotation and ports of entry without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicated that truce officiali belieVe the Cominunisth are stalling until the full delegations meet Feb. 16 . Admiral C. Turner Joy , senior Allied delegate , conferred in Tokyo with Gen. Matthew B. Ridgway and the latter 's visitors , Gen. John Hull , Army Vice-Chief of Staff , and Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for the Far East U. Alexis Johnson , who freshly arrived from Washington . General Hull admitted the armistice negotiations were discussed with General Ridgway and Admiral Joy but denied new instructions were brought . The nature of the talks was not disclosed . But many observers here felt that they may have some bearing upon the new proposals which the Communists have announced they will make on Feb. 16 , dealing with an overall solution to Korea and possibly other parts of the Orient . ? Red Attacks Increase . On the military battle front in Korea , meanwhile , the Communists increased their probing attacks on the east and central fronts , with a Communist company attacking and occupying advanced positions east of Pukhan on Feb. 15 . Other probes were made south of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Punchbowl " area . The Allies suddenly intensified their artillery fire on the east and central fronts , firing for 90 minutes on their target south of Kumsong . A heavy barrage fell on the Communist troop staging areas from which had come the enemy attacks on Mundungni Valley . An Allied officer said the Mundungni attack could mean " only one thing "  - -  the Communists are striving to drive a wedge between the Allied positions on the mountain ridgeline on the west and " Heartbreak Ridge " on the east .                     