@@720912

txt WASHINGTON , Dec. 2 ? President Eisenhower forcefully ruled out today the use of foreign aid funds for the promotion of birth control in under-developed countries . He said the United States would maintain a hands-off policy " as long as I am here . " " That 's not our business , " ? he asserted . Question 4 , Page 18 . Going a step further , the President held that birth control was a religious question . " I can not imagine anything more emphatically a subject that , is not a proper political or governmental activity or function or responsibility , " he said . In San Francisco , the Right Rev. James A. Pike , Protestant Episcopal Bishop of California , said the President 's stand had ignored the recommendations of several governmental committees . The question was raised at the President 's news conference in the context of continuing // controversy aroused by a statement Nov. 25 by the Roman Catholic Bishops of the United States . The Bishops declared that Catholics would not support " any public assistance , whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , abortion or sterilization , whether through direct aid or by means of international organizations . " The prelates ' statement was prompted partly by recommendations last July by the President 's Committee to Study the United States Military Assistance Program . The committee , headed by William H. Draper Jr. , suggested that the United States help other countries , on request , 11 " in the formulation of theirl plans designed to deal with the ' problem of rapid population growth . " The committee also proposed United States support in the ) United Nations and as a part of its own mutual security program of studies that would be useful to such countries in formulating programs to meet " the serious challenges posed by rapidly expanding populations . " Comments on Report President Eisenhower stated his position today when asked ' for his reaction to the Draper committee 's report . It had been generally interpreted , he was told , as a recommendation that that the United States distribute birth control information ' on request . The President expressed admiration and respect for the Catholic Church but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do with governmental contact with other governments . " The United States , he went on , does not intend to interfere in the internal affairs of any government . Population problems of other countries , he maintained , are entirely their business . He said , they would unquestionably go to professional groups , and not to another government , for any , , help they felt was needed . The Catholic bishops ' statement , and reaction to it , has plunged the the issue into the 1960 Presidential I campaign . It is an especially keen one because one of the leading Presidential contenders , Senator John F. Kennedy , Democrat of Massachusetts , is al Catholic . He and several others1 have now stated their position . Senator Kennedy said Friday that he had long felt it would be a " mistake " for the United ' States Government to advocate birth control in other countries . However , he added , if the question should come before him as President he would decide it in accordance with his oath to do whatever was best in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the other potential Presidential candidates , as stated publicly in recent days , include these : Adlai E. Stevenson ? the United States should not " impose " birth control programs on other countries but should not hesitate to consider requests for aid in such programs " where population growth is inimical to economic well-being . " Governor Rockefeller ? the United States " would want to cooperate " with the people of a country seeking technical assistance in such a field " if it was in the interest of the other country . " Senator Hubert H. Humphrey , Democrat of Minnesota -- the United States should not " deny information and assistance if such nations determine it is essential to their national welfare . " Senator Stewatt Symington , Democrat of Missouri ? " I approve the Government 's furnishing of planned parenthood information abroad where it believes the action is to the interest of our country . " Mr. Stevenson is a Unitarian , Governor Rockefeller a Baptist , Senator Humphrey a Congregationalist and Senator Symington an Episcopalian. ioVice President Richard M. axon and Senator Lyndon B. hnson , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the issue . The International Cooperation Administration announced Sunday that " not one penny of foreign-aid funds ever has been used for dissemination of birthcontrol information and there are no plans to do so . "                     