@@717943

txt MOSCOW , May ** Soviet , Union announced todry plans to reduce its armed forces by 1,200,000 men within a year . A target date of May 1 , 1957 , was set . The Soviet Union 's armed forces at present are believed to total 4,000,000 mem The United States armed forces total 2,800,000,1 The Soviet Government said sixty-three divisions and several brigades would be demobilized . Among these will be three Air Force divisions and several brigades totaling : 30.000 men nco.v stationed in East Germany , the announcement said . On top of that , the Government asserted , the Soviet Union was ready to consider further reductions if the Western powers would reduce their armed forces proportionately . " Other Governments , including the Governments of the United States , Britain and France , in so far as they are sincerely willing to contribute to the strengthening of peace , can not but follow this example , " the Soviet Government declared . The Soviet Union will reduce its military budget , close sonic army schools and decommission 375 naval vessels , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was made at a hurriedly called news conference . The Government said its action was based on the desire to make a new contribution to the cause of disarmament . and at the same time provide the groundwork for better domestic conditions in the Soviet Union . The time has come for the United Nations Disarmament . Commission to examine the results of the subcommittee that failed to agree at London and publicize " who is working for and who is hindering the end of the armaments race , ? ' the Soviet Union said . The Government stressed in its statement that the premise for the armed forces reductions was the strengthening ' of " the forces of peace . " 1 At the same time the GovernJrient made no secret of its intention to embarrass the Western powers with the announcement , of the reductions while the Western powers , according to the Soviet line , had " reversed " themselves , Leonid F. Ilyichev , chief of the press department of the Foreign Ministry , emphasized that the new reductions would he in addition to the demobilization of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to disclose the present size of the Soviet armed forces . He refused to // say whether the newly announced reduction would constitute unilateral fulfillment of a plan advanced by the Soviet Union at the recent conference in London of the subcommittee Of the United Nations Disarmament Commission . At that conference , where agreement was not reached , the Soviet Union proposed to reduce the size of armed forces . This was said to constitute a challenge to the Western powers . At the London disarmament talks the Soviet Union proposed reductions in armed forces to 1,500,000 men for the Soviet Union , the United States and China , 650,000 men each for Britain and France and a limit of 200,000 men each for all other countries . The Western powers proposed that , after certain conditions had been met , the reductions be to 2,500,000 each for the United States , the Soviet Union and China , 750,000 for Britain and France , and 500 , - 000 ; or fewer , for all other countries . It has been reported here several times this week that the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a propaganda contrast to Western appeals for strengthening of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . Soviet Version Given Most of the Soviet statement was devoted to the Soviet version of the history of disarmament efforts since World War II . It stressed the potential destructiveness of a third World , War . It recalled Soviet appeals ' for prohibition of atomic weapons while , it said , the West advocated reduction of conventional armed forces and weapons . Reviewing the disarmament talks ended recently in London , the Soviet Government declared " the sterility of the work of the United Nations Disarmament Subcommittee is linked , in nn small degree , with the fact that all the members of the subcommittee , with the exception of the Soviet Union , are members of the Atlantic bloc . " Stressing the intention to continue to press for a disarmament agreement and the prohibition of nuclear weapons , the Soviet Government said " practical action is needed above all . " The Government said that demobilized service men would receive the chance to work in industry and agriculture . It stressed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above decision , the Soviet Government proceeds from the premises that the demobilization and return to peaceful and socially-useful work of 1,200,000 Soviet citizens will-be a new and enormous contribution to the further growth of all branches of the national economy of the Soviet Union and will greatly increase the creation of material and cultural values for the good of our Socialist society , " the Government declared . " At the same time , the further reduction in military expenditure in the state budget of the Soviet Union will enable the direction of the released funds into peaceful construction in order more successfully to realize the majestic plans of Socialist development of our country and of raising the well-being of the Soviet state , " the statement asserted .                     