@@718554

txt Wanted : Tools of government to run atomic-age America . The machinery of yesterday is outmoded . Expanding urbanization and industrialization  --  forces that buttress flee world position of the United States  --  have created a challenging metropolitan problem . Old concepts of kow to run city , suburb and even open country are shattered . North , South , East and West , Americans grope for a way to deal effectively with basic considerations like health and housing , transportation and trade that now defy solution because they spill over boundaries of even great cities . The scramble for a surer governmental footing is on . Standby : formulas like annexation and consolidation are being re-examined . Changes in the transfer of governmental authority are being attempted . New ideas like federation are being shaped . The Search Goes On In New . York , Cleveland , Detroit , Miami , Baton Rouge , Dallas , Philadelphia , Buffalo , St. Louis , Los Angeles , Seattle and San Francisco the search goes on , almost on an emergency basis . A realization of the seriousness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ isolated I crises in housing and education ? has penetrated to the highest echelons of government . President Eisenhower has named a White House aide , Howard Pyle , former Arizona Governor , to tackle the job of intergovernmental relations . The President also is being petitioned to call a White House conference on the problem . A. privately sponsored national meeting on the questien , held last year at East Lansing , Mich. , already has plans for a series of regional conferences . President Eisenhower openly acknowledged in his economic message to Congress ten days ago that the Federal Governtnent shared responsibility in Seeking to resolve Metropolitan Problems . " Consideration is being given to the need for better coordination of Federal programs affecting urban areas , " he said . " Ways of helping state and local governments plan more adequately for future growth are being explored . The initial and major resources for solving the problems of urban growth must come , however , from the local government units and , basically , from ark enlightened citizenry . ' The metropolitan problem is " perhaps the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , former Governor of Massachusetts . Robert E. Merriani , Assistant Federal Budget Director , calls it Government 's " Isto. 1 problem . " Six out of every ten Americats ? more than 100,000,000 persons  --  now live in 174 metropolitan areas . ? These areas are centers of population with a core , or central , city of 50,000 or more . Inventive Thinking Urged Even where these areas lie wholly within one state or , indeed , within a single county , a solution of the metropolitan problem ' calls for inventive thinking ; But twenty-four areas cross state lines and twenty-nine more are at state borders . Some , notably Buffalo and Detroit , straddle international borders and raise further complications . New York , wealthy and powerful as it seems , runs short both of financial ability and legal  --  authority to cope with problems of water supply and safety , air pollution , traffic flow and ? transit . that spread out over twenty-two counties in three states . Nothing seems more certain than ' the continued dynamic , perhaps even explosive , growth of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motion by Steam and pushed ahead by electricity and the internal combustion engine , have moved into the atomic age . Even before the peaceful uses of this newest source of energy begin to unfold , metropolitan growth will be propelled by two more immediate developments : 1 . The 533,000,000,000 Federal highway program not only will open up high-speed arterial connections in areas presently urban but will send new feeder roads out into the countryside . 2 . Automation , placing a premium on sprawling one-story plants , will send industry farther and , farther into the hinterland . By the year 2000 , it is possible that about 220,000,000 of perhaps as many as 300,000,000 persons in . the nation will be living in metropolitan areas . The bulk of metropolitan living will be what , was called suburban . Multitudes will still travel to the core city for work . But the growing pains of city and suburb , known as the metropolitan problem , will become increasingly great . The basic reasons for metropolitan growth will be accentuated . The nation 's expanding technology will sustain not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now twice the rural average , but also increased agricultural productivity that cuts manpower demands . Peripheral Attack Opposed Against this backdrop , responsible elements , private as well as public , seek to come to grips with the crisis . There is a full appreciation that further peripheral attack may hamper national progress . " The American people are fed up with weak and partial solutions for metropolitan problems which cost , millions but solve nothing , " the National Planning Association said recently . The problem is like the common cold . Everyone recognizes the symptoms , everyone has a remedy , but nobody has a cure . Years of study , much of it by privately endowed groups , have convinced planners that no governmental wonder drug is available to provide a cure . There is almost unanimity that no one form of governmental organization will meet the needs of all metropolitan areas . They look forward to years of experimentation , forced by conditions that no longer will permit half-measures or improvisation , much less inaction . They foresee failures at points , but hope that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , patterns for governmental action suitable for adaptation to individual need will emerge . Many Think a new layer of government , perhaps bigger than the county , will have to be developed if only for the performance of limited , area-wide functions . Others believe that tailoring of old governmental formulas will suffice . All agree that an understanding of the- old remedies is as important as the diagnosis of the Metropolitan ailment . Annexation has been the most widely employed means of dealing with problems that arise when the population surges beyond the boundaries of a city . Through the years , full consolidation , city-county separation , functional transfer and functional consolidation have been tried , too , with varying success . More recently , federation has emerged as a new and , many believe , hopeful way oftgetting the bigger governmental working unit needed to deal with the bigger metropolitan problem while keeping the electorate in the driver 's seat . Frank C. Moore , former Lieutenant Governor of New York and now head of the Government Affairs Foundation , calls the county the " up and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this is not universally true . He declared : " A program for particular areas must be tailored by local workmen to fit the specific community if results are to be accepted and work successfully . In other words , we must use prescriptions and not patent medicines to cure the ailments of metro areas . " The big postwar annexations for the most part have been south of the Mason-Dixon line and west of the Alleghanies . With few exceptions , they occurred where the problem was not complicated by metropolitan areas that were growing into one another to form an urban region . Atlanta , Dallas , Houston , Memphis , Kansas City , Albuquerque , San Diego and Seattle were among twenty-five big cities involved in large-scale annexation in this period . Most of the annexations did not involve large numbers of incorporated suburbs . Consolidation Discussed ? Consolidation has been discussed for many years but New York , New Orleans and Philadelphia are among the few big cities that have used it . Like annexation , it creates a government that conducts all the business of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impact . City-county separation is the obverse of the consolidation coin . Here the city and , in some instances , heavily settled suburbs , unite and withdraw from the rest of the county . Baltimore and San Francisco inaugurated the plan a little over a century ago , but it was never popular ? despite tax advantages to the city  --  because no room remained for future urban expansion . Functional transfers , chiefly from city to county but at times from a small city or village to the central city , have proved useful in mastering individual problems such as airport development , civil defense , public health , tax assessment and collection and water supply . Under such an arrangement , New York State 's Erie County in 1947 took over health and library services formerly maintained by Buffalo . Allied to functional transfer is functional consolidation . Component units of government within a metropolitan area , including the core city , surrender jurisdiction to an authority , district or commission over a fixed service or function of area-wide concern . Under such an arrangement , the Port @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bridge and tunnel , airport and other transportation needs of the New York City-Northern New Jersey area . Federation also utilizes the transfer formula but , instead , it turns over the whole metropolitan problem to a new area-wide layer of government . Neighboring local governments , in such an arrangement , do not lose their identity but relinquish jurisdiction of area concern but not local . Opinion of Gulick Luther Gulick , president of the Institute of Public Administration , scouts the possibility that old-line solutions will do . He said recently : " The time has come for inventive thinking and action , as inventive as were our forefathers when , in the face of great need , they brought the squabbling Colonies together under the Federal Constitution of the United States in 1789 . " And it may well be that they set for us a pattern of federalism nationally which we now need to adopt locally in the metropolitan regions . " Toronto has operated successfully under federation since 1954 . It was imposed there by the action of the Ontario Parliament . In the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Florida Legislature seems headed for federation by spring . The federated government deals with such matters as transit , water supply , water and air pollution , police and fire promteecntiton and highway developOver a few functions , like the maintenance of a sewer system , the federated metropolitan govmment may exercise exclusive jurisdiction . In others , as in zoning , it may do little more than establish a general plan and the member governments at the local level observe land-use requirements so imposed . Just as Miami had to go to the Legislature to get authority to tackle metropolitan problems in Dade County , so Cleveland , Pittsburgh , Seattle , New York and other metropolitan centers , probably will need special stateconferred powers . Every important approach to the metropolitan problem has required some such authorization from the state . Annexation has come about through state law and action by state courts as well as by the vote of the annexing city , its electorate or the people of the whole area . This situation points up why local governments throughout the nation , as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in unraveling the metropolitan tangle , A prime task for state government is to analyze current metropolitan needs , project metropolitan developments for ? the next generation and then design appropriate governmental structures , The need for commission study is indicated . With exploratory work completed , the state should consider how services that it currently furnishes can be , shaped to better serve metropolitan areas . Assistance that can be furnished in fields like health , housing , parks and planning are readily apparent . The third  --  stage of state assistance would be reached by actually passing enabling legislation that permits cooperation at the local level , or by framing Interstate compacts that allow for such cooperation between communities in interstate metropolitan districts . Conceivably some form of state veto power might be reserved . Mr. Gulick also stresses a further need for quick state action . He says that each state must set aside large tracts of carefully and scientifically selected land for future highway , recreational and living purposes . He maintains that uncontrolled metropolitan growth leads to a " progressive destruction of the human habitat . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planning , he cites the $40,000,000-amile arterial highway construction being undertaken In downtown Boston . Fresh thinking on local tax sources and powers , debt limitation and fiscal administration i3 a fifth matter demanding state attention . Certain concepts must be re-examined in view of the enlarged assignment of metropolitan government that places a crushing burden on real estate and nuisance taxation . On this very point , President Eisenhower has said : " I think that this tax question and the ability of the Federal authority to scrape off all the tax money that is available can destroy ' ' * the ability of states and municipalities to perform their functions . " But just as the metropolitan problem is bigger than any single community , mapping a solution , even in a skeletal form , is bigger than any state . Experience throughout the nation , carefully collated and analyzed in the light of the current outlook , perhaps can best be fashioned as a working tool for the future by a group like the Council of State Governments . The council already has made a comprehensive study of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federal Government , as noted , has come to recognize that it , too , has a major role . There are more than a score of programs in which it gives direct assistance to cities . They range from control of communicable diseases to civil defense , from school lunches to vocational education . This aid flows smoothly as long as there are appropriate governmental channels through which it can pass . But when the area to be served spills over city lines into the surrounding country , no one channel remains big enough either for determining need or distributing aid . Thus . it is vitally important to the success of Federally initiated programs to have units of government in operation through which they can be effectuated . But Federal responsibility goes beyond even this . The award of defense contracts , location of a national park , establishment of a military base or fixing of a freight rate , all actions taken at the Washington level , will have profound repercussions on the Main Streets of America . Detroit , for example , expanded principally to the north @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been . expected , because of the award of Government contracts in that area . Only now is ' a four-county commission , a state-established agency backed by extensive private funds , seeking to round out metropolitan Detroit 's growth . Moses ' Project Cited Occasionally , some individual will come up in a burst of governmental genius with a project of immediate and long-range worth , such as Robert Moses did in the case of the Long Island State Park Commission . This agency has helped meet the recreational needs of much of the Greater New York area for a generation . Meyer Kestnbaum , who headed the Commission on Intergovernmental Relations , contends that " not only is political invention needed but political courage * " and political force . " " The hard . truth of the matter is that we 've developed an economic unit for which we have no political counterpart * * he has said . Suburbia can exercise a balance-of-power role in state legislatures that will make it easier to get the governmental tools to lick the metropolitan problem . In reassessing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ metropolitan life , particular attention should be given to specialpurpose authorities and districts . They are used because they permit localities , cooperating to meet common problems too big for any one of them , to parcel them out , one by one . In most cases , the authority , an almost wholly independent agency , does an excellent job . The taxpayer is doubly happy because the assigned project usually is financed from bond sales not involving credit and paid off by tolls or rents . But the authority may not be aware of parallel community needs . Thus the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority 's $100,000,000 surplus , built up over fine years , was spent strictly for approaches to agency facilities , other highway needs notwithstanding . And while the third tube of the Port Authority 's Lincoln Tunnel may ease tunnel congestion and make more money for the agency , the question arises as to what will happen to the added traffic once it reaches Manhattan streets . Any serious reassessment must seek the means to secure some balance in the responsibility of such state-created agencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their stockholders , on the other . The answer may lie in part in some sort of an arrangement like the one being worked out in the New York metropolitan area under the leadership of Mayor Wagner . This is a voluntary , cooperative method that was devised by county and city governments in a three-state area when it was impossible to get the state governments to initiate a formal organization for the region . This group , now meeting regularly with assigned working committees , is seeking to keep its eye oft the whole metropolitan problem , rather than any individual aspect that may be bothersome at any given time . It has no legal authority , but it speaks with enormous influence because it speaks for a twentytwo county area . It will exert no direct power over the Port Authority , the Interstate Sanitary Commission , the Waterfront Commission or other interstate ? agencies , but , even on current lines , it may come to influence their broad policies . The scope of the group 's activity is revealed in its working committees and the men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairman of the water supply committee ; Mayor Thomas F. J. Quigley of Stamford , Conn. , recreation ; County Executive-A . Holly Patterson of Nassau , water pollution ; Freeholder Karl Metzger of Middlesex County , N. J. , air pollution ; County Executive James D. Hopkins of Westchester , teenage drinking and related problems , and Mayor Bernard J. Berry of Jersey City , traffic and transportation . The Metropolitan Regional Conference at this time is developing recommendations for state action . It may be that , in time , It will come to operate as an over-all policy committee for the various authorities in the New York area . In any event , progress in New York is being watched carefully by interstate metropolitan areas all over the country . Here again experimentation is under way today that will shape the area government of tomorrow .                     