@@713038

txt In a new effort to disarm the West and clear the road to further Soviet advances , the masters of the Kremlin have stepped up the pace of their " peace offensive " by ordering Communist Fifth Columns in every country to solicit mass signatures for a petition which in the name of peace would ban all atomic weapons and brand the Government that first used them , even in self-defense , as an aggressor . This petition was framed by the recent Communist-sponsored " World Congress of Peace Partisans " in Stockholm and has been approved with the usual unanimity by the Supreme Soviet in Moscow . It is suck an obvious and transparent attempt to cover up the Soviet record of aggression , and to sabotage all efforts to ban atomic weapons under genuinely effective safeguards , that it is difficult to see how people on this side of the Iron Curtain can be taken in by it . Yet the petition is acquiring a considerable number of signatures in many countries . One reason for this , pointed out by Lewis L. Strauss , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the " silliest of all atomic fallacies "  --  the fallacy , namely , that if we disarm " then the Soviets will be under some irresistible moral compulsion to do likewise . " But another and perhaps even more potent reason is that , as in the case of Hitler 's " Mein Kampf , " few persons outside the Communist leadership : lave read or absorbed the Communist " Mein Kampf , " as written by Lenin and Stalin . These people therefore do not fully comprehend Communist aims or see through Communist maneuvers . For in these turgid volumes anyone may read that Moscow 's aim is a Communist mastery of the world , already one-third accomplished , and that in the pursuit of its final goal the Kremlin has not only repudiated as a matter of doctrine all Western standards of morality but has made a science of mendacity and is using , in Lenin 's words , " any ruse , cunning , unlawful method , evasion and concealment of the truth " to gain its ends . Even those unread in LeninistStalinist " dialectics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and by their owr previous experience . For the latest Soviet maneuver merely repeats the tactics which the Communists found useful in the past and which Hitler also tried to adapt to his own purposes . Instead of the " democratic front " which the Soviets built up everywhere , after adoption of the " Trojan horse " strategy in the Thirties , they are now attempting to build a " peace front , " or an " anti-atomic front , " to enlist the support of trusting people . Like Hitler , who constantly shouted peace and concluded innumerable " non-aggression pacts " to cover up his aggressive aims , they likewise pay lip service to peace , while swallowing one country after another , and offer any pact that will tie up their prospective victims while leaving the Soviets themselves a free hand to break it . The record speaks for itself , and explains why there is no peace , and why the threat of atomic warfare still hangs over the heads of all of us . Immediately after the war , placing their trust in paper agreements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Potsdam , the Western Powers disarmed to the point of helplessness and pressed forward proposals for the abolition of atomic weapons as soon as effective safeguards against their secret production had been agreed upon . Yet the Soviets not only retained the largest peacetime armies in history but also proceeded to expand their ar- maments to the limit of their capacity and to militarize , regiment and put in uniform their entire nation . Backed by this military preponderance , they broke every agreement they had made , whether in Europe or in Asia , sabotaged every peace plan that did not deliver the nations involved into their- hands , and expanded their slave empire to one-third of the human race . They blocked , boycotted and sabotaged the United Nations , and in particular , they repudiated the only feasible plan for control of atomic energy and abolition . of atomic weapons advanced thus far , and agreed upon by all nations except Soviet Russia and its satellites . Yet today the Soviets pose as the champions of peace and denounce as " warmongers " intended victims who still have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defenses . That , too , was one of Hitler 's methods . It failed . There is ? enough intelligence and instinct for self-preservation left in the West to assure a like failure of this method when used by the Soviets . ?                     