@@716749

txt Two big political developments have occurred here in the past week . The sum total of their meaning is deduced in three parts : President Eisenhower and Adlai E. Stevenson again will be the presidential candidates in 1956 . President Eisenhower already has written his 1956 campaign platform , and it is well to the left of the 1952 platform . Finally , the next presidential campaign will be a streamlined , television affair , different in revolutionary respects from any that America ever has seen . - The developments here from which lhese conclusions are deduced followed each other closely . First , Mr. Eisenhower made his State of the Union Address to Congress , and observers at once noted the striking difference in tone and approach from his original address to Congress two years previous . Late Convent-ions ; Then followed the decision of the Democrats to hold their nominating convention a good two months after the usual July nominating date , namely Aug. 27 , 1956 , and the prospect that the Republicans will follow suit with perhaps an even later nomination convention , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observers ? For two reasons , in the opinion of most . First , is the influence of radio and television which has contracted America into one nationwide family-size convention hall , and made the old-fashioned four-month campaigns as unnecessary as torchlight processions . Second , because the Republicans and Democrats are pretty certain already of their candidates . Despite anything anybody may say they are likely to be " Ike " and " Adlai " respectively , and since both personalities are now known intimately over the United States , a long warming-up campaign period is n't necessary . The next point raised is Mr. Eisenhower 's campaign platform . Many feel the political mood of that platform , if not the actual planks , have been written in the latest address . The contrast between , Mr. xisenhoiver 's State of the Union Address last week and that delivered two years ago was emphasized in a dispatch to this paper Tan , 7 . Washington politicians have been deeply stirred and commentators are mulling over it . What they deduce is that the President is making things uncomfortable for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ By adopting a large measure of the Democrats ' spending and welfare programs , Arthur Krock of the New York Times observed , Mr. Eisenhower has deprived his adversaries of their old familiar issue  --  and there is now no place for the Democrats to go but further over to the left . Marked Change ' Walter Lippmann strikes the same note . He sees a " marked change " in presidential view- , point from 1953 . The President now puts balancing the national economy ahead of balancing the budget , he observes again , " Whereas two years ago the President seemed to feel that welfare measures were something to be conceded reluctantly , in 1955 they " kindle his enthusiasm . " Mr. Lippmann welcomes the swing left , but indicates that " ' right-wing Republicans " may not like it ( a point emphasized also by Mr. Krock ) . The Wall Street Journal 's Albert Clark supports the general feeling . Under the headline " Ike 's shift : he drifts away from conservative program that marked administration 's first years , " Mr. Clark concludes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eisenhower has now , by and large , chosen the so-called liberal course . " Editorially the same newspaper asks rather uncomfortably where this shift in the political climate leads ? It decides that " the whole political course of the country is moved perceptibly toward the ' left ' . . ' t In his address of Feb. 2 , 1953 , President Eisenhower declared that , abroad , " the free world can not indefinitely remain in a posture of paralyzed tension . " He announced that the United States 7th Fleet would no longer check Chiang Kai-shek . He declared " there is but one sure way to avoid total war ? and that is to win the cold war . " At home he declared that a balanced budget is " an essential first measure " in checking inflation , and opposed tax cuts until " we can succeed in bringing the budget under control . " How Goes Maine ? arc taking stock of the situation ? not too happily . As to the new , late , 1956 nominating convention dates , a curiosity is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ votes six weeks ahead of the other 47 states . The Maine election for state officers and congressmen in 1956 falls on the second Monday of September , under the state Constitution , or Sept. 10 . Every four years Maine has three elections : one for municipal offices , one for congressmen ( Sept. 10 ) and finally , for the presidential candidates . For some time there has been pressure for Maine to move its congressional elections over to the presidential elections , and combine the two . This pressure may increase with the delayed presidential nominating conventions as many candidates for Congress and state offices would normally be at the presidential conventions . " As Maine goes so goes the nation " is a political adage which springs from these early elections . If Maine wants to change its Constitution to drop the early congressional election it must act this year , for the state legislature meets only in odd - numbered years . Maine originally put its elections early because of bad roads . There are some who hint that it has kept its unique custom with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole , the late conventions will revolutionize campaign techniques . Hitherto there has been a normal August let-down after the excitement of the July conventions . Active campaigning starts in September . The new plan starts the fire blazing in the August-September conventions  --  and then keeps excitement red hot for two months , to the final incandescence of Election Day . Mr. Lippmann , a supporter of Mr. Eisenhower , says that when the President made these comments ho was " still a theorist " at home and abroad but that " in 1955 the theories have had to give way to the facts of life . " Certainly Mr. Eisenhower has changed the political landmarks in Washington and Democrats and conservative Republicans                     