@@713370

txt The United Nations has been called Upon to take up tomorrow what may be the most difficult and dangerous problem that has thus far confronted the organization . General has reported specific Chinese Communist intervention against the United Nations action in Korea . The United Nations must decide what should and what can be done about it . The problem is made even more complex by the character of the Chinese Communist intervention . What it has come to is this . The United Nations has no desire to wage war upon Communist China nor any intention of doing so . At the same time identified units of Communist China 's troops are actually waging war on the- United Nations . United Nations troops arc being killed by materials of war supplied by United Nations members to a regime that is demanding admission to the United Nations . This situation is also complex in the military sphere . The unofficial and covert Chinese intervention , after the North Korean military forces had been reduced to ineffectiveness , could prolong and extend hostilities almost indefinitely and forestall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a peaceful Korea . From safe positions on their own unattacked territory they could , with impunity , punish the forces of the United Nations and prevent the accomplishment of its declared purposes . Such a situation demands prompt and resolute action in the ' United Nations . The costly purchase of liberty for Korea can not be allowed to go by default . Nevertheless , the United Nations obviously does not want to throw itself into a war against Communist China simply because the Chinese Communists have been misled or pressured into an action that is morally indefensible and politically stupid . The United Nations may therefore be expected to exhaust every possible peaceful means at its disposal to convince the Chinese Communists of their woeful error . This task will be doubly difficult because of the senseless propaganda campaign upon which Peiping has launched . The Korean action , and Chinese intervention in it , is being pictured as a heroic stand in defense of liberty . The Communists are apparently trying to whip the Chinese people into some sort of frenzy by making them fear some new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repeated reference , for example , to the atomic bomb and the fantastic " warning " to the United States against its use . Equally typical is the blank silence upon the fact that the operation in Korea is strictly a United Nations matter and the attempt to concentrate all fear and all resistance upon the bugaboo of a supposed United States imperialistic aggression . We know that this sort of thing- is nonsense , but unfortunately there are a large number of Chinese , cut off from the rational world , who have no means of sharing that knowledge . The minds and the emotions of these people are being used in the cause of Soviet Communist imperialism no less than the bodies of the hapless North Koreans were used when they were pushed into an indefensible struggle against most of the free world . One of the first tasks of the United Nations in approaching this problem is therefore to explore every possible means of combating this deadly propaganda . The United Nations has taken upon itself the responsibility for the military action in Korea . It must also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sole responsibility , for the political implications of that action . In other words , the Chinese people must be persuaded , if that is humanly possible , that the fear of any aggressive , actio against them is groundless and tha the propaganda designed to exploit tha fear is false . The United States can not take on that job for the very rea son that the United States is the prim target of Peiping 's meretricious earn paign . The United Nations must assum that difficult task and must earnestl : search out every possible means b ; which it can be accomplished . It has been the policy of the Unite Nations , and of the United States , t use every available instrument to keel the clash in Korea " localized . " Th Chinese Communist intervention is direct blow at this policy . It is to much to assume that the Chinese Corn munists want a third world war . Th United Nations certainly will do every thing in its power to prevent it . On of the things that must be done is t @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of madnes and to dissuade them from it .                     