@@719860

txt The shadow of Nasserism fell full across the Arab Middle East today . Washington awoke to it with surprise and did not like it . The coup in Iraq , as Middle Eastern specialists regard it , smashed the precarious balance of power that : pro-Western Arabs , with Unite4 States and British support , had been able to maintain against neutralist pro-Nasser forces . It also for the first time put a pro-Nasser . Goyernment in power in one of the great oilproducing countries of the Mid ' die East . These were private comments of Middle East specialists here considerably , in advance of anything . State Department officials would say publicly today . A high official warned , how ever , that one must now reckon with the " possibilities and dangers " of Western intervention and of armed Conflict within the area . If , as feared , the movement behind the Iraqi coup spreads and the United States gets calls for help from President Camille Chamoun of Lebanon , King Hussein of Jordan or King Saud of Saudi Arabia , " we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said the Iraqi coup would *earten the rebels in Lebanon ; that King Hussein 's position in 1Jordan was at all times precarious and that King Saud 's army and bureaucracy were heavily infiltrated witli ? proNasser elements . Whether the United States or other Western forces eventually intervene will not be determined by the technicalities of the-Eisenhower Doctrine , the Baghdad Pact or the United Nations Charter , he said . A legal basis for accepting a call for help could be found , he pointed out , in the so - called Mansfield Amendment to the Eisenhower Doctrine . This part of the doctrine ( joint resolution of March 9 , 1957 ) says that " The United States regards as vital to the national interest and world peace the preservation of the independence and integrity of the nations of the Middle East . " Otherwise the Eisenhower Doctrine , providing for United States intervention against aggression by a Communist or Communist - controlled power , does not ' seem applicable . The 3-power Declaration The three-power declaration of 1951 , in which the United States , Britain and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Middle East is still technically in effect . But practically , since the abortive British-French intervention against Egypt in 1956 , it has not been operative . The Baghdad Pact is a consultative combination for defense against Soviet aggression of which the United States is not formally a member . The United States belongs only to the military , economic and antisubversion committees . If , as expected , Iraq withdraws , the importance of the pact will , henceforth be slight . The decisive factor , the official said , would be whether the President decides that it is in the national interest to intervene , whether the possibilities of gain from shielding a President Chamoun or a King Hussein outweigh the probabilities of loss in terms of popular hositility in parts of Asia and Africa . U. S. Mideast Policy Cited Another official observed that United States policy in the Middle East had consisted of trying to limit President Nasser 's power by backing regimes friendly to the West such as those of Iraq , Lebanon , Jordan and Saudi Arabia , while at the same time trying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first part of this policy appears to be failing fast , he said , and could be continued only by such a desperate step as sending troops into the countries backed by the United States . Alternatively , the United States could put all its cards on " getting along with " President Nasser in the hope that Western oil interests could be preserved in a Middle East in which he was the dominant personality . The effort to " get along with " the President of the United Arab Republic was expressed when Egypt came to terms with the Suez Canal Company on compensation for its nationalized properties . The United States then released ? frozen Egyptian assets and eased other economic pressures on the Nasser regime . Throughout the Lebanese rebellion , furthermore , the State Department has leaned over backward to give President Nasser the benefit of all possible doubt about United Arab Republic intervention . Secretary of State Dulles has avoided the kind of criticism of President Nasser he used during the Suez crisis two years ago . While not directly affected by either the Iraqi coup @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strides toward hegemony in the Middle East with misgivings . If he should overcome his opposition in the Arab Middle East , and solve his economic problems by laying hands on Middle Eastern oil revenues , President Nasser 's United Arab Republic would become a formidable threat to Israel , according to some State Department experts . One school of thought among the experts contends , however , that Israel has no hope of ever making peace with a divided and fearful Arab world ; that only a united , strong and prosperous Arab world under unchallenged leadership would dare make peace with her . State Department officials admitted they were taken completely by surprise by the Iraqi coup , although they had long reckoned with such a possibility . Diplomats reported the British Government , whose connections with Iraq are far more intimate than those of the United States , was equally surprised . The extent to which the new Iraqi regime would fall into line with President Nasser 's ambitions to unite the Arab world , whether they would , for instance , seek to unite with the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known about the new leaders suggested to diplomats here that , in addition to being dedicated to Arab unity and neutralism between East and West , they would stand up for Iraqi self-interest . Almost all the new leaders are associated with the extreme RightWing nationalist Istiqlal party . Many of them were partisans of Rashid Ali during , his revolt against the British and King Faisal in 1941.                     