@@716390

txt WASHINGTON , July 10 ? Secretary of State John Foster Dulles has withheld any decision for or against returning for the final phase of the Geneva Far Eastern conference pending a fuller understanding here of the terms of a possible Indochinese settlement . Despite . appeals by France , which is supported by Britain , for the return of either the Secretvy or Gen. Walter Bedell Smith , Under Secretary of State , Mr. Dulles was pictured as being rela.ctant to make any move that might associate the United States with an agreement unacceptable to it . That appeared to be the an // BRITISH TIE HOPES TO DULLES ' RETURN // swer , alsb , to French suggestions that the United States would have to help guarantee any dividing , line of a partitioned Indochina if that boundary were to remain firm and secure against future Communist aggression . Officials said that the French had not put the suggestion to them in precisely that way , but acknowledged that discussions with Paris over tiCe last several weeks had covered a number of such points . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : It was very difficult for the United States to commit itself in advance to anyl agreement to which it was not al party  --  an agreement that might wi " American support , but on the other hand might also force an attitude here of dissatisfaction if not of outright dissociation . The United States went to Geneva on April 26 firmly opposed to any partition of Indochina . But that position was based in large part on the expectation of the creation of a Southeast Asian security pact that would shore up the weakening French defenses . That expectation proved premature because France , while seeking United States help in the defense of the now-fallen Dienbienphu , did not want to broaden the participation in the Indochinese war ; and Britairi , held back because London felt that the formation of any such anti-Communist alliance ought to await the outcome of the Geneva conference . French Responsibility The State Department now feels , more than ever , that the responsibility for the Indochinese phase of the Geneva talks ought to rest with the French . That is another factor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference while the outcome is still in doubt . Department spokesmen , meanwhile , met all reports from abroad that either the Secretary or Under Secretary was expected at Geneva momentarily with a solemn , " No comment . " Henry Suydam , the Department 's press chief , said that " no decision has been made " with respect to the Secretary 's plans . He cited as the last authoritative statement on the question Mr. Dulles ' own words at his news conference on Thursday . In reply to a question , Mr. Dulles said he did not exclude the possibility that either he or General Smith might return to Geneva , but 11P had no plans for that at the present . The question of Western unity has been raised in some French and British quarters that contend that the coalition would be strengthened and chances for a respectable settlement improved if Mr. Dulles were to stand at the side of French Premier Pierre Mend  --  s-France and British Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden in these last crucial days of the Indochinese negotiations . That consideration has not been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong Congressional influences that are even now highly suspicious of French military strategy in Indochina and of what some believe is the apparent French intention to get almost any settlement with the Communists there . Factors that may help Mr. Dulles reach a decision are the reports due from the military representatives of both sides in Indochina who have been trying to reach agreement on cease-fire military positions in the three Associated States . Those reports were scheduled for presentation to the Geneva conference today , but indications that the Communist demands have been excessive point to a substantial delay before agreement is reached among the military representatives . Informed sources in Geneva expect , therefore , that M. Mem:MsFrance , who returned today , may personally shoulder the burden of bringing a settlement from the conference .                     