@@712711

txt Gordon N. Converse , Staff Photographer The new $27,000,000 Mystic River Bridge , Nyhich opens to traffic on Monday , Feb. 27 , was formally dedicated today . Tivo levels , each carrying three lanes of traffic , will help to smash present bottlenecks . Northbound traffic will use the lower level ; southbound , the upper . The bridge will replace the present Chelsea drawbridge , shown here on the left . Several approaches , such as the one shown in the foreground , provide easy access to the structure . On the Boston end one approach leads from Charlestown Square ; another from Sullivan Square . New England today saluted the opening of a modern era of sound , long-term planning for the elimination of many of the area 's . worst traffic jams . Dedication of the new $27,000 , - 000 Mystic River Bridge  --  largest bridge in New England , and the first of several major highway projects  --  will be followed by its opening to vehicular traffic one minute after midnight Sunday . Between today 's formal dedication ceremonies  --  which include @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , plaque unveilings , and the cutting of the ribbon  --  and the actual opening early Monday morning , the bridge will be open to public inspection , by pedestrians only . It will be their great opportunity ? as exemplified by the poet Longfellow ? to stand on the bridge ( not at midnight ) and see ' its " bright reflection " in the waters beneath . And to see a breathtaking panoramic view of Greater Boston and its teeming waterfront . The 11,906 - foot structure  --  longer than San Francisco 's famed Golden Gate bridge ? is 135 feet above high water , and provides three lanes of traffic on each of two levels between Boston and Chelsea . The main span over the Mystic River is 800 feet long . Height of the tallest pier from solid rock to the top of the superstructure is 339 feet . The highest part of the bridge is 200 feet above the river surface . Privately financed and built totally without expense to the state or the taxpayers , the operating Mystic River Bridge Authority looks for $1,982,000 in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The toll rate for private cars will be 15 cents , or 10 tickets for $1 ; commercial vehicles , 20 cents . As part of today 's dedication ceremonies , more than 25 old-time automobiles , ranging in vintage back to 1911 , will head a " progress of transportation " motorcade from the State House . This motor parade will proceed through the city , and across the present Chelsea north drawbridge ? which the new structure replaces-and over the upper level of the new two-and-a-half-mile bridge . Ceremonies will take place on the seven-lane toll plaza , high above the Boston &; Maine Railroad tracks . Engineers from all parts of the country will be present to view the structure , which has attracted nationwide attention . Tonight national sand New England officials will join with city and state leaders to attend a formal dedication dinner at the Hotel Statler ,                     