@@712746

txt The first concrete step toward effecting an agrarian reform that should ease economic and social conditions in the most depressed Italian rural districts by making land available to landless peasants was taken by the Senate today when it approved a special bill for relief of the Sila region in Calabria . This bill , which still lacks approval of the Chamber of Deputies , applies to only a small part of rural Italy but nevertheless is of outstanding importance because it represents a kind of blueprint for bills affecting other rural districts which the government is about to introduce in Parliament . It is highly probable that the nationwide agrarian reform bill That the Government still is studying ultimately will be patterned on it . The bill , empowers the Government to reduce all land holdings in the Sila region to 300 hectares ( 750 acres ) by expropriating the excess . The land thus made available will be improved in such a way to make it suitable for settlement by a large number of peasant families . The improved land then will be assigned to peasant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acres ) ' a family , . The expropriated owners will be paid for their land on the basis of its tax assessment value in 5 per cent government bonds redeemable in twenty-five years . The peasants will pay for the land assigned to them in thirty yearly installments at the end ' of which time it will become their property . Reds Oppose the Bill The Communists and other extreme left wing parties fought long and strenuously against the government bill . They objected particularly to two of its main features . They wanted the land to be . taken away from its present owners without paying them any compensation and they wanted it not to be sold to the peasants but to be leased to them for a long period of years . The reasons for the Communists ' opposition are clear and no effort was made to hide them . They feel that the ? peasants who become landowners turn into staunch antiCommunists and they therefore have no desire to foment creation of a small peasant-owner class . The intention is not to make full use of powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present only enough land to take care of all landless - peasants ' in the Sila region . It is calculated that about 12,000 families competed of 60,000 persons , of ' which 25,000 are workers , are in need of land . On the basis of five hectares a family the amount of land required is about 60,000 hectares ( 150,000 acres ) . It is thought that this amount of land will be made available by expropriating only comparatively a small number of very large land holdings . 200,000 Live in Area The Sila region covers about 500,000 hectares , and supports a population of 200,000 . Rather less than 70 per cent of the population derive their livelihood directly from agriculture and of these slightly less than 50 per cent have no land . After the land is expropriated it will be necessary to build farmhouses , roads , and other improvements to make the land fit for cultivation . The estimated cost , of the improvements is 20,000,000,000 lire ( $32,000,000 ) of which a quarter will be provided by discounting the peasants ' future payments for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be contributed by the state , The land will be sold to the peasants under cost price so that the yield . of land should suffice to cover the thirty yearly installments. - The work on improving the land will not be finished until 1955 but it is hoped that it will be far enough advanced to put the peasants in possession of the land before the end of 1953 . After obtaining the land the peasants will continue to receive moral , material and technical - assistance from a specially created government agency . Public Works Plan Approved Meanwhile , the Cabinet approved a ten-year public works program that has the double purpose of fighting unemployment and improving Italy 's productive equipment . A:large proportion of the proposed public works will benefit southern Italy and the plan as a whole will be closely synchronized - with land reform . The Government 's plan foresees expenditure of $1,920,000,000 in the next ten years . Of this sum , $480 , - 000,000 will be spent for land reclamation and improvement in connection with land reform , $832 , - 000,000. for irrigation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , $224,000,000 for ' aqueducts and $64,000,000 , for tourist development . Expenditures under the new program will be administered as far as southern-Italy is concerned by a special agency that ' will be created . The program will be financed partly with funds left over from United States interim aid , partly by the European ' Recovery Program counterpart fund and partly by new taxation : ? PALERMO , Sicily , March 10 ( 211 ? At least 500 land-invading Sicilian peasants . Communist banners fught a bloody hand-to4iand battle with armed police near here today . Police said at least five of their men were injured by gunfire and hand grenades and another twenty-five by flying sticks and rocks . Eleven peasants were injured . It was the bloodiest outbreak of ' violence in , the continuing wave of land invasions since six persons were killed several months ago .                     