@@716704

txt New Challenge by Chou Simultaneously , from Peking , came word of a new challenge flung down by Chinese Communist Premier Chou En-lai  --  a declaration that " no interference with Formosa 's ' liberation ' will be tolerated , " and specifically that there would be " grave consequences for the United States if it tried to interfere . " The United States ' defense treaty with Nationalist China  --  which obliges such " interference " ? was called " naked aggression . " In still a third context , in debate over Peking imprisonment of II American fliers , the Soviet Union accused the United States of systematic , organized efforts to overthrow the Chinese Communist regime through subversion and espionage . This many-sided Communist attack on American policy in Asia has come  --  ironically enough ? at precisely the time President Eisenhower has put aside a policy of belligerence toward Communist China . Against the wishes of the right wing of his party , the President has counseled moderation and patience in an effort to work out a modus vivendi with Peking . Red @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has the Communist world chosen this particular moment to be most belligerent ? is it deliberately rejecting the Eisenhower olive branch ? Several answers are being offered here . At one- extreme is the answer of Dr. Tingfu F. Tsiang , Chinese Nationalist delegate , who obviously is not in sympathy with the Eisenhower policy . Dr. Tsiang 's comment Dec. 9 was that restraint and moderation are interpreted by the Communists as weakness , A more widely accepted explanation is that present policies are designed to split the United States from its allies by provoking intemperate American counteraction . That the Soviet Union may still hope to succeed despite Mr. Eisenhower 's initial restraint : or the Soviets may feel they have gone so far they can not conveniently turn back . Still another possibility was suggested Dec. 9 by C. D. Jackson . United States delegate , whose task it is to counter the Soviet charge of " aggression " against mainland China . The implication of his defense was that the Communist tactics might not have been carefully planned ? at least , not by Moscow . Restraint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been until recently much milder than that of Peking , he suggested  --  very subtly  --  that Moscow 's new virulence on behalf of Peking might be a case of the Chinese tail wagging the Soviet dog . There have been persistent reports that both Moscow and Washington are trying to restrain their Chinese " fighting cocks . " Washington has been reasonably successful in " leashing " Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek on Formosa . Mr. Jackson suggested that Moscow might try harder with Mao Tse-tung , Chairman of the Chinese People 's Republic . " If the Soviet Government 's support of peace and disarmament is sincere , " he asked , " then why does it not undertake to moderate its bellicose ally ? " Others , notably including Canadian Foreign Minister Lester B. Pearson , have made similar suggestions . Sorry ' for Malik In this connection , British Minister of State Anthony Nutting tried an original tack in debate on the imprisoned fliers . He said he " felt almost sorry " for Soviet delegate Yakov Malik . " A diplomat like Mr. Malik , who is so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feel resentment at being obliged ( by Communist China ) to stand up and defend such an absurdly weak case . " He said he hoped the Soviet Union would persuade Peking to " right the wrong " it had done in putting the fliers in jail . Behind the scenes , there is some evidence that this shaft of Mr. Nutting 's was skillfully aimed . One Iron Curtain diplomat remarked to this correspondent on the day the case of the fliers broke : " Of course , we 'll have to defend . " There was reluctance in every word . Nearly all non-Communist diplomats and observers agree with Mr. Nutting that the Soviet case is absurdly weak . The only dissenting view so far has come from Ahmed . Shukairy , Syrian delegate , who said Dec. 9 he did not believe either side had produced any convincing evidence . Syria Dissents Syria has benefited from the Soviet veto in the Security Council when Arab-Israeli issues have arisen . Syrian neutrality in the cold war is explained by a desire to retain the Kremlin 's support . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fliers ' debate . On Dec. 9 he appeared to back away from at . east one of the arguments he first put forward  --  the argument that Communist China is not bound by the Korean armistice . He conspicuously failed to repeat this contention Dec. 9 , though speaking for nearly two hours on other facets of the case . Observers here do not believe current Soviet acidity necessarily reflects a rejection of President Eisenhower 's Asian olive branch . They point out that both the imprisonment of the fliers and the charge of United States " aggression " against Communist China were set in motion before Mr. Eisenhower 's policy of moderation was proclaimed . Whether Peking is ready to rebuff Mr. Eisenhower ? and whether Moscow can control the direction of Peking policy  --  are different questions .                     