@@717279

txt With Hurricane Connie a memory of tragedy and debris , Hurricane Diane assumed yesterday a. distant but threatening posture . The new hurricane was reported at midnight Eastern daylight time to be moving toward the coast of the Carolinas . The Miami Weather Bureau placed the storm approximately 680 miles due east of Titusville , Fla. , . which is thirty-five ? miles east of Orlando . The bureau told North and South tarolina to stand . by for possible hurricane warnings . Neither the strength nor the direction of Diane was comforting . The Miami weather station said the hurricane was armed ' , with winds up to 115 miles an hour , some of which extended 150 miles to the northeast and eighty miles to the . southwest . In addition , Diane projected gales  --  winds 40 to 74 miles " an hour-350 miles to the northeast of the center and 170 miles to the southwest . The new hurricane , ' according to the midnight advisory , was churning west-northwest at the rate of 14 miles an hour . Meteorologists along the coast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the next twelve to eighteen hours . Hurricanes , however , are erratic storms , and it was too early for weather observers to know whether Diane would strike in- land . If it continued on its course , they said , it would buffet the Carolina coast , scene of Connie 's worst havoc . Last night 's forecast for this city was for more rain and little change in temperature . Cloudiness , occasional showers and fog patches were predicted for this morning , with 80 to 85 degrees of heat in the afternoon . The outlook for tomorrow is mostly cloudy , with some rain . President Eisenhower took action to expedite repairs in the path left by Connie , which had caused at least forty-three deaths and property damage estimated in excess of $15,000 , - 000 . The President allocated $1 , - 000,000 to the Civil Defense Administration for hurricane relief in North Carolina . Hurricane Connie hit that state hard last week . Gov . Luther Hodges of ' North Carolina had requested $1,500,000 for rehabilitation work , At the White House it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Estimates had placed the hurricane 's damage in North Carolina at $10,000,000 . The amount necessary for ? repairs to the storm-ravaged area along the state 's coastline will be determined by Civil Defense Administrator Val Peterson . Though the metropolitan area . did not feel the full force of , Connie , thousands of families , as well as emergency utility crews worked hard yesterday trying to restore order to homes and communities . Railroads and major highways were back to normal . But electric power and telephone service were still taxing repair crews . In cellars and back yards , family groups  --  sometimes families pooled their strength  --  tried to drain flooded cellars and clear branch-littered lawns and back yards . Along beaches boats were pumped out and pulled ashore for checking and repairs . Resort areas reported sharp reductions in week-end crowds , with few persons in the rough surf . At some points , such as Riis Park , swimming was forbidden . Restoring ' Utility Services The busiest workers in the metropolitan area were utilities men trying to restore full electric and telephone service despite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power and telephone facilities were not available , some statistics indicated the scope of the work . In ' New York City the last few thousand of the 29,000 telephones put out of order were being repaired late last night . In New ' Jersey about 25,000 telephones had been cull off . during the storm and it was expected that all would have service by this morning . Westchester , where ? there re67,400 power failures , all were expected to be fixed by today . The 23,000 street lights reThe New York Times Aug. 15. 1855 Hurricane Diane ( solid line ) takes over from Hurricane Connie ( broken line ) and has the experts guessing . ported out of order were expected to be working again tonight . National Guardsmen assisted the police in some areas of Queens . In suburban communities , social organizations called upon their members to act as clean-up squads . One of the , unusual improvisations because of the stain occurred in the Bellerose section of Queens . St. Paul 's Lutheran Church , built by vaniteer labor in a basement at 263d @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ congregation - held , . services yesterday at the Temple Sholom at 264th Street and Union Turnpike . An altar borrowed from another Lutheran church was installed for the services . The city 's water supply profited from the storm , Dams supplying the city in the Croton area were within three and onehalf feet of overflowing . It was expected that within forty-eight hours , when the storm waters had run off , the reservoirs would , be filled . With the city 's rapid transit facilities functioning normally , Charles L. Patterson , Chairman of the Transit Authority , estimated that the cost of emergency wages and repairs was $50,000 . He thanked- the men who had worked during the storm and expressed his appreciation to the public , press , radio and televislon . Hurricane Connie , meanwhile , greatly diminished in power , was just another rainstorm as it swept over the Great Lakes . The bodies of three members of a Brooklyn family lost Friday in an excursion schooner disaster in Chesapeake ' Bay have been identified and claimed by relatives , They are Dr. Hillard R. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of dental and medical anesthetics , of 308 Highland Boulevard , Brooklyn ; his wife , Cecile M. Nevin , 40 ; and their daughter , Hilary C. Nevin , 9 . A son , Hillard R. Nevin Jr. , is still missing . Ten persons drowned and four were reported missing when the Levin J. Marvel was wrecked by seas churned up by Hurricane Connie . Dr. Nevin , a graduate of the University of Toronto Dental School , had been president since 1950 of the Novocol Chemical Manufacturing Company of Brooklyn . He was a lecturer in the techniques of anesthesia and was the author of a book entitled " Problems of Anesthesia. "                     