@@713131

txt Letters to The Times Discontinuing El Queried Opposition Expressed to Curtailment of Service on Third Avenue Elevated To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The Board of Transportation , as reported in THE NEW YORK TIMES of Aug. 6 , has asked the city for permission to discontinue service on the Third Avenue elevated line between South Ferry and Chatham Square and demolish that part of the elevated structure . Such a proposal is nothing short of amazing to those of us who have been riders of this particular section of the " el " for many years . The substitute service as outlined , should the plan be put into operation , would be totally inadequate . The unrealistic approach to provide substitute service would be by means of free transfers to the First Avenue bus line or to the Lexington Avenue subway line at the City Hall station of the two routes . It would be interesting to know if Edward T. , General Superintendent of the Municipal Transit System , ever rides the First Avenue bus line or the Lexington Avenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the morning and 5 and 6 o'clock in the evening . If so , he would get a realistic lesson on how well cattle are transported in comparison to human beings in the New York buses and subways during the rush hours . The proposed plan calls for the eliminating of stations such as Fulton Street and Hanover Square , which supply labor for the coffee , tea , . spice , insurance , securities , fish and scores of other industries in that particular section . Let us not be too hasty in eliminating the transportation facilities which we already have on a workable basis . Let the Board of Transportation and Mr. bend their efforts toward providing additional facilities such as the proposed Second Avenue subway . JAMES K. MILLER . New York , Aug. 8 , 1950 . Marx and Engels on Violence Author of " Soviet Philosophy " Quotes Statement on Taking Power To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I have used newspapers from many different countries , and believe we are indeed fortunate in that THE NEW YORK TIMES currently prints the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probability , than any other newspaper in the world . One such document , in your issue of Aug. 2 , from the decision of Judge Learned Hand in the case of the eleven Communists , contains the following passage which points up a very significant problem : " The violent capture of all existing governments is one article of the creed of that faith communism , which abjures the possibility of success by lawful means . " Since Marx and Engels *e presumably regarded as basic authorities by all Communists , we must doubtless take account of the fact that the following position is laid down in the writings of Marx : " * * * There are certain countries , such as the United States and England , in which the workers may hope to secure their ends by peaceful means . " ( From an address delivered in Holland in 1872 , cited by Steckloff , G. : History of the First International . ) In 1886 , after the death of Marx , Engels corroborated this position in his preface to the first English translation of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contradiction between the statement made in the decision and the actual position taken by Marx and Engels . JOHN SOMERVILLE . New York , Aug. 5 , 1950 . Added Powers for the U. N. To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Was there any way to deal with aggressors that would have been more effective than that proposed by more than 50,000 dues-paying members of United World Federalists ? Is there any safer , surer , more positive way of guaranteeing law and order than by giving the United Nations the limited legislative , judicial and executive way of guaranteeing law and order with any . and an outlaws ? Would any aggressor ever dare challenge a world government united , prepared and equipped to deal immediately with any threat to law and order ? Is there any business , labor or social group that would not gain immeasurably by the establishment of such a guarantee of security by the authority of law and a government to enforce it ? From a solely practical viewpoint , is there a more effective way of dealing with our present problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own selves ? JOHN KHANLIAN . Tuckahoe , N. Y. , Aug. 1 , 1950 . Air Merger Questioned , To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial " Atlantic Air Merger , " appearing on Aug. 1 , has been read with great disappointment . It is difficult to envision a newspaper of your caliber being persuaded by Presidential double talk to the extent that such an editorial was prompted . A review of the record  --  the majority opinion of the Civil Aeronautics Board , dated May 17 , for instance  --  should convince you . With respect to the fullest accomplishment of the broad national objectives governing the development of United States air transportation , it is inconceivable to me that the dissolution of an efficient international air carrier is a wise move , especially-at this time . Certainly , there is no time in the history of United States air transportation when efficient air transport organizations are more urgently needed than now . It is interesting to note that when the scheduled air carriers , other than those operating certificated routes in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " airlift " to Japan , American Overseas Airlines was the first actually to supply an aircraft and operate a trip to Tokyo . At this writing they have operated additional trips while some carriers have not even commenced theirs . Unfortunately , the proposed merger has become a pawn in the hands of a few who seek only to satisfy their own desires . Believe me , this is not the first headache of this character that has been experienced . Certainly , any group which has manifested such an . " esprit de corps " can not be expected to sit idly by and watch all their efforts casually tossed out the window . I , too , hope that the carriers concerned may be permitted to go forward with plans for further development without delay ? and with American Overseas Airlines enjoying a well-deserved independence . J. DOUGLAS MAYNARD . Tuckahoe , N. Y. , Aug. 3 , 1950 . In Defense of King Leopold Action Against Leopold Interpreted as Desire to Establish Republic To THE EDITOR OF Tim NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial " King Leopold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abysmal misunderstanding of the entire royal question . It is no more a " ' Tie- , tively minor issue " than the Dreyfus case of some fifty years ago in France , the Sacco-Vanzetti case of nearly twenty-five years ago in Massachusetts , or the Owen Lattimore case of a few months ago in Washington . A brave and upright man , an independent statesman , a loyal ally and military commander has been subjected to ten years of " ordeal by slander . " Paul Reynaud started it . Winston Churchill backed him up . Belgium would never have become divided over the King had not Hubert Pierlot , PaulHenri Spaak , Max Buset , Camille Huysmans and Albert Dev ? ze repeated their attacks , either at Limoges in 1940 or in Belgium since the liberation . It is they who should suffer for their misdeeds , not the King . The attack on King Leopold personally was only an indirect way of attacking the monarchy . The Socialist party has long been committed to work for the establishment of a Belgian Republic . After 1918 it soft-pedaled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with the constitutional monarchy . In September , 1944 , however , the party published a manifesto calling for the suppression of the monarchical institution and the trial of Leopold III before a tribunal of honor on charges of having violated his constitutional oath . The Socialists tried anti-monarchist propaganda on the working class in the fall of 1944 . It was a complete failure . Then they changed their tactics to attacking the person and character of ' Leopold III . Tragically enough they ' succeeded in deceiving thousands of working men and women into agitating against the man who is in reality their best friend and champion . After more than five years of studying his case , I know that the entire anti-Leopold position is a contemptible mixture of outright lies , half-truths , and sinister misinterpretations of innocent or laudable acts . RUTH A. ELLioTT . Meadville . Pa .. Aug. 3. 1950 . Individuality of Handwriting To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : On July 25 THE NEW YORK TIMES published a statement by the " Master penmen of the United States and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teaching handwriting in American public schools was woefully inadequate . As a handwriting psychologist of twenty years ' experience , I beg to disagree wholeheartedly with the teachers of handwriting for the following reasons : Handwriting is an expression of personality and , as such , varies in accordance with the mental and emotional development of the writer . At each stage it will indicate exactly the characteristics of the scriptor . Even if the time spent on teaching handwriting in public and high schools were to be increased , the pupils would desire to express their own individualities in their scripts rather than be content with copying their teachers ' . The more intelligent and independent children are the more their writings will vary from the original school copy . The penmanship teachers ' demands to have at least five classes a week for students in the first and second years of high-school commercial courses can only contribute to the type of rigid , stereotyped expression and thinking which psychologists decry . HERRY 0 . TELTSCHER . New York , Aug. 2 , 1950 . Weather Readings Queried To THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that burns me up as much as the hot weather these days  --  and that is to read each morning the official temperature reading for New York City . How many New Yorkers are able to enjoy the comparative cool of this spot chosen by the Weather Bureau atop the Whitehall Building ? A high reading in the upper eighties taken there bears little resemblance to the temperature in which New Yorkers live and work . Why not have , as well , an official city reading taken in the shade at Times Square ? It would be hotter but more realistic . ELSA KINGMAN NEWBERRY . West Orange , N. J. , Aug. 1 , 1950 . German Army Opposed Repetition Feared of Revival of Military Might of Weimar Era To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : . It would be a great blunder to consider even a partial mobilization of Western Germany . Elements totally unfamiliar with German psychological traits are making claims as to the " complete reliability " of the Western Germans , losing sight of the fact that only recently Germany was our enemy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future understanding between the United States , together with its allies , and Germany . Moreover , there is the problem of guarding the West European frontiers against aggression . But the solution of these problems must not lie within the realm of strengthening a recent enemy . The policy of the Soviet command of increasing German " police forces " should not be imitated by the ' Western occupation powers . The entire structure of the Soviet occupation command and its methods are not comparable to those , of the Western powers , in view of the tremendous population shift that has taken place from Eat to West Germany . In the Western zones , Nazi elements as well as former Wehrmacht personnel of all ranks have succeeded in entrenching themselves . The revival of extreme German nationalism in the British and American zones provides a dubious reservoir of " reliable , " potentially democratic manpower . Germans of the present and the succeeding generation can not easily be turned into real allies of the United Nations . The average Germans do not appreciate E. C. A. aid ; rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been accomplished . A German armed force , even under the strictest surveillance of the Allied Powers , would ultimately discover secret means of becoming an independent , aggressive force , precisely as in the years after World War I , when Germany . violated the provisions of the Versailles treaty . The rearmament of Western Germany would give its people greater bargaining power . Should better concessions come from the East , it is within the realm of possibility that West Germany would adopt the Eastern point of view . Only with the very young is there the hope that education in true democracy can be effective . The best solution for the preservation of the borders of Western Europe lies in the formation of strong military units from the American , French , British , Belgian and Scandinavian forces . Not only would these troops protect the frontiers , but they would teach the new generation of Germans the principles of democracy . Civilian rule should be left to the Germans , but military rule must be in the hands of the Western Powers exclusively . G. G. LOWINSOHN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1950 . Clearing lip Traffic Bottlenecks To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : At the time of each long holiday week-end reports about highway traffic ' jams are forthcoming . Particularly exciting were those covering the conditions at the Pennsville-New Castle Ferry during the Fourth of July weekend . For those unfortunates who are tied up for two to six hours in such a deplorable situation the problems present themselves to an unsurmountable degree : It is impossible to leave the car , to obtain refreshments or to obtain information from the policemen standing along the trail . Nothing is being done to prevent such a traffic jam or to divert the motorists at an advanced point to other ferries or bridges . To those familiar with the Pennsville-New Castle territory this ever-recurring situation does not appear sensational . Many traffic signs posted along that road which would not even make sense in a big city , unsanitary makeshift streetvender enterprises and numerous other peculiarities seem to furnish sufficient evidence that this traffic condition pictured as unusual is the normal , usual and unbearable condition during every week-end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the authorities involved put an end to these traffic hazards . Something should be done before the Labor Day week-end . RUDOLF STEINER . Trenton , N. J. , Aug. 7 , 1950 . Employment vs. the Draft To THE EDITOR OF Tnz NEW YORK TIMES : The time when - totalitarian states threaten the democracies of the world would appear to be a time for uniting our resources for defense . Recently , in applying for a position ( advertised in THE NEW YORK TIMES ) , the receptionist , hearing I was 18 years old and had registered for the draft , asked me if I was likely to be called . I replied I had no way of knowing , and was told politely that they were looking for permanent employes . Granting that in small businesses such economy measures may be excusable , in a huge corporation no such excuse is apparent . Methinks a new low has been reached in personnel practices when the qualifying test for emnlovment becomes . " Could von dodge the draft ? " HERBERT GOLDSMITH . New York , Aug. 7 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            