@@716236

txt President Eisenhower expressed ' hope today that the Geneva Conference might be able to arrange at least a temporary arrangement among the warring powers ' in Asia . He said at the forty-second annual meeting of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States that Indo-China had become a " testing place " between the free and Communist worlds . But he seemed to take a more moderate line in discussing what should be done about the deteriorating military situation in Indo-China . The President said the Chamber was meeting in " a time of great decisions . " He noted that the war in Indo-China would affect the future of Japan , Indonesia , Burma , Thailand and the surrounding areas , but he defined the purpose of the Geneva conference as one of " trying to arrive at some situation that at least we I could call a ' modus vivendi . ' " The United States does not hope to reach the kind of understandings abroad that it can ultimately develop on great issues ' at home , the President observed . Futility of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would hope that the logic of today 's situation would appeal to all peoples , regardless of their ruthlessness , so that they would see the futility of depending upon war or the threat of war as a means of settling international difficulty . " Meanwhile , Senator Edwin C. Johnson , Democrat of Colorado , a past opponent of many internationalist policies , attacked the ' proposal for United States ' military intervention in Indo-China as " the most foolhardy venture in all American history. , " He was supported in a sparsely occupied Senate by Senator Milton R. Young , Republican of North Dakota . The President 's remarks were brief . But they were carefully studied in the embassies here because they coincided with the opening of the Geneva Conference on Indo-China and Korea and because United States policy now seems to be taking a more moderate line . For the last fortnight , officials here , have been emphasizing , as the President did today , the importance of Indo-China to the political future of Southeast Asia . They have also been stress- // ing the threat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period  --  and particularly in Vice President Richard M. Nixon 's talk to editors in Washington April 16  --  the tendency has been to imply that a free Southeast Asia was such a vital United States interest that the United States should defend it with American troops , if necessary . In short , the impression has been given recently that the United States feared a compromise settlement in Indo-China and would fight to prevent a Communist victory there . This theme is being modified somewhat in Washington . What is being said now is this : ciThe area of Indo-China is extremely important , but " the United States can not be the gladiator ) for the whole world . " IIThe Communist aggression there is a problem for all the free nations , and each should contribute what it can to the defense of the region . elIf the principle of joint responsibility is accepted and written into an international agreement or alliance , the United States may be willing to intervene with air and naval power against the Communists , but it is opposed to intervention with United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This carries the policy back ' to where it started at the end of last month , when John Foster Dulles , Secretary of State , said he favored a policy of " united action . " The United States Government ' is now making clear that this does not mean ' token " action by other nations . It is making clear , particularly to the French and the British , that it is willing to help under certain conditions and to a limited extent ( no ground troops ) , but is not prepared for any " go it alone adventures " on the Continent of Asia . This distinction is being carefully noted by many Embassies here and reported to their goyernments . Whether as a tactical ! move to avoid giving too belligerent an impression at Geneva ! or as a gesture to the no-moreintefvention - in - Asia sentiment ' here , it is being noted that the United States seems to be backing away from the more dramatic interpretations of Mr. Dulles ' " united action " policy . Senator Johnson 's remarks in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extreme opposition to any United States intervention . Probably few others in the Senate would go as far , but there is considerable opposition , and in view of the many contradictory statements that have been made about the " united action " policy , a growing demand on Capitol Hill for a clearer statement of policy . High Cost Forecast The Senator from Colorado rejected the view that the war in Indo-Chire. was wholly an internationally inspired Communist rebellion , and estimated that United States armed intervention " would mean at the minimum 500,000 American casualties and a very minimum of $100,000,000 , - 000 of borrowed money . " Such a war , he said , could last ten years or touch off a world war that would have to be fought for 100 years without victory . " Within the past ten days , " he added , " we have been treated to the spectacle of seeing the French Premier and French ministers slapped and abused in the streets of Paris by Frenchmen , and not Communist Frenchmen , because of the seemingly determined attitude of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and all France 's allies , save one  --  the Administration in Washington -- knows it ' can not win . " Meanwhile , in the House , Representative Clarence Cannon , Democrat of Missouri , called on the Administration to say whether the United States intended to defend Indo-China or hot . " It is important that we know " ' the Administration 's position on Indo-China , Mr. Cannon said , before the House considers the new $38,000,000,000 defense budget Wednesday . He is senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee .                     