@@720058

txt States bases on foreign soil . Nothing is said about methods of control , although the Soviet Government , according to the MOACOW radio , has referred to " aerial photography in areas of outstanding significance " as a means of " averting the danger of surprise attack . " In the past the Soviet Government has proposed that an agreement be reached on the installation of control posts at railway , stations , large ports and important highways . In the Western view , these proposals are political questions not immediately connected with the conference 's task of deciding weapons or forces that could launch a surprise attack and how they are to be detected , In this atmosphere it has become apparent to the leaders of the Eastern delegations that no practical purpose could be served by introducing the Rapacki plan . The plan was revised after it had been rejected by the Western powers last May . In its present form the plan would allow the West and the East to retain atomic armaments now situated in central Europe , but proposes that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is aimed at preventing the atomic armament of Germany . - The plan also provides for the establishment of a zone consisting of East and West Germany , Poland and Czechoslovakia from which nuclear weapon ; would be barred in conjunction with a reduction of conventional arms in those arms : The Communist bloc evidently believes the plan holds considerable attractions for some members of the Atlantic alliance , notably Denmark and Norway . Firm rejection of the plan by the West at this conference might end its further usefulness to the East as a basis for disarmament discus-sion , Division Still Stands The East and the West are as far apart as ever , therefore , in the surprise-attack conference . They still have not agreed on what the conference is about . The situation in the threepower conference on the cessation of tests of nuclear weapons is slightly more promising . Semyon Tsarapkin and other Soviet delegates studied today a four-point program placed before yesterday 's meeting by James J. Wadsworth , chief United States delegate . The plan , which had the ' support of the British delegation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effective international control organization . The first Soviet reaction was unfavorable . But the Soviet delegates promised a thorough examination of the paper during the week-end and a more complete answer when the conference reassembles Monday . The direct and obtainable objective of agreement to the United States proposals is a cessation of tests under an international control organization , This could not prevent either the Western Allies or the Soviet Union from passing information on the manufacture of hydrogen bombs or atomic weapons to respective allies , such as France or Communist China . But the United States , British and Soviet delegates here believe the agreement would halt nuclear weapons tests , throughout the world , There is strong belief in the three delegations that once they have agreed to halt the tests of weapons , no power will flout world opinion and start testing . The United States and British delegations here have insisted since the outset of the conference that a cessation of tests in itself is not a measure of disarmament . But their members contend that if the tests were banned by agreement under international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement on specific measures of disarmament . These would involve the production of nuclear weapons and the existing stocks of Such weapons .                     