@@713442

txt The Truman administration has ordered John Foster Dulles , top Republican adviser on foreign policy . to wind up his work as a United States delegate at the United Nations and report back here to the State Department for general advisory work . Mr. Dulles is expected to arrive in Washington Dec. 6 . This is an emergency move arising out of the Korea crisis and represents one part of a major effort by the administration to revive bipartisanship in foreign policy in view of the urgency of the present situation . How much farther the bipartisanship drive will go is at the moment speculative . However , it can be reported that attention is being given at top levels to the possibility of associating Republicans in top-level foreign policy making by measures even stronger than this . It could go so far as an invitation to a competent Republican to take over the secretaryship of state , although this is a final step which apparently would be taken only if matters get worse than they are now , Go Slow ' Advice A prominent reason for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that in retrospect his recommendations along the road of the Korean affair look very good . Mr. Dulles favored the original decision to go to the aid of the South Koreans against aggression . He approved the use of American air and sea forces to support the South Koreans . But Mr. Dulles did not approve the decision to send ground troops when this step was recommended by Gen. Dougas . Later , Mr. Dulles favored the crossing of the 38th parallel . But he warned repeatedly and vigorously against the effort to push UN forces up to the Yalu River . He felt that it was both necessary and wise to bring the industrial area around Pyongyang into mesh with the industries around Seoul . That is why he approved going across the parallel and as far as the " narrow waist " of Korea . But he also felt that to push the UN armies up to the Yalu River inevitably would precipitate the kind of Chinese Communist reaction which is now forcing the armies of the United Nations out of Korea . Mr. Dulles probably will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gets straightened around in his new office at the State Department . The purpose of this will be to attempt to work out a quick substitute for the Japanese peace treaty which in all probability can not now be arranged quickly enough to satisfy the needs of the present crisis . The political effect of the move of Mr. Dulles back from Lake Success to the State Department will be to give the internationalist Republicans in Congress a representative in the top councils of the State Department . Mr. Dulles probably will not satisfy the Taft-Wherry group of Republicans , but there is doubt whether the administration ever could satisfy this group without abandoning the whole body of its foreign policies . Certainly the time has not yet arrived when the administration is ready to bring Republicans into the cabinet as President Roosevelt had done , even before Pearl Harbor . But events are pushing administration thinking in that direction , and of course there already are a number of prominent Republicans at sub-cabinet level . When the time comes to bring Republicans into the cabinet , Mr. Dulles certainly will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no mention of such a possibility was involved in his orders to report back here . Since the secretaryship of state is the senior cabinet post , it would not he the first one the administration would think of offering to a Republican . The general assumption in political quarters is still that if Mr. Acheson were to leave , he probably would be replaced by Chief Justice Fred M. Vinson . But times change . and with them so do assumptions . Dulles Stock Up It is considered conceivable that times may change enough to cause President Truman to think in terms of replacing Mr. Acheson with Mr. Dulles or with some other equally prominent Republican . Names mentioned in speculation about this include those of Paul G. Hoffman , former ECA chief , John McCloy , United States High Commissioner in Germany , and Robert Lovett , Undersecretary of Defense . In the meantime , the outstanding fact of the moment is that Mr. Dulles 's advice about Korea looks so much sounder in restrospect than it did at the time to the men who made the decisions that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . His stock is up , and the views of those who overruled him are down .                     