@@712702

txt Threats of government seizure of the nation 's bituminous coal mines loomed up here with the general refusal of the miners to obey federal court orders and go back to work . An alternative is for the courts to find John L. Lewis and the other officers of the United Mine Workers of America in contempt of court and to punish them with heavy fines . The fines might - even be made cumulative , so that the longer the miners defied the courts the larger the fines . Federal  --  Judge Richmond B. Keech renewed his " stop-strike " order to the miners , extending it until March 3 . The effect of this order , which postpones decision on whether to issue an 80-day injunction under the Taft-Hartley Act , is still obscure . It either might prepare the way for fines at once or postpone the legal showdown . Apparently nobody knows for sure how earnestly Mr. Lewis has tried to get the miners back to work . If he has tried sincerely to obey the ' law and if his men are engaging in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lewis and his fellow union officials in contempt . President Might Act In that case , it is expected , the President would act to take over the mines . Presumably he would first ask Congress for special emergency powers to seize the coal properties . Judging from our own observations on a trip through the big eastern coal fields last week , we believe the miners are in open rebellion against their union leadership . The impression we gained was that they would not be deterred in their insistence of having a contract before going back to work , even if the courts bankrupted the union with fines for contempt of court . If President Truman uses his vast unwritten power to deal with this rapidly mounting national crisis to nail the . United States Flag to the portals of the nation 's 8,000 coal mines , would the miners then go back to work ? Again , judging by the mood of the men we interviewed on our recent tour of Pennsylvania and West Virginia , we believe they would comply . Anybody 's Guess It appeais to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that the miners will work if the government takes over operation of the mines and takes the profits , Jo ? . In refusing to obey Mr. Lewis 's first back-to-work order , the miners said they were waiting for his signature on a new contract . Negotiations were resumed Feb. 20 . Persons close to the negotiations refused to predict what progress would be made . They started Feb. 15 and ran hot and cold until the week-end recess , according to federal officials sitting in . Meanwhile the nation 's coal stockpile fell to less than a week 's supply . Unemployment threatens to snowball across the country as industry after industry announced . plans for shutting down unless the strike of 370,000 United Mine Workers is settled soon . Cold Wave Strikes A nationwide cold wave with temperatures below freezing all across the northern half of the country burned the precious coal supplies faster . Some 55,000 industrial and railroad workers already are idled as a result of the strike . Times Square turned off its huge display electrical signs on Feb. 19 . A spokesman for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unless a break occurs soon in the strike the governor may ask the Legislature for authority to confiscate all private coal stocks . In Minnesota , the state fuel conservator , James W. Clark , also has ordered fuel rationing , asking dealers to limit deliveries to supplies sufficient for one month . The State of Massachusetts also was considering plans for rationing . Twelve steel firms have cut back production throughout the country .                     