@@716526

txt a possible Senate resolution of censure , apparently needs a winning Republican candidate for whom he can make a speech . At the moment , Mr. McCarthy 's prestige is not rising , and so far no prominent state candidate has come forward to seek his election support . The primaries here and there in nine states gave hints of what might be a " trend " in this field . In Wisconsin , Fred R. Zimmerman , one-term Governor and sharp critic of Mr. McCarthy in the past , defeated an opponent for State Secretary of State endorsed by the local Republican leaders who have sought to oust Mr. Zimmerman . Senator McCarthy did not campaign or take any part in the local races . Mr. Zimmerman has been 10 times Secretary of State , and his renomination now indicates a general trend , running through all local primaries , that it was a good day for incumbents in either party . Exception Seen An exception to this rule in Wisconsin was the defeat of Republican Harlan Kelley of Baraboo for renomination as Sauk County District @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Kelley was the pro-McCarthy prosecutor who initiated legal action against the " Joe Must Go Club " that tried to recall the senator . Other local factors were involved in both the Zimmerman and Kelley races . States involved in primaries were Colorado , Massachusetts , Minnesota , New Hampshire , New York , Utah , Vermont , Washington , and Wisconsin : In all states , incumbent congressmen seeking renomination were successful in primaries that produced few upsets . One of the Democratic senators the GOP is trying hardestto knock off is Senator Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota . Republicans picked Val Bjornson for their candidate in the battle . In Colorado , interest fell on the fight for Democratic Senate nomination for the seat vacated by veteran Democrat Edwin C. Johnson , who decided to run for Governor . Former Representative John A. Carroll won the nomination over Denver Mayor Quigg Newton . Republicans picked Gov . Gordon Allott to contest the seat . He was unopposed . Line-Up Set Little Vermont gave a touch ) f color to the primaries by naming a woman for the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which usually means election . This was Consuelo Northrup Bailey , reputed to have chased bootleggers as a state 's attorney . In her latest exploit , she heat two male opponents , including a former governor . The nine - state primaries about completed line-ups for the November election . Rhode Island still holds its , primary , and New York will nominate candidates for Governor later this month . An analysis by Louis H. Bean , election statistician , charges that past results show that McCarthy support is a liability rather than an asset . In a section entitled " Forecasting the 1954 Elections " in a new " Guide to Politics : 1954. " just issued by Americans for Democratic Action , Mr. Bean says , " The Republican National Committee seems to have changed its mind about making official use of Senator McCarthy as an active campaigner . " Mr. Bean argues that but for the 1952 Eisenhower landslide , Senator McCarthy probably would not have been reelected . " Heading the Wisconsin poll in 1952 , says Mr. Bean , was McCarthy-opponent Mr. Zimmerman , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Both parties map strategy : Page 6.                     