@@715328

txt The French Cabinet is debating an elaborate plan to place the war in Indo-China on a new basis , relieving the French Army of much of the human burden and relieving the French budget of the bulk of the cost of the war . For the first time in five years , the French Gdvernment sees a possibility of greatly diminishing the drain upon France caused by that war , which has imperiled France 's finances , reduced her defensive power in Europe and troubled her people much as the Korean war now troubles Americans . The plan now under discussion ? which in its present/for a modified form probably will be submitted to the United States Government at the end of this month , when Premier Rend Mayer and Foreign Minister Georges Bidault visit Washington  --  entails transferring the manpower contribution increasingly to native Vietnam troops , trained by French officers , while the financial contribution would be covered by greater . United States aid . The Cabinet has not yet decided the final form its proposal will take . But the plan now considered embodies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more eCOpomic aid to France after next July , when the current fiscal year ends . 2 . The military aid granted by the United States in forms that relieve the French budget would go entirely to Indo-China . 3 . The United States would finance most of the cost of training and equipping new Vietnam units to replace the French forces . To finance this new deal in IndoChina , which would permit France to retain her position there and at the same time contribute her share to the defense of Wester Europe , experts of the Ministry of Finance have calculated tentatively that in the fiscal year beginning next July 318,000,000,000 francs , or $900,000,000 in United States aid would be needed : This would mean that the United States would finance about 65 per cent of the cost of the war in Indo-China , which is tentatively reckoned as 500,000,000,000 francs in the coming year ; but might be much less . The United States now finances about one-third of the current cost of the Indo-Chinese war . Plan Pushed by Juin The plan owes a good deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ training of native Vietnam units . This insistence resulted partly from Marshal Juin 's recent visit to the Far East . The United States invited him to Korea especially to observe the training methods developed there for building up native South Korean units to relieve United States and other United Nations forces  --  methods that the Americans thought surpassed those being used in Indo-China and might well be adopted there . The hope of creating soon a greater Vietnamese force could rest only upon the hope of additional United States aid to finance the process , which the French consider their budget could not cover . The French have insisted all along that only greater American aid could enable them to meet the problem of Indo-China while trying to meet also the requirements of European defense , in which French land forces are scheduled to play the leading role . The new plan is designed to resolve the enigma that has faced France for five years in IndoChina , where it was morally impossible to withdraw , physically impossible to win and financially impossible to go on indefinitely fighting at growing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opinion of its sponsors , would enable the French to stay in Indo-China by reducing the cost in blood and money ? notably in trained officers needed for new divisions in Europe . It would follow lines already adopted , for the training of native troops has already begun and the casualties of French officers have been reduced . The plan conforms with the United States policy of " disengaging " American and European forces in the Far East  --  to use a term employed in Washington to describe President Eisenhower 's reported aim of enlisting more Asians for the defense of Korea and Indo-China . Under the plan the French would do in Indo-China what the Americans are doing in Korea by rapidly replacing their European troops by native Asians . The plan does not conform with the conceptions of those members of Congress who would reduce foreign aid , for it entails an increase of United States budgetary aid to France and the French union . Hope to Please Congress But the French believe the plan would have some appeal to Congress , since it concentrates upon Asia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it entails abandonment of economic aid . The French have noted the apparently growing importance that Washington attaches to IndoChina as an integral part of the Far Eastern defense picture , and to the easing of France 's burden there to permit her to do more in Europe in terms of defense . The main weakness of the French case is that M. Mayer contends a new deal for IndoChina is necessary to enable France to play her part in the proposed European army , but he can not guarantee that she will Play that part even if the United States grants all the aid asked for Indo-China . He can ( ply argue that the pendino . European army treaty would then have a better chance of ratification by the French Parliament . The new plan for Indo-China was drafted by experts of the Ministry of Finance , which backs it strongly . Some officials have expressed the fear that if the United States financed the war there to the extent of 65 per cent , it might want a proportionate voice in the strategy and policy in Indo-China and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approximately $900,000,000 mentioned would cover most of what now goes into the French budget to finance the war in IndoChina , plus the cost of training native troops . All the United States aid that relieved the French budget would go for the Indo-Chinese war . The French have counted this fiscal year upon $650,000,000 of budgetary aid and have been promised at least K6,000,000 Some of this aid is in the form of offshore purchases  --  that is , dollar financing of defense expenditures that otherwise would burden the French budget . But much offshore aid is outside this budgetary aid , and this form of offshore assistance the French would still desire to receive . That is , they would want still to compete with other European nations for dollars to be earned by making defense materials for use in Europe generally .                     