@@715030

txt A singer 's opera with soma of the finest singers in the world graced the opening of the Metropolitan Opera 's sixty-eighth season last night . Starting his third year as general manager , Rudolf Bing led off with another of his rehabilitations of an old work relatively neglected in recent years . As a result the accent was on the opera itself . But no opera on opening night can achieve exclusive dominion . As always the audience contributed to . the sum of the evening 's impact . It paid a record total of $59,961 to get in , with tickets scaled at a $30 top . It included leaders in diplomacy , Government , business , the arts and sciences and society as well as persons with no other distinction than a fondness for opera and the Metropolitan . Some people came a long way , and others waited on line for hours just to be sure of having standing room . Nearly every one was dressed in his or her finest , and once again the Metropolitan opening was also a parade of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Verdi 's " La Forza del Destino , " was a little on the gloomy side for so festive an occasion . It was trimmed a little , and its setting was moved back a century . It was dressed with new sets and costumes by Eugene Berman and new staging by Herbert Graf , and it had the benefit of a strong musical production prepared and conducted by Fritz Stiedry . But what made its tragic , tortuous plot forgivable to the cheerful first-nighters was that it contained some of Verdi 's grandest melodies . With such singers as Zinka Milanov , Richard Tucker , Leonard Warren and Cesare Siepi to sing them , there was enough , sweet sorrow to make the evening a complete success . Mr. Bing could be pardoned for declaring yesterday that even if it sounded like blowing one 's own horn no other opera house in the world today could gather such a cast for this opera . The United Nations had broad representation in last night 's brilliant gathering . Lester B. Pearson , Canadian Minister for External Affairs and president of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Mrs. Pearson were in the box of Mrs. August Belmont , member of the Metropolitan Opera board . Sir Gladwyn Jebb , British delegate to the United Nations , and Lady Jebb occupied a box and had as their guests Dr. H. M. Lange , Norwegian Foreign Minister ; Selwyn Lloyd , another British official at the United Nations ; Leslie Munroe , New Zealand representative ? to the United Nations , and Evelyn Emmett , delegate to the General Assembly Brig . Gen. Carlos P. Romulo ; Philippines Ambassador , and Mrs. Romulo were guests of Mr. and Mrs. Cornelius V. Starr . Margaret Truman , the President 's daughter , and Mrs. Vincent R. Impellitteri , the Mayor 's wife , were among the prominent individuals in the audience . It was noteworthy that a number of New York 's oldest and most distinguished families were back in boxes . Among them was Mrs. James B. Haggin , widow of the mining and railroad leader . As Mr. Bing put the matter optimistically yesterday , long-time subscribers are buying the bulk of the tickets for opening nights . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he threw open the opening night to all subscribers , whereas for six decades it had been the special plum of the Monday night subscribers . There had been some resentment at first from this latter group , but it appeared last night that hard feelings had disappeared . Last night 's audience was oldfashioned in another respect . Evidently it came to see the opera . By 8:10 P. M. , ten minutes after curtain time , nearly every one was in the house . The somber nature of the blood-and-thunder yarn that makes the libretto for this opera did not deter the patrons from wanting to see  --  and especially hear ? it all . If the libretto was hard going for some in the audience , it was a pity that everyone was not provided with verses prepared at short- notice by John Gutman , assistant general manager of the Metropolitan . Challenged to clarify the story , Mr. Gutman tossed off twelve stanzas explaining " La Forza del Destino " ( in English " The Power of Fate " ) . With his permission , his final @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not follow the Italian : Alvaro by demons is ridden , And though he knows it 's forbidden , He can do no other But butcher the brother Of Leonora , who nearby is hidden . Guardiano comes running  --  too late ! Alvaro has done in his mate . Leonora is dying , The others are crying .. . FOR SUCH IS THE POWER OF FATE . Directors Meet Emergency The house , of course , was ' sold out long in advance , and an emergency arose when Mrs. John Wells Heard of San Antonio , Tex. , a friend of the Metropolitan , chartered a plane and few up to New York with a party of nine guests , one of whom had flown from Honolulu to San Antonio , just for the opening . The Metropolitan 's directors rose to the occasion by giving up their private box to Mrs. Heard and her party . Mr. Bing for his part showed . a nice sense of the amenities by playing host to the scores of standees queued up outside the theatre when , a little before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to every one on line . The standees continued to be a colorful part of opening night . This year the hardiest candidates for the right to purchase one of the ? 375 available standing-room spots took their places on line seventy-two hours before curtain time . Operating on the theory of live and let live , they set up an honor system that permitted each one to take a turn at stealing away for some hours of relief and rest . It worked so well that the standees wre still good friends at 7 P. M. , when the box office opened to sell standing-room admissions . As usual these men and women had whiled away ' the time by swapping opinions , and reminiscences about operas and singers . In yesterday morning 's rain they gathered under the Broadway marquee , continuing their talk and recollections . By evening the line had swung down Broadway and all the way down Thirty-ninth Street , and hundreds were turned away . 39th Street Lobby a Focal Point Some could not bear to go home , and remained on the sidewalks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dressed and jeweled audience arrive . The Thirtyninth Street foyer was , as in years gone by , the center of the biggest crush . Here photographers detonated their flash bulbs , style scouts made sketches of strigting ly designed clothes and reporters scribbled names . Later in the evening , the corridors , filled with promenaders in the intermissions , took the play , as did the refreshment mecca on the grand tier floor operated this year for the first time by Louis Sherry . There was no radio or television broadcast of last night 's proceedings . Metropolitan openings have not been televised for several seasons , but there will be two special telecasts of Metropolitan productions later this season . They will , be on the program entitled " Omnibus , " " Fledermaus " and the new English version of " Boheme " are ' likely to , be chosen for these telecasts . The renovation of " Boheme " is another project on Mr. Bing 's program to bring up to date some of the company 's productions . Puccini 'd opera , which will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be presented in two versions  --  in the original Italian and in an English translation by Howard Dietz . Stravinsky Premiere Due Later in the season will come the first big novelty of Mr. Bing 's regime  --  the American premiere of Igor Stravinsky 's opera , " The Rake 's Progress . " The total of wholly new productions for Mr. Bing 's first three years as general manager will thus come to eleven . Asked how his policy of refurbishing old works had worked out , Mr. Bing declared that nearly all of the productions thus far had won critical and popular acclaim . He had figures to show that the old operas in new dress had shown , new life at the box office during his first two seasons . They had , in fact , outdrawn the oldt operas , 7,14 , .4 , - sorne of the sturdi ?  - -  - est favorites , done in the old way . He pointed , out that operas such as Mozart 's " Marriage of Figaro " and Strauss ' " Rosenkavalier , " ac  --  mowledged masterpieces , had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successes at the box office in modern times . He said he hoped to give operas like Verdi 's " Don Carlo " and " Forza del Des . tino " and Mozart 's " Cosi fan tutte " a chance at similar acceptance . Mr. Bing declined to discuss the matter of his contract , but there is no secret that it had three years to run and this is the third- year . The likelihood is that he will be asked to sign a new agreement soon . It is the essence of his policy that he must keep on - doing new productions of old and new operas , and new productions cost a lot of money . The directors  --  and perhaps the public  --  will provide the answer .                     