@@714724

txt pressure of another wave of speculation . However , recovery of dollar funds used recently by Britain for defense and near defense expenditures under the Mutual Security Agency may by the end of June offset recent gold losses . Britain 's present difficultieF are compounded by the difficulties of the commonwealth as a whole . Britain is the banker for the commonwealth . Therefore commonwealth countries ' trade deficits with countries like the United States , Canada , Belgium , or others which do not belong to the sterling area  --  that is , which do not base their currencies on the British pound  --  have to be borne ultimately in London . This highly ramified nature of Britain 's continuing financial crisis is one reason for the visit here by the Australian Prime Minister . It was the reason for the meeting here last January of the commonwealth finance ministers . The membeis of the commonwealth are seeking to balance their trade with the outside world and with each other . Free Pound Debated Mr. Menzies ' in London is urging another more comprehensive commonwealth conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need to harmonize the needs of commonwealth countries which , like Australia , are at the beginning of their growth , with the needs of more fully developed members . The time has come , he said , for the commonwealth , as free but closely associated nations , to . go into consultation to " Imprcive the lot of us all . " The gravity of Britain 's financial situation is now producing some spectacular suggestions in backstage debates in financial circles on the best way to pull British finance out of an incipient tailspin . For example , along with familiar recommendations , such as " increase exports , " " cut imports , " some experts are reported as debating whether the time may be approaching when the pound should be made freely convertible into dollars and permitted to find its own value in the world money market . This does not mean that the government is as yet considering any such move . Freeing the pound may or may not be the way through British ' difficulties , it is said here . It might add to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , currency in world money markets might be harsh indeed on the British people . Its immediate effect would be a sharp rise in the cost of most things the British nation imports . This would be reflected in increased prices Britons would have to pay for nearly everything they buy .                     