@@719482

txt Massachusetts action in modernizing its laws governing business and commercial transactions of all kinds through adoption of the uniform commercial code is expected to spark similar action in other New England states and elsewhere in 1959 . Walter D. Malcolm , member of the Massachusetts Commission on Uniform State Laws , and one of the prime movers for the new code , forecast rapid spreading of the code as a result of the 1957 action by the Massachusetts Legislature . The new code , containing the first general modernization and recodification of business law in more than 50 years . goes into effect in Massachusetts on Oct. 1 . 1938 . Only Pennsylvania preceded Massachusetts in its adoption . The Pennsylvania statute has been in effect since 1954 , with outstanding results , Mi . Malcolm said . Attorneys Iteselmoled The new code is sending an anticipated 1,000 attorneys and businessmen in Massachusetts back to school next month to learn its effect . The code is expected to lead to economies by operation by establishing uniform procedures and the like . It was backed by lawyers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered by the 1957 Legislature . But so vast in scope is the new law and so voluminous are its provisions , contained in the 175-page statute , that lawyers and businessmen need a detailed course in its operation and effect . As a result , the New England Law Institute is scheduling a three-day school on the subject on Feb. 14 , 15 , and 21 at the John Hancock Hall , Boston . The institute director is Lowell S. Nicholson , Massachusetts Assistant Attorney General . The three-day " legal clinic " is being presented by the institute in cooperation with the committee on continuing legal education of the American Law Institute . Later Sessions Slated A similar school will be held in Springfield on March 21 , 22 , and 29 under the Hampden County Bar Association and the American Law Institute . The clinics are part of a broad program of education being conducted between now ' and the Oct. 1 effective date of the Massachusetts act . The educational program , to acquaint lawyers and business- Pattern Set men with the code 's effect , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field . The charge for the law institute course on commercial code is $25 . In addition the 11 lectures to be given on the subject those enrolled in the course will receive the new 1,000-page code book , containing the complete text of the new law , official comments Issued by the national sponsors of the code and an entirely new set of legal annotations relating each section of the code to existing Massachusetts law . Broad Effect Seen While the new code is complex and of little interest to the layman , in effect is broad and will effect the everyday lite of all Massachusetts citizens . It is expected to lead to greater efficiency in the field and reduce expensive litigation . Lectures in the three-day clinic , in most cases , haze worked on the code during the 15 years it was dratted and redrafted by the National Conference of Commissioners on UM - torm State Laws and the American Law Institute and interested persons in various states . The lecturers will be Jude Sterry R. Waterman of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ William E. Hogan of the Boston College Law School ; Peter F. Coogan , Boston attorney ; Homer KrivIce , assistant general counsel , Commercial Investment Trust , New York ; and Murdoch K. Goodwin , assistant general counsel , Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia . Wide Adoption Hinted Also Edward L. Schwartz , member of the Massachusetts on Uniform State Laws ; Prof. Robert Braucher of Harvard Law School : Prof. Robert Liberman of Boston University Law School : Harold Horovitz , one of the authors of the new Massachusetts code annotations ; Mr. Malcolm , Prof. Arthur E. Sutherland , Jr. , Harvard Law School ; Fairfax Leary , Philadelphia attorney ; Horace M. Chadsey , vice-president of the First National Bank of Boston : and Carlos Israels , New York attorney . Massachusetts adoption of the code in 1957 was the result of a four-year Bay State campaign , during which the code was re- wised to embrace many changes proposed by a $300,000 New York State commission study . Backers of the code believe the Massachusetts action will unleash the legal log jam in other states and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said the more states that adopt the code the more effective it will become in smoothing commercial and business transactions across state He disclosed that adoption of the code may be considered this year in Kentucky , one of the minority of states having legislative sessions this year . He said that Maine , New Hampshire , Vermont , Rhode Island . and Connecticut have already expressed interest in the code .                     