@@713847

txt The people of Panama , assisted by the National Police , won a complete victory for constitutional government today when the white flag of surrender was hoisted over the Presidential Palace and President Arnulfo Arias yielded after some of the bitterest fighting in the history of Panama . Three persons were killed in the fighting and the toll of wounded was at least forty . The Associated Press reported nine dead . Before the fighting began today , the Supreme Court had upheld the action of the National Assembly in impeaching President Arias and in naming the First Vice President , Alcibiades Arosemena , as constitutional President of the republic . This is the second time that Senor Arias has been ousted from the Presidency . The present ouster was based on the charge that he had violated the Constitution . of 1946 by suspending it and installing his 1941 Constitution , giving him complete dictatorial powers . President 's Wife Also Jailed President Arias ' wife was with him when he surrendered , and both were taken to the Model Jail , where he had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placed in the Presidency again on Nov. 24 , 1949 , by Col. Jose Remen , chief of the national police , who directed the fight that forced the President 's surrender today . The Supreme Court convened at 11:45 o'clock this morning and ten minutes later announced that it had upheld the action of the National Assembly last night in impeaching President Arias and in swearing in Senor Arosemeneai President . The court declared the action of the Assembly legal and that Senor Arosemena , was the constitutional President of Panama . President Arosemena left the court at noon and , accompanied by a crowd , proceeded to the central police station , where his authority , was recognized by Colonel Rem6n and the officers and men of the national police . He was still in the police station at 2 P. M. when policemen armed with rifles poured but to waiting buses to attack the Presidential home . A large crowd before the police station cheered wildly as mounted police armed with sabers and carbines clattered down the street , followed by rifle-armed infantry . Suddenly the police guarding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as If expecting an attack . To clear the street , they started firing in the air while the people scurried to cover . The police took no chances because of the presence of Government secret police and irI regulars . The irregulars occupied Government buildings and sniped indiscriminately at the people in the streets but the regular police were their principal targets . The police radio called on the people to clear the streets and go home to avoid being shot by snipers , who had killed two men last night by firing from the General Post Office building into the Central Plaza . The unusual quiet of ' the city brought on by the general strike , which continued today , was frequently torn by the shrieking sirens of police cars and ambulances , and punctuated by the firing of snipers and policemen attempting to detect and dislodge them . Twenty doctors waiting to care for the wounded were kept off the streets by snipers , the police radio reported . This correspondent proceeded from the Supreme Court at noon to the President , which was ready to withstand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the patio filled with Government supporters . A large red , green and purple flag of Senor Arias ' Authentic Revolutionary part3# drooped from the balcony where he had suspended the Constitution Monday night . 2 Police Officer , Killed All streets leading to the Presidency were blocked with large trucks and only a few stragglers passed them and huddled in the doorways . People living near the Presidential mansion were warned to leave the area . The main fight started inside the Presidency at about 1 P. M. after Maj. Lescano Gomez , captain of the palace guard , and Lieut . Juan Flores of the National Police had been shot to . death while ascending the stairs to answer a summons of President Arias . Other members of the guard contend that Major Gomez and Lieutenant Flores were murdered in cold blood . The attacking policemen soon occupied the first floor of the Presidency but were held at bay by the fire ' of pro-Arias police on the upper floors . Although fighting continued in and around the Presidency for more . than five hours only one more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ v ounded , which is less than the number injured in yesterday 's street fighting . President Arias at first refused numerous requests to surrender , and once he asked for the intervention of the diplomatic corps here , which was refused . He was told that only an unconditional surrender would be accepted . One hundred and fifty persons , mostly women , surrendered in one group and were lined up in the street before being taken to jail in police buses . The police completed the evacuation of prisoners from the Presidency soon after 6:30 o'clock and the shooting stopped except for the firing of police squads rounding up snipers . The prisoners held at the Presidency and by the Arias ' secret police have been released . Washington . Avoids Comment Special , TEE NEW YORK Titus WASHINGTON , May 10 ? The State Department firmly declined to comment today on the governmental crisis in Panama , describing United States policy as " one of strict nonintervention . " Asked at a news conference whether t : e State Department had any thoughts about the Panamanian situation that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officer , said there could be no comment " on the rapidly moving developments " now taking place . " This government 's policy continues to be one of strict nonintervention , " he explained . He added , however , that the United States Embassy in Panama had informed the State Department that there had been no damage to United States property and no Americans injured . The national police , he said , " has assured full protection to foreigners . "                     