@@713170

txt Africa is the greatest hope to realize the expansion of Europe 's coal and steel markets called for by the Schuman Plan , according to Soce Diop , West African Negro deputy of the Consultive Assembly of the Council of Europe . But M. Diop warns that this goal can not be reached unless the African peoples are enabled to attain a higher living standard . ? While the other speakers at the Aug. 14 debate on the Schuman Plan were concerned about the feasibility of the plan in general , and the powers of its supranational authority in particular , M. Diop was looking ahead to the future and accepting the plan as workable if its sights were raised high enough in the social direction . British Unity Seen British Labor and Conservative members , in a rare show of unity in the European Consultative Assembly , made a strong but apparently unsuccessful attack on the Schuman Plan , the Associated Press said . German members of the 13-. nation parliament , which can debate and recommend but not legislate , clashed with their British colleagues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Constantin Tsaldaris , former Greek Premier , proposed a short cut to begin immediate intergovernment talks to set up a unified European army . His proposal would give Assembly President Paul-Henri Spaak of Belgium authority to enlist the aid of leaders in the national parliaments to pressure their governments into beginning direct negotiations . Final Veto Sought British leaders from both parties argued that the individual governments should have a final veto over the international authority . They said , in effect , that Britain would never place its steel industry under what Laborite Maurice Edelman termed an irresponsible , undemocratic , and arbitrary authority . The British . obviously . wanted to explain their stand fully before conclusion of the six-nation talks now under way in Paris on the Schuman proposal . It was considered here , however , that the Assembly debate could have only an indirect effect in the Paris conferences . Sizable Addition M. Diop pointed out that Africa is not only the logical but the most sizable addition to the expanded market called for by the Schuman Plan . Since 1914 , he said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as potential customers of western European steel and coal production . Even now , Africa could double its intake of iron and steel if the purchasing power of the natives was increased , he declared . Only a small part of the profits made out of Africa go to the native , M. Diop explained . The largest part goes back to Europe , he said , and so the poorly paid native is not building himself up into a modern type of worker and providing the markets that this would ensure . Rali Materials He insisted that Europe must leave more of its African profits on the spot , as the first step . Further , he said , Africa provides the logical market for the finished goods because it can provide all the raw materials that Europe needs ; therefore the means of payment exist in Africa . But M. Diop also pointed out the need for Africa to develop the manufacturing of finished products so that it can use its own raw materials . He spoke of the vast resources , mentioning among others as pertinent to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a 20,000,000-ton deposit of good iron ore already available . Hits Propaganda He summed up that , at this stage , Africa should be represented in all the organizations which will be established to operate the Schuman Plan , and rejected with indignation Communist propaganda that the Schuman - Plan merely meant a gi ft of Africa to the Germans . Most of the speakers were painting a large question mark as they discussed the plan in the first day of debate on this project . From a Council of Europe point of view , the plan appeared a fine basic idea , but one at which most people had large reservations , mainly concerning the required curtailment of national sovereignty , Britain 's Mainstay David Eccles , Conservative , of Britain said that iron and steel is the absolute basis of industrial life in Britain , its daily bread , and that it affected every other branch of life . To put this under a supranational authority meant handing over Britain itself to that authority  --  and that could not be considered , he underscored . Mr. Eccles spoke of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He said that the problem is to find good ministers , as there are plenty of experts but a great shortage of ministerial material . The Conservative Party 's economic expert then made the point that the day would come when the expansion of Europe 's coal and steel capacity would outrun the demand . " Will we then , " he asked , " allow a supranational body to order unemployment in one country or another ? "                     