@@713342

txt Herbert Hoover tonight warned the United States to faee reality in the Russian crisis and demand that powerful armies of western Europe and other United Nations members be mobilized at once to help oppose soviet aggression . The former President advised that we notify Europe it will get no more money from this country unless it provides most of its own defense against the communist tide  --  and does it immediately . If real military aid is n't forthcoming from the rest of the noncommunist world , he said , the United States should " quit talking and paying " and prepare to defend itself with the Atlantic and Pacific oceans as its frontiers . " Time to Speak Frankly " " The time has come to speak frankly what is in the mind of many Americans today , " Hoover said in an address over the radio network of the Columbia Broadcasting company . He spoke on the program " One Nation Indivisible , " a sustaining show on which speakers clarify their jobs in connection with civilian mobilization . Previous speakers have included United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Commerce Secretary Sawyer , State Secretary Acheson , and Army Chief of Staff Omar Bradley . In appraising our international situation , Hoover said American foreign policies since 1933 present one outstanding feature . During those 17 years , he said , " American statesmanship became lost when it came to the borders of communism . " Cites Error of Recognition " We first entered this swamp of lost statesmanship , " Hoover asserted , " when we recognized the communist government in 1933 . Four presidents and five secretaries of state ? Democrats and Republicans alike  --  had refused to invite Commun:st representatives into this American home of free men . " Those Americans knew that all Communists carried germs of conspiracy intended to turn America into a police state , to destroy all religious faiths , to overthrow the freedom of men and the independence of nations . " Hoover recalled that he and many other persons protested that ' our tacit alliance with soviet Russia in June , 1941 , " would spread communism over the earth . lie recalled the appeasement of Russia in the Moscow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our relations saw compromises , appeasement , and defeat of American ideals and purposes , " Hoover said . " Due to the valor of our soldiers and the energies of our industries , we won Military victory in the war . But we lost the peace trying to appease the Communists . " Ignore Lenin 's Teachings He said we have constar.tly ignored Lenin 's teachings , which have been publicly known for 30 years . Every year , he continued , Stalin vows his loyalty to Lenin 's teaching that there will be no peace until world capitalism or the soviet republic is destroyed . The United Nations is our great hope , Hoover said , adding that " nothing will stop Red military aggression exception effective organized phalanx of the noncommunist world which will freeze the ambitions of the Kremlin . " " We are told by many military authorities , " he went on , " that Stalin could put 175 mobilized combat divisions on the European front within 90 days . We are told they have 30,000 tanks , thousands of planes , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces . We are told that the iron curtain states have large armies poised for action . We are told they have huge forces in north Asia equipped by Russia . " In contrast , we are told that the European nations now in the North Atlantic alliance do not have available to Europe more than 30 active combat divisions with some air and naval power with which to meet this horde from behind the iron curtain . We are told that south Asia has but little military strength to oppose the Communists . " The industrial potential of the United States can be overpowering in the long run . But Stalin , now having also the industrial power of the iron curtain states , can arbitrarily concentrate it on preparedness . Exceed in Industry " Western Europe , with a larger population than the United States , has as large or greater industrial power than that of Stalin . It + is being little occupied in preparedness . It could be quickly mobilized and could constitute a doubly overwhelming balance of industrial power . " We must realize , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not alone maintain the safety of the world against 800 million Communists on the fronts of both Europe and Asia . Nor can we , out of our resources and man power , contribute more than a minority part of such a phalanx of force . " Because of the peril , Hoover said , we have inaugurated a military program so immense it is threatening our economic life . Its support , he said , will require taxes that " will take a greater portion of our national income than that taken by most noncommunist countries in Europe . " Must Have Relief " We can stand this for possibly two or three years pending a genuine rally by the noncommunist world to their full part In defense , " the speaker continued . " But we must in time have relief from a large part of that burden . We can not carry the load foe long without fulfilling Stalin 's hopes of bleeding us economically to impotence . " He said there are three sources from which real military defense must come : 1 . The European nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noncommunist nations who are members of the United Nations , such as Canada , Latin-America , the middle east , South Africa , Australia , New Zealand , and some of the smaller south Asian countries . 3 . The United States . Ca n't Make tp Deficiency Hoover said the greatest danger point to all western civilization is western Europe and that it is obvious , with the threats in Asia , that the United States can supply only a minor part of this huge European deficiency even with our present program . When the Marshall plan and other fabulous foreign expenditures were approved by the American people , Hoover said , the people were promised that , in addition to economic and social objectives , the gigantic sums would build the European nations into a united military defense against aggression upon western civilization . " But the result has been deeply disappointing to a growing body of Americans , " he charged . " Competent observers are daily raising the serious question as to whether these nations , outside of Britain , have the will to fight , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their own leaders give little evidence of any real determination . " This situation has come as a great shock to thinking Americans , Hoover said , and " the time has come when the American people should speak out in much stronger tones than the diplomatic phrases of conference halls . " " We should be willing to aid hut , if western Europe wants defense from the communist tide , they must do most of it themselves  --  and do it fast , " Hoover warned . " Someone proposed that we at once increase our forces in Europe to 10 combat divisions . That would be only a slaughter of American boys unless many times that number were standing by their sides . Should Demand Action " We should say , and at once , that we shall provide no more money until a definitely unified and sufficient European army is in sight . And further , that 10 American divisions will not be landed until then . " Hoover said Europe has the potential strength to provide protection for itself . He recalled that the European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American aid , have reached a greater productivity than before either World War I or II . " They have larger populations and more man power than in those wars , " he said . " In both of those two wars , these people put in field in 90 days over 140 equipped and trained combat divisions in addition to naval and air forces . " " We need strong medicine in the shape of large and definite armies both from European members of the North Atlantic pact and from the other noncommunist members of U. N. , " he said . " We should ask all nations who want to stop Russian aggression once and for all to join and to specify what they will join with aqd when . " We should say at once that the United States , with all its resources , can not long endure the present drain on our economy . And if that fails , the world goes into night . Calls for Reconsideration " But if we do not find real military action of powerful strength in western gurope ; if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of the United Nations so as to take up the major burden of their own defenses , then we had better reconsider our whole relation to the problem . " In that event , we had better quit talking and paying , and consider holding the Atlantic ocean , with Britain if they wish , as one frontier , and the Pacific ocean with an armed Japan and other islands as the other frontier . "                     