@@716941

txt The prospect of early ratification of the Paris pacts by France promises to create a new situation in Europe . This situation will call for a new Western initiative to achieve the main objective of these pacts . This objective is not to wage war but to wage . peace . All the other purposes of the pacts , including greater European unity and German rearmament , however essential in themselves , are primarily means toward that end , Waging peace means waging a campaign for an all-around peace settlement in Europe , and Asia , in keeping with the principles of the United Nations . This means , first of all , new efforts to reach agreement with the Communist bloc on such a settlement , or at least on a modus vivendi which will avert or reduce the danger of new war . Such efforts were futile as long as the West was a weak target for Communist divisive tactics , and as long as power vacuums in Europe and Asia offered constant temptation for Communist penetration . But the creation of the Western European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ include a rearmed Germany " as the ultimate key to the successful defense of Europe , " - coming on top of the new defense alliances in the Far East , will go a long way to redress the balance between East and West . This should present us with new opportunities for a genuine peace offensive which no skepticism regarding Communist intentions , however justified , should preclude . Such a peace offensive is necessary not only to test Communist purposes in the new situation , on the bare chance that this situation might make the Communists more amenable ; it is also necessary for the sake of the decent opinion of . ? mankind , including in particular that of our allies . On this point M. Mendes-France spoke true words when he said that " it is only at the price of an incessant initiative in ? favor of international understanding that the Western Powers will succeed in preserving the indispensable support of their public opinion for their policy . " The growing realization that such an initiative is necessary has already led to a widespread demand for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dramatized in the ? concept of another top-level meeting between the American President , the British Prime ' Minister and the French and Soviet Premiers . But such a conference would obviously be premature until the ground has been cleared for it by preliminary agreements , and President Eisenhower is right in discouraging the idea until such preliminary agreements give evidence of Communist willingless to substitute deeds for words . But this should not stop the Western initiative , which would have to begin in any case through the more modest diplomatic channels . If promising , - this might lead to a preliminary . conference of Foreign Ministers . , Only if their efforts should succeed would it be worth while to crown - the peace campaign with a conference " at the summit . " There is general agreement now ' that this initiative must depend on - the final ratification and implemen:tation of the Paris pacts , which may take a few months . more . But it is : not too-early to exchange views between the Western Powers on both the methods and the basis of such negotiations , so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ envisage . Certainly , so far as the United States is concerned , negotiations would be possible only on two conditions . One is that the Paris pacts are no longer subject to bargaining . The other is that the United States will not be party to any agreement which sanctions the enslavement of nations . It will not try to upset the status quo by force , and it will negotiate for step-by-step settlements on Germany , on Austria , on Korea and on any , other issue , but only if such settlements are in keeping with our own principles and those of the United Nations .                     