@@717497

txt John Gilbert Graham , 23 , a 6 footer with broad shoulders , heavy hips , dark hair cropped short to show a distinct widow 's peak , was not exactly an AllAmerican boy before he placed a dynamite bomb aboard a United Air Lines plane here . on Nom ... 1 . He has confessed the plot which brought death to his own mother and 43 others aboard the plane . If . anything , Graham 's record shows that he was reckless , greedy for money , scornful of the law , more interested in " fun " than anything else . He possesses intelligence " far above average " I. Q. 115 by scholastic test ) but with peculiar blanks in his thinking . These relate to his personal relationships with the rest of the world . Placed in Orphanage Tracing his past , authorities today said : " It checks . He 's operated like a screw-ball before . But no one could guess he might pull the monstrous crime he now has confessed . " Graham was born in Denver in 1932 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mother was having financial difficulties she placed her infant son in Clayton College for Boys  --  really a kind of orphanage . There he remained until 1940 . Young Graham attended the Stedman grade school thru the first six years . By this time , his mother had met and married John E. King , a well-to-do rancher of Yampa , Colo . Mrs. King brought her son to Yampa and reportedly the boy " got along fine with his step-1 father . " At any rate he went to the Toponas , Colo. , school for his 7th and 8th grades and high school in Kremmling , Colo . Fine Mind , Teachers Say " He had a fine mind , " several of his teachers told Denver probation office investigators some five years ago . " His grades were high but his personal and social adjustuient were poor . He was often unhappy . " Graham remained on his stepfather 's ranch until he was 15 . He ' knew everyone in the area and they knew him . King , the stepfather , died in 1946 . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relatives . Joined Coast Guard A year later he enlisted in the coast guard . He was big for his age and " bright , " coast guard records show . But he was released after nine months when his real age was verified . This all came about after Graham was absent without leave for 60 days . He went back to the ranch for two years and then got a job with a construction gang in Alaska . In January , 1950 , however , he was back in Denver . His boss said he " was n't needed " in Alaska . The following March the first major deviation from a boyish instability appeared . He got a job with a company here , stole a book of checks , and within three days forged and passed $4,200 worth . Then he " bought " a new convertible with a down payment and was off on a five state tour . Captured in Texas When the facts came out Graham was named as " fugitive of the week " by the Denver states attorney . He was arrested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after he tried to crash a road block . Several shots were fired at him then , I and he surrendered only after he decided be might be hit . The Texans slapped a 60 day sentence for illegal transportation of liquor on him . After serving it he was brought back to Denver . Meanwhile , his mother had been busy and bad arranged for him to plead guilty to the forgery and accept probation . This was done after she paid $2,500 immediately in reimbursement for his forgeries and promised to keep , up monthly payments thereafter until the losses were fully compensated . Wanted Some Fun " My son tells me that he only wanted to have some - fun before he was drafted into the service , " was Mrs. King 's only explanation for the forgery and conduct of young Graham . Under his personal supervision Graham never missed reporting to his probationary officer and kept up his payments to the very day of his mother 's murder . She , in the belief that her son had " tamed down , " recently told a probation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Those apparently were still her sentiments the day she kissed him good-bye at the Denver airport and climbed aboard a United Air Lines DC6B airplane for a long-planned vacation in Alaska with an older daughter . Married 3 Years Ago Three years ago Graham , with full approval of his probation officer , married . His wife , Gloria , last night was prostrated and under a physician 's care at a hospitaL Relatives and friends were caring . for the two Graham infants , a boy , 2 and a girl , nine months . Mrs. King and her son 's family had all been living together here in a modest frame home . Graham had been holding a series of jobs . He worked by day in garages and car rental places , coming at night to his mother 's drive-in eating place . A recent report by the probation office , commenting on these facts , described Graham " as industrious and getting alone fine . "                     