@@713767

txt On Feb. 16 the tripartite Wage Stabilization Board , set up under the Defense Production Act , approved by a vote of 6 to 3 a " catch-up " formula for wages . This regulation , which was subject to approval by the Economic Stabilization Administrator , limited the permissible increase in straight-time wage rates to 10 per cent above the level prevailing Jan. 15 , 1950 . The three dissenting votes were cast by the three labor members , who then walked out on the board 's deliberations . Eleven days later , Eric Johnston , the Administrator , approved the order , but proposed modification , which deprived it of most of its effectiveness . Despite these sweeping concessions , however , the United Labor Policy Committee , representing the A. F. L. and the C. I. 0. , announced that the labor members would not return until the Stabilization Board had been " reconstituted . " On Feb. 28 the Committee instituted a " boycott " of the entire defense effort , ordering all union officials off mobilization committees on which they had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since that time that there has been a change in the mood of the unions ' leaders . The Labor Policy Committee , it has just been announced , has agreed unanimously to serve on the new National Advisory Board on Mobilization Policies . This is the board provided for by the President on March 15 . It is a seventeen-member panel headed by Mobilization Chief Charles E. ' Wilson . Of the sixteen members other than the chairman , four are to represent labor , four industry , four agriculture and four " the public . " The fact that the group is to be presided over by Mr. Wilson is of particular interest in the present situation , since the Director of Defense Mobilization has been the chief target of labor 's hostility toward the Administration 's home front policies . However , labor 's spokesmen have taken pains to see that too much significance is not attached to this fact . " We understand , " said the prepared statement issued by A , F. L. President G n , " that the board is to serve in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vimplication is clear here that the union leaders regard the new panel as responsible to Mr. Truman himself , rather than ' to his mobilization chief . In any case , their participation in policy-making at the Administration level is a welcome development , particularly if they are serious in their intention " to achieve the equality of sacrifice which the present emergency requires of all Americans . " If inflation is the chief enemy of the American people on the domestic front , then certainly the most important single contribution to inflation has been the failure of important economic and political groups to date to recognize and accept this principle of equality of sacrifice . It is hardly necessary to cite examples a this attitude of immovability by the vested interests in inflation or in conditions the maintenance of which is incompatible with a genuinely anti-inflation program . The illustration that comes most easily to hand is the provision by Congress of an inflation-proof shelter for farm prices . But the farm bloc 's insistence on a privileged position for its constituents merely Happens to be the simplest of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less zealous in their efforts to protect their members from the impact of inflation , and even to turn the latter to the workers ' advantage . The thesis of the United ' Labor Policy Committee that the mobilization officials have dea gently with prices while conducting tough policy with respect to wages wi not stand the most casual examination Meanwhile industry , not satisfied wit profits of record , or near record , level has all too often shown itself to be r more cooperative than other grout when cooperation has threatened i efforts to build up big inventorie either of materials or labor . AT finally in its unwillingness to coopera ' in the anti-inflation fight the Admit istration itself has steadfastly resist ( the introduction of any economies th ; might conceivably cost it something terms of political popularity . Labor 's leaders have stated the ism . of inflation clearly in human term It now remains to be seen whether tl President 's new advisory board a succeed where the record to date h ( been one of abject failure in achievir a workable agreement in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     