@@714188

txt By its deeds and its words today the Labor party conference showed that it had swung far to the left of its present moderate leadership . The rank and file are more in step with Aneurin Bevan and his rebel group than they are with men like Clement R. Attlee and Herbert Morrison who bear the responsibility of running the country in these troubled times . The shape of the campaign that is to come in the next three weeks was clearly outlined in the auditorium where the 1,500 delegates met . The campaign plan obviously is to answer the housewives ' grumbles by saying that if the cost of living is rising so are living standards , and that anyway what do prices matter if everybody is going to be liquidated by a war provoked by Conservative incompetence harnessed to American hysteria and inexperience in diplomacy ? The whispering campaign that has been going on ever since the last election eighteen months ago when Labor squeezed through with majority of six came out into the open today . Winston Churchill , leader of the Opposition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at heart and too friendly with Americans to boot . This was the theme of speeches from the floor at today 's session and it found its echo  --  muted somewhat , it is true ? in an address to the conference by Mr. Bevan who with his fellow rebels achieved something like a ratification of their abhorrence of rearmament and United States leadership in the field of foreign relations . Arms Advocates Defeated Mr. Bevan and all his supporters on the National Executive Committee of the Labor party were re-elected and the conference turned thumbs down on most of those connected with the Government 's rearmament program , especially those who have had the temerity to stand up in meeting and support it . Emanuel Shinwell , Minister of Defense , who has been a member of the executive for eleven years ; John Strachey , War Secretary , and two other ministers who remained loyal to Prime Minister Attlee when Mr. Bevan resigned were dropped from the Executive Committee by the rank and file . At the same time the delegates gave Mr. Bevan and his three supporters on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bevan as usual topped the poll , but the significant thing was that Tom Driberg , Ian Mikardo and Airs . Barbara Castle moved up in what is really a popularity contest for the delegates ' support , free of the weighting of the trade unions that really dominate the party conference . Mrs. Castle formerly was a member of the Executive Committee for the trade union section , which has twelve out of twentyseven places . She had lost the backing of the Transport and General Workers Union as a result of her support of Mr. Bevan , so she decided to rest her future with the rank and file of the constituency . She won because Mr. Bevan 's star is in the ascendancy and she is rising right behind him . So did Mrs. E. M. Braddock , a Member of Parliament from Liverpool , who pleased the delegates by branding Mr. Churchill as a warmonger in one breath and displeased them in the next by saying that there were some members of nationalization boards who loved Tories more than they loved their principles . U. S. a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conservative victory in the general election would mean war . Any hope that the United States would be left out of domestic bickering was dashed early in the day when one speaker after another suggested that the United States was as much a threat to peace as the Soviet Union . The speakers took the line that Mr. Churchill and the Conservatives were dangerous to world peace and that only Mr. Attlee and a Labor Government could restrain the United States led by Wall Street from provoking a war . Clash Over Political Seats SCARBOROUGH , England , Oct. 2 VP ) ? The seven political seats on the Labor party 's National Executive Committee were the only ones for which the Bevan left-wingers and the Attlee moderates clashed head-on . Three of the other seats are nonelective , one going to Mr. Attlee as leader of the party , a second to the party treasurer and the third to the party secretary . For the seven political seats only delegates from the local labor parties are entitled to vote . The trades union delegates  --  the biggest section of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . From them the delegates elected twelve moderates to the executive committee . There are five seats on the committee given over to women delegates . These two were filled by moderates . The other seat in the committee was won by a moderate who represents the cooperative and other minor Socialist , groups within the Labor party . The political seats held by the local parties represent about onesixth of the Laborites ' strength . The delegates to the conference represent about 6,192,000 votes . The trade union delegates control 4,987,000 and the local Labor parties 1,147,000 . The ? rest are scattered among small groups . But the local labor parties are the door-bell ringers and the hard core of the party workers during any election campaign .                     