@@713820

txt Letters to The Times GEORGE VOSKOVEC.or planning ? PHILIP B. ARMSTRONG.BENJAMIN WEST.LUCILLE CARDIN ... pg . 16 Letters to The Times Security Jitters in the West Comparison Made Between Our Methods and Those Behind Iron Curtain To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Upon his return from captivity Robert Vogeler warned us that what had happened to him " might happen to anybody . " The spiral of " security panic " works like the spiral of inflation . The hysterical spy-scare and the Westphobia of the Communist regimes have their repercussions in the Western World . Our own panicky excesses in matters of security produce further tensions in the opposite camp . I happened recently to have fallen victim to this fear wave on this side of the ocean , and although I am far from intimating that my own experience in any way approximates Mr. Vogeler 's ordeal I would like to make a few comparisons . I am Czech . In May , 1950 , just a year ago , I was returning from Paris to New York , my permanent residence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrival at La Guardia Field I was taken to Ellis Island and detained there without explanation until December . when I was finally heard by an Immigration Board of Special Inquiry . I was not explicitly faced with any charge of suspicion . However , I was required to establish sufficient evidence that my admission in the United States would not be prejudicial to national security . This procedure called for many testimonials and for a careful investigation , which took several additional months . Finally , after ten and a half months of uninterrupted detention , the Commissioner of Immigration ordered that I be admitted for permanent residence as a returning alien and I was released from Ellis Island on April 2 . Immigration Procedure I do feel that the length of my detention was unjustified . I also venture that living conditions at Ellis Island could be made substantially more adequate at infinitesimal expense . Moreover , it is my opinion that the current procedure of immigration hearings places the alien in an extremely weak legal position . The burden of proof rests with him and he is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the introduction of fairer practices would in no way jeopardize national security , Vile unquestionably making immigration procedures more consistent with the basic principles of democracy and human rights . Finally , I believe that my detention would never have occurred if it were not for the climate of fear and irrational distrust which has developed throughout the world as a result of the East-West tension . In that respect , and in that alone , do I see a certain relation between Mr. Vogeler 's case and my own experience . Yet it is still heartening for believers in the life force of democracy to compare the ways of " security jitters " in the West with the absolute rule of brutal and cynical lawlessness east of the Iron Curtain . First of all , the very fact that a former detainee of Ellis Island is free to express his criticism of the institution is a privilege for which I am deeply grateful and which I take pride in using . Love of democracy implies devotion to its improvement . Position of Allen But the comparison of the two cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I was detained as an alien who by definition of law enjoys as yet none of the constitutional freedoms , as he is merely seeking admission into the country in order eventually to petition for the privilege of citizenship . By virtue of this legal attitude the Government claims all the powers to exclude and deport such alien without any obligation to substantiate its decision or even to disclose the reasons . Despite this rather formidable power at its disposal , the Immigration Service offered me the opportunity to produce any evidence I wished , and on the basis of this evidence finally ruled in my favor . In other words , the traditional sense of democratic justice based on evidence prevailed in spite of the privilege the Government enjoys in immigration matters to make unsubstantiated rulings . To me this is a proof that the dignity and worth of the human person are still , as they should be , the ultimate concern ? of this Government . GEORGE VOSKOVEC . New York , May 5 , 1951 Recurring Famines in India To THE EDITOR OF THE New YORK TIMES @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Our humanitarian instincts demand that we carry this through . However , only a few years ago serious famines occurred in India . It is inevitable that they will reoccur within a few years . The margin of safety in food production is too narrow , is too easily upset . It is doubtful that improved methods of food production will a dvance.in India as rapidly as the population . By sending food to India we can assure the survival of individuals who will survive , or whose children will live , to starve at some future time . We can solve the immediate problem by shipping food to India , but a permanent solution rests with the Indians . What are they doing Dr planning ? PHILIP B. ARMSTRONG . Syracuse , N. Y. , May 4 , 1951 . Dialing Long-Distance Calls To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : We read in THE NEW YORK TIMES that the Bell Telephone people have found a way to let each and all of us dial to anywhere in the United States . This is a sign of great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will dial to China or South Africa with equal ease . We also read that the Bell company is trying the new system out in one of northern New Jersey 's larger towns , just to see what happens . We , too , are anxious to see what ? happens . What happens , for instance , when our extremely clever junior succeeds in calling one of the far corners of the earth when no one is watching , and what happens to papa when he gets the bill ? We will watch THE NEW YORK TIMES with eager eyes to see all this . Maybe we are hoping that our everwonderful friends in time of need , the telephone girls , will not be expendable . Maybe we are hoping that the mechanical age will leave them at their posts to conquer floods and fires and comfort distraught mothers and children as they have so successfully in these past eventful years . Maybe we just plain hone it wo n't work . BENJAMIN WEST . New York , May 7 , 1951 . Reviewing School Material Publication Explains Its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OF THE NEW YORK Taiga : Your story in the issue of May 9 on the meeting of the Public Education Association brings this publication into the picture thus : " The Educational Reviewer ; published by the Conference of American Small Business Organizations , was criticized for attempting to censor teaching materials . " Perhaps you will permit me to state our case , in view of the fact that our work is no more censorship than is your own Sunday book section or daily book column . The clear attitude of the group whose meeting you reported is that there must be no sort of criticism of any aspect of education except by " approved " critics . , This is the net of the matter , judging not only by your story but by a growing chorus , all in the same key , from various publications and organizations apparently speaking for some of the vested interests in school and college education . The fact that it is a chorus , using the same words and music , as it were , is in itself highly significant . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of educational methods , materials and authorities should by any chance be successful it would be one of the most serious blows at American liberty which could possibly be struck . The work of the Educational Reviewer is not to " censor " but to review educational materials , including textbooks , in order to inform teachers , administrators , parents and others interested of their content , especially where there is evidence of deliberate slanting to the left and against the American constitutional system , as unfortunately the case is in many instances . Our work is conducted with the most scrupulous scholastic care , subject to checking by a highly qualified board of university professors . It has received nation-wide approval among the groups mentioned ; and it is going to continue , the Public Education Association notwithstanding . The absurd use of the word " front " for the purpose of smearing all organizations which have dared to criticize any aspect of education is of itself a sufficient illustration of the methods being employed to stifle criticism . The Educational Reviewer , which , contrary to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or liaison with any other organization than its sponsoring body , and which therefore rejects as untrue the statement that " these agencies circulate each other 's advertising and exchange mailing lists , " speaks only for itself . Any educational group which can not stand and wishes to prevent criticism , which does not believe that textbooks should be reviewed , which thinks that " subversive persons " should be allowed to remain undisturbed in their strategic posts in the educational system , to indoctrinate American students in collectivism , can hardly be said to be courting public interest or support , since its attitudes are completely indefensible and hostile to the public . interest . LUCILLE CARDIN CRAIN , Editor . New York , May 9 , 1951 . In Praise of the Day Lily To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Once , inspired as your nature editor ( whom I greatly admire ) must have been , I wrote a poem extolling the common roadside tawny lily which you promptly rejected . That sultry wayfarer with its often double variation is a joy indeed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Hemerocallis hybrids which yield a succession of varicolored bloom from May until well into early November is something to shout-about . The family is reputed to have perhaps two thousand individual members , and if all of them are as well behaved , prolific and carefree as those I dote on I strongly advise any gardener to adopt at least a few specimens of this friendly family . He may be assured of deliverance from insect or other pests , lack of moisture and other deterrents that inhere in the growing of most garden plants and will be charmed when watching the development of flower stalks that measure from a few inches to a waist-high scale . ROYAL GREENWOOD . Passaic , N. J. , April 16 , 1951 . Independence for the Elderly To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It has always seemed to me that it small sums were bequeathed to individuals , instead of great fortunes to institutions , many would be enabled to keep out of institutions . A small bequest to supplement what once was a comfortable income would help many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pa. , May 3 , 1951 ,                     