@@713774

txt Disturbing undercurrent in American world leadership is the division of opinion at home . This finds expression in the new conflict between the Truman administration and Gen. Douglas , but it also is increasingly reflected in the approach to other defense issues . Thus far the division has been over details , not goals , and American remobilization goes steadily forward . Yet there is reason to ask whether mobilization can proceed smoothly with disagreement over the gravity of the world situation , and there are some signs that it already is being whittled down . The administration argues that the peril to the nation is as great today as it was at the height of the Korean crisis . The congressional majority , on the other hand , takes the view that there is an easing of tension that permits a substantial slowing down of administration defense programs . Harsh Contrast Into this situation is now injected the controversy which throws into dispute the whole plan of American grand strategy . The harsh contrast between administration warnings and legislative response is illustrated in recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administration publicly have warned that the global peril has not abated . The three spokesmen were George C. Marshall , Secretary of Defense , Sam Rayburn , Speaker of the House of Representatives , and President Truman himself at his latest press conference . What the three said in effect was the United States can not afford to relax , danger is present and counteraction must be prompt . As against this warning the following developments in Congress speak for themselves . UMT Under Tire The House is preparing to pass a watered-down Universal Military Training measure that is in fact no UMT bill at all , but a stand-by proposal . not to be employed until some later legislative enactment . This contrasts with the UMT bill passed by the Senate at the height of the Korean retreat , and graphically illustrates the letdown in legislative mood since then . The House April 9 , cut the Voice of America appropriation by 90 per cent , although this program is considered by some the chief global propagandizing medium against communism abroad . The grain-for-India bill is locked up in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a test abroad of America 's good will and unselfishness , and of whether it the President and also , as it hap-plans to make famine an instrument of national policy . Bic , Tax Bill Delayed The big tax bill which Mr. Truman ' urged as an emergency measure is still not out of the first committee . Finally , the troops-for-Europe program took three weary months to clear the Senate , and the value of its eventual overwhelming approval was diminished by the domestic White House-Congress row with which it was entangled . The contrast between administration cries of alarm and the slow and reluctant reaction of Congress is becoming increasingly                     