@@717573

txt Increased facilities for higher education at moderate cost are being planned for Long Island . Three new two-year community colleges and a four-year college are scheduled for Nassau and Suffolk Counties . The community colleges will charge about $200 a year , the four-year college around $400 in contrast to $1,000 tuition at many private institutions . When the trustees of the State University of New York meet here on Thursday , they are expected to approve this longrange program . Their recommendations will be submitted to Governor Harriman and the State Board of Regents in time for the next session of the Legislature . The new institutions are intended to help absorb the tremendous increase in high school graduates . Most of them now find it necessary to . go elsewhere in the state or to other states for college education . Statistics indicate an increase of 100 per cent by 1970 in this state 's aspirants for higher education , far more than the private colleges can absorb . But that rate will be exceeded on Long Island with 407 per cent in Nassau County @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high schools of Long Island graduated 10,000 pupils . By 1970 the figure is put at 47,000 . On the basis of those who now go to college this will mean an increase in college enrollment from 5,400 to 25,800 . Thus from Nassau and Suffolk Counties 18,400 would try to enter four-year colleges and 7,400 would apply at two-year community institutions . Present facilities on the Island do not begin to meet the forecast demands . The two private colleges , Adelphi and Hofstra , can expand considerably , but not within the range of need . Commenting on the situation an official of the State University said : " It is the duty of those professionally entrusted with the responsibilities for the general lwelfare in the field of higher education to take steps to see to it that these students get the kinds of programs which are needed by our society and which , by actual canvass of present school graduates , they want . " That is what the university trustees now propose to do for Long Island students . They will consider the best ways to meet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 522 Fifth Avenue . Basis Laid in Study Report For six months the state university 's four-man committee on college expansion , headed by Frederick F. Greenman , has been studying the problem of higher education facilities for Long Island . The ' essence of its report , which was presented to the trustees at their regular meeting on Dec. 8 , is expected to be approved at the Thursday meeting . Here is what the Greenman report asks for Long Island : IlThree two-year community colleges , to be located conveniently in Nassau and Suffolk counties . They would offer twoyear terminal courses and also a liberal arts program permitting students to transfer . CA four-year lilleral arts college that would offer teacher education and stress technical and scientific subjects . This college would be run by the state and presumably have the $400-a-year tuition now charged at the university 's Harpur College ! in Endicott , N. Y. The present state-supported community college at Farmingdale , known as the Long Island Agricultural and Technical Institute , would be reorganized . The agricultural division would remain under state control and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an independent community - spon -1 sored institution , one of the three proposed new community colleges . The money involved , the locations of the new colleges and The New ' York Time , Dee . 19. 1935 GRADUATES : Increases expected in ten years . the number of students to be accommodated have yet to be finally worked out . But the trustees have gone along in principle with the Greenman proposals with one exception : Instead of the four-year traditional institution some trustees want a two-year senior college , for which the three community colleges could serve as " feeders . " But that view has lost out . The trustees have virtually decided upon this plan : The fouryear college will be allowed to remain in the program . But it will not be the traditional liberal arts type . Rather , it will emphasize science , engineering and technical courses and will also offer teacher training . " This is a compromise , " one of the officials admitted . " But we feel that the needs for a four-year college are so apparent that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " With slight variations , the Greenman report is likely to be accepted by the trustees . The next step will be to obtain appropriations ' from the Legislature . Because of the great population growth on Long Island , and the bipartisan support of additional higher educational facilities , the funds are believed to have a good chance to be voted .                     