@@715356

txt President Eisenhower asserted today that he and not the Secretary of Defense would determine what the nation 's level of combat strength , should be . Meanwhile , Senator Leverett Saltonstall , Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee , warned that it would be a " great mistake " to reduce this country 's world-wide defense system because of Russian and Chinese Communist peace moves . President Eisenhower reiterated what he had said last week , that Charles E. Wilson , the Secretary of Defense , should make recommendations he deemed necessary . He added that he had never said that he would leave to anyone else the problem of determining the level of combat strength . That was not a responsibility he could delegate , he said . Proposals for Cuts Expected He told his weekly news conference that he was awaiting detailed proposals for reducing unnecessary expenses in the Defense Department . At the same time , he continued , the Administration was studying every day the question of combat strength with the aim , as George Washington had put it , of assuming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hill action related to the defense picture , the Senate , Appropriations Committee , of which Senator Styles Bridges is chairman , requested Gen. James A. Van Fleet , retired commander of the United States ground forces in Korea , to serve as a staff adviser and the general took it " under consideration . " Senator Homer Ferguson , Republican of Michigan , chairman of the Defense Appropriations subcommittee , joined Senator Bridges in the request . When it was pointed out to him that the general 's retirement pay would be almost as much as the Senate pay , Senator Ferguson said : " That is true , but we are asking him to take the place as a public service . " Van Fleet 's Possible Value As a staff adviser , General Van Fleet could become influential if the committee followed his advice on the soundness of appropriations requests in the military field . The committee has two or three experts to deal with each of the eleven appropriations bills that embrace the requests of all Federal departments and agencies . These experts follow the activities of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come up , advise the committee whether they consider the requests excessive. , They also express their opinion on the soundness and effectiveness of departmental programs and policies . The questions addressed to the President on the nation 's combat strength were based on statements that Secretary Wilson had made in a news conference on March 20 . The Secretary asserted he thought some of the training divisions in this country were being maintained at too high a strength and could be cut down , but Mr. Wilson has not yet recommended any reductions to President Eisenhower . And by his reply last week and today General ? Eisenhower made clear that the Secretary of Defense was free to make this or any other recommendation and it would be studied from the standpoint of economy as well as national security . After a closed session of his committee , Senator Saltonstall , Republican of Massachusetts , cautioned against the beguiling effect of peace moves that , as President Eisenhower said , were being taken at face value . The committee members had viewed a motion picture showing the operation of new-type @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked if the agreement to resume negotiations in Korea might result in a reduction of defense expenditures . " I hope not , " replied Mr. Saltonstall . " It would be a great mistake . We have a planned program for our own defenses and we mush stick to it . " Behind the scenes a number of other Senators , principally Democrats , have been urging President Eisenhower and Secretary Wilson to insist on a realistic national defense budget , avoiding any substantial cuts . Capitol Hill sources said that this group viewed with anxiety the possible effect of the Soviet peace offensive . They feared that unless the President stood firm for adequate preparedness , economyminded members of Congress might slash the defense budget below safe limits . This group has been seeking to exert its influence for several weeks and has assured the President that it would support him when the defense appropriation came up . While neither ' Senator Saltonstall nor other committee members would give any ' speeific information about the new missiles that have a flight faster than the speed of sound , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said the weapons were " simply fantastic in their deadly accuracy and operation . " In reply to a question , President Eisenhower said he did not know that General Van Fleet had testified before a Congressional subcommittee yesterday that Gen. Matthew B. Ridgway , then his superior , had prevented him from making an amphibious landing behind the enemy lines in the spring of 1951 . President Eisenhower added , however , that General Van Fleet had never told him about this proposed maneuver . In his testimony before a subcommitee of the Senate Armed Services Committee , General Van Fleet said he and his commanders believed the maneuver would have resulted in the capture of hundreds of thousands of prisoners and of heavy equipment .                     