@@712937

txt Frank Erickson 's financial data , including a series of records that indicated he had transferred valuable oil interests in Texas to Frank Costello , gambler , were subpoenaed yesterday by the grand jury investigating gambling in New York County . The documents linking the two men were turned over to the prosecutor 's office by General Sessions Judge John A. Mullen after he said he felt the oil properties " could be used as a resource for their gambling operations . " The statements , which were compiled under thirteen folders , revealed that Erickson reassigned his one-quarter interest in the " 154-acre Halman lease , Wise County , Tex. , " to Costello , Erickson 's brother , Leonard ; George Uffner of 419 East Fifty-seventh Street and himself . Other records showed Erickson and Costello and the other two men had interests in a 172-acre oil property in Jack County , Tex. , and in oil well sites in two other Texas counties , as well as in Love County , Okla . Four Shared Quarter Interest In each instance , the four were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the case of the 154-acre Halman lease , Erickson was said to have requested " that this one-quarter interest be reassigned " to Costello , the others and himself . Through this reassignment , Erickson kept a 3/48ths interest out of his original one-quarter share ; Costello received 4/48ths ; Uffner 4/48ths and Leonard 1/48th . ' Ruling that the prosecutor 's office might retain this information among the voluminous records , seized May 2 in the bookmaker 's office at 487 Park Avenue , Judge Mullen said he must assume a connection existed between the oil properties and " their Costello and Erickson gambling operations " unless proof was forthcoming " that there was money paid for these transfers . " The court observed that " Frank Erickson , a known gambler , transferred to Frank Costello , another known gambler , certain interests in valuable oil wells without any apparent consideration . " This was also the contention of Assistant District Attorney Alfred J. Scotti , who argued for retention of the material on the ground that " there is nothing to indicate that any money exchanged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Links Papers to Gambling The prosecutor maintained the records of these transactions were related to the conduct of Erickson 's nation-wide bookmaking business . " It is a well-established fact that Frank Costello and Frank Erickson have been close associates for a good many years , " he said . " Their relationship is shown by these documents of common interest between the two . " Sol Gelb , Erickson 's attorney , insisted the oil company records were " legal documents , " pointing out that his client paid for stocks in checks and that the checks being held " show that others gave him the money . " The court declared : " I agree that Erickson had a perfect right to sell to Frank Costello , Tom Jones or anybody else if they were legally sold . I invite you , Mr. Gelb , to produce any testimony that can convince me that there was consideration paid for these assignments . " Mr. Gelb replied : " Let 's pass that for the minute . I 'll inquire . " However , he submitted no proof before Judge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the grand jury and that only some personal papers should be returned to Erickson . Erickson 's connection with a third Florida gambling house was brought out by an accountant 's report that indicated the bookmaker , in 1944 , was partner with seven others in the Farm Casino , Miami . Accordiog to the state // ment , the backers realized a profit of $81,340 in a four-month period early in 1944 . Partner in Colonial Inn Records that the court had passed upon Wednesday rev3aled Erickson as a partner in the Colonial Inn , an elaborate gambling establishment at Hallandale Fla. , with such " notorious underworld characters ' as Joe Adonis , Meyer ( Socks ) Lansky , his brother , Jake , and two members of the Purple Gang of Detroit . Hallandale , between Miami and Hollywood , is the train stop for the Gulfstream Race Track . The other gambling house that was revealed as netting Erickson a sizable financial profit was said to be in Boca Raton , Dade County . Interested with Erickson in the Farm Casino , according to the prosecutor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Charles Thomas , E. H. Padget , John Dyer and Charles Wall . He gave the partners ' names to the court , but did not further identify any of them . Another item that came into the custody of the prosecutor 's office was a small " black address book " that was identified as the property of Henry Pellino , Erickson 's accountant . Pellino is free in $50,000 bail as a material witness in the grand jury investigation into his employer 's gambling operations . Referring to the address book , Mr. Scotti asserted that it listed the names , addresses and telephone numbers of bettors and bookmaking associates of Erickson . The prosecutor also gained possession of a folder marked " Deficiency Tax Papers , " after declaring that it contained financial statements of the gambler from 1943 through 1948 and showed the income and outlay in his business transactions . Contributions to Charity A sidelight on Erickson 's charitable activities developed when Mr. Scotti asked the court for permission to retain three check stub books of the gambler 's account at the National Safety Bank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ checks , covering the period from October , 1946 , to Dec. 29 , 1949 , were said by Mr. Scotti to represent contributions to various organizations . He said that Erickson was frequently called on by his betting clientele to make a donation to a charity in which the bettor was interested . In most cases , Mr. Scotti said , Erickson placed underneath the name of the charity organization the name or initials of the individual who had sought the contribution . Most of the items discussed during yesterday 's hearing , which was a continuation of Monday 's proceedings before Judge Mullen , were contained in the last of four legalsized cabinet drawers that had been taken by raiders under Capt . William J. Grafenecker of the District Attorney 's staff . With Judge Mullen 's ? final ruling , Mr. Gelb announced that he would appear , " prbbably Monday , " in Part I of General Sessions to make a motion for the " suppression " of the evidence now in the hands of the grand jury . The District Attorney 's office , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been granted by Judge Mullen , Assistant District Attorney Joseph A. Gasarch , chief accountant , served a subpoena on ' Jerome Craig , deputy clerk of the court . The seized records were then trundled on two carts to the grand jury 's chambers , where Mr. Craig appeared briefly and on his deposition the documents went into the physical possession of the panel . Although it was announced by Assistant District Attorney Vincent A. G. O'Connor that the data would be placed " at once " at the disposal of the grand jurors , no effort was made to submit any of the documents during yesterday 's brief session . Instead , the grand jury heard testimony by two business men described as " bettors . " The panel then adjourned until today when , it was reported , it will start examination of the seized documents .                     