@@718065

txt That cheering news sped thru Salt Lake county hospital here tonight where the 18 year old victim of a 300 foot plunge into a canyon gained strength in her fight to recover . Rescuers had thought her dead when they lifted a wrecked car that had pinned her beneath it for nine days . She is Jean Margetts of Sunnyvale , Cal. , who disappeared with her fiance , James B. Hixon Jr . of Salt Lake City , on a fishing excursion 70 miles east of Salt Lake City June 24 . His body was found 20 feet from the crumpled automobile , which had plunged from highway U. S. 40 . " Dead " Girl Speaks ! The wreck was spotted yesterday by a state highway patrol plane . Patrolmen who reached the wreckage got the shock of their . lives when one . of the bodies spoke to them , " My leg hurts . I 'm cold , " said Miss Margetts when the patrolmen raised the car from her . They observed that a log had prevented the car from crushing her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They rushed her to the hospital in an ambulance , assuming that the car crash must have been more recent than the disappearance nine days before : But medical research at the scene confirmed that Hixon probably bad been dead for nine days . This posed a situation where officers and physicians were forced to conclude that the girl had somehow survived the fall and nine subsequent days without human help . She could have had no food but may . have had small amounts of water , it was said . Trickles of water from melting snow were near her outstretched hands . There have been frequent showers in the last few days . The canyon floor was shaded and cool. ? Find No Broken Bones Physicians found her suffering from hunger , thirst , exposure , and a possible skull fracture , along with numerous severe bruises , but said they could find no broken bones . She was given intravenous injections . The girl recovered conscious-I ness to an extent which en-1 abled her to recognize her parents , who flew here from Cali-1 fornia . She @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was unable to describe the accident or her ordeal . Lyle Hyatt , highway patrol superintendent , said the couple had probably been driving toward the city from the east , i returning from their outing , and had plunged over an embankment . Hyatt said Hixon was thrown clear of the car apparently , in the fall but that Miss Margetts had remained inside the car until the , auto struck . He said the log against which the car came to rest had saved her life . Lies 6 Hours Beside Wreck Marysville , Kas. , July 4 MA Nebraska youth was killed and another injured today when an auto crashed into an embankment . The survivor lay helpless six hours before the wreck was found . Kenton L. Vasey , 18 , Beatrice , Neb. , was killed . The driver , Paul L. Trauernight , 19 , Liberty , Neb. , suffered serious injuries . 