@@716099

txt A rapid succession of events appears to be striking new blows at the already precarious stability of the vast and strategically important Middle East . The announcement of the removal of President Naguib in Egypt and of the military uprising against President Adib Shishekly in Syria are only the latest in a series of developments which have given serious concern to all those interested in the continuing stability of the non-Communist portions of the world . Anti  --  ritish Egyptian Evidence seems to indicate a new and more intense period of crisis may be approaching for the Middle East . Major developments are : 1 . The resignation by President Naguib of all power and the election to the premiership of Lt. Col. Gamal Abdel Nasser . Although it is not yet certain just what this will mean in Egypt 's foreign relations or in its internal program of reform , the change is seen as evidence that all is not well within the military junta of young army officers which , in July , 1952 , overthrew King Farouk and began a program of national renovation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the real power within the junta , as firmly anti-British and anti-Israeli . His replacement of the popular General Naguib as first public figure will , it is foregast from Cairo , startle and disconcert public opinion . Revolt Grips Syria 2 . The military revolt In northern Syria which has apparently already seized control of the country 's largest city , Aleppo , and which has called for the overthrow of President Shishekly . This is the second uprising within a month , the first having been that of the tribesmen of the Jebel Druze in the south . After its loss to the rebels , Aleppo Radio went on the air and immediately began appealing to all Syrians to join the revolt . It termed President Shishekly " a mean slave and agent of imperialism " and proclaimed " this is the end of an era of misery , treason , and deprivation . " Meanwhile , the neighboring Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan has granted political refuge to Sultan Pasha al Altrash , leader of the Druze revolt , and to 35 of his followers . Saudi Arabia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the kingdom of Saudi Arabia , tell of increasing unrest within that little-developed but oil-rich country . Word from the capital alleges that the new King , Saud ibn Aziz , has fallen under the influence of antiwestern , and particularly anti-American , advisers and that there is more than a possibility that he will reverse his father 's program of cooperating with the United States in the development of the country 's oil resources , in military defense , and in instituting some measure of social progress . It is reported that despite the vast amount of revenue received from oil production , the country is on the verge of bankruptcy and is living on international borrowing . This condition is traced to extravagant spending on the part of members of the Royal Family . Iraq May Not Join 4 . There is also uncertainty tween Israel and its neighbors have worsened to a noticeable degree during the past eight to 12 months . Reports from a source of more than normal reliability say that Israel may well have had more than a little to do with the revolt in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Israel , with at least tacit concurrence of Israeli officials , were active in fomenting the uprising . Israeli officials felt , this same source reports , that civil strife in Syria  --  one of the most bitterly anti-Israeli of the Arab nations ? might cause the West to think twice before giving arms to the Arabs . Economies Lag Although events in Korea , Indochina , and Berlin have momentarily diverted ? attention from the Middle East , that area is still recognized as one of the weakest spots in the entire non-Communist world . The inability , at least so far , of the various governments to provide adequate economic progress , the continuing tension between Arab and Jew , the never-ending machinations of the local Communist Parties , the Egyptian-British dispute over the Suez Canal , and the general antiwestern air which has grown up since the end of World War II are viewed as evidence of grave unrest and instability . ? While both the United States Department of State and the British Foreign Office seem clearly to recognize the extent and danger of this situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formula for alleviating it . Several attempts have been made on the economic front , but they have as yet borne little fruit . The latest effort occurred in the United Nations on Feb. 24 when Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjold announced that Dr. Ralph J. Bunche would head a committee to study various plans for the development of a Jordan River plan . Such a plan would benefit Syria , Hashemite Jordan and Israel . Heretofore the Arabs have refused to cooperate because of animosity against Israel . Related stories : Page 4 whether Premier Jamil al Madfai of Iraq will be able to go through with his apparent desire to link that country to an American-supported defense pact joining Pakistan , Turkey , and Iraq . Although the Premier has announced that Iraq would buy arms wherever it wished ? in this he is known to favor making the purchases from the United States and Great Britain rather than from the Soviet Union  --  there is believed to be widespread public opposition to any formal military alliance even indirectly linked to the United States . This is due to popular belief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Israel . 5 . There is growing opposition in Israel to the supplying of any sizable quantity of arms to the surrounding Arab states until those countries have signed peace treaties with Israel . This the latter adamantly refused to do . Indeed , there is general agreement that the relations be-                     