@@720745

txt A valiant effort to save the r lives ? of Siamese twin girls born five days ago . to a Chesterton , Ind. , couple ended in failure Thursday night when the surviving child died four hours after an operation which separated them . A team of four surgeons headed by Dr. Willis J. Potts , internationally known expert in " blu.e baby " surgery and surgeon-in-chief at Children 's Memorial hospital , was forced to sacrifice the life of the weaker child in an effort to give the stronger one a chance . Began to Weaken Dr. Potts said the operation was mandatory because the babies , who at first seemed to be doing well , began to fail rapidly Thursday . Their breathing and pulse rates became rapid and they refused more than a taste of food . The children , joined together in front from the breastbone to the navel , had only one heart between them , the surgeons found , and the weaker one had Virtually no lung structure . The little girls , Marie Ellen and Mary Helen , were born @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four hour caesarian section in Porter Memorial hospital , Valparaiso , Ind . She is the wife of Elvin Schultz , also 28 , of Chesterton , an insurance adjuster . " A Tough Decision " Dr. Potts and his team of seven , including three other surgeons , two anesthetists , and two surgical nurses , began the operation at 2 p. m. after X-rays had shown that vital organs of the children were shared and that the life of one probably would have to be sacrificed . " This was one ot the toughest decisions Eve ever had to make , " Dr. Potts told reporters , " but we were aided by the fact that Mary Helen I had an underdeveloped lung which was just about the size of the end of a man 's thumb . A separate team of surgeons stood by in another operating room , ready to take over on one of the babies immediately if it was possible to save the lives of both children . After anesthesia , the chest and abdomen of the children were opened . The surgeons found the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hours One auricle of the common heart was attached to the body of Mary Helen and surgeons could not remove it , so they ligated the vessels out of Mary 's part of the heart and gave it to Marie Ellen , who had better lung structure . This left Marie Ellen with a badly deformed heart , with one auricle and two ventricles . She survived her sister by four hours . The surgeons used the same techniques developed in the famous separation of Rodney Dee and Roger Lee Brodie , head-joined Siamese twins , Dec. 17 , 1952 . Roger died 34 days after the operation . Rodney , now 8 , is living with his parents in Ferris , Hancock county . In April , 1955 , another pair of head-joined twins , Deborah Marie and Christine Mary Andrews , were separated successfully in Mercy hospital here .                     