@@717820

txt Letters to The Times GEORGE MEANY.ALLISON C. NEFF , P. E. , CHARLOTTE K. SCHOEN . Letters to The Times ro THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial of April 3 commenting on my address of last December before the National Religion and Labor Foundation is quite concerned over the criticism I then made of some of Nehru 's ' foreign policies . The editorial emphasizes the wish to " assuage their injured feelings " and to " correcCmisunderstandings " which Indian leaders " may have about American opinion ? especially that of organized labor , " as a result of my criticism : At the outset let me state that my viewpoint is not merely personal or tile result of sudden impulse . It reflects a continuation and outgrowth of decades of positive and constructive opposition by the democratic American labor movement to communism and every other form of totalitarianism and to all policies which , in effect or in intent , tend to help such subversive movements . We have applied and will continue ? to apply this approach with full ferce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kremlin under Lenin , Stalin , Malenkov and now Khrushchev . ? Democratic Right Since these are the days when the " hero cult " is being questioned even in Moscow and Tiflis , I venture . to say that some of Mr. Nehru 's friends are doing him injustice in their adoration of him as infallible in his foreign policies . Though I differ on a number of important foreign policy issues with Prime Minister Nehru , I am encouraged by his oftrepeated expressions of devotion to fundamental democratic principles to believe that he does not resent but welcomes factual criticism of any position he takes on any vital issue of the day . Some friends of Nehru are forgetting that , despite the extensive subversive activities which Moscow has been financing and directing-in India , the parliamentary democratic system still prevails there . Prime Minister Nehru is used to being criticized by his own people because they enjoy this democratic right . It is an insult to Mr. Nehru 's stated democratic convictions to think that he must be assuaged after criticism and that one must " explain " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no one in this country has the power to prevent Mr. Meany from expressing his opinion . " Can it be denied that in his Dec. 13 , 1955 , joint statement with Soviet Premier Bulganin Prime Minister Nehru has , in effect , gone into partnership with Moscow in regard to the question of disarmament , atom and H-bomb tests , and German national reunification ? Can it be denied that Mr. Nehru has lined up . with Moscow on the most vital foreign policy issues between the - free world and the totalitarian Soviet orbit ? Is it not clear that Premier Nehru 's statement to his Parliament that " the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization and the Baghdad Pact have tended to ' encircle ' India " ( New York Times , March 30 ) is but an echo of the Khrushchev-Bulganin anti-Western propaganda ? This is a Red fairy tale which , unfortunately , still finds credence in some adult quarters . Disturbed by Stand Precisely because Prime Minister Nehru , in public pronouncements from time to time over the years , has indicated that he is definitely committed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of democratic society everywhere have many Millions of workers and other democratic elements in America , Britain , India and in other countries been critical of and disturbed by ? Nehru 's organization of last winter 's triumphal tour of the Indian subcontinent . Precisely because Nehru is not Mao Tse-tung were we painfully surprised by his joint statement with Soviet Premier Bulganin aligning India on the side of Moscow in regard to the Chinese and Korean problems . We were shocked by his joining Bulganin in condemning the defense efforts of the Western democracies for having " widened the frontiers of the ' cold war ' and increased fear and tension . " I think every American editorial writer and reader alike should be just as disturbed by the fact that Prime Minister Nehru recently repudiated the September , 1950 , United Nations Commission Report on Korea . This commission was headed by Dr : Anup Singh , the distinguished Indian scholar , chosen for this task by Nehru himself . . Unneutral Neutralism Those friends of Nehru who seem worried over what your editorial called the " unfortunate results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better bolster their faith in the steadfast devotion of India 's Prime Minister to democratic principles . They had better stop being afraid that Nehru can not stand ? the democratic protess of criticism and that such criticism will .. undermine his belief in democracy or drive him fully into the Khrushchev camp . These friends of Nehru should also realize that  --  particularly as the result of the Khrushchev-Bulganin tour ? there are Multiplying doubts and misgivings in important sections of the Indian people about his unneutral neutralism toward the Moscow-Peiping - Americans and liberty-loving people everywhere have a right  --  indeed a duty  --  to ask how ' it is that the top Russian Communist leaders ' crude To-THE Enroll OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It was with considerable interest that I read your editorial of April 5 concerning scientific manpower . The sentence which might be described as the keystone of the editorial was that " higher salaries for competent ' teachers will help , but our basic weakness is traceable largely to our secondary schools , which are simply not good enough when ' it comes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National Society of Professional Engineers undertook a nation-wide project to bring to the attention of the public some of the more glaring weaknesses of our secondary school system . Asa part of this project the society wrote let- , tens to 800 publishers of daily-newspapers . The letters asked that attention be called to the fact that a decreasing number of young people were enrolling in basic mathematics and the physical sciences , Enclosed with the letter was a reprint of an editorial from The Times on this very subject . The fact that the annual report of , the National Education Association on teacher supply and demand for this year shows definite , al- ? though small , increases in the number of teachers preparing for the teaching of physics and mathematics is , we believe , a direct result of the widespread publicity which has been given to the shortage of teachers in these fields . Certainly one of the publications which has been consistently reporting on this topic is The New York Times . The members of the National Society of Professional Engineers are grateful to have had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working toward increasing the supply of the nation 's high school mathematics and science teachers . It is to be hoped that The Times , as well as other American newspapers , will not . let the matter rest here but will continue to urge a greater interest in these vital areas of high school training . ALLISON C. NEFF . P. E .. President , National . Society of Professional Engineers . Washington , April 10 , 1956 . Parking Arrangements for Nurses To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Our Traffic Department has instituted some very valuable parking regulations ; for example , the space allotted to doctors near hospitals . Have they not forgotten the registered professional nurse ? Suburban hospitals providing - adequate parking areas for their staff and privateduty professional nurses are able adequately to staff their floors while our large institutions in the heart of the city face acute shortages . It would be wise if " For Nurses Parking Only " stanchions were installed in the near future . CHARLOTTE K. SCHOEN . New York , March 28 , 1956 . Criticism of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ misrepresentations and vile slanders against the Western democracies have been " so well received even by the educated sections of Khrushchev 's audiences " in India . - Undoubtedly our Government 's failure to repudiate the vestiges of colonialism in the foreign policies of our British , French and Portuguese allies accounts for it*in part . But it is neither sin nor crime nor even conducive to " unfortunate results , " as your editorial bemoaned , to look for an explanation also in India  --  in Mr. Nehru 's foreign policies . I sincerely appreciate the opportunity you have given me to correct the misapprehensions. and misunderstandings your editorial might have , unwittingly created . In my criticism of Nehru I was guided by the famous maxim of Abraham Lincoln : has the right to criticize who has the heart to help . " The working people of India know that American labor has always been friendly to , the Indian people and vigorous in their support of their struggle for national freedom and rendering generous aid to ' their laudable efforts to build a healthy and prosperous democracy . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democracy , as we endeavor to apply them in our own country , must know that a critical approach to Nehrti 's foreign policy is sound and indispensable to our country 's democratic relations with free nations like India . Truly great democratic leaders in India or elsewhere can have no feb.r of forthright criticism . Nor will genuine friends of democracy switch over to the totalitarian camp because of such forthright criticism . GEORGE MEATY . President , American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations . Washington , April 5 , .1956 . Improved Science Teaching Larger Supply of Teachers at the ? Secondary Level Held Need                     