@@719544

txt There is more fission than fusion in the continuing dispute over whether America 's atomic power program is sufficiently farsighted . The Atomic Energy Commission and the congressional Joint Committee on Atomic Energy remain split over whether more governmint cash should be poured into atomic power programs . The committee says that the AEC 's policy of requiring private financing of atomic power plants is retarding the development of atomic power . In reply , the AEC says the United States leads the world in the scope of its program for the development of safe , efficient , and competitive nuclear power . ComprOmise Sought For some months there has been an effort to reconcile the two viewpoints . As the joint committee opened hearings on the state of the atomic energy industry Feb. 20 , a slim chance of compromise remained . The conflicting parties postponed consideration of the issue until later in the hearings . This , it was said by those involved , was to give the AEC further opportunity to finish a " continuing discussion with the Bureau of the Budget , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the AEC for more funds to subsidize private industry in its development of atomic power . Whether the AEC , if successful , will then revise its 1959 fiscal year budget requests sufficiently to fund a program on the scale hoped for by tho committee is the crucial question . Program Unchanged In advance of the final dectsions , Lewis L. Strauss , chair-ma n of the Atomic Energy Corn-mission , told the committee " the United States program remains ; unchanged ; it is to attain safe . reliable , and economic nuclear power at home and abroad as soon as possible . " " As you are aware , " he told the committee , " the timetable is ? shorter for reaching competitive power abroad , since many of our ? friends find it necessary in their ? national interest to achieve a degree of independence from the importation of chemical fuels . " Our conclusion . . is that 1 . ' t ! should try to reach this objective of successful aid to our friends in attaining competitive nuclear power within five years . " That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years we will be able to begin design and construction of large nuclear power plants which will produce economic nuclear power in a large part of Western Europe , in Japan , and elsewhere . " Achieving commercially competitive nuclear power in the United States , he said , would require a longer time owing to the lower price and greater availability of conventional fuels .                     