@@717149

txt Curiously , and surprisingly perhaps , we are indebted to the Soviet Government for the injection of candor into 3ne aspect of the discussion of ways and means of lifting the black cloud of possible atomic war from the heads of mankind . It can be reported that no pronouncement out of Moscow since the war has received more careful and thoughtful attention in Washington than the last portion of the Soviet note of May 11 on disarmament . Why Moscow went candid is another matter which is beside the point of this consideration . It may be that Moscow has called attention In the difficulties of achieving effective atomic weapons control for the purpose of preparing in advance an excuse for a nonachievement of controls , which in turn could be used to justify a refusal to grant reunification to Germany . However , the immediately important fact so far as the subject of arms control is concerned is the Moscow argument of May 11 that the production of atomic weapons has already become such a relatively easy thing technically that any government possessing an atomic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its production for a secret cache of weapons in spite of the most rigid system of international control . No Western expert in such matters would seriously challenge this proposition . The time has come when atomic material is plentiful and relatively cheap . Large quantities are being produced for nonmilitary purposes . Governments possessing such industries surround them with secrecy , and could easily set aside small quantities for a secret military supply under the nose of any international inspection system which is politically possible . As the Soviet note says : ? ? ? ? There are possibilities beyond the reach of international control for circumventing that control and organizing the secret manufacture of atomic and hydrogen weapons even if there is a formal agreement on international control . " There are , beyond any doubt , such " possibilities . " So long as those " possibilities " exist , and there is no reason to expect they will cease to exist , a system of international control and inspection , even if most rigid , would not give assurance of security . The Soviet note makes it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries to refrain from taking advantage of such " possibilities . " Certainly we of the West could hardly rely on the Soviets themselves to refrain from exercising the " possibilities . " The plain fact is that no reliable system of ordinary inspection and control is any longer attainable . And , of course , it should be added that still more drastic controls probably would be unacceptable to any major government . Do we imagine for one moment that the Congress of the United States would ratify an agreement under which the inspectors of an international authority would literally be free to roam at will through the entire military establishment of the United States ? It is nonsense to think that we , for example , would permit such inspectors into the map and records room of the Strategic Air Command headquarters . As for the even more drastic step of creating a genu-inely international police force , eliminating national military establishments  --  and using inspection and enforcement to make sure they do not reappear  --  that raises far-reaching problems which are not for the foreseeable future . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from atomic war , the closer we find ourselves forced to the conclusion that the only practical way of preventing atomic war is to avoid var . There can be no certainty that in event of war atomic weapons would not make their appearance in the war . If there should be no war , then atomic weapons would be used only by some fanatic , some madman against whom society always must be on guard whether it be in the village or on the world stage . If there should be a major war between great states which possess atomiq industries , there always would be a possibility of the use of such weapons regardless of agreements , cOnventions , or inspection systems . Neither side would trust the other to be unprovided . Each probably would have hoarded a few in secret to protect itself against similar action by the other . The only real security against such weapons lies in the avoidance of major war itself . The issue , therefore , has become political . There was a time when it was technical , a time when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as to permit in theory a workable inspection system . That time has passed . Mosmw is correct when it says there is no longer any really reliable inspection or control system . The top men of the Defense Department , the State Department , and the National Security Council in Washington all agree that this is the present state of affairs .                     