@@713978

txt Any expectation that military operations will stop in Korea with the opening of talks in Kaesong is unwarranted . Action , and fighting if necessary , will go on until there is an . agreed armistice and an agreement made to put it into effect , according to informed Washington quarters . But how heavy that fighting will be is a purely military question . It will depend on the weather , on the enemy 's activity , the strength of the United Nations military position , and other things . It may develop into a cease fire in fact if not name while the negotiators meet ; but at the same time there could be considerable fighting occurring concurrently with the talks . The important thing to Gen. Matthew B. Ridgway , commander of United Nations forces in Korea , is the security of the American Eighth Army and the other UN forces . That means that all during the talks , UN air operations will continue on Communist troop movements and concentrations so the talks do not develop into a trap . Enemy Stills Builds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with this important question , that there is a great difference between the build-up potential by the Communists and by the UN command during any talks . It is a well-known fact that the United States does not intend to put any more divisions into Korea . However , the ? Communist build-up of new forces in Korea has been ' going on for two months  --  and there has been no letup since Moscow suggested armistice talks . Therefore , from a purely military angle , General Ridgway can not stop air operations during any negotiations . However , unless the enemy steps up the air fighting , it is not expected that he will take the initiative during these coming days to press forward on the ground . The fighting in Korea , it is pointed out , is not a contest for ground , but a war of maneuver . And , from all evidence at hand , General Ridgway has maneuvered his troops into about the most defensible line there is across Korea ; and he would not quit his strong position voluntarily during these talks . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only with what are called here housekeeping matters . The colonels participating will merely arrange for the security of the area , give assurances there will be no bombing of the city by either side , decide on the exact site for talks , and arrange facilities . Guarantees Sought At me iormai tams opening J uiy 10 , the problem will be twofold : there must not only be an armistice arranged , but an agreement reached for putting it into effect . Guarantees agairist a resumption of fighting undoubtedly will have to take the form of arrangements that will assure the commanders of each side that the other is not building up a new striking force . Washington is quite prepared to let Communist representatives , presumably attached to international inspection teams , watch for build-up of new forces in South Korea . At the same time , it is sure to insist on this right of inspection north of the 38th parallel by UN representatives . The question has been raised whether there would be any inspection rights beyond the boundaries of Korea  --  that is , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Washington to believe that Peiping would permit any inspection north of the Yalu River , where Communist troops are reported concentrating , and that conversely there would be no " inspection " of military personnel in Japan . As for the eventual evacuation of non-Korean troops from all of Korea , that , it is pointed out here , is not a question for discussion at these corning Kaesong talks . That problem is one of the many that will have to be solved later , if a cease fire and armistice are arranged .                     