@@719402

txt There was meeting where the formula on substantial doubt tonight that missiles and nuclear warheads the West German Army would was framed for the approval qwq doubt persisted despite the consent given by Chancellor Konrad Adenauer to the principle that such weapons should be stationed in the territories defended by the North Atlantic alliance . Chancellor Adenauer accepted the principle as a political necessity , but the explanations furnished by Franz Josef Strauss , Minister of Defense , 1 and Felix von Eckardt , the dele-gation 's spokesman , indicated ' that as far as West Germany was concerned it was highly ' improbable that United States nuclear weapons would be accepted . Herr Strauss represented West Germany at a morning cept the weapons nor had he refused them . Theoretically , Bonn 's position was left open . Herr von Eckhardt reaffirmed later that acceptance of missiles and warheads for the West German Army was primarily a political question that would have to be decided by the West German Parliament . The military experts of the Atlantic alliance will have to recommend first where the weapons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be forthcoming until the next Atlantic Council meeting . Herr Strauss explained to German reporters the military // considerations that militated against the stationing of missiles and nuclear warheads in those sectors of West GermanY defended by German forces . He explained that the West German Army 's task , in the framework of Atlantic pact ' strategy , would be fundamentally tactical . Such a task will require tactical rather than strategic weapons such as the intermediate missiles and the nuclear warheads , Herr Strauss said . Another important consideration is the impracticality of stationing the " heavy artillery , " in this case missiles and warheads , in the frontlines , he went on . Weet Germany is a forward position in the Western Allies ' defense ? system against the Communist armies , he said . It would be pointless , therefore , to risk having such weapons overrim in a massive land attack , the Defense Minister remarked . Aside from Herr Strauss ' explanations it was by no means ) certain that Gen. Laurie Norstad , Supreme Allied Commander , Europe , would favor the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ close to the Soviet armed forces . Should it develop that General Norstad 's recommendation excluded missiles and warheads from West Germany , the position of Dr. Adenauer and Herr ' Strauss would be fully safe-1 guarded in the West German ' Parliament . Herr Strauss told the German reporters that the Bonn Government was prepared to assume all the risks and obligations incumbent upon a member of the Atlantic alliance . However , he said it was an inescapable fact that from a military point of view strategic weapons should be removed as far as possible from the range of an enemy attack . According to unconfirmed reports , the West German planners share the view that , at the very least , strategic weapons should most certainly be excluded from all German territory situated east of the Rhine . West German military thinking is entirely preoccupied with the tactical problems . In the present thinking the role of the West German force is to slow down , and if possible break up , a Soviet land attack and give United States air and ground forces time to strike counter-blows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are reconciled only to employing tactical rockets against tanks , troops and aircraft and are prepared to accept these types of United States weapons . Another consideration rarely mentioned publicly is the feeling that if the West German Army is not equipped with strategic weapons the Soviet forces would spare West Germany from the shower of nuclear bombs and missiles to which Europe might be subjected in the event of a major war . Germans Oppose Rocket Basel Special to The New York Times . BONN , Germany , Dec. 18 ? An attempt to start work on an anti-aircraft rocket-launching base in West Germany has met with the determined resistance of local citizenry . The town council of the Main River resort town of Miltenberg , in Bavaria , voted unanimously Monday to withhold permission for a military survey of nearby city-owned land . The incident reflected the deep reluctance of most West Germans to have military missiles in their country . The Federal Defense Ministry , which was to make the survey in cooperation with the United States Army , said the project involved the construction of a rocket-launching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The installation would handle anti-aircraft rockets , a spokesman said . The site selected is a thirtythree-acre area just outside Miltenberg , an ancient river town lying about half-way between Frankfurt and Wuerzburg . It is 200 miles due east of the Czechoslovak border . Mayor Anton Blatz said the sixteen man town council had voted unanimously to block preliminary work on the base . He conceded , however , that " we shall get the American rockets in the end , whether we want them or not . " He alluded to the existing agreements between the West German Government and the United States regarding military priorities . In such conflicts in the past these agreements have enabled the armed forces to override local objections .                     