@@713328

txt Sweeping constitutional changes " concentrating power in the hands of a few Gov eminent and party leaders , and fierce official Attacks upon churches , " bourgeois remnants " and economic " saboteurs " can be expected after tomorrow 's Soviet zone elections , Communist sources indicated today . A , number of government and party officials , headed by Kurt Schumann , president of the Supreme Court of the East German Democratic Republic , have boasted in campaign speeches of the intention to eliminate the " vicious influence of private capital " and " warmongering bourgeois spies " in the Soviet zone . Western Allied officials expect a post-election purge that will inelude not only churches and the remains of private industry and commerce but the lower levels of the Socialist Unity Communist party as well . While two non-Communist parties , the Christian Democrats and Liberal Democrats , will be allowed to win between 30 and 40 per cent of the seats in the People 's Chamber of the East German state , it is expected that the rank and file of these parties will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are expected to be accompanied by public recognition of Walter Ulbricht , now Deputy Premier , as the overt leader of the Communist state in Eastern Germany , supplanting President Wilhelm Pieck , the party 's aging figurehead , and Otto Grotewohl , the present Premier , as the most important figure in the Government . For the past year , Communist propaganda paid equal attention to the triumvirate of Pieck , Grotewohl and Ulbricht . Now the triumvirate has given way to the dictator . Conversation with East Berlin sources leaves no doubt that Derr Ulbricht is the boss and that the Russians have given him more power than they allowed any of his predecessors to wield . Even Herr Ulbricht is spied on by the Russians , but that is routine in the East . Some major political action by the Russians is in the offing . Minor functionaries in Eastern Berlin know that something is coming . but they do not know exactly what it is . Most of them believe that the Russians will announce the start of negotiations for a treaty of " mutual assistance " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that the signing of this treaty will be a signal for the withdrawal of overt Soviet controls of the economic life of the Eastern zone and perhaps the abolition of the Soviet Control Commission . But before that will come the purge . Herr Schumann , in a statement given wide circulation , deplored the fact that the existing Soviet zone constitution did not sufficiently protect the state against capitalist infiltration . He said that the document would have to be revised to strengthen the state against espionage and sabotage and " insidious propaganda for war . " Such statements are a customary prelude in Soviet satellite states to further changes in the constitution to bring the basic law of the country more clos &y; in line with that of the Soviet Union . A constitutional revision of this type usually is followed by more widespread purges than ever before under the authority of the revised document . The starting point for these widespread changes is tomorrow 's election to the People 's Chamber of the East German Democratic Republic , the legislatures of the five laender or states in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These elections will be " the most democratic in Germany 's history , " Taegliche Rundschau , authoritative Soviet-licensed paper , said today . Approximately fourteen million voters in the East are being ordered to elect a single list of candidates , with no chance to vote against any candidate or group of candidates , Moreover , every effort is being made to force the voters to cast their ballots openly . Resolutions from " spontaneous meetings of Socialist workers " are demanding an open vote since , " We have nothing to hide . " In many industrial areas , voters will be marched to the polls behind bands and there will go through a travesty of voting . There are 400 candidates for the People 's Chamber . The Socialist Unity party and various Communist front and ex-Nazi organiza , tions are expected to get between 60 and 70 per cent of the seats , leaving the remainder to the wto non-Communist parties . Election eve was marked by minor disturbances in Kreuzberg , in the United States sector , and fisticuffs in Potsdamer Platz . There was no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Police got bloody noses and one West Berlin policeman was manhandled.                     