@@720426

txt Eugene F. Stormy III , 17 , heir to a multimillion dollar Zenith Radio corporation ) fortune , was accused Monday of harassing his legal guardian by pouring sugar into the ** tank of the guardian 's car . This charge came in one of three hearings before three judges which dealt with battles over the youth 's custody and the estate of his late father , Eugene F. Jr. , who headed Zenith , for many years . In the last of the day 's developments , his mother , Mrs. Inez Neale , made al new move to obtain the boy 's custody in a habeas corpus proceeding . Mother Charged , Too Young 's cousin , Eugene M. Kinney , 123 Kenilworth ay. , Kenilworth , the youth 's legal guardian who also has his custody , alleged in a petition filed before Judge Robert J. Dunne in Probate court that the harassment is " encouraged and fostered " by Mrs. Neale . Pending before Dunne is the mother 's petition that she replace Kinney as guardian . The engine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had not been observed putting the sugar in the tank , Kinney alleged . The tank and contents were re ? placed before the engine was started . On April 24 , four days before that incident , young in the company of others caused a rock to be thrown thru the plate glass door " of the Kinney home , the guardian reported . Kinney asked court advice on discipling the boy . After this .. case was continued to May 20 , the mother mid her ' attorney , Louis G. Davidson , pressed for more prompt action by petitivring for a writ of habeas corpus in Superior court . Accompanying the petition was a sworn statement of the boy that he thought it was to his best interests that his mother have custbtly .. Delays judge Donald S. , without objection from Davidson , deferred action on- the writ until counsel for all parties at interest could be present . He scheduled a hearing for 2 p. m . Friday . Earlier , Judge Thaddeus Adesko in Superior court , - at a hearing on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from on the ground of fraud , ordered depositions taken in London and Paris . This was done at the request of the estate 's attorneys , Thomas C. , and Herbert C. Paschen . Davidson agreed to stipulate that the witnesses from whom depositions are sought would testify that Mrs. Neale was sane during a period of several years after the divoree , and when this offer was rejected , suggested that written interrogatories would serve as well as oral , but the estate attorneys insisted on oral examinations. , Their re . quest was ' granted .                     