@@719958

txt Major speeches by President Eisenhower , former President Harry S. Truman and Vice President Richard M. Nixon were announced today as both political parties began stepping up campaign preparations . The President 's principal efforts are expected to be directed toward two states of great significance to his party  --  California , where the  --  Senate Republican leader , William F. Knowland , is the underdog in a battle forthe governorship with State Attorney General Edmund G. Brown , and New York , where Nelson A. Rockefeller is seeking to unseat Governor Harriman . General Eisenhower plans to visit New York next month on behalf of both Mr. Rockefeller and Representative Kenneth B. Keating , the Republican candidate for the Senate . In California , the President , like Senator Knowland , will have his work cut out for him to reverse the Democratic tide that gave Mr. Brown a 600,000-vote lead over the Senator in their comparative totals in the primary . The President is considering a California visit that would embrace two speeches , presumably one in San Francisco and the other in Los Angeles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also under consideration for the President . And probably an // other from either Washington or pettysburg. , Mr. ? Truman 's campaigning will begin on Wednesday , with an address to the United Steel. ; workers of America convention in Atlantic City . He will follow this with a Democratic rally in Albany on Thursday , a Baltimore rally on Friday , and fundraising dinners in Charleston , ' W. Va. , on Saturday , in San Francisco on Sept. - 25 , in Seattle on Sept. 26 , and in Portland , Ore. , on Sept : 27. 15 Speeches for Nixon Mr. Nixon has fifteen speech-I es scheduled so far , with more to be announced soon . His campaigning will start Sept. 29 with speeches in Indianapolis and Muncie , Ind. , to be followed by speeches in San Diego Oct. 1 and San Francisco and Oakland on Oct. 2 . He will make a speech Oct. 3 on his way back to Washington at ' a city to be selected . The Vice President will hit the campaign trail again on Oct. 8#with a , speech @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Columbus on Oct. 9 . On Oct. 10 he will make another speech en route to Washington . He is due in San Francisco for a speech on Oct. 14 and in Los Angeles on Oct. 15 . Another speech will be made on the way back to Washington . Kennedy Will Stump The week of Oct. 19 will be spent campaigning in the East , with two more speeches achednJ.ed .. on:Oct. 25 , one in Lincoln , N ? 117 , " , and another on the way back to the Capital . Further Speeches will be announced . In . addition to Mr. Truman ; thM3ernocrats are also going to offer . some of their top contenders for the 1960 Presidential nomination . The most industrious of these - will be Senator John F. Kennedy of . Massachusetts , scheduled for ten appearances starting with a Demo.cratic breakfast in Denver tomorrow and winding up with three speeches in Vermont bn Sept. 26 . Senatdrs Wayne Morse of Oregon and Albert Gore of Tennessee will also take the stump for ' their party , as will that other perennial contender @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tDougles of Illinois will address : a fund-raising dinner in Kansas and a dinner rally in Michigan City ; Ind. , while his wife , former Representative Emily Taft Douglas of Illinois will address a Democratic women 's tea in South Bend , Incl . The 1952 and 1956 Democratic Presidential standardbearer , Adlai E. Stevenson . of Illinois , will adress a dinner in Los Angeles on Sept. 30 . Meanwhile , Paul M. Butler , the Democratic National Chairman , announced the Democrats in forty-two states would conduct ' their 1958 Dollars-for-Democrats door-to-door drive Sept. 26 through 29.                     