@@715291

txt Charles E. Bohlen , President Eisenhower 's choice for Ambassador to Russia , made it plain today to Senators holding his confirmation in their hands that he never would join in Republican condemnations of the wartime Yalta agreement . In an all-day examination in closed session before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , which was meeting on ' whether to recommend that the Senate confirm his nomination , Mr. Bohlen asserted that neither the Yalta arrangement nor any interpretation of it was to blame for what ' the Eisenhower Administration has , described as the " subjugation " of peoples that followed . Yalta . The Russians and the Russians alone were to blame , and they were to blame because of repeated violations of the . agreement , he said . Though Mr. Bohlen was heard in a secrecy protested by Democratic members of the committee ? protests that led to a Republican agreement to make public the substance of his testimony later ? it was clear from the authorized summaries given out that he had minced no words in his defense of the Yalta pact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Franklin D. Roosevelt for the United States and Prime Minister Winston Churchill for Britain handed over former Polish territory and off-Japan islands to the Russians to get them to enter the war against Japan . Mr. Bohlen was an interpreter at the conference as a then junior Foreign Service officer . The Eisenhower Administration now proposes that Congress pass a declaration in behalf of the people of the United States denouncing the " subjugation of peoples " by the Russians through a perversion of the terms of the Yalta agreement and of the subsequent Potsdam conference , both of which were held in 1945 . The Eisenhower text puts the whole onus on the Russians themselves and does not , inferentially or otherwise , attack Mr. Roosevelt or the American signer at Potsdam , President Truman . Some Republicans are demanding a hardened text questioning the validity of the Yalta and Potsdam agreements and , at least by implication , the actions of Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Truman . Pressed by Questioners Reporters were told by Senators who had attended that he was pressed all afternoon by Republican interrogators , notably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to attach to Mr. Roosevelt any bad intentions or basically unwise actions at Yalta .. Mr. Bohlen did say , according to one of the two bulletins handed out by the committee . chairman , Senator Alexander Wiley , Republican of Wisconsin , that in-the afterlight there were two legitimate criticisms : ? 1 . It had timed out to have been unnecessary from a military point of view to bring the Russians in against the Japanese . 2 . The Yalta pact should not have been signed without the partici-1 pation of the Chinese Nationalists . Mr. Bohlen strongly rejected , however , old Republican charges that ' the Yalta . agreement amount- ed to a " betrayal " alike of the ' Chinese Nationalists and of the Poles . On the contrary , he declared , the Chinese Nationalists themselves later agreed to the territorial con-1 cessions made at Yalta , including Soviet rights in Manchuria . " It can not be asserted , " he added , " that the Yalta agreement contributed to Soviet control of Poland . In so far as the agreement ' was operative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Looking at the affair in " hindsight , " he went on , that part of the Yalta arrangement involving ' the Far East was unnecessary . Still , he said , according to the Wiley summary , he thought no President of the United States could have been unresponsive to a proposal that would bring the Soviet Union into the war in the Far East and might , as he put it , save from 200,000 to 300,000 American lives . Moreover , he contended , the map of Eastern Europe today would be very much the same if there never had been a Yalta conference . Soviet Control of Poland Cited The Russians , he added , had actual control of Poland then , anyhow , and the question at Yalta was whether the United States and Britain would recognize that control or try to mitigate it in some way , " I , myself , find it difficult , " he said , " to believe that these agree ' ments were so favorable to Russia , when Russia has found it in her interest to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was to ignore Eastern Europe . You could not afford not to make the attempt that was made at Yalta . " Mr. Bohlen told the committee that Mr. Roosevelt had regarded the Yalta meeting as a military matter and added that the State Department itself did not know at the time of the results . He denied suggestions that the United States had once asked the Turkish Government to grant concessions to Russia in the Dardanelles . The United States , he said , in , fact had backed , the Turks in refusing . The appearance before the committee of Mr. Bohlen , a career Foreign Service officer , gave Senators a well-used opportunity to question one of the few actual participants at Yalta still on the scene , though a participant who had no policy-making responsibility . Review of Policy Develops The result , reporters were told , was to open up a general and sometimes contentious review , as between the Republicans and the Democrats , of foreign policy in the Roosevelt-Truman years . Senator Hubert H. Humphrey , Democrat of Minnesota , left the meeting at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disgusted with ' these secret meetings . " " The public is missing a very fine examination of a very critical period in our history , " he added . As a result of demands made by Senator Humphrey in the afternoon meeting , the committee agreed to a later publication of Mr. Bohlen 's testimony " after it has been edited for security information , " ( Meaning to eliminate information that might injure the national interest ) . Postponed until March 10 was a motion by Mr. Humphrey to " declare it to be the policy of the committee that all hearings shall be open unless specifically ordered to be closed . " In the meantime , no action was taken on the Bohlen nomination and arrangements were made tomorrow for the committee to go to work instead on the proposed Eisenhower-declaration against Soviet enslavement of peoples . The outlook on this matter was obscure tonight . The Eisenhower Administration , through Secretary of State John Foster Dulles , has urgently appealed to Congressional Republicans to attempt.no alterations , lest they bring on a foreign policy fight with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the text is left alone . The Foreign Affairs Committee of the House of Representatives ( has unanimously recommended the ' declaration without change . Men in the Senate committee , however , want various changes , and among them is the Senate Republican Floor Leader , , Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio . Mr. Taft , who was understood to have spoken of the matter to President Eisenhower at today 's regular White House conference for the Republican Congressional leaders , was standing tonight on his demand , which is for a stipulation that Congress does not propose to pass on whether the Yalta and Potsdam agreements were made validly , in the first place .                     