@@719177

txt President Eisenhower took his first dive in an atomicpowered submarine today : The submarine Seawolf , with the President aboard , dived sixty feet beneath the surface of the Atlantic . It stayed under for fifteen minutes , five miles southwest of Brenton 's Reef , off Newport . General Eisenhower is the third President to make a dive in a submarine . The first was Theodore Roosevelt , the second Harry S. Truman . The President sported a submarine tie clasp and an Honorary Atomic Submariners membership card issued in the names of Davy Jones and Neptunus Rex when he ended his onehour-fifty-minute voyage aboarc the newest of the Navy 's underwater boats . The submarine was waiting for him in Narragansett Bay when he completed his morning round of golf in a foursome that included Henry Ford 2d , president of the Ford Motor Company . The President drove to Fort Adams , then boarded the Barbara Anne , his ninety7two-foot cabin cruiser , for the short trip to a position alongside the Seawolf . The President transferred to the surfaced submarine , where he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Laning , and Rear Admiral Frederick B. Warder , the new submarine force commander of the Atlantic Fleet . Admiral Warder commanded an earlier Seawolf , which was lost in the Pacific during the war with Japan . General Eisenhower stood on deck for . a few minutes as the submarine got under way for the harbor entrance and the open sea . Then he went below to have lunch ' with the crew . He was greeted in the crew 's mess by a rendition of " The Eyes of Texas " on an electric organ played by an electrician , Thomas Russell 3d of Old Saybrook , Conn . Young Russell explained he knew the Texas song and knew the President was a native of Texas but did not know the music of " Hail to the Chief , " the traditional musical salute to a President . The President was briefed about controlled radiation exposure aboard nuclear-powered submarines . He received a film patch to wear and a tiny dosimeter to read . The medical officer , Lieut . Comdr . John E. Ebersole of Sterling , Ill. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ type craft get an average radiation dosage of about 200 milliroentgens a year , compared with an allowable industrial dose of about 300 a week . As he left the boat , the Presi : dent jokingly told Admiral War-1 der to check on his film patch and " let me know if I have had too much radiation . " " I assure you you wo n't have , " the Admiral said . After lunch , the President made an inspection and sat behind the instrument panel as the vessel . dived after the klaxon had given the signal . While the boat was submerged the President looked through the periscope and spotted the escorting destroyer U. S. S. Barry . Through his naval aide , Capt . E. P. Aurand , he transmitted an underwater message : " Thank you for your escort . " He was especially interested in the reactor room and its six stainless steel units through whose tubes flowed the energy that drove the ship noiselessly through the water . " I see you 're really in the power business , " he commented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officers and men on the intercommunications system . " I suppose you know this is the first time I 've been aboard an atomic reactor submarine , " the President said . " Everything was of interest to me ? all the gadgets and the machines . " But more interesting to me was to see the United States Navy at work . I 'm proud of every man aboard ship . It 's a memorable experience . I hope to see you all again . Thank you all for making this trip so pleasant . " James C. Hagerty , the press secretary , checked with the President and found he had been on submarines twice before , when he was stationed in Panama after World War I.                     