@@714406

txt Two file officially as candidates for governor in Republican primary ; other candidates listed for congress , state senator , central committeemen and delegates to national conventions . Story on Page 6 . All prominent candidates for county offices file primary petitions . Story on Page 8 . BY QEORGE TAGGE Promoters of Gen. Eisenhower for the Republican Presidential nomination declined yesterday to enter him in the Illinois preferential primary against Sen. Taft O. and Harold E. Stassen , president of the University of Pennsylvania . Taft 's petitions will be filed in Springfield today . Bad weather held up the arrival of his official statement of candidacy yesterday , the first day for filing . John Leonard East , Republican county chairman , who has taken the offensive for Taft , offered yesterday to circulate petitions of candidacy for Eisenhower , Stassen , and Gov . Warren of California . " Happy to Perform Service " East telegrafed his offer to local Eisenhower headquarters and directly to Stassen and Warren . He told them the G. 0 . P. organization has circulated petitions to put Taft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are happy to perform the same service for Gen. Eisenhower if you wish . I will personally defray the cost of printing and circulation of petitions for each of the prominently mentioned candidates if they choose to avail themselves of our efforts . " While we know that the Illinois primary is advisory , it would be a means of testing sentiment for the several candidates if they choose to file . " Cites Provision of Law However , Jerry D. Br ando n , long time friend of the general and president of the Eisenhower for President organization of Illinois , announced the group does not want the general on the ballot here . " We have been advised that any attempt to plats Eisenhower 's name on the preferential primary ballot would be contested , " Brandon said . " The Illinois law , which reads ' Any candidate for President of the United States may have his name printed on the primary ballot ' would seem to require the initiative of the candidate . " Regardless of the legal merit of any contest , we do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as conflicting with Gen. Eisenhower 's statement that he will not actively seek the nomination . " Favors Use of Petitions Brandon added that " the call to Gen. Eisenhower to accept a higher duty " can be expressed effectively by unofficial petitions . He said the circulation of petitions will be continued until " the response will convince Eisenhower that the great majority of the voters of Illinois want him as their candidate . " Stassen petitions to put his name on the ballot - are going the rounds in line with his statement that he wants to make Illinois a testing ground on foreign policy , Warren has indicated no intention to challenge Taft forces in Illinois . In 1940 , President Roosevelt was placed on the primary ballot without ? a signature of candidacy . Point to 1931 . Ruling Don Butler , chief clerk for Secretary of State Edward J. Barrett in Springfield , said that Atty . CM . Oscar Carlstrom ruled in 1931 that consent of a candidate was not needed for entry in the Presidential primary . Evidence that the Eisenhower promotion is being handled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ P. continued to accutnulate . Hugh Scott of Pennsylvania , who was named Republican national chairman at Dewey 's r e - quest during the New Yorker 's second disastrous campaign in 1948 , visited Eisenhower offices at 332 S. Michigan ay . Scott predicted Eisenhower will return to this country before April 2 . He said the general will be able to get about half of Indiana 's 32 delegates . Decatur Man Pushes Ike Ben Shaft er of Decatur , a former Staascnite , is handling Young Republican activities for Eisenhower in Jilinols . Shafter forces were routed at the Young Republican 's state convention last spring . He had completed a term as state president and withdrew his candidacy for Young Republican national committeeman at the convention . Prominent citizens continued to : Indorse the Taft candidacy . Lloyd C. Partridge , president of Partridge and Anderson , advertising electrotypers , said : " I consider Taft head and shoulders abc " e any other man who has entered the Republican Presidential nomination field so far . He is the one person we need . Labor approved of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now of the Taft-Hartley law . If the Republicans overlook a man of Taf t 's qualities , they will be making a grave mistake . " " 1,000 Pet . for Taft " Bruce L. Simpson , president of the National Engineering company , makers of foundry machinery : " I am 1,000 per cent for Taft . I think this time the G. 0 . P. should go down the line on principles such as Taft stands for . Let 's not have any more ' me too ' or compromises to win . " First place in the G. 0 . P. column on the April 8 ballot went yesterday to Riley A. Bender , a quadrennial aspirant for the Presidential nomination without organized support . Bender is manager of a small south side Hotel . In 1948 he was the only candidate ffied in Illinois .                     