@@714030

txt Secretary Marshall 's explanation of " minimum terms " was timed deliberately to make it clear to the Communists that while " withdrawal of foreign troops " could not be part of an armistice agenda , the subject should be discussed at the " proper time " and " should pose no problem if the Communists are sincere in wanting to work out a real settlement of the conflict . " This was to counter the impression that the Communists , it was felt here , might have received from a blunt warning last week by Secretary of State Dean Acheson that " withdrawal of foreign troops " was definitely and positively out as a subject of immediate discussion . - While Secretary Marshall did not contradict his colleague on this point , he did imply that while that particular subject must be taboo at any armistice talks , it could be taken up soon after an armistice was arranged . Other points that Secretary Marshall made , in amplifying America 's position on a Korean truce : I. The present military line across the Korean peninsula @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the basis of any cease-fine agreement . The secretary de-find any acceptable military line as one " which will be defensible in the event of any renewal of hostilities , " a phrase , which later was interpreted by informed quarters asp meaning approximately the present military line . Build-Up Reported 2 . There must be an agreement not to reinforce the troops now in Korea . All during the negotiations at Kaesong there have been reports of a steady build-up of Communist forces  --  a development that UN officers feel is ominous . 3 . There must be provision for " adequate supervision and actual inspection " by representatives of both sides " to insure against any preparations for a surprise attack and as continuing evidence of good faith . " While it is understood the Communists have accepted the theory of inspection as basic to any armistice , there is a gcod deal of concern in Washington quarters over their willingness to accept what it is felt here would be minimum inspection requirements  --  when the time comes to spell them out . 4 . There must be an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Move Secretary Marshall , in stressing the fact that there should be no problem about withdrawal of foreign troops at any peace settlement following a cease-fire arrangement , was known to be trying to , take some of the sting out of Secretary Acheson 's earlier emphatic declaration that the withdrawal issue was not discussable at any armistice talks . It was thought here that the firm language used by the Secretary of State might have convinced the Communists the United States was opposed to any foreign troop withdrawal in the foreseeable future . Rather , Secretary Marshall said , while the subject was not a suitable one for negotiations on a battlefield , it could be taken up " on the highest government level " following an agreed cease fire . Said the Defense Secretary : " The long-range objectives of the UN in Korea is the creation of conditions that will ultimately make possible a Korea that is unified , master of its own destiny , and free of interference from any outside force . Meanwhile , the continuing presence and readiness of the UN forces in Korea constitute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ renewed aggression if the peace talks should break down . "                     