@@720183

txt President Eisenhower told Con ! gress here in his annual ecoinomic report that " there is reason for confidence that the improvement in business activity which began in the second quarter of last year will be extended into the months ahead . " Mr. Eisenhower gave five rea-r sons for optimism : A current in- ? crease in business outlays on capital expansion ; rising residential construction ; increasing international trade ; rising federal , state , and local expenditures ; and a prospective switch by business from liquidating inventories to accumulating inventories . The President spelled out in detail ' the assumption of better business and consequent higher tax revenues upon which he postulated his hope of a balanced budget Jan. 19 . Economic Program He simultaneously offered what he called " a program for economic growth with stable I prices , " with 30 specific recommendations . " An indispensable condition for achieving vigorous and continuing economic growth , " the President said , " is firm confidence that the value of the dollar will be reasonably stable in the years ahead . " Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organized labor in fighting inflation by joint efforts . He appeared to give more than usual emphasis to the trade unions . He declared flatly of labor 's responsibility : " Increases in money wages and other compensation not justified by the productivity performance of the economy are inevitably inflationary . " They impose severe hardships on those whose incomes are not enlarged . " They jeopardize the capacity of the economy to create jobs for the expanding labor force . " They endanger present jobs by limiting markets at home and impairing our capacity to compete in markets abroad . " In short , they are , in the end , self-defeating . " The President 's statement was backed up by the 63-page report of the three-man Council of Economic Advisers , headed by Dr. Raymond J. Saulnier . Two New Commitiee . To keep prices stable , " self-discipline and restraint are essential , " the President continued . " If the desired results can not be achieved under our arrangements for determining wages and prices , the alternatives are either inflation , which would damage our economy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which are alien to our national way of life and which would be an obstacle to the nation 's economic growth and improvement . " The President cited the government 's own role in maintaining level prices . The government 's chief contribution , he declared , is " through the prudent conduct of its own financial affairs , " in which he stressed the balanced budget . President Eisenhower urged Congress specifically to amend the Full Employment Act of 1946 , which now makes maximum production and employment the two basic goals of American economic policy , so as to add a third avowed goal  --  stability of purchasing power . Amplifying the program for price stability , the report of the Council of Economic Advisers announced creation of two new agencies within the government . Statements from a high official indicated that a purpose of these agencies would be to police wage-price agreements and similar developments and perhaps to crack down if the need arose . The two new bodies are : I. " Cabinet Committee on Price Stability for Economic Growth . " This is being established @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private activities affecting costs , prices , and economic growth " with similar uses . 2 . " Committee on Government Activities Affecting Prices and Costs . " As explained at the offices of the economic council this will be an operative body under the Cabinet committee , and Dr. Saulnier himself will probably head the new agency . As an illustration of its scope the committee might , it was explained informally , consider whether the government continue subsidies to support an industry ( air transport , for example ) where excessive wages were paid in certain categories . The committee would be advisory . The language in the official report regarding this new agency is somewhat vague . Its object , it states , will be " to follow the operation of all relevant federal programs . . . and to make recommendations to the appropriate departments or agencies or to the Prestdont for the adruinistia -- lion of these programs in line %vith the objective of reasonable price stability . " Helium Gas Queries It is evident that these new committeesmight have farreaching consequences if they intervened directly in trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ using the club of federal contracts . The council concludes that it handled this recession , on the whole , pretty well . President Eisenhower , in his preliminary six-page statement , agrees with this . Mr. Eisenhower says the government wisely avoided " hasty and disproportionate actions , such as lax reductions . " Dr. Arthur F. Burns , Mr. Eisenhower 's first chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers , who retired in 1957 , publicly recommended a tax cut to meet the 1958 recession . President Eisenhower , how. - ever , says that such steps would " needlessly endanger the prospects of future fiscal balance and prejudice the orderly revision of the tax structure . "                     