@@719866

txt Presidenli Gamal Abdel Nasser has made an urgent secret flight to Moseow and , it is reported , appealed to Premier Nikita . S. Khrushchev not to take any action in the Middle East that would threaten world peace . The head of the United Arab Republic of Egypt and Syria was said by reliable informants to have asked the Soviet leader what help could be expected from the Soviet Union in the event the Western powers attacked the Syrian region or Iraqi where a pro-Nasser revolution has overthrown the monarchy . The Middle East News Agency said President Nasser , who went to Moscow after a visit to President Tito of Yugoslavia , had two meetings yesterday with Mr. Khrushchev that lasted a total of eight hours . Confers in Damascus He was said toiiave left Moscow this morning . He then trayeled to Damascus , Where he went into conference with Ills ministers in the Syrian region , In a speech Friday in Damascus , President Nasser said , according to news agency accounts , that the Arab whole bloc would " fight " to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Nasser was described by informants as having been gravely concerned lest the landing of United States forces in Lebanon and British forces in Jordan might cause a Soviet reaction that would make the Middle East the starting arena for a third world war . He was said to have urged Soviet leaders to take no action unless he or his allies asked for it . The Cairo regime 's concern lest the tense situation explode into a final East-West struggle was voiced yesterday by AR Sabry , acting Foreign Minister and President Nasser 's chief aide , in meetings with the Ambassadors of India , Indonesia and Communist China . U. S. Envoy Sees Cairo Aide Mr. Sabry also saw the United States Ambassador , Raymond A. Hare , at an afternoon meeting and again at an unusual late night session . Although embassy officials would not reveal what had been discussed , Egyptian sources said Mr. Sabry had reiterated his Government 's fears that the United States and Britain might take some action that would invite Soviet intervention , ' either with " volunteers " or with regular forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protest against the Western ae .. tions in Lebanon and Jordan despite the fact that the Cairo press and radio had been reacting in the most violent language . However , Mr. Sabry was Said to have commented that the actions were a " great mistake " that might have dangerous consequences . The general impression here was that the Nasser regime was just as genuinely afraid that Soviet " volunteers " might move into the area uninvited as it was that the Western powers might seek to destroy President Nasser 's Arab nationalist movement . However , if the West attacked Syria ' or Cairo 's new ally , the-revolutionary Iraqi republic , it was felt certain that President Nasser would seek all-out aid from the Soviet ' Union or any other quarter regardless of whether it brought the whole house down around him . Belgrade Reported Surprised Reports from Yugoslavia said the trip to Moscow came as a surprise to Belgrade officials ? as it did to Cairo . President Nasser had boarded his yacht Monday with his family for the trip home . This raised speculation that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moscow . The Middle East News Agency said he had flown from Yugoslavia , The Associated Press reported . There were curious aspects to President Nasser 's hurried Soviet trip . There have been persistent reports that his attitude toward the Soviet Union has cooled considerably in the last two months . His cordial ten-day visit with the Yugoslav Communist leader , who again is under Soviet attack , seemed to corroborate this . Consequently , considerable credence was given to the report that he went to Moscow primarily to urge caution in the Middle East . At least he is maintaining a neutral position between Marshal Tito and the Kremlin , it was thought . The Cairo radio announcement of the Nassar-Khrushchev meeting said only that the two leaders had " discussed the international situation and measures necessary to preserve world peace . " Nasser Due in Cairo " The meeting took place in an atmosphere of complete understanding , " the announcement added . The President was expected back in Cairo tomorrow to prepare for the big celebration Wednesday of the sixth anniversary of the revolution in which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a strong possibility that President Nasser might have an urgent meeting on the Middle Eastern situation with Robert Murphy , President Eisenhower 's personal representative , who made a special trip to Lebanon yesterday . It was noted that the Soviet bloc had hastened to recognize the new regime in Iraq and that the military junta that had seized control there quickly voiced a desire to establish relations with the Soviet Union and Communist China . It was considered possible that the Iraqi republic might seek Soviet military aid if it thought it was needed . Whether President Nasser would have any moderating , influence on the Baghdad regime of Premier Abdul Karim el-Kassem could not be determined .                     