@@719325

txt Municipal administration has become so complex today that often one department does n't know what the other one across the hall is doing . To help remedy this , Mayor Hynes has convened the Second Conference on Municipal Administration , which started yesterday and continues today at the Boston Public Library . The conference is being held in an attempt to inform city personnel and minor department chiefs on the activities of their fellow civil servants and to help them profit by the exchange of information . Based on the successful reception granted to the first conference held last year , it has become an annual event . ! Identification Withheld , Mayor Hynes saved an signifnificant announcement for 3,6sterday 's first session . At a luncheon meeting , he voiced his expectation that two new buildings , previously unannounced , will be erected in Boston . On the latter point , the Mayor withheld identification of the structures but said later that one would be a $7,000,000 , 10-story insurance building to be located in Park Square and The other a $4,000,000 , six-story bank to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ getting new developments in Boston faster than most of the cities in the nation that are supposed to be better off than we are , " the Mayor stated optimistically . Later he added that " cities like people have their high and low periods . No city can live for a century without having its ups and downs . We have been living through a down period . It is up to us to get through our down period and get up there where we belong . " Governor Furcolo , who was introduced at the conference luncheon by Mayor Hynes , said that the " problems of management , whether on the state or local level , have never been so pressing . The problems that have been with us for many years will wait ? no longer for solution . " Citizen Link Urged But the Governor stressed that he did n't subscribe to the school that substitutes " administrative techniques and management formulas for the political process . " " It will not be enough for planners to plan , for administrators to administrate , or for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' In order to more fully utilize the economic , social , and cultural potential of American urban life , it will be necessary at the very least to create a link between the political leader , the technical expert or administrator , and the ultimate sovereign , the citizen . " The first serious effort to do this on the state level , he said , was his Citizens Participation Program . The Governor also warned of the possible isolation of both political leaders and the administrative ' experts on whom they depend . If the point arrives " where they are talking to themselves we shall have committed the ultimate folly , " he said . Automation Aired The Governor was featured speaker at the luncheon , which was held at the Sheraton-Plaza Hotel . During a morning session , city employees who could be spared from their jobs and members of the public convened in the Boston Public Library auditorium to hear about new advances in automation . At the end of the day buses were proVided by the Remington Rand Corporation for a tour of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the afternoon , city record keeping was the topic of a panel of four city department heads . Nobody gave a comparable figure for the city , but John W. Porter , chief of the record-management division for the United States National Archives and Records Service , told the assemblage that the keeping of records cost the federal government $4,000,000,000 a year . Joseph M. Dunlea , assistant city clerk , pointed out that his department has on hand records of Boston town meetings dating back from 1634 to 1822 , as well as the records of aldermanic and City Council meetings to the present . In addition , the department inherited all the records of towns which have been annexed to Boston . Records Microfilmed All of these and other records have been microfilmed and stored in the Boston Public Library , he said . In one category alone  --  the microfilming of 20-year old records of mortages , married women 's certificates , and assignments of wages  --  the amount of storage space was reduced from 750 cubic feet to 32 cubic feet . Jeremiah A. Coakley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the adoption of modern record-keeping methods for HS department , which he said is regulated by statute . For example , he said there is no statewide prescription for the keeping of field assessment records , He also urged the adoption of legislation permitting the microfilming of assessment records . Other speakers were Miss Eleanor M. Merrigan , legal assistant in the Law Department and Miss Gertrude R. Daly , head administrative clerk of the sanatorium division of the Hospital Department . Today 's topic will be " The Boston Tax Rate and Boston 's Urban Renewal Program . "                     