@@715453

txt The executive council of the International Longshoremen 's Association , A. F. L. , repudiated its New York membership today and ordered locals in the Port of New York to abolish the shape-up system of dock hiring in their next contract " on pain of drastic discipline . " Last Friday , in a port-wide referendum , New York and New Jersey members of the racket-ridden union , which is on notice from the American Federation of Labor to clean house or face expulsion , voted 7,020 to 3,920 to keep the shape-up , called the source of most of the evils on the waterfront . Under the shape-up hiring method , workers form a semicircle outside the piers each morning and are selected or rejected for jobs by an all-powerful hiring boss , who frequently also controls other dock rackets . Today 's decision by the I. L. A. 's twenty-one-min executive council was set forth yn unequivocal language . Unanimously , the council , including Joseph P. Ryan , international president who has been indicted on charges of stealing union funds , directed the port @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fall " a clear and explicit system of hiring eliminating the shape-up . " In Washington , Senator Charles W. Tobey , chairman of the Senate Commerce subcommittee that has been investigating the New York waterfront , announced he planned to refer to the Federal Attorney there allegedly conflicting testimony of two witnesses , one of whom was Ryan . The other was Frank Kenney. an " insurgent " longshoreman . By its action , the governing body of the dock union took a long step in the direction of satisfying the A. F. L. 's " clean-houseor-else " ultimatum handed down last Feb. 3 in Miami by the federation 's executive council . At that time the I. L. A. was told to scrap the shape-up , to get rid of officials who had taken employer bribes or appointed former convicts to union posts , to dismiss leaders with criminal records , and to establish democratic practices within the union . The I. L. A. has until tomorrow to report progress on all these points to the American Federation of Labor , whose executive council will meet in Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the federation council are not empowered to oust a union , but they could recommend to the full convention , which convenes in St. Louis next Sept. 21 , that an affiliate be expelled . The principal purpose of the I. L. A. executive council 's meeting here is to draw up the report demanded by the A. F. L. The shape-up was the first item on the agenda , and before the scheduled adjournment of the council tomorrow it is expected that decisions will be made on all other points in the A. F. L. ultimatum . Before today 's decision was announced there was speculation that the I. L. A. council would ask the federation for more time , and , failing to obtain that concession , would demand that the A. F. L. keep out of the affairs of autonomous affiliates . There is still the possibility , of course , that that is just what the union will say in Washington next week . Ryan Group Silent Ryan and his associates on the dock union executive council had nothing to say about the other points in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say publicly on any subject . But the indications were that the union would go a long way to remain in the A. F. L. The present contract between the longshoremen union and the New York Shipping Association expires on Sept. 30 . Negotiations on a new agreement are scheduled to begin Aug. 15 . Thus , the wage committee will have three months in which to work out a new hiring system . The shipping association , reprepenting- 170 dock concerns , has announced its opposition to the shape-up , and its support of an off-the-street hiring hall system . A statement , prepared by Louis Waldman , union counsel , and approved by the executive council , did not mention the vote by the New York membership last week . though at the time Ryan hailed the outcome as clear evidence of the workers ' sentiment . The statement , however , did refer to the action taken in March by the executive council in unanimously ordering locals to abolish the shape-up . Similar action was taken a few weeks later by the New York District Council . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Leaders of the New York locals are still to be heard from on the shape-up . Their opposition to any changecould precipitate a costly port-wide strike                     