@@720705

txt The Air Force , under both Congressional prodding to manage its defense dollars better and an Administration economy drive , plans to-keep a closer watch on contractor costs . As a first step , the Air Force will require more of the companies it does business with to swear their estimated costs are accurate . And military officials plan to focus more attention on making contractors trim overhead costs . Leaders of the Air Force 's shopping program  --  running about $9 billion annually for planes , missiles , and other gear- outlined their plans to contractors here . Executives from over 160 concerns are showing their wares and swapping ideas with military men at the annual convention of the Air Force Association , a civilian group that promotes air power . High-level air officials believe the Congressional cut of one-half of one percent in the Administration 's $41 billion defense spending plan for the fiscal year that began July 1 indicated the lawmakers want improved management of defense funds . " You can help us impiove our position before Congress if you will cooperate , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chief of Staff , Materiel . The General Accounting Office , the fiscal watchdog of Congi ess , has r uled that some contractors received excessive Air Force payments . " Several contractors , " noted Gen. Bradley , " had to refund substantial amounts to the Air Force on the ground the money they had received was not earned " To elinnnate such sore points , the Air Force is asking its contractors to make sure they estimate costs accuiatelv in negotiating vontracts . This is pax ticularly vital in incentive coat/acts , under which a company may estimate its costs and then later get extra profits if it trims the price tag through efficient operations . " It should not be necessary for one partner to require signed certificates attesting to the accuracy and Luiz ency of cost information , " maintained one ranking procurement official . But that 's precisely what the Air Force is doing with an increasingly large number of companies . Soon , in fact , the Au- Force will require a certificate of accuracy from subcontractors that have over $100.000 In contracts and where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how far the se/vice will go to back up the rest of its cost consciousness campaign is not clear . The Administration plans to eliminate less promising weapon programs to cut costs . And officials have given warnings of other problems . Donald R. Jackson , Air Force Deputy Assistant Secretary for Materiel , noted military buying practices " affect , directly or indirectly , a major segment of the nation 's industry . " The tone of these remarks seemed to indicate that if ' companies failed to cooperate in cutting costs the Air Force would have to tighten more of its buying rules . Procurement officials criticized industry for letting overhead costs rise  --  even though production rates of planes and weapons hire dropped . " Why is it that overhead costs are not coming down ? " Gen. Bradley asked " I think the reason is that industry tolerates the overhead . " He warned that companies axe losing by allowing high overhead to continue in hopes that future business will offset the expense . " We have to become accustomed to the thought that production runs are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back to the good old clays . It is therefore unwise to keep overhead in the hope of future business . " Another problem ax ea , the general . added , is the delay in making final letter contracts , which are Air Force orders to move ahead on a pi oject without a full-sale contract " Delays often occur because negotiators are reluctant to disclose information to our auditors and price analysts . As a result . negotiations over price are lengthy and time consuming , " Gen. Bradley insisted . Mr Jackson reported the idea of companies combining into teams was likely to continue " to increase the quality and completeness of projects . " Even as the buying officials warned of cost problems , military air defense leaders maintamed they must begin to perfect ways to combat hostile space craft . The cost will be " astronomical , " declared Col. James M Bothwell , director of plans and requirements for the Air Defense Command . But , he added , spending would be spread over several years . Defense against enemy space craft , the Colonel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manned bombers " To hit it ( a space Vehicle ) as far away as possible will require long range weapons , centrally controlled , " he said . " This means tremendous performance " They might be " high speed " versions of a 5,500-mile intercontinental ballistic missile , he said . The Bomarc anti-aircraft missile is battleready now , Lt. Gen J. H Atkinson disclosed , The first group of the 200 to 250-mile range missile , is understood to be ready for action at Air Force Base , N.3 , and could defend an oleo extending from Boston to Washington . Boeing Airplane Co is pi ime contractor for Bomarc . He is head of the Air Defense Command .                     