@@716975

txt WASHINGTON , April 6 ? The rourteenth . Amendment is the law n Maryland as in the- rest of the Union , but it still lacks the formal approval of the " Free State . " At the legislative session in Annapolis , ' just concluded , ? a proposal that faryland formally approve the amendment , which it declined to do in 1867 , was rejected by the State senate . Henry L. Mencken designated Maryland as the " Free State " in tribute to the open refusal of its citizens to obey the national prohibiti , Sn laws enacted under the Eighteenth Amendment . This latest instance of Maryland independence of mind differs from . the other in that there is no official or mass rebellion against the Fourteenth as now construed by the courts . But specifically Maryland still withholds its approval of a section of the Constitution which has a shady past . That is because the ratifying votes of ten Southern ' states , particularly those of North Carolina and South Carolina which provided the final units of the three-fourths required , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of occupation in the post-bellum South , and from the Reconstruction Legislatures put in office by tile federal military power : New Jersey and New York , though vainly , tried to withdraw their approvals of the Fourteenth Amendment after giving them . Maryland , with Kentucky and California , also withheld approval . And Delaware , which rejected the amendment in 1867 , did not accept . it until 1901 . The Annapolis Effort At the recent session of the Maryland Legislature , State Senator Harry A. Cole of Baltimore offered a resolution to put Maryland on the historic record as favoring the intent and purposes of the amendment . On a voice vote in the Senate Judicial Proceedings Committee the resolution was rejected and reported unfavorably on the floor . There Cole successfully moved to substitute his resolution for the unfavorable report . But on final passage it got only thirteen of the fifteen votes which are the required constitutional majority , and twelve ' Senators voted " no . " There was no floor debate . And in the committee the reason advanced for reporting the resolution unfavorably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amendment was already the law in Maryland . But , though unvoiced , the old opposition on the old , ground figured in the action . The Supreme Court has been of two minds about the intent and effects of the Fourteenth Amendment . Its most recent expression was made through Chief Justice Warren in the school segregation cases . For a unanimous court he held that the " equal protection " clause of the amendment was denied by racial segregation in the public schools of the states , But this clause , and the clause forbidding the abridgment of the privileges and immunities of any " citizen of the United States , " were not always construed so liberally , or on the sociological thesis advanced by Chief Justice Warren . Judicial Merry-Go-Round In 1873 the Supreme Court upheld a Louisiana law which was attacked on the plea that the Fourteenth Amendment placed all civil rights under federal protection . The state had given to one firm the privilege of operating slaughter houses and banned all others . This was . upheld in the state courts as a. legitimate exercise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Justice Miller held for Louisiana . He also advanced the principle of " dual citizenship " ? federal and state . He decreed that the reference to " privileges and immunities " in the amendment , though it admitted Negroes to citizenship , with all its rights and privileges , meant only those conferred by the Constitution , ' laws and treaties of the United States , not the " fundamental rights " which adhered exclusively to state citizenship . There were four dissents to this reasoning and conclusion , and later the Supreme Court rejected both . But in 1875 the tribunal decided that the amendment did not confer the right of suffrage on women , though no sex discrimination was made in its definitions of " citizens , " A constitutional amendment , much later , was required to give females equal suffrage privileges with males . And the use of the word " person " 1 instead of " citizen " in the guarantee against deprivation of " property without due process of law " was. , long contended , with Supreme Court assent , to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amendment to include corporations as persons . The changing and broadening interpretations of the Fourteenth make it , in Maryland and elsewhere in the United States , the law which the Supreme Court successively says it is . Ana , despite the cloud on its title , the amendment is as firmly in the Constitution as any other . But ' with Maryland 's formal approval ? Not in ' 1867 . And not in 1955 . It should be noted , however , that the Fourteenth made mincemeat of the Dred Scott decision . And in 1954 the Supreme Couri agreed with the dissenters of 1873 as to its guiding principle .                     