@@720046

txt King Hussein charged today that the aircraft in which he was flying to a European vacation had been attacked over Syria by two MIG fighters of the United Arab Republic. , The jet craft made six attacks irran effort to force his plane down , the King said , The royal plane flew back to Amman , : pursued by the fighters , and King Hussein returned to the palace he had left a few hours earlier . In a broadcast to the nation after a special meeting ' with members of his Government and army chiefs , the King said it was clear the United Arab Republic 's planes had had aggressive intentions . He declared that all necessary measures would be taken to reply to the attack . Israeli reports of the . King 's address , . as monitored in Jerusalem , said the jet fighters swooped . down on the royal plane six times , " each time opening Tire . " Reports from , other sources did not bear out this translation of his statement , The United Arab Republic denied that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said an air patrol had escorted an unidentified plane back to the Jordanian border after the pilot refused to give identification or land at Damascus airport It was 8:20 A. M. when the King 's twin-engine De Havilland Dove . transport plane left Amman ; The plane was piloted by a Briton , Wing Comdr . John Dalgleish , who is an instructor for the Jordanian Air Force . The King 's uncle , Sherif Naser , was also aboard . The route lay across Syria , which forms the Northern Region of President Gamal Abdel Nasser 's United Arab Republic , to , Cy-prus , Five hours later the King was teling his people the cirsumstances of his return . He said that when his plane reached the border , the pilot notified the Damascus Airport of his intention to fly across Syria and was told that he might proceed . However , when the plane was fifteen miles from Damascus Airport , the Damascus air control said the plane could not cross Syria and would have to land at the capital , the King declared . The pilot decided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on . After his plane turned back , the King said , two Syrian MIG fighters intercepted it and made six diving attacks " with aggressive intention . " The royal aircraft managed to reach Jordanian territory , but was pursued far across the border by the jet fighters , Hussein asserted . He explained that he had decided to cancel his vacation because of the incident . The Jordanian Government will take " the necessary measures " to reply to the aggressive act , he declared . After the Kings ' speech , army units went out of their camps into the streets of the capital , firing shots into the air and shouting such slogans as " Long live King Hussein ! " and " Hussein , we are your men . " Thousands of them , accompanied by hundreds of civilians , walkeo to the Royal Palace and shouted their loyalty to the King . He appeared on a balcony and thanked the crowd . Abdul Monem Rifai , Director of National Guidance , said at a news conference that from the pilot 's report it was obvious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plane and that only skillfull evasive action had enabled it to reach safety . Mr. Rifai said the King had been piloting the royal plane until it reached the Syrian border , when he changed with Wing Commander Dalgleish , Mr. Rifai stressed that the incident could only be considered an " act of aggression " against Jordan in the person of her King . He said the United Nations had been informed of the incident through Pier Spinelli , its representative in Amman . The Jordanian Cabinet was in session until this evening . The United states charge d'affairs , Thomas Wright , joined the meeting for an hour . Parliament is to meet tomorrow morning to discuss the in  --  H cident.                     