@@717630

txt The Republican leadership in the Senate moved today to unify all wings of the party there and toil bring , all Republican Senators into closer association with the White House . The Senate Republican Policy Committee unanimously voted to invite every Republican Senator to its weekly sessions . Those meetings will follow immediately the regular weekly conferences of Congressional leaders with PresiderfE Eisenhower . This move could serve to , cushion the Republican shock and immediate loss of a sense of direction that would follow any announcement by President Eisenhower that he was not running again . Some Senators , while saying this would be the effect , declared , however , this point had not been discussed in the deliberations leading to the policy committee 's decision . The group 's action to strengthen partisan liaison , both between faction and faction within the Senate and between all factions and the White House , followed a morning consultation with President Eisenhower by Congressional leaders . Early Action Is Sought This consultation illustrated Republican determination to obtain of the Democratic Congress the earliest possible action on economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan . The leaders , headed by Senator William F. Knowland of California and Representative Joseph W. Martin Jr . of Massachusetts , reported that they had told the President that his general legislative message and his special farm relief message had been " well received " in Congress . Senator Knowland returned to the Capitol to participate in the policy committee 's decision to bring all forty-seven Republican Senators in to lunch hereafter to hear a first-hand ' summary of such White House conversations . The policy committee 's present membership is twenty-three . While those %Senators generally regarded as " Eisenhower men " are in a majority , the committee 's top control has been in the hands of orthodox Republicans who have not been especially close to the Administration , The chairman , Senator Styles Bridges of New Hampshire , it in this category and so is the committee 's next most powerful member , Senator Knowland , the Republican Senate floor leader . Announcing what the policy committee . had done , Senator Bridges said the initiative in making the change had been his own . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .. ction of suggesting general partisan policy lines would not be diluted by the change and that only the present committee members would vote on policy recommendations . Nevertheless , he said , the pur- pose was to give to all Republican Senators the fullest and most direct report possible of what had been said at the White House each week . " Some members , " he observed , " have felt that they have not been as fully informed in the past as they should have been . " What we are trying to do is to develop a closer working relationship between all Republican Senators and to try to find more common ground between them . " Some of the all-out pro-Eisenhower Senators had been complaining in private for some time that those Senate Republicans who regularly see the President have never been as wholly in sympathy with his Administration as some of the rank and file . The new arrangement will give these pro-Eisenhower Senators fuller , quicker and more official information on Presidential wishes and plans than they have had heretofore . Bridges Still in Control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the policy committee , however and , according to members of the pro-Eisenhower group , could not have been accomplished without Mr. Bridges ' cooperation . So far as could be learned the White House itself had no hand in the change . Senator Bridges said , however , that the President had been aware in a general way that there was " going to be an effort to get an arrangement for working more closely together . " Apart from putting all possible pressure behind the Administration 's farm plan , the policy committee informally agreed , Mr. Bridges reported , that early action was needed on bills to aid economically distressed areas and for public school construction . The President will outline his school aid program in a specie message to Congress to be sent up Thursday .                     