@@713295

txt Letters to The Times ANDREW W. MULRAIN , SAMUEL GUY INMAN.WINTHROP H. KELLOGG . Letters to The Times Sanitation Problems Difficulties Inherent in Cleaning New York Are Discussed TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial of Oct. 11 " The Man Who Is n't ' There " invites- constructive comments on existing problems of street cleanliness and steps I have taken and am taking kto improve conditions . The reputedly European cleaner cities are not confronted with our problems , traffic and parking obstacles , our quantities of waste and litter , public apathy and thoughtlessness . Most of our highly littered streets have abnormal traffic and parking , preventing fast , efficient , mechanical sweeping and requiring tedious , backbreaking manual removal of dirt and litter under and between parked cars ; and . highly concentrated transient or residential populations which promote littering . These conditions pose fundamental questions : Is street cleanliness of greater importance than free flow of traffic and encouragement of trade ? Should street cleanliness depend in part on enforced cooperation of the public or should it be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? The answer to your inquiry " Where Is the White Wing ? " is in my report of Dec. 30 , 1949 , to the Mayor : " The major improvements in both waste collections and street cleaning can be obtained now by greater frequencies in these services . Until improved techniques in these two items are developed the increased frequencies can largely be obtained only through the application of additional personnel . I am , therefore , requesting authorization to employ an additional 2,800 men until such time as the present engineering studies are completed and the resulting findings published and put into effect . " I received a sympathetic hearing , but , because of budgetary restrictions , only a token added force , soon eliminated by normal retirements and deaths . Report Quoted You quoted Dr. Luther Gulick . Let me quote from a report dated Sept. 5 , prepared by engineering consultants chosen by him , titled " Exploratory Study of the Department - of Sanitation for Mayor 's Committee on Management Survey of the City of New York " : " The department readily admits that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deserve- the criticism directed at their lack of cleanliness . On the other hand , it should be pointed out that the character and density of the population in these areas which has a dim view of its own responsibilities in the matter , interpose an insuperable barrier to any immediate and enduring improvement in the situation . The cost of maintaining the desired degree of cleanliness in these areas , in equipment and manpower , could be too excessive for consideration , at least for the present time . " Your own editorials recently correctly appraised our problems . On June 15 pm stated in part : " It is perfectly plain that one Sanitation man can not successfully pick up after 1,000 people ( besides collecting their garbage and hauling it away ) , if these people are not going to police their own conduct . " Your editorial , April 26 , " The City Budget Grows , " reads in part : " The parked automobile on New York 's streets constitutes a tremendous obstacle to efficient cleaning and to the use of power equipment . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the public is still another . " Now , what are we doing about it ? Much study and many analyses and tests of improved techniques and better management have been undertaken , some completed and implemented , others unfinished . The Department of Sanitation is " big business " of many complexities and variables . These make ready and quick solutions difficult . ? The consultant 's report states our present management techniques are generally in accord with modern business practices , with certain exceptions . Projects Instituted Our continuing search for improved operational methods and greater use of mechanized units is demonstrated by these representative items : ( a ) Restricted Parking  --  After conferences with other city agencies , there was installed in a Manhattan East Side area an alternate-day , one-curb parking system . This system , in use nearly three months , frees one side of the street of parked cars , permits a rapid mechanical sweeping , and has produced much cleaner streets , with appreciable saving in labor . We plan to extend this restricted parking system in the near future . Subsequently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( b ) Litter Baskets  --  To facilitate public cooperation in confining litter , wire baskets were distributed to the saturation point in suitable areas and with very good results . ( q ) Equipment  --  Continuous improvements are being made in the several types of equipment used by the department , all toward better performance and less cost . To illustrate , we have purchased compaction-type wastecollection trucks with easier loading facilities and greater net carrying capacities . Vacuum leaf loaders , improved power sweeping brooms , new types of waste-hauling equipment , and highly mobile , small vacuum brooms have been ' purchased or are being developed with several equipment manufacturers . I hope this letter will better acquaint your readers with the difficulties confronting . us in our continuous search for improving our services and thereby place them in a better position to judge " whether the Sanitation Department is under-mechanized or over-mechanized , or under-manned or just badly managed . " I hope it will also answer your whimsical comment , " All we know is that the man with the broom has n't been there . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NEW YORK TIMES : You are to be congratulated for the excellent reports by your correspondent Milton Bracker on the elections in Brazil . The campaign has been a hot one , embracing all the problems faced by that country and the world at large II  --  the balance of state intervention and private initiative in government , ways of controlling inflation , raising the standard of living of the people , how to deal with local Communists , influ : - ence of religion in politics , etc . The elections have been free and open and a splendid illustration of the progress of democracy in Brazil , which , with 50,000,000 people , is the largest Latin country in the world . As the slow count is published day by day it seems sure that former President Getulio Vargas has been overwhelmingly elected . It would be most unfortunate , because the press of this country usually refers to the newly elected President as " Dictator Vargas " and quotes his criticisms of the United States , if our public should get the impression that democracy and the Good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I believe , is not i the case , not only from my own knowl-edge of Brazil but also from conversations with some Brazilians in attend ' ance.at the Inter-American Press Conference now meeting in New York , The real reason for such an overwhelming popular support of Senhor Vargas is the feeling that the Republic must have a more vigorous program than either the Government or the other candidates would provide . There is no fear , that dictatorial policies introduced during the terrific threat of the Nazis in the early Nineteen Forties will or could be reintroduced today . On the other hand , an awakened Brazil  --  abandoning the old coffee economy for a new industrialization and multiple-crop economy , with a great building and educational program , with new forces represented by organized labor and a commercial middle class  --  demands the kind of leadership that Vargas showed during the fifteen years of the New State from 1931 to 1946 . He then brought the quasi-independent Brazilian states into a real Federal Union , reformed education , introduced social security and labor legislation and vigorously promoted an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the totalitarian enemies of democracy . But he did finally throw in his lot and that of Brazil with the democracies , and turned over a great section of the Brazilian Hump , 1,700 miles from Dakar , Africa , to the United States for building one of the world 's greatest airfields , which made possible the first real attack on Hitler 's forces in North Africa and Europe . We need have no fear that Brazil 's traditional friendship with the United States , which has lasted a century and more , will suffer under the new-old President . He will not , of course , be a " yes man . " This we ought to cease expecting from any of our Latin-Ameri- 4 can neighbors . They are better friends of ours when they are primarily interested in their own progress . We may expect that the new President will , like the old one , be a consummate politician , playing both ends against the middle ( he being the middle ) ; that he will continue Brazil , as she has always been , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the United Nations . Samuel , Guy INMAN . Bronxville , N. Y. , Oct. 10. 1950 . Increased Milk Price Queried To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : ? When I received my milk bill for September there was appended to it a notice reading : " The price of milk has been increased one cent per quart . This is due to a general increase by the Market Administrator . " From my reading of the newspapers I gather that the increase in the price of milk granted the farmers does not justify the increase in the cost to the consumer , and it would seem that the uniform decision of the big milk companies to increase the price to the consumer is some evidence of concerted movement and that the State 's Attorney General should take some action . How effective and beneficial antitrust action may be is a matter as to which we may indeed be skeptical , for , as far as I- can learn , the anti-trust court decrees of which we read from time to time have not been followed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or ineffective action ? WINTHROP H. KELLOGG . Orient , N. Y. , Oct. 6 , 1950.                     