@@716803

txt Congress 's part in the Forrno- sa affair at this stage of proceedings is like that of the Greek chorus in a drama . It is called upon to strengthen and echo what President Eisenhower has said . Its approval of what he has done is taken for granted from the start . Its job is to underline the action and put emphasis on the words uttered by President Eisenhower for the benefit of the Asian principal , . The atithonty which Mr. Eisenhow Cr impliedly asks from Congress the President already has . Congress is going to say it agrees with the President  --  agrees with him heartily  --  and thereby show to the world that the United States is a united nation at a moment of crisis The House took up the defence plan for Formosa today under a rush schedule with a thiee-hour debate limit and a bar against amendments . The Rules Committee , which controls the order of business in the house , put the hum - up label on the measure shortly after the House Foreign Affairs Committee issued a report saying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approval , according to the Associated Press The role of Congress may become more active later . Already . Indeed , in its job of consent and approval it is asserting a strong gravitational pull . President Eisenhower , in searching for a peaceful path in China , must find a formula , if he can , that will get a measure of favorable response from President Chiang , the Chinese Nationalist leader ; from Chou En-lat , the Chinese Communist Premier , and from Senator William F. Knowland ( F ) of California . the powerful advocate of stronger action in Asia in the Senate . Walks Tightrope Mr. Eisenhower has to watcn his step . A high spokesman in the White House said specifically that the President did not deliver his message to Congress in peison because it might have been interpreted as too solemn a gesture , such as one asking for a declaration of war . There is little doubt that inflammatory elements in Congress might still easily take inc . Mr. Eisenhower 's difficulty in Congress is less that he will not get enough support than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asia firsters " seem willing to follow Mr. Eisenhower s leadership  --  at least for inc time being . He has a difficult and subtle task . for tt hat his proposal seems to amount to is a with-d ra tt al in some part from previously taken American positions and a preliminary recognition of a " two Chinas " policy e .. that General Chiang is not likely soon to reconquer continental China . This is in striking contrast to the administration 's position two years ago on taking office , Less Left to Guess Congress may be exerting its gra , . national pull early in the game . This is particularly true in regard to one part of the Eisenhower message which seems purposely ambiguous . This is the part setting out the line of defense the United States will maintain . Does this include the Quemoys and the Matsus ? Spokesmen here say in one breath their object is to clarify matters and not to repeat an uncertainty which they argue helped precipitate the Korean war . But in the next breath they declare they wish to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These comments are not contradictory , since Mr. Eisenhower has gone a long way in dant:sing the over-all situation . But it is pointed out that Senator Knots land had breakfast at the White House Jan 21 , He has warmly approved the Eisenhower message . It is thought here that he would not have approved if the Quemoys and Matsus had been specifically and distinctly ruled out from the defense line . Mr. Eisenhower has set a precedent for other American Presidents in going to Congrefs with the Formosa problem . Some future Presidents may rue his act . The quiet duel for power between executive and legislature has gone on for a century and a half and is part of the process of American government . In recent years . observers have complained of " encroachments , " as they term it , of Congress on presidential authority . The advantages and disadvantages of the President 's step are being weighed here . Mr. Easehbower 's act dramatized the situation . It made it possible to express the unity of the nation . The action is in marked contrast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That developed more swiftly and Mr. Truman acted without formally consulting Congress . He was never forgiven for this by the late Senator Robert A Taft ( 11 ) of Ohio , who called the Korean war " Unconstitutional . " This view found its way into the 1952 GOP platform , which declared : " We charge that they ( the Truman administration ) have plunged us into war with Korea without the consent of our citizens through their authorized representatives in Congress and have carried on that war without a will to victory . " Related Story : Page 13.                     