@@714762

txt Union leaders representing striking drivers and mechanics of the Eastern Massachusetts Street Railway Company have requested their international to expel the Lowell , Mass. , local , where men still are oberatinz busses . At the same time , men from the Taunton local who yesterday drove several busses were back on strike today , though rumors persisted of back-to-work movements there and in Fall River . Expulsion of the Lowell local , explained Norman R. Branden , president of the Lynn local and chairman of the general conference of Eastern Massachusetts employee locals , will leave the Lowell men free to continue driving , but without the nationwide international as a bargaining agent for them . The men , Mr. Branden said , failed to cease operations by a deadline set by the union yesterday . Taunton Issue Local Action by Taunton members yesterday , Mr. Branden said , will be a problem for the local union there to handle . Meanwhile , the conference , now meeting with representatives from 10 locals since Lowell men returned to work , is being held today in Boston @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strike . Lowell drivers , the company said today , will receive pay on the basis of the company 's best offer to the strikers , which includes a 15-cent-an-hour pay boost , retroactive to Jan. 1 . This may not be made at the first pay period next week , however , since the company 's clerical staff has been reduced during the stoppage , said Thomas E. Wilkinson , assistant general manager of the company . Employment , he explained , will continue under the former contract , with the addition of the 15-cent boost . Strikers Aided by Union Strikers , meanwhile , as members of the Amalgamated Association of Street , Electric Railway &; Motor Coach Employees , AFL , continue to receive the support of the international from its Detroit headquarters , and are sent $15 weekly toward their expenses . Union members have been seeking a funded pension , and currently ask that the company submit questions of wages and the pension to arbitration . The company , in reply , has contended that it can not afford to pay more than its 15-cent offer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ backto-work moves led to operation of busses in both Taunton and Fall River for a few hours , but men were recalled by their local union leaders . Yesterday 's operation in Taun , ton , however , was not as a result of a vote of the local , Mr. Branden said , but a voluntary move by fewer than 10 men , acting on their own initiative .                     