@@717336

txt BULGANIN REJECTS PRISONERS ISSUE IN GERMAN TALKS Says Only ' War Criminals ' Are Held  --  Adenauer and Russians Alike ' Tough ' Excerpts from the remarks by lECtayezervbe , Page 2O89 CLIFTON DANTIEL Special to The New ' York Times . MOSCOW , ' Sept. 10 ? There was tough talk today across the table where Soviet and West German representatives are negotiating in Moscow . With characteristic candor , Nikita S. Khrushchev , Communist party chief , told Dr. Konrad Adenauer , West German Chancellor , that if the Bonn Government did not think the time was ripe to establish relations with Moscow it could wait . Premier Nikolai A. Bulganin informed the West Germans that if the question of German prisoners in the Soviet Union was to be discussed , representatives of the East German Communist regime should be invited to participate . As the West German Government was not willing to sit at the same table with the East German leaders , Marshal Bulganin added with an air of finality , " there really is no point " in discussing the question of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meanwhile , denied that any German prisoners of war were left on Soviet territory . There were only " war criminals , " numbering 9,626 , he said , and the Soviet people could not understand why they were considered in West Germany to be innocent martyrs . Adenauer Retorts While conceding that Nazi troops had perpetrated " heinous crimes " in the Soviet Union , Dr. Adenauer retorted that Soviet troops upon entering Germany had also committed " certain acts . " That accusation roused Mr. Khrushchev , who said , " That I categorically deny . " Those remarks and a number of others that were equally meat-axe blunt , brought to an , end the general exchange of views between the two delegations that started yesterday . At the end of today 's threeand-one-half-hour session , the two foreign ministers , Vyacheslav M. Molotov and Dr. Heinrich von Brentano , were instructed to prepare " concrete proposals with regard to the exchange of opinions that has taken place , " a joint communique said . It was not stated when the next meeting would be or who would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The second day of debate apparently narrowed even more the ' area of possible agreements between the two sides . Premier Bulganin had already made it clear yesterday that the Soviet Government was not ready // to proceed with reunification of Germany , as D. Ardenauer had ' requested . Today he seemed to ' be disposing of the prisoners ' issue . Those were the two main ' problems raised by the West German delegation . What was left tonight was the question of establishing diplomatic trade and cultural relations  --  the only question that the Soviet Government ever wanted to discuss here . As for trade Prof. Walter Hallstein , State Secretary of the West German Foreign Ministry , suggested today that this conference was not the appropriate place to conclude a commercial agreement . He said that trade relations had so long been broken between the Soviet Union and West Germany that insufficient information was available about the levels of production . and availability of goods . It seemed to be understood at the end of today 's session that more concrete and detailed discussions on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that economic relations coula be useful for both Adenauer Wish Gratified Today 's animated exchange certainly gratified Dr. Aden ? auer 's wish , expressed yesterday at the opening session , that discussions should be absolutely frank . Rarely since the war has there been so forthright an exchange at any international conference . The results of the negotiations so far " would be disappointing if we had had any expectations , " one German commented , ' " but we had none . " In any cape , " he added , " an open exchange of disagreements is something . Nobody beat ' around the bush . " The sharpest disappointment ' of the day for the Qermans was the seeming refusal of Soviet ' authorities to consider releasing German prisoners under present circumstances . The Germans had counted on winning , the liberation of the prisoners . However . one authoritative source de- ! eared that public opinion in , West Germany would understand Dr. Adenauer 's failure and back him to the hilt . Replying today to Dr. Adenauer 's speech of yesterday , Marshal Bulganin set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good relations with ' the East German Government . gThat if the West German delegation was trying to approach the Soviet Union from " a position of strength , " nego tiations were pointless . gThat the only German prisoners still held in the Soviet Union were criminals convicted . of , crimes against the Soviet people . E.:That release of the prisoners could be considered only with ? the participation of the East Germans . 9That the Soviet Union favored reunification of Germany . but considered West Germany 's membership in the North Atlantic Alliance an obstacle to unifies tion . Premier Asks Reply The Soviet Premier concluded by asking for the West German Government 's reply to the Soviet proposal for establishment of relations , His attitude seemed to say he was not interested in discussing much else . Dr. Adenauer , who was chairman of the session , exercised his prerogative to make a few comments . He acknowledged that the German assault on the Soviet Union in World War II had imposed great sacrifices and privations on the Soviet people . But he asked the Soviet negotiators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were equally disgusted by the atrocities of Hitler 's armies . It was in that connection that he mentioned " certain acts " by Soviet forces in Germany . As for negotiating for " a position of strength , " Dr. Adenauer said , no one in West Germany would think of approaching such a great and mighty power as the Soviet-Union with that attitude . He explained the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and Western European union were created not to intimidate the Soviet Union but were required by the general situation in Europe and the world .                     