@@720927

txt In a sensational move , the Federal Trade Commission has launched an official crackdown on payola  --  a form of bribery which has flourished in the radio and television industry . Nine companies , including the Radio Corporation of America , have been charged with payoffs to disc jockeys to push specific recordings . The FTC has filed complaints against three record manufacturers and nine independent distributors . This represents the first specific move by the government to force exposure and outlaw corrupt practices which have apparently marred this branch of the entertainment industry . Other manufacturers against whom the FTC has filed complaints are : London Records . Inc. , New York , and Bernard Lowe Enterprises , Inc . Finger Pointed Independent distributors at which the FTC has pointed an official finger include : Edward S. Barsky , Inc. ; Chips Distributing Company , Inc. ; David Rosen , Inc. ; Universal Record Distributing Corporation ; Sparks Music Distributors , all of Philadelphia ; and Main Line Cleveland , Inc. , of Cleveland . Each of the companies is charged with having participated in some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money or other valuable consideration to disc jockeys to " expose " records in which the companies have had a financial interest . That is , for such consideration jockeys are expected to play these recordings repeatedly  --  the purpose being of course to gain public interest and increase sales . Both the FTC and the Federal Communications Commission have responsibilities in this field . ' FTC , FCC Criticized The FTC is charged under the law with preventing " unfair methods of competition in commerce , and unfair or deceptive acts or practices in commerce . " - It is under this directive that the FTC is moving against the nine companies  --  on the ground that payola represents a deception ' and a disguised attempt to mislead the public . The FCC is also boring in on the industry under its statutory responsibility to see that radio and television stations are operated in the public interest . There is considerable criticism of both of these regulatory agencies in delaying this crackdown on unethical practices in the industry until forced into action by an aroused public opinion . The FCC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for reports from all broadcasting stations . It is also opening its own investigation on Dec. 7 into " offensive " broad casting practices , including questionable commercials . Public disgust with certain types of commercials on both radio and television  --  but particularly the latter  --  has been increasing . Vow everything appears to be exploding at once , with a sudden focus on the industry from all directions . The industry itself is in a frenzy of self-analysis  --  eager to institute its own reforms before reforms are imposed upon it by the government . The National Association of Broadcasters has just completed an overhaul of its television code , with especial restrictions on quiz shows , payola , and deceptive advertising . The association represents about half of the nation 's TV and radio sta ! mns . The association rules that quiz shows from now on " must in fact be genuine contests , and the results must not be controlled by collusion with or between contestants or any other action which will favor one contestant over any other " The new code urges broadcasters to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the association 's revised code states that advertising presentation " must not by copy or demonstration involve a material deception as to the characteristics , performance , or appearance of the product . "                     