@@713202

txt Red China today asked the United Nations security council to condemn the United States as a " criminal aggressor " against Formosa and to order the immediate withdrawal of all American forces Chou-En-13d from the island stronghold of the Chinese nationalists . The Chinese communist communication is expected to be exploited by Jacob Malik , Russian president of the security council for August , in a new propaganda broadside against the United States at a meeting of the council tomorrow afternoon . Signed by Chou En-lai , foreign minister of Russia 's Chinese puppet regime , the complaint against the United States was sent to Trygve Lie , U. N. secretary general , and to Malik as president of the security council . Lie and Malik also received a complaint , in Russian , from the soviet union 's Outer Mongolian puppet regime , accusing the United States of aggression against both Korea and Formosa . No Signs of Invasion Chou En-lai 's communication said the people of China are - determined to liberate from the tentacles of the United States aggressors Taiwan Formosa and all other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sources in Formosa say there are no signs of an imminent invasion attempt by the Chinese Communists , altho the Reds are building air fields on the Fukien and Chekiang coasts and are continu ' . ing to assemble shipping . Nationalist sources say the monsoon season has begun and that the weather will not be favorable for an invasion attempt before next February , but they admit that adverse weather would hamper air operations by the defense forces . Chou En-lai 's telegram referred to President Truman 's announcement on June 27 that the United States would protect Formosa . " Meanwhile , " the telegram said . the Unittd States 7th fleet moved towards the straits of Taiwan , followed by the arrival of contingents of ? he United . States air force , in an open encroachment of the territory of the people 's re , public of China . Called " Direct Aggression " " This action on the part of the United States government is a direct armed aggression on the territory of China , and a total violation ' of the United Nations charter . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not only a fact based on history , confirmed by the situation since the surrender of Japan , tt is also stipulated in the Cairo declaration of 1943 and the Potsdam communique of 1945 as binding international agreements which the United States government has pledged itself to respect and observe . " The United Nations security council is obliged by its inalienable duties to condemn the United States government for its criminal act in the armed invasion of the territory of China , and to take immediate measures to bring about the complete withdrawal of all the United States armed invading forces from Taiwan and from other territories belonging to China . "                     