@@720306

txt VIENNA , March ** Soviet Government is using the Berlin and German questions to bring about negotiations that could produce an over-all European settlement , according to an informed explanation . A European settlement , in the Soviet Government 's view , would involve full Western acceptance of the present governments of the Eastern European nations . The Soviet Union wants the West to give up any hopes or ideas that thr , social order in the " people 's democracies " may some day be overthrown , informed non-Western sources as serted . Only such a renunciation , it was said , would permit stabilization of the status quo in Europe and relaxation of tensions . This , it was explained , is the key to current Soviet policy because only a European settlement would enable Moscow to concentrate all its energies on its vast economic development program . The German question , according to the sources , was selected as the ideal means to facilitate a solution of the Eastern Euro1 pean problem because it is the most important single issue on the Continent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ importance . In forcing the Western powers to come to // deleted 40 lines said , and they are not ruled out in principle . It would be up to the two federated German states to agree to hold such elections sometime in the future . The four big powers do not have it in their jurisdiction to order free elections , according to the Soviet point of view . The Soviet Government would also want to have disarmament enforcement machinery built into an agreement to federate the West and East German states . The machinery would have to function in Germany on a permanent basis , but the Soviet Government has not yet worked out concrete proposals . It is asserted that the Soviet Government is confident that an East-West agreement , particularly an agreement with the United States , could enforce tranquility on a reunited German state and eliminate Germany as a ' factor of discord in the European concert .                     