@@719943

txt " If we did n't have to nominate somebody , you could rule all of us out . " This candid comment , by one of the candidates for the 1960 Democratic-Presidential nomination , tersely sums up the rather ironic situation confronting the Democrats : Though they have a dozen or more White House hopefuls , the shrewdest party politicians even now narrow down the list of those who really have a chance to two or three men . They only add the caveat , " Two years is a long time in politics . " What the candidate meant in his private remark was that all the Democratic rivals , including himself , suffer from one political obstacle or another , and even those Who will go into the finals still have a strike or two against them . " It 's true we certainly have no Woodrow Wilson , " laments another Democratic patriarch . Advance ' Interest Why the current interest in the Democratic nomination nearly two years before the nominating convention ? There are a variety of reasons . In the first place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  as certain , that is , as anything can be in politics . Secondly , the Democrats ( and the Republicans , too . despite renewed pretensions to optimism ) figure Congress will remain under Democratic control for the next two years . The question in their minds , rightly or wrongly , is not whether the Democrats will win the November elections but by how wide a margin . The Democrats , moreover , think they have a real chance , for the first time in eight years , to recapture the White House two years hence . So , even while entering this year 's Congressional elections , the Democrats are thinking as much in terms of 1960 as of 1958 . The professional politicians , though they ca n't foretell who will win the 1960 Democratic nomination , think they know , even now , pretty well who wo n't . Here 's hcek they see it : Adlai Stevenson . though still running hard , is out . The Democrats are looking for a fresh political face . The party , sensing a good chance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Adlai bears the stigma of being a two-time loser . Estes Kefauver : The Tennessee Senator never had a chance in the first place . He seems certain to have strong opposition for the Senatorial nomination two years hence and , thus , ? ca n't run for the Senate and the Presidential nomination , too . Even without a fight at home , the Democratic Party managers are determined to block Estes ' White House ambitions Averell Harriman : A victory by the G.0 P. nominee , Nelson Rockefeller , in New York 's fall gubernatorial race would knock Mr. Harriman all the way out of the Presidential race . Even if he wins this November , Mr. Harriman is still considered too old ; he would be 69 before next inauguration day . The Democrats are looking for a younger man . Besides , the New York governor is adjudged to have little political appeal outside his home state . And as a final obstacle , he 's identified with an era that is past  --  that of Roosevelt and Truman . G. Mennen ( Soapy ) Williams : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closely identified with labor , a drawback despite labor 's influence in the Democratic Party . And like Mr. Harriman . Governor Williams is considered to have little political appeal outside his own state . " It 's not going to be Williams , " most Democrats will tell you . Even his strongest partisans recognize his disadvantages . Johnson 's Drawbacks Senator Lyndon Johnson , despite his liberal record , is too Southern , has suffered one major heart attack . And , again despite his record , the liberals who will likely control the 1960 convention do n't fully trust his liberalism . In moments of candor , the Texan has been known to acknowledge that he could n't get the nomination if he wanted it , which publicly and privately he insists that he does n't Senator Stuart Symington of Missouri has never caught on , nor shown much sign of doing so In the public mind at least , he 's identified with only one major issue , big defense , and Senator Johnson of Texas has increasingly overshadowed him in that field . Democratic political analysts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deadlock , which they do n't expect to happen . Senator Frank Lausche of Ohio is occasionally mentioned . He does n't stand a chance , as the politicians see it . Though he perhaps is less well known than Senator Byrd , Mr. Lausche is as unacceptable to the national Democratic rulers as would be the Virginia Senator . Though not the only names mentioned as unlikely , these are the most important . And , if all these be ruled out , who , then , is in the running ? The race right now is  --  and promises to be for some time to come -- between a youthful Senator , John Kennedy of Massachusetts , and a young Governor , Robert Meyner of New Jersey . And even they have drawbacks , as the politicians size up the picture . The strength of neither of these can be measured in terms of - what ultimately counts  - -  convention delegates . But both possess in considerable measure some of the attributes their party is seeking for 1960 . Both are young men . Mr. Kennedy will be 43 in 1960 . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national political scene ; neither is closely identified with any wing of the party . Both are considered liberals but not extreme liberals . And most Democratic analysts adjudge the mood of their party to be a mood of " moderate liberalism . " Certainly that is the view of the backers of Senator Kennedy and Governor Meyner . Perhaps most important of all , both are identified with victory . Mr. Kennedy first swept Massachusetts in 1952 while President Eisenhower also took the Bay State by a landslide . He is running for re-election this year and , by every indication , will win big again . So certain do Republicans consider his triumph that , at one time , they seriously considered not putting up a G.O.P. candidate at all . So , too , is Governor Meyner riding a victory tide . The year after Mr. Eisenhower swept New Jersey in 1952 , Mr Meyner emerged from political obscurity to win the governorship , putting on a repeat performance in 1957 . Again this year , Mr. Meyner is striving to add another win by electing his candidate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Jersey Governor enjoys one advantage which Senator Kennedy does not share . As a Governor , he does not have to take sides on many of the controversial national issues . He can pick and choose the ones he likes , whereas a Senator has to stand up and be counted every day . If being a Governor has such an advantage , it also has its drawbacks . In taking sides , a Senator also tends to become identified in the public mind with the major national questions  --  in other words . " to stand for something . " At any rate , both Mr. ' Kennedy and Mr. Meyner have some liabilities as v ell as political assets . The liberals , for example , do not fully accept the Massachusetts Senator 's liberalism , feeling that to some extent he is a conservative masquerading in a liberal 's cloak . ' This , also , has its advantages . For more than any other serious candidate , Mr. Kennedy is acceptable to the South , despite his pro-civil rights voting record . Religion Issue Still another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the religion issue . The Senator is a Catholic , the governor a one-time Catholic who left the Church while in his teens . Kennedy backers , while admitting his religion may be a liability in some areas , instal it would be an asset in others . Meyner men argue that his opponents have tried to raise the religious issue against him in New Jersey , always without effect . Until now , neither party has seriously considered a Catholic for the Presidency since former President Hoover defeated the late Al Smith in 1928 This time . the Democrats are weighing the advantages and disadvantages of Catholicism . The decision could ultimately determine Senator Kennedy 's political fate . Still a greater " X factor " is the voters ' reaction to a Catholic who has left the Church . This is a question that comes up in most any Democratic political discussion ? and so far , no one knows the answer . Aside from these  --  the ones counted out , the ones counted in  --  it 's difficult to see where the Democrats would turn for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hero as the G.O.P. had in President Eisenhower . Certainly no member of the House shows signs of stepping onto the national political stage . It 's difficult to see any Senator aside from Kennedy , and possibly Symington in the case of a deadlock , who 'd be seriously considered . So all the political discussions , despite the handicaps of both , ultimately come back to the Senator from Massachusetts and the Governor of New Jersey It may be that , within two years , one of these will emerge as the inevitable choice just as Adlai Stevenson was twice before . It also may be that someone whose name is now never mentioned , however unlikely it now may seem , will march dramatically onto the national stage . But right now , the party 's situation could be no better summed up than by the candidate who mused , " If we did n't have to nominate somebody .. . "                     