@@718002

txt Every Boston public school could reduce the behavior problems of its pupils to a negligible amount if it had an adequate staff of teachers and administrators . This is one of the conclusions of the first annual progress report by a committee of teachers , supervisors , and principals studying how to reduce juvenile delinquency in Boston . Steps to attract to the teaching profession " men and women capable of dealing effectively with juvenile problems " are essential , they insist . " Boston public schools already have a high percentage of such capable personnel , " they report , but still . more are urgently needed . This first annual progress report is already hailed as a part of " definite progress during the past year " by Assistant Superintendent William H. Ohrenberger , who is in charge of the delinquency-prevention program . " We are the first school system in the nation that has formed a permanent committee to study juvenile problems , report on progress , and make recommendations for the future every year , " he says . " And it 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One of the most important of this new Youth Service Council 's accomplishments has been the forming of citywide delinquency-prevention classes for every Boston school teacher , Mr. Ohrenberger says . Four different lectures were given to every Boston teacher last year . And the teachers have asked for more this year . Mr. Ohrenberger also says the Youth Service Council 's year 's work has made more needed part-time jobs available to teenage boys . The problem of 15-to18-year-olds getting into trouble in spare time can be greatly lessened by part-time work , he said . In their report the members stressed that any program to curb juvenile delinquency in the schools " is necessarily hampered by family and community situations with which our young people come in contact outside of school hours . . . . We must concentrate our influence on the actions , habits , and attitudes of these children during school hours . " The incidence of behavior problems in any school has a direct relationship to the social and economic conditions in the surrounding neighborhood , " continued the report . " The same children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school .... " Speaking against " undesirable comics , films , television programs . and news stories , " the report called on parents , civic organizations , and religious authorities for informal censorship . " Solution of this problem is long overdue , " it said . It is seen as an area in which the schools can " cooperate but not lead . " Other recommendations were : 1 . A drive to have business and fraternal organizations provide scholarships and awards to outstanding pupils , and to have such organizations work in close cooperation with the schools 2 . A character-training course of study for all levels In the schools . 3 . Reintroduction in the Legislature of a bill to make parents legally responsible for damages to property by their children . Parent support for this seems to be growing . 4 . A special school for students in the 14-to-18-age bracket who might be " school leavers , " but might stay in school if special attention to their needs were given . 5 . The value of school athletics was emphasized . Special competitive athletic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these recommendations , the Youth Council explained ,                     