@@719197

txt Angry students and other Poles battled police , security troops , and militia in Warsaw 's streets the night of Oct. 4 in the second violent antigovernment demonstration in two days . The street battling even rolled up to the doors of Communist Party headquarters , where the central committee was reported in emergency session , before the demonstration was smashed . Unlike the fighting of the previous night , which was confined to an area around the polytechnic school , the violence this time spread to three sections of Warsaw . And for the first time , other Poles joined the 2,000 students in their defiance of government force . The demonstrators hurled bricks and shouted " Gestapo , Gestapo , " a reference to the Nazi secret police . They tossed back tear-gas bombs thrown by the police . Government forces beat the demonstrators with rubber truncheons , scattered them with tear gas and noise bombs , and finally restored order after five hours of fighting . No figures were available on the number of demonstrators arrested and injured . Many wererushed to hospitals in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and demanded the return of Po Prostu , a student newspaper banned Oct. 2 . The paper had become a symbol of the limited freedom won by Poles when Wladyslaw Gomulka was restored to Communist Party leadership a year ago . The government shut down the paper , contending it had gone too far in its criticism of Stalinism . The students also demanded immediate release of students arrested in the demonstration the night of Oct. 2 , an investigation of militia interference , and the removal of a Communist central committee official who reportedly directed the ' troop action . Defying government threats of punishment , the students massed again at the polytechnic school , where 2,000 students had been routed and 30 arrested the night before , All but eight of those arrested were said to have been freed . The students assembled in the school auditorium and shouted approval of a letter of protest to Mr. Gomulka drawn up by the editorial board of Po Prostu ,                     