@@719135

txt Maine 's voters have tossed aside 137 years of tradition to join the other 47 states in holding state and national elections in November . By adopting a constitutional amendment junking September elections , held ever since Maine became a state , the Pine Tree State is giving up its now much-tarnished " as Maine goes , so goes the nation " reputation in national elections . This reputation received its severest buffeting during the Roosevelt administration , when in the 1936 election only Maine and Vermont stood out against a nationwids Roosevelt reelection sweep . Although Senator Margaret Chase Smith ( R ) of Maine later sought to show that congressional.election percentages were the real basis for the " as Maine goes ? " reputation , Maine has long since ceased to be a sure weather vane pointing the direction of the November election winds . Pushed by Democrats Although abandonment of September elections has been discussed in Maine for 50 years the voters never had an opportunity to make their choice until this year . The push for the change has come mainly from Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ D ) of Lewiston , with substantial assistance from the Republican majority , ? gained the necessary two-thirds vote for a constitutional amendment . This amendment , as well as the other referendum questions on the ballot Sept. 9 , was strong-y favored by Gov . Edmund S. Muskie , first Democratic Governor of Maine in 20 years , who is now serving his second term . With only 9 small precincts out of the state 's 630 precincts still missing , the November election amendment was approved by the voters by a margin of 63,710 to 36.065 margin in an election which attracted only about one-fifth of the state 's . registered voters . Four-Year Term Voted The shift will take effect in 1960 . Thus the 1958 state election at which a governor , a United States senator , and three members of the United States House of Representatives will be elected , will still be held in September . However , the new Governor elected in 1958 will serve a four-year term instead of the two-year term now in vogue . The voters by a 60,125 to 41 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four-year term for the Governor , with a limit of two elected terms . At present there is no limit on the number of terms a Maine Governor may serve . By adoption of the four-year term amendment Maine becomes the 30th state to elect its chief executives for four-year terms . Connecticut is the only other New England state on the four-year-term schedule . Massachusetts was close to a referendum on the subject in 1956 but a shift in the Legislature canceled a previous approving vote by a House-Senate joint session . Since then the four-year movement in Massachusetts has cooled noticeably . Governor Muskie and many of his GOP precedessors had ar gued that a four-year term would enable Maine chief executives to do a better job , being freed from reelection pressures which exist in a two-year term soon after a governor takes office . Opponents insisted a governor should be required to go before the voters every two years to give an accounting of his administration for voter approval or rejection . Proposals Approved Three other referendums also won approval by wide margins . Under one approved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guarantee mortgages for industrial construction . The amendment authorizes a 21-million-dollar bond issue , if necessary , to implement the guarantee program . On the basis of returns from 621 of 630 precincts the amendment was approved by 66,623 to 30,784 . Similarly a 24 million dollar bond issue designed primarily to finance the state 's share of the federal interstate highway program was approved by a 73,969 to 24,804 margin , and a 2.5 million dollar bond issue to provide modern ferry service for Penobscot . Bay islanders was favored by a vote of 67,998 to 30,439.                     