@@713703

txt The break in the stalemated conference of the Big Four deputies , which started March 13 with the virtual agreement on one agenda item for the proposed meeting of the foreign ministers , has continued What led to the agreement was not so much a change of mind of either the western delegates or Soviet Deputy Foreign Ministers Andrei A. Gromyko as a mutual willingness to trim off some of the fat from the original agenda phrasing . Both sides did their share in combining of items , eliminating of words or phrases  --  all accompanied by a running criticism of this or that . Progress Reported At the end of the March 14 meeting the " editing " of the two agendas was said to have reduced the following results : Western Agenda : 1 . Examination of causes of international tension of Europe and of the means to insure a real and lasting amelioration between the Soviet Union , United Kingdom , United States , and France , such as : Measures to eliminate fear of aggression ; carrying out of obligations at present resulting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armaments and questions concerning Germany in this domain . 2 . Conclusion of a treaty for the reestablishment of an independent and democratic Austria . 3 . Problems concerning the reestablishment of German unity and preparation of a peace treaty . Russian Items Soviet Agenda : 1 . Application of the Potsdam agreements by the four powers where German demilitarization is concerned . 2 . Problems concerning the reestablishment of German unity and preparation of a peace treaty . 3 . Suppression of the causes of present international tension in Europe and search for means to insure a real and lasting amelioration of relations between the Soviet Union , United Kingdom , United States , and France , including the question of the reduction of the armed forces of the Soviet Union , United Kingdom , United States , and France . The main advance is the identity of western agenda item No. 3 and Soviet agenda item No. 2 . This establishes the first item for the final joint agenda . No ' Real ' Change Noted The present phrasing of Soviet item No. 1 shows that Mr. Gromyko has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the original version of that item . It has been pointed out by the western delegates that this is no real change since the genuine application of " demilitarization , " according to the Potsdam agreements , would automatically prevent the remilitarization of Germany . The Russians claim that their new item No. 3 combines the factors covered in the West 's item No. 1 . The West points out , however , that it does not touch on the things so important to the Western Allies , such as measures to diminish fear of aggression , the carrying out of obligations resulting from treaties , and the examination of the present level of armaments . Points Up Basic Problem The Soviet draft on this latter calls for a reduction of arms , whereas the West calls for " an examination " of such a reduction . This latter difference points up a basic problem . The West agreed to this meeting on the basis of leaving the foreign ministers in the clear to " start from scratch " in their coming meeting . Therefore , this present meeting was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature and wording that no one would have been committed to anything . The Russians , on the other hand , as in the above case , have sought to commit the foreign ministers by agenda items so worded that even the mere holding of the meeting would be an acceptance of certain predetermined views . Determined Aims Naturally , the Russian effort is to see that the commitments so arranged are those desired by Russia so that Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Y. Vishinsky would enter the meeting with the situation already established in his favor . Equally naturally , the western deputies are determined that this shall not happen , and rather that they shall faithfully carry out their assignments within the exact limits of their authority and not a bit more . The March 14 session lasted only two hours and 35 minutes . It was cut short because the stylistic changes made during that time demanded study before proceeding to the next points and there had to be time to permit the official translations to be worked out , typed , and distributed for study by the different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             