@@712927

txt A unique meeting of President Truman 's cabinet reported to the American people from the Civic Opera house yesterday as part of the three day Jefferson jubilee which ends with the President 's speech here tonight . This semi-final feature of the costly jubilee failed to come up to Democratic hopes . Only half of the 3,600 regular seats and 700 stage seats were occupied . - No use was found for the plat ( Arm erected outside the opera house on Wacker dr. , where a microphone had been provided for cabinet members to address an expected overflow crowd after the program inside . . Coast-to-coast television carried the speeches from 2 to 3 p. m. , but not the question and answer period which followed . Vice President Presides Vice President Barkley presided at the apex of a V-shaped table formation for the cabinet members . Missing from the line-up were Defense Secretary Louis Johnson , Treasury Secretary John W. Snyder ; and State Secretary Dean Acheson . Undersecretary James E. Webb spoke for Acheson . Despite the small turnout at the cabinet meeting , Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which takes President Truman to the Chicago Stadium . Vice President Barkley , who spoke later at a civic dinner in the Sherman hotel , told the opera house meeting that Mr. T ? uman 's cabinet members are executing policies as would Thomas Jefferson . Calls Them Descendants lie said today 's Democrats are " lineal descendants " of the author of the Declaration of Independence , altho Republican leaders have been quoting Jefferson to show that any resemblance is accidental . Under Secretary of State Webb said Democratic foreign policy has the same alms as Jefferson and Washington ? " to make us happy at home and respected abroad . " Both of these founders of the nation warned against foreign entanglements , on many occasion . Webb said the Democrats have " broken the shackles of isolationism ' ' and ho pointed to the United Nations , Marshall plan , Truman doctrine , North Atlantic pact , and Rio pact . " Let me say that no wild and irresponsible attacks either abroad or at home will divert us from forging ahead with this.vast program , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soft pedaled the Brannan plan which G. 0 . P. and many agricultural leaders say would regiment the farmers . His only mention of it was to say that the administration intends to maintain farm prices . Atty . Gen. J. Howard pictured his department in a cmlade to " bring equal justice under law to every American citizen whatever be his creed or his point of origin . " " My department will fight in the legislative halls and in the courts to bring equality to Americans , " he said , to cheers . Commerce Secretary Charles Sawyer contended that business is better than at any other time in history . lie said some substitute must be found for the Marshall plan after 3952 , conceding that foreign spending is " made up by you men and women . " " Just how we will do it no one can say , " Sawyer said . Tells Power Output Interior Secretary Oscar Chapman boasted that Democrats have multiplied the public power output by 85 . The federal government must triple present generating capacity in 10 years , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absent chief . Ho described the federal debt of more than 250 billion dollars as a " tremendous investment to assure the security and well being of our country , " Postmaster General Jesse M. Donaldson apologized for service curtailments . Asks Senate Procedure Hugh Millin ? of Oak Park , former president of the Young Democrats of Illinois , asked when the senate would be able to prevent its members , including Sen. McCarthy R. , Wis. from " accusing innocent members of the government . " Vice President Barkley explained the powers of the senate and historical background . " There is no way by which the senate can prevent a senator from saying what he pleases , " he concluded . Edward J. Mepheski , Democratic county chairman in Milwaukee , arose from his platform seat and vowed that " we will help the senate in 1952 ; we will put McCarthy out of office . " Barkley , presiding officer of the senate , thanked him rather hurriedly but added a senate committee is deal- I ing with McCarthy 's charges . Congressman Asks Question Rep. Shelley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to defeat communism . Labor Secretary Maurice 3 . Tobin said unions have " made a tremendous contribution " in purging their own ranks and in thwarting attempts to establish international pro-communist labor organizations . Barnett Allen , Minnesota farmer , asked whether it is true that the present farm support program would regiment farmers . No reference was made to the Brannan plan . Agriculture Secretary Brannan replied that this program does not involve regimentation . He conceded that the government has more food in storage than it likes , but said thas is the only country producing more of some things than it can consume and export . Mr. Barkley said farmers would have to vote themselves to come under the plan by two-thirds majorities " which is certainly not regimentation . " Russell J. Goldman , Democratic nominee for congress in the 16th Illinois district , concluded the questioning with a query whether the plans outlined by the cabinet members represent " the last mile down the road toward socialism " as Republicans have charged . The Vice President said the government has n't started on the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He termed the socialism charge " an example of epithets hurled against the Democratic party because it moves ahead and does not die on the vine like our Republican opponents . "                     