@@716309

txt The noisy battle of the last eighteen weeks for control of the giant New York Central Railroad quieted today to a shuffling of a stack Of 40,979 papers  --  representing ' votes . That quiet , however , did not descend until ' 4:48 P. M. , when , the Central stockholders ' meet-1 ing in the Tenth Regiment Armory here was recessed until Tuesday . For the preceding four hours land forty-eight minutes some 2,200 Central shareholders had participated in a session more like a rousing political convention than an annual meeting of a century-old railroad . It will be days , maybe weeks , before those shareholders and the ones who participated by proxy know whether they re-elected fifteen men to manage their $2,600,000,000 investment for the next year or elected an insurgent slate of fourteen men and a woman . The count of proxies by the inspectors of election , three professors of law , will begin tomorrow at 9 A. M. in the Ten Eyck Hotel here . A tedious process , it will continue to 8 P. M. daily until completion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tqhn Hanna of Columbia University and Covington Hardee of Harvard Law School . The present board is headed by William White , 57-year-old // career railroad man , the choice of Harold Vanderbilt , greatgrandson of Commodore Cornelius Vanderbilt , who is credited with putting the 10,700-mile system together nearly seventy-five years ago . Mr. White 's antagonist is Robert Ralph Young , also 57 , a financier who numbers among his associates some of the wealthiest men in America and who has guided the destinies of a vast railroad holding company , - the Allegheny Corporation , since the late Nineteen Thirties . Mr. White called the meeting to order promptly at noon after riding up from New York in a stockholders ' excursion train . His opponent came on the same train , which arrived shortly before 11 A.M. An agreement had previously been reached between the two forces on the agenda for the meeting . As a result , the formal preliminaries , such as the notice of the proceedings and the declaration of a quorum , were quickly dispensed with . By 12:30 P.M. the chair had asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the New York Stock Exchange firm of W. E. Hutton &; Co. and co-chairman of a committee of Central stockholders favoring the present management , presented the names of the fifteen management candidates . All but three of the fifteen were present . They were introduced to the meeting amid polite applause . Mr. White then asked if there were any other nominations . Thomas J. Deegan Jr. , vice president of the Alleghany Corporation and spokesman and press counsel for Mr. Young , rose and put the names of the members of the opposition slate before the meeting . After each name he gave the number of shares of stock that person owned . There was considerable applause for each nominee , and shouts as well when the names of Clint W. Murchison of Dallas and Sid W. Richardson of Fort Worth were called forth as the owners of 400,000 shares each . In New York the Appellate Division of the State Supreme Court ruled yesterday that Mr. Murchison and Mr. Richardson could vote their 800,000 shares of Central stock at the Albany meeting . The stock had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Young , in a complicated transaction involving the Alleghany Corporation . The Central management , contending the sale was illegal , had asked that the vot-N ing of the stock be prohibited and the stockholders ' meeting delayed . The court declined to enjoin the voting of the shares and dismissed as " academic " the Central motion to postpone the meeting . Cumulative Voting Sought Only nine of the Young nominees , including Mr. Young , were present , however , and the meeting expressed its displeasure audibly when Mr. Deegan announced that the " Young-Alleghany-Kirby slate of nominees for directors of the New York Central Railroad prefer not to be presented personally to the meeting at this time . " Mrs. Wilma Soss , president of the Federation of Women Shareholders in American Business , Inc .. then presented two resolutions , one calling for cumulative voting of directors and the other for a change in the date of the annual meeting to the last Thursday in May from the last Wednesday . ( Under cumulative voting a stockholder has as many votes as he has shares times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can concentrate those votes on one candidate or a combination of candidates . ) Mr. White then declared the polls open and there was a rush for the ballot boxes to vote on the directors and the resolutions . At 1:45 o'clock a box luncheon was distributed , and Mr. White , after a short recess , addressed the gathering formally . The acoustics were poor and the loudspeakers failed to perform adequately , but Mr. White managed to maintain his dignity and hold the interest of his audience . He told the group that it would take " both medicine and surgery to cure the ills of the Central . " Mr. Young , on his arrival in Albany today , went immediately to the armory , taking a seat in the front row . At the meeting Mr. Young was asked by a stockholder how he and other members of his slate planned to vote on the resolution for cumulative voting . He took the microphone and said : " This is Robert Young , who has voted 100,000 shares of stock in favor of cumulative voting . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for director on the Young slate and co-owner of The Readers ' Digest voted her 100 shares the same way . I do n't know how the other members of the slate voted nor did I presume it proper to ask . " Mr. Young then said that one of the first matters his group would put on the agenda of their initial directors ' meeting would be that of cumulative voting . Mr. Young was asked whether , if elected , he would seek to have the company reimburse the opposition slate of directors for all expenses incident to the proxy fight . He replied that he would be surprised if any court in the nation would permit such reimbursement . He noted that the cost of the proxy battle had amounted to more than $1,000,000 for each side , and added , " I hope no court would permit such a thing as to have the stockowners foot that ' entire bill . " About 4 P. M .. as the armory was clearing , Mr. Young announced that he was leaving for his home in Newport , R. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had in four months . " I 'll need that , " he commented , " if we are going to get the Central to be making real money and put its stock to 100 . " " I have cast a majority of stock in favor of the Young-Alleghany-Kirby board , " he said . " I personally have cast from 700,000 to 1,000,000 shares in our favor . It is a victory for the shareholders , employes , shippers and even the truckers . " Later , Mr. White observed : " He Mr. Young presumes to say here how many votes he has cast . I do n't think he can say with any authority until the inspectors make their report , which we hope will be at 12 noon on Tuesday . "                     