@@716409

txt City detectives said today that four youths have admitted burning a Gunter air force base airman with cigarets . in one of a series of recent attacks on " Yankee " personnel at nearby military installations . Detective Jack Shows said the youths , all 17 or 18 , admitted holding and burning Glenn E. Hunter , Harbor Beach , Mich. , but claimed it was done as a " test of guts " with Hunter 's consent . Hunter said the boys held him while they applied lighted cigarets after first calling him a " Yankee " and arguing about racial segregation . Three Seriously Injured Police said two of the boys arrested today also had scars which appeared to have been made with lighted cigarets . Meanwhile , city police and air force authorities were cooperating in the search ' for what is believed to be three gangs of teen-age civilians who have attacked northern military personnel stationed near Montgomery . Police said all the members wear " pegged " trousers and have long haircuts , and each gang has a distinguishing item of dress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been reported since June 23 , three resulting in serious injury to the assaulted airmen , the air force said . An air force spokesman said every incident involved use of language in which the civilian juveniles berated airmen as " Yankees , " and expressed resentment at them dating local girls . Those arrested today were identified as Benjamin C. Vann , John Lewis Cregler , Bobby Towns Pace , and John Cook . They were released under $100 bond each pending a hearing in Recorder 's court on assault charges . Warn Against Retaliation Airmen from both Maxwell and Gunter air force bases have been victims of the assaults . Two airmen were badly beaten , and Hunter was severely burned with lighted cigarets ' on the body . Two other airmen victimized were identified by the air force as Robert W. Flath Jr . of , Glendale , N. Y. , and Raymond L. Riddell of Leavenworth , Wash . Col. James G. Pratt , wing commandant at Maxwell , and Lt. Col. R. J. Wade said personnel at nearby Maxwell and Gunter fields have been issued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In one incident , an airman was forced into a car and beaten . On another occasion the juveniles threw rocks and bricks at ? an airman 's automobile . Unless the rowdyism is halted , Police Commissioner Dave Birmingham ' threatened to invoke a . city . ordinance which sets a 9 p. m. curfew on juveniles unless they are ac. conipanied by their parents .                     