@@713875

txt The armistice agreement between Syria and Israel in July of 1949 provided that Syrian troops should be withdrawn from certain small areas of Palestine they then occupied , that these areas should be demilitarized and that they then should be gradually restored to " normal civilian life . " Some months ago the Israelis began work on a long-planned project to drain the malarial marshes of Lake Huleh , which required dispossession of a handful of Arabs owning a few acres of land within the demilitarized zone . The present bitter dispute between the two countries springs from the question whether this work , and particularly the way it is being carried out , does or does not constitute a violation of the armistice agreement . But a good deal more than a legal matter is involved . To Israel , the drainage of the Huleh marshes is vital , for it means not only the reclamation of 15,000 acres in a country where every cubic foot of fertile soil is worth its weight in gold but also the utilization of an important quantity of water for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barren . In addition , the work will mean elimination of Israel 's worst malaria district and the opening to settlement of an area that will accommodate some 2,000 pioneering families . Syria , on the other hand , looks askance at this prospective influx of Israeli farmers so close to her borders , and doubtless foresees that the projected development will destroy forever any hopes Syria might have of readjusting the historic frontier westward . The Israelis are accused of having taken peremptory action in ousting the Arab landholders ; and the Syrians fired on and killed some Israeli policemen and soldiers within the demilitarized zone . The Israelis thereupon made the mistake  --  for which they have apologized ? of dropping a few bombs on Syrian territory . Into this growing crisis the United Nations Security Council stepped early this month with a cease-fire resolution , which apparently has been fairly well adhered to by both sides . A second resolution , passed last week , has ordered the Israelis temporarily to stop work on the Huleh project while renewed efforts are made to settle on the spot the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nor Syria has acted with all the restraint that might have been desired ; but the Israelis are especially aggrieved over the second U. N. resolution because they feel it calls a halt to the march of progress within Israel 's own borders as a result of military actions and threats on the part of Syria and her allies of the Arab League . Nevertheless , official word has come from Tel Aviv that Israel will halt drainage work at least on the acres owned by Arabs . The important thing now is that the U. N. representatives in the area , headed by Maj. Gen. William E. Riley , chief U. N. truce officer , make speedy and determined efforts to settle the local issue , which certainly should not be a difficult matter if good faith is exercised on both sides . The U. N. resolution was not intended  --  and must not be taken ? as a means of indefinitely deferring the reclamation of the Huleh marshes .                     