@@714587

txt The administration 's muchpublicized house cleaning now appears to have been postponed indefinitely , at least as far as any special investigation is concerned . The newly appointed attorney General , James P. MeGranerY , made this clear as he emerged from his first conference with President Truman . He sees his job , first of all , as one of restoring the " confidence of the people in the integrity of the administration of justice . " As far as a cleanup of corruption in government is concerned , he puts it this way : The first order of business will be to find out if a cleanup is needed and where . " No Witch Hunt ' Pledged He ' , made it plain . that there will be no ' cleanup campaign under a special prosecutor and " no witch hunt . " His use of the word " if " in referring to the need of a corruption inquiry caused immediate question as to whether he felt there was , after all , any corruption in government to investigate . At any rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if any , will be carried on by the Department of Justice self . This is a radical change from the original concept , under which Newbold Morris , a Republican , was imported to do a thorough and impartial job of ferreting out corruption in high places as well as low . In fact , the Justice Department itself was the target for hives-ligation under the Morris broomstick which was set to probe even under the chair of the Attorney General himself  --  a gestu " touched off the whole explosive episode . Fuse Lit by Morris It now is reported that it was Mr. Morris 's request for confidential files , diaries , and papers of the Attorney General which touched off the fuse . The bold Republican investiga- tor persistently insisted that there should be no exemption , even among high officials , to the filling out of his questionnaire as to sources of income and other personal information . Something of the inside story of this feud has been disclosed by Mr. Morris 's . chief counsel , who has reported .. that Mr. , his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over records of tax cases except where there was reason to suspect something wrong , Soft-Pedals Issue The issue of whether these requests of Mr , Morris for a probe into the innermost personal . affairs of high officials and others , even though no evidence . of ' wrongdoing was apparent , probably will never be settled now that the " special " probe has been abandoned . In vieav of all that has passed , the first words and actions of Mr. 's successor are being studied with especial interest . The initial conclusion is that there has been a radical change in the White House plans for handling the corruption issue . It appeared to be soft-pedaled repeatedly by Mr. as he declared that " there will be no witch hunt " and then went on to say , " You just do n't go around investigating people . " The last remark was made in reply to a question as to whether the Justice Department would investigate Mr. , whose financial affairs have been the target of Republican presidential aspirant Harold.E . Stassen . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether any cleanup of corruption , special , or otherwise , is needed was seen in Mr. 's statement : " If there is any wrong , I am going to straighten it out , and in doing that the President will give me- all support possible . " He voiced another " if " as he said that his first job will be to find out " if and where there is corruption . " Then , he said , " I think the FBI will be capable of advising me as to the existence of any and who the particular wrong-doers are . " This seemed to leave no question that the cleanup , if ' any , will be an inside job with no outside help . He said that he would call for " and expect Mr. Hoover to furnish me with all the information he might have . " This is a far cry from the Morris inquiry , which called for the filling out of questionnaires by some 590 officials of the Justice Department and which was set up entirely separate from the Justice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Plans Speech When he was asked what would happen if the train of corruption led to Capitol Hill , he answered : " If you knew me , you would know the answer . The chips will fall where they will . I despise hypocrites . ' , " At the Justice Department , Mr. planned to stay on a few days , but Mr. Morris departed from Washington on an afternoon train . Talkative as ever , he let out more parting ' blasts and said he was ready to come down from New York to deliver a talk before the National Press Club April 9.                     