@@718938

txt Letters to The Times HENRI PIERRE , H. ZANE SMALL.CESAR GONZALEZ , MILDRED ZUCKER , CASPER H. CITRON.MIC ... Letters to The Times Kennedy Speech Praised Senator Declared to Have Sounded Warning in Algerian Problem The writer of the following letter is United States correspondent for the French daily Le Monde . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your comments on Senator Kennedy 's speech have been very severe . Strangely enough , as a Frenchman I feel that on the whole Mr. Kennedy is more to be commended than blamed for his forthright , frank and provocative speech . Many of his remarks were indeed untrue or unfair and can not be accepted . Unfortunately , some others are justified . It is very interesting to listen to those truths when they are uttered by a foreigner . It would be tempting for any French Deputy , when the Senator mentions the inadequate representation of the people in . Algeria , to stress from the rostrum of the Assembly in Paris the poor political conditions prevailing in your Southern states , where the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind of controversy would lead nowhere and uselessly damage Franco-American relations , already strained . The argument that Senator Kennedy is encouraging the rebellion is an old one , but not very valid . For the rebels have not waited for Mr. Kennedy 's speech to know exactly the feeling of Congress , the Administration and of the public in general about the Algerian problem . They probably know more about the reactions of the Americans and the world situation than many Frenchmen who deliberately prefer to ignore the harsh facts of life . Service Seen Senator Kennedy performed a service to the French people , I think , by giving them a warning and putting before them a clear choice : Either we will ourselves find a solution  --  a strictly French-Algerian solution  --  in a relatively short time , or we shall face the risk , with the prospective deterioration of the situation , that the problem will be " internationalized " through the United Nations , NATO or the good offices of someone . It may be that some elements in France , even in governmental circles , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own failure and to blame others . An " internationalization , " which in fact would confirm our inability to cope with the problem , would create a dangerous political situation in France and exacerbate the nationalist and isolationist feelings , with the risk of ruining the nation 's democratic institutions . Mr. Kennedy 's speech has made the dangers of " internationalization " more clear . The Senator has pulled the alarm and , we hope , opened the eyes of many Frenchmen so that the French Government will have to act quickly and boldly to find a French-Algerian solution of this A 1 gerian tra gedv . HENRI PIERRE , Washington , July 7 , 1957 . For Conservation of Paper To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial of July 7 on " The Place of Paper " in the economy of the world is most interesting , especially to one who has been allied with the industry for over a quarter of a century . The expansion in the use of paper has kept steady pace with our economic prosperity . A country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afford its citizenry the greater luxuries of life . More and more have we tended to lean on paper products in our everyday living . Paper has become a substitute for many things such as napkins , glasses , plates , etc. , but there is no substitute for paper . In time it will play an ever more important role in our daily lives . In the forseeable future there lies the prospect that our clothes will also be made out of paper . History might term this era in our American civilization " the Paper Age . " We in the United States have an abundance of paper . The production in our mills has caught up to our demands and we are faced with an oversupply . Therefore , our conservation of paper , unless we find an inexpensive means by which to transport it overseas , will not tend to alleviate the shortages in the paper-poor countries . It will be wise to conserve paper only if some agency could be organized to collect this paper and get it into the hands of these " underdeveloped areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ create the goodwill we so desperately need for our country . H. ZANE SMALL . New York , July 8 , 1957 . Deciding on Venezuela 's Destiny To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It seems that it is a policy of The Times to choose the classical days of the Western Hemisphere on which to smear the Latin-American countries . On Oct. 12 , 1955 , you published an editorial entitled " The Day of the Race " in which you tried to present the United States as a power that must intervene in the domestic affairs of the Latin-American countries . Today , the fifth of July , the Independence Day of Venezuela , your editorial entitled " Venezuela 's Day , " instead of calling for comity and solidarity among the countries of the Americas , tries to insult the greatest sentiment of the Venezuela people : the remembrance of our forefathers . For us Venezuelans Independence Day is a sacred one ; and we em ? phatically deny a foreigner the intent to interfere in the domestics affairs of Venezuela , especially on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others and consequently we expect that ours be also respected . As I did in my letter to you , dated Oct. 13 , 1955 , I protest once more in the most vigorous manner your editorial . You admit that the present Venezuela is the most prosperous of nations . Thank God that the accomplishments of the present Government , presided over by Gen .. Marcos Perez Jimenez , are so indisputable that they are even recognized by your ' partial editorial . Precisely the task of our Government is this : to solve our problems and decide about our destiny within the borders of Venezuela and not in the columns of The New York Times . CESAR GONZALEZ , Ambassador of Venezuela to the United States . Washington , July 5 , 1957 . To Provide Teen-Age Jobs Government Program for Summer Work Proposed TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I read with considerable interest and enjoyment your recent Topics of The Times on teen-age summer employment . While I enjoyed your delightful yet somewhat serious touch , as a settlement-house worker faced with the continuous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constantly frustrating problem . We are almost as inadequate as they in locating or suggesting suitable places of employment . Part of the problem is connecting the job with the right person . Part is the complicated procedure of obtaining working papers . Part , of course , is the sheer lack of sufficient job openings , I would like to suggest , in connection with the first difficulty , that newspapers might be of tremendous help . In The Philadelphia Inquirer of two weeks ago several pages were allotted to a free listing by teenagers of jobs they were seeking for the summer . Five thousand teenagers sent in such requests . To date The Inquirer reports that they have received many thank-you letters from both teen-agers and employers . They also note that both applicants and those who secured jobs cross all social lines . A final check of the results is being made through a double post card mailing to those teen-agers who were listed in the newspaper . I believe that the complication of obtaining working papers could be decreased considerably if the Board of Education and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Finally , I believe that the last and greatest difficulty , the lack of available jobs , could be solved by a Government job program . In the past emergency measures by Gov. : ernment , with full approval of the ' community , were taken in time 1of economic stress . Such was the case when the Civilian Conservation Corps and National Youth Administration were instituted . Yet the need for such programs is equally as vital now . Teen-agers need to keep busy , need to feel essential and in the main stream of life and need to test their vocational aptitudes and interests . While a private employer might be unwilling to become involved in such a program , I am sure that many public and private nonprofit agencies would welcome this opportunity to help teen-agers , and in the process accomplish some of their ) wn work , The cost compared to the loss in wasted restless hours of boredom would be almost incidental . 1 believe that such a program , aside from its obvious value , would have as a by-product an effect upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ James Weldon Johnson Community Center , Inc . New York , July 3 , 1957 . Voting Machines for Primaries To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : On Sept. 10 the Democratic party in Manhattan will have more primary fights than at any time in recent years . Tammany " leadership " will be tested in all ' sections , including Carmine De Sapio 's own district in Greenwich Village . Every two ? years after the primaries take place the . Citizens Union and other civic groups ask for an end of the paper ballot , long since outn oded . Mr. De Sapio usually says wait till next time . If voting machines are not used , the old-fashioned paper ballot can only lead to possible fraud and trouble . Granted voting machines are an expense , but no expense is too high for fair election in a democracy . We must have voting machines now in all primary elections . CASPER H. CITRON , New York , June 28 , 1957 . Producing More Educators TO THE EDITOR OF THE NET YORK TimES : It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prob . lems are discussed , great stress and emphasis are placed on the need of increased compensation . While , of course , this is an important consideration , it does scent the uppermost requirement deserving full study is how we can produce more and more educators rather than just ordinary teachers . Once that is accomplished we can be certain of a community ready , fit and able to meet today 's greater scientific requirements . MICHAEL WALPIN . New York , July 1 , MT .                     