@@715008

txt Gov , Adlai E. Stevenson said today that one of the great concerns of the times was " arresting the growth of Federal bureaucracy " in areas of state and local responsibility . The Democratic candidate , under a self-imposed promise of " not transgressing " into the field of politics on Sunday , briefly addressed an audience of 5,000 at the dedication of a $10,000,000 state hospital school for mentally deficient children at Taunton . He noted the " irritating presence " of an airplane bearing a streamer that urged his election , and then continued his talk , his only public speech during a day devoted to motoring through southeastern Massachusetts . The Governor had attended the First 1Parish Church , Unitarian , in Cambridge , with his three sons before beginning the motor tour , which drew about 100,000 persons along its 120-mile route . Earlier the Governor told a group of veterans ' organization leaders that " we must press forward with religious fervor " toward reducing Federal expenditures and taxation . He said that while the Federal budget would be subjected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have got to restrain ourselves " in that interval and " probably we are going to have to find , I should imagine , substantial cuts . " States Face ' Acute Problem ' Mr. Stevenson was accompanied to the dedication by Gov . Paul A. Dever of Massachusetts , the Democratic National Convention 's keynote speaker last July , who is seeking a third term . The school , the Myles Standish State School , is situated on the former site of a World War II debarkation center . Asserting that he " enjoyed " dedications , Mr. Stevenson said that the state school for mentally deficient children was an example of the areas of responsibility in which state and local governments should be more aggressive in the discharge of their functions . He said education and highways were other such areas of responsibility . The Illinois Governor said that the states were facing an " acute problem " in the acquisition of revenue for needed institutions . ' The Federal Government , he asserted , is " pre-empting " tax revenue sources , This situation , he continued , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' rights as of states ' wrongs , if you get what I mean . " It is not the fault of the Federal Government that it is reaching down into local levels , he said , but the Government is being forced to do this when lower echelons of Government " default their responsibilities . " Mr. Stevenson also said that he was glad that Massachusetts still retained , controlled and - administered the functions of mental health , education and highways at the state level and he called for the continuance of such a system here and elsewhere . " For if ' you do n't , the Federal Government will , " he said , " and this will lead inevitably to the further surrender of states ' rights . " More than 800 persons filled the First Parish Church to capacity at the morning service at 11 o'clock , and 3,000 more stood outside in Harvard Square , across the , street from the college Yard , toll catch a glimpse of the candidate , as he entered and left . The Rev. Dr. Wilburn B. Miller , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his half-hour sermon , although his prepared remarks had . included hem . Dr. Miller , preaching on " The High Hope of Adventure , " called for the acceptance of the discipline of moral , spiritual and intellectual integrity . After the church service , Mr. Stevenson walked across the square into Harvard Yard , where he visited Dr. James B. Conant , president of the university , in his office in Massachusetts Hall . Mr. Stevenson had attended the Harvard Law School for two years . One of his sons , Borden , is a freshman at Harvard College . Another son , John Fell , is a student at near-by Milton Academy . His oldest son , who flew here for today 's visit , is Second Lieut . Adlai E. Stevenson 3d , a marine , based at Quantico , Va . Breakfast With 50 Veterans Mr. Stevenson 's day began when he breakfasted with the leaders of various Massachusetts veterans ' organizations at the Statler Hotel , where his party had stayed overnight . Fifty veterans were present . Later , before crossing into Cambridge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1,200 Volunteem for Stevenson in the hotel ballroom . Keeping his remarks on a nonpolitical basis , he asserted that an " understanding of communism " was necessary to combat its menace . Mr. Stevenson started to answer some recent Republican charges that the Administration had adopted a soft attitude , toward communism , but suddenly checked himself and said : " Oh , oh , I almost got political on Sunday . " The First Parish Church that the Governor attended after the meeting was established in 1632 . The present edifice , is the fifth in a series of meeting houses and was erected in 1833 and remodeled in 1914 . After the church service and the visit to Dr. Conant , the candidate left Cambridge and traveled through Taunton , Fall River and New Bedford before returning to Boston . The police estimated that more than 30,000 lined the streets of Fall River : the turn-out compared favorably with last week 's turnout for Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower , the Republican nominee . The Fall River and New Bedford stops were listed as receptions and teas for Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Armory at Fall River . The Governor spoke briefly , asserting that " if you have any doubts as to my views , I 'd be glad to see you tomorrow . " Noting some small boys with " I Like Ike " banners , Mr. Stevenson said that he liked to see the signs , so long as ' the boys were no older than early teen-age . Dusk ws falling as the slowspeed motorcade of two press buses and a dozen passenger cars rolled into New - Bedford , where 30,000 or more persons lined the streets all the way into the center of the city . At least fifteen - other cars bearing posters of candidates for state offices joined the procession . The jam of persons at the New Bedford Hotel was so heavy that Mr. Stevenson paused only for a few moments . By this time , Lauren Bacall , Humphrey Bogart and Robert Ryan , the motion-picture players had joined the motorcade . The police said that more than 5,000 persons were in the hotel ballroom and lobby . Mb . Stevenson will leave Boston tomorrow morning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Connecticut . He will move into New York in time for a speech tomorrow night in Harlem . On Tuesday he will campaign in New York City and New Jersey , with a major radio-television address at an evening rally in Madison Square Garden .                     