@@715498

txt LONDON , June ** is a cliche for the free world to talk of the sphynx-like and enigmatic secret workings of Soviet policy , and that forbidding fortress , the Kremlin . Surely Moscow must have been equally bewildered by events this week in London . Witnesses of Queen Elizabeth 's splendid Coronation pageant representing Communist Governments in Westminster Abbey on Tuesday were singularly confused by what they saw . Certain of them tended to dismiss the event as a costly medieval ceremony . And if their minds were closed to the deeper implications of the paradoxical if spectacular crowning rites , they are likely to have ignored the real meaning of another and purely political event in London , the conference of Commonwealth Prime Ministers . To the exclusively materialistic ' mind of Marxism neither anachronism  --  the crowning of a powerless sovereign  --  nor the assembling for common elaboration of policy of such quarreling men as Pandit Jawaharlal . Nehru , Mohammed Ali and Dr. Daniel F. Malan surely can not make much sense . The Soviet mentality is ? likely either to regard these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or to see in both a sinister British imperial plot for world domination . Neither view is , of course , applicable . What the Coronation represented , philosophically speaking , was the abiding unity of the British and their associates on certain basic issues . It demonstrated that these ? love of freedom , a preference for political evolution rather than forcible revolution , and an effort to insure mutual toleration wherever possible ? are paramount regardless of acrid disagreements on current mundane questions . Support From All Sects This unwritten but very real credo was symbolized by the Abbey rites . A national church crowned the Queen , but this act was fully , supported by all dissenting sects . Long ago the habit of mutually respecting one another 's , tenets was established here . The Coronation by traditional rites ignored those political disagreements which are a living aspect of democracies governed by the alternating efforts of opposing parties . Likewise , the Commonwealth meetings which have been taking place since devote themselves , similarly by tacit agreement , not to what is being disputed among various members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which there is a fundamental communality of interbst . The institution of the Crown has demonstrated curious vitality ; that of the Commonwealth must still be proved . The Coronation may be seen as a " vertical " event symbolizing the continuity of British history and developing into the modern fissionable world constantly maturing practices of compromise . The Commonwealth conference can be regarded as a " horizontal " event seeking to adjust , over a ? vast geographical expanse , political and economic relationships altered by Britain 's changed world position . A Place for Republics In many respects the Commonwealth is a marvelously meaningless conception . Nine states are represented at the current talks . led by Britain 's Sir Winston Churchill . One of them , India . is a republic . Two more , Pakistan and South Africa , may soon become republics . Yet , under a formula vigorously endorsed by the strongly antiIndian Dr. Malan in order to permit republics to remain within the association , differing conceptions of governmental ideology need not exclude a nation . Not all members are in the sterling bloc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the sterling bloc within the Commonwealth ? such as Iraq and Jordan . Southern Rhodesia , at the conference , is not even independent but what is called a " self-governing colony " in Britain 's conveniently loose political jargon . Perhaps the basic problem of the reign of Queen Elizabeth II will be how to adjust this conglomeration of some 600 , - 000,000 persons so that it can remain a viable entity , remaining tied by certain common bonds , despite internal and external pressures of a changing world . The Economist , one of the most acute publications of this era , views the question accordingly : " The first phase of empire has long since passed ; given the desire to trade and the power to back the trader , that first phase of acquisition did not impose any too great strain . Completed Phase " The second phase  --  the transformation from a centrally controlled empire to a commonwealth of independent states  --  is all but over ; and where it still has stages to run , their goal is decisively set . This phase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vigor at the circumference , has not in most places presented impossible tasks to statesmanship . " But the third phase has opened  --  the phase in which , with links only of common interest and common sentiment , the infinitely variegated community of the Queen 's ' peoples has to be held together over the years . " It might well be asked : What purpose is served by retaining formal links between Britain and states with such centrifugal tendencies as India , Pakistan and South Africa ? Aside from reasons of economic advantage , it is surely useful for these nations to continue upholding such basic tenets as rudimentary agreement on the purpose of democracy . Ideals , institutions and even language are bonds that may some day prove stronger than written compact or ' imperial force . The mere existence of a forum at which Prime Ministers may agree and on the peripheries of which they can thresh out disagreement has concrete value . The fact that Britain , as senior partner , disi patches confidential diplomatic inI formation to all the Commonwealth helps formulate common attitudes on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commonwealth leaders heartily endorsed Sir Winston 's present foreign policy . They supported his desire for a big-power conference with the U. S. S. R. Despite the fact that they are greatly at odds on mutual issues such as Kashmir , both Messrs . Nehru and Ali saw the need for adjusting Britain 's dispute with Egypt . They can be expected to tell General Naguib as much in Cairo when they pass through that city on their way home to negotiations  --  or arguments  --  with each other . It is pretty obvious that the Commonwealth in its present form is not much stronger than a moderately friendly debating society . It remains friendly only so long as it limits arguments to an agenda on which basic agreement exists ? united by common economic ? philosophy and interest . But that , in this exceptionally disrupted era , is something worth preserving . There are those who hope that habit and tradition plus a common tongue will , like the unwritten British Constitution , grow into something more solid and more real . If British patience and skill can hold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ideological community , more enduring than rigid empires , may in the long run result  --  one which , united , could have a great voice in world affairs .                     