@@713158

txt Economic controls which would encourage expansion of production were urged by Gov . Chester Bowles of Connecticut , World War II OPA administrator , who addressed the Massachusetts Federation of Labor in Springfield , Mass . Page 2 . City and town managers in Massachusetts have formed an association with John B. Atkinson of Cambridge as president . More than 25 per cent of the state is now under the manager type of government . Page 2 . Europe : East Germans Ask ' Protection ' East German Communists have asked Russia ' to protect the Soviet zone from alleged dropping of incendiary bombs on German farms . The charge , denied by the United States , may prelude an attempt to blockade western planes from Berlin . The Danish Parliament has voted a $50,000,000 boost in the nation 's defense outlay . The new Parliament , to be elected Sept. 5 , will decide where to get the money . A record-breaking 93 persons were carried on a Pan American flight from New York to Frankfurt , Germany . This was the largest number of persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French newspapers will shrink from eight pages to six on alternate weeks from Aug. 14 to the end of the month , Ministry of Information in Paris announces . Newsprint shortage may force continued curtailment into September . Washington : New Military Training Plan Due A Defense Department spokesman told the Senate that a new proposal for universal military training of youths should reach Congress soon . Two members . of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation were ' dropped by President Truman in a reappointment list sent to the Senate for confirmation . The RFC has been criticized recently for alleged unwarranted loans . Page 15 . Gen. Carl Spaatz ( retired ) , former air force chief of staff , was called to testy before a congressional committee on the role of airpol.ver in the Korean struggle . Four appointments by President Truman were rejected by the Senate . The appointees were opposed by senators from the appointees ' home states . Page 6 . ? National : Gasoline Probe Ordered in New Jersey ' Gov . Alfred E. Driscoll of New Jersey ordered an investigation of the shutdown of about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protesting a price war which has cut the price of gasoline by about four cents a gallon . Senator Glen T. Taylor trailed former Senator D. Worth Clark in the Idaho Democratic senatorial primary , but declined to concede until final results are announced . The count from 770 of Idaho 's 839 precincts gave Mr. Clark 26,546 to Senator Taylor 's 25,517 . Page 16 . Rather than bow to United States Supreme Court decisions against racial segregation , Georgia Democratic leaders meeting at the state Democratic convention said they would go to jail . Page 10 . Far East : U.S. Military Supplies Reach Saigon First shipment of American military aid for Indo-China has arrived in Saigon without incident .                     