@@719776

txt Gen. Charles de Gaulle , by the threat of immediate resignation as Premier of France , rammed through a reluctant National Assembly early today his emergency program to reform the state and prevent civil war . The Deputies voted shortly . after midnight , by a margin of 350 to 161 , the last of three special measures demanded by General de Gaulle when he took over the Premiership Sunday . The final measure was one for an initial constitutional amendment paving the way for a subsequent sweeping transformation of the parliamentary regime into something resembling a Presidential one with a strong executive . Ultimatum Effective Less than twenty-four hours after his investiture as Premier , the imperious 67-year-old soldier marched to the Assembly rostrum to deliver the ulti- , matum to Deputies who We 're reluctant to surrender the last of their powers . There was never any doubt that the General meant what he said , or that the threat to resign would have been carried out . In the present circumstances , a new Government crisis might have unleashed civil strife in France . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ' General de Gaulle , clearly were able only to retard and drag out the process , not reverse it . Two-thirds of Premier de Gaulle 's emergency program al ready had become law . Yesterday the Assembly voted , 337 to 199 , to accord him the power to rule France by decree for six months . This measure was later approved by the advisory Council of the Republic by 260 to 48 . Algeria Powers Renewed The second measure , having no real political significance , was renewal of special powers in Algeria already exercised by four previous governments : It passed both houses almost without debate . The Council of the Republic was expected to speedily complete action on the constitutonal amendment . Then both chambers were scheduled to bow to General de Gaulle 's last demand  --  that they vote themselves a vacation until the beginning of the next regular session Oct. 7 , But the Assembly tried to dig in its heels on the issue of giving up its right to have a part in amending the Constitution . By amendment , argument and delaying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's measure , which gives , him the right to draft a virtually new Constitution for France and submit it directly to the voters without consulting Parliament . At the beginning of , last evening 's session , General de Gaulle referred to a counter-project drafted by an Assembly commission to restore Parliament 's right to vote constitutional amendments . " I say , in weighing my words , that the Government can not accept what is proposed by the commission , " the Premier ' asserted . He demanded that an amendment proposing , in effect , to take up the Government 's original draft be accepted . " If not , the circumstances are such that it the Government could not assume its responsibilities beyond , this night , " he said in meas. tired deadly serious tones . ' " It ? will then draw the necessary conclusions . " Cabinet Meets General de Gaulle 's dramatic appearance in the Assembly followed an energetic first day in office that included these actions : CA Cabinet meeting was held , at the virtually unheard of early1 hour of 9:15 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was reported that General de Gaulle ran Cabinet sessions like military staff conferences , demanding concise briefings and prompt " yes " and " no " answers from his colleagues . Arrangements were completed for Premier de Gaulle , Minister of State Louis Jacquinot , Deputy Defense Minister Pierre Guillaumat and Max Lejeune , Minister - designate for Algeria , to fly to Algiers tomorrow to deal with the militarycivilian dissident movement there that provoked the current crisis and threat of civil war May 13 . Leaders of this insurrection in Algeria and Corsica were reported to be concerned over evidence that Premier de Gaulle planned to follow a liberal policy in seeking a settlement of the forty-three-month-old rebellion by Moslem Algerian nationalists . They read this evidence in the liberal records of the men in the new Cabinet and in the Premier 's own statements . The insurrection leaders sent Leon Delbecque , one of the heads of the dissident movement , to Paris to express their concern to the general . He had not been received by the Premier up to last night . cGeneral de Gaulle began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tunisian President Habib Bourguiba and Moroccan King Mohammed V , suggesting in friendly terms the ' need - for prompt negotiation to end the strained relations between ' France and her two former protectorates. 41The Premier exchanged friendly correspondence with British Prime Minister Harold Macmillan and Ambassador Sir Gladwyn Jebb , and received a visit from Sir George Young , the British Minister here , his first direct diplomatic contact . No similar exchanges were reported between Premier de Gaulle and United States officials , either in Washington or Paris . In addition to the Assembly votes , the tall , austere Premier won an impressive demonstration of confidence from business and financial circles . The franc , shaky and generally inclining downward for the last two years , made its greatest oneday recovery in memory on the free market . The price of a dollar dropped from 454 to 438 francs during yesterday 's trading . Gold and other values declined proportionately in relation to the franc . General de Gaulle , the man who raised the Free French forces from exile in World War II and saw his efforts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parliamentary bickering , obviously was determined to avert a repetition . He refused yesterday even to ' go through the traditional ceremonies of a new Government ? the formal transfer of powers from ministers to their successors , a group picture at Elysee Palace with President Rene Coty , and his own installation in the Hotel Matignon , the official residence and office of the Premier  --  until the Assembly had approved his entire program . And , his statement before the Assembly last night was universally interpreted as naked bullying of the Deputies , who I were already in virtual retreat . But , after having gestured forcefully with an unmistakable iron fist , General de Gaulle subsequently pulled on a thick velvet glove with . which to assuage the ruffled feeling among the legislators . For more than an hour , like any other Premier , he sat on the Government 's front-row bench in the well of the steep hemicycle of red plush benches and answered the questions of Deputies speaking from the rostrum . Most of ' these sought assurances that in the projects for constitutional reform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there would be a provision for an Assembly elected by universal suffrage . General de Gaulle expressed surprise that anyone who had read the three principles expressed in his investiture speech ' Sunday could have doubts on this point . The first of these was that universal suffrage was the source of all power . " What I have done is so that the republic might continue , " he said to the applause from the ranks of those who supported him Sunday ? from Socialists to the extreme Right ? then added with uncharacteristic mildness and conciliation : " The best proof of this is the pleasure I have this evening at finding myself among you . " The size -a General de Gaulle 's majority on the final vote this morning-21 more votes than he received on his investiture Sunday ? eliminated the possibility that the initial reform measure would go to a popular referendum . In the present circumstances a referendum would almost certainly take on the aspect of a plebiscite for or against Premier de Gaulle , a procedure feared by the French Left ever since President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself Emperor Napoleon III in 1851 . Some Abstain Constitutional amendments are submitted to a referendum if they are passed by the Assembly on the first reading by a majority less than three-fifths of those voting . Those Socialists who voted against General de Gaulle Sunday as his investiture insured that there would be no quick referendum by abstaining in the vote this mornink , thereby putting the majority well over the three-fifths mark . ? , But , by the terms of the bill voted today , future amendments can be drafted by the de Gaulle Government , with the " advice " of consultative commissions , including both constitutional experts and members of Parliament and of the Council of State , France 's constitutional court . Thereafter they can be submitted directly to the electorate for approval . These reforms were to be drafted according to five principles , representing a mixture of General de Gaulle 's proposals and assurances asxed by Parliament . These were : 1 . The executive and legislative powers stem from elections under universal suffrage ; 2 . The executive and legislative powers must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respective functions effectively ( this was a main Gaullist innovation replacing the all-powerful Assembly dominating weak Cabinets ) ; 3 . The Government must be responsible before Parliament . 4 . Judicial authority must remain independent ; 5 . The Constitution must permit the organization of relationships between the republic and overseas territories . Grant of Autonomy Planned The last point was a reference to an intention attributed to General de Gaulle to redraft the Constitution in such a way as to facilitate grants of large , measures of autonomy , up to full independence , to the overseas territories . " If the vote that is going to be cast should constitute a gesture of confidence in me , I would cherish the honor of it all the rest of my life , " he said . Premier de Gaulle joined his Opposition in a wish to avoid a referendum now . In his final declaration to the chamber before the vote he reminded the Deputies that a failure to achieve a three-fifths majority would require Submission to the electorate , " which would create agitation . "   @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @         