@@720562

txt Chicago was busy Saturday putting a final polish on - its preparations for the 13 hour visit Monday of Queen Elizabeth and , Prince Philip . Despite the independence day holiday , many officials handling various aspects of the visit were hard at work with their staffs . On the lake front , east of Buckingham fountain , hammers pounded as laborers , finished setting the stage for the royal landing there . Police Get Orders Probably at no time in its colorful history has this brawny city tried so hard to make sure that things went smoothly during the stay of a visiting dignitary . From police headquarters , teletypes raped out orders to Official press photographers ' credentials . district stations thruout Chicago , giving detailed instructions for the 2,000 policemen who will be stationed along the procession routes Queen Elizabeth will follow Monday , and at the hotels and sightseeing landmarks she will visit . At the press center in the Blackstone hotel , assistants to Mayor Daley were busy registering representatives of newspapers , radio , and television arriving to cover the visit , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lines . Press to Get Briefing Hundreds of reporters are expected from all parts of the nation , from Canada , and from foreign countries . They will ill be briefed Sunday by Earl Bush , Mayor Daley 's press officer , and Jack Reilly , Daley 's director of special events . The man who will first welcome Queen Elizabeth to Chicago a n d then introduce her to other officials , Wiley T. Buchanan Jr. , chief of protocol for the state department , will arrive here Sunday from Washington . But in the meantime , Clement Conger , deputy chief of protocol in charge of visits and ceremonies , was making sure there would be no mixup during the landing ceremony . Name Plates on Carpet Queen Elizabeth will walk along a red carpet at the landing site as the 40 members of the official reception Committee are presented to her one by one . Conger disclosed ' that name plates will be affixed to the carpet edge , showing each committee member his place in the line . Ofily six persons will be on the reviewing platform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order , Mayor Daley , Gov . Stratton , and the queen . In the second row will be Buchanan , Prime Minister John G. Diefenbaker of Canada , and Prince Philip , Going British with a vengeance , the United States army will salute Queen Elizabeth during her arrival and later at the Conrad Hilton hotel with 27 army musicians playing a royal fanfare on 30 inch long herald trumpets ? the ' kind you see in movies about ' kings and queens . The musicians were sent here from Washington . T he trumpets were imported from England .                     