@@714330

txt Mr. Tietelbaum said Messrs . Nathan and Naster represented themselves as connected with a Washington " clique " which looked for " soft touches . " At the opening of the Dec. 5 hearing , Representative Cecil R. King ( D ) of California read a statement saying there was no evidence that high government officials took part in an attempted " shakedown . " " Lacking such testimony we assume they did not , " Mr. King said . All the officials named have made denials . Representative John W. Byrnes ( R ) of Wisconsin said Mr. King spoke for himself and not for the full committee . Mr. Byrnes said all the evidence was not in . Mr. King denounced Mr. Nathan as an attempted influence peddler , and scolded Mr. Caudle , North Carolinian who was tired from his government post by President Truman last month . Mr. King said the testimony about Mr. Nathan 's activities " points up to the fact that such persons thrive on any public official who is more interested in high living than in his own and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Nathan testified that " lots of people " approach him about tax matters , he volunteered . " Probably because they knew I knew Mr. Caudle . I did n't pay no attention to them . I told them to hire a lawyer . " Committee counsel Adrian De-wind asked Mr. Nathan to name some of the people who approached him . There was a fellow from Jacksonville , Fla. , Mr. Nathan said " and fellows around the race tracks , who knew I knew Mr. Candle . " " flow did they know that ? " " They seen me with him , " Mr. Nathan replied in a surprised tone . Mr. Teitelbaum said those named to him- as in the " clique " included Mr. Caudle , Jess Larson , head of the General Services Administration ; Charles Oliphant , chief counsel of the Internal Revenue Bureau , and George J. Schoeneman and Joseph Nunan , former Commissioners of Internal Revenue , All Deny Role All those named promptly made denials . Mr. Larson took the witness chair Dec. 4 and in an impassioned voice called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such " loose charges . " Mr. Nathan is a former Pittsburgh resident but said that for the past several years he has been mostly in Washington and has " laid around trying to make deals . " When Mr. Nathan took the stand Dec. 5 , his attorney , Loring Black of New York , asked that the committee permit Mr. Nathan to submit publicly to a lie-detector test . Mr. Black said a precedent for the use of modern " gadgets " had been set by the Senate Crime Investigation Committee , which allowed its session to be televised . Mr. King said the committee would consider the request later . On the point of Mr. Teitelbaum 's testimony that he had been told of a government " clique , " Mr. King 's statement said : " This committee received no testimony that these government officials in fact participated in any way in the attempted shakedown to which Mr. Teitelbaum alleged he was subjected . Testimony Necessary " Lacking such testimony we assume they did not and , it fact , all the persons named are reported to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this testimony , nevertheless , was required and was in the public interest . " Mr. King went on to say that Mr. Nathan 's success in posing as an influential man was due " very largely , it is apparent , because former Assistant Attorney General Lamar Caudle maintained a constant and public , social and business relationship with Nathan . " Mr. King added : " Even if Mr. Caudle was too blind or too self-interested to see the dangers of his association with Nathan , he was warned by close associates in the government of that danger . " Instead of heeding these warnings . Mr. Caudle simply contrived that these associates should also be publicly seen with Mr. Nathan . Rather than taking firm steps to remove Mr. Nathan 's ability to fabricate plausible stories of influence in high places , he contrived to give Nathan 's claim of power an appearance of firm foundation . "                     