@@717599

txt Letters to The Times CORNELIUS J. DWYER.BELA FABIAN , ARTHUR PERROW.JOSE BENSAUDE.MAX MANGEL . Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : According to The Times the Central Intelligence Agency occupies a third position on foreign aid in the Eisenhower Administration , distinct both from those who favor cutting it all down and from those who want a large-scale economic aid program . The C. I. A. position reportedly stresses military aid on the ground that communism has never yet won a country except by force of arms , regardless of , how bad economic conditions were . All this is certainly true . Before giving any economic aid we should first provide enough military assistance to enable the Governments of the countries concerned to maintain internal law and order . But above that level its value begins to diminish rapidly as compared with that of economic aid . It is said that large armies are needed in the peripheral countries as a deterrent to aggression , Nevertheless , it is obvio  --  s twat none of these countries could stand up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that the real deter-. rent to any such assault is United States retaliatory power . Negative Aspects After eight years of involvement in the economic aid business I have few illusions left as to what such aid can and can not do . It does not wipe out internal communism ; in some cases it has even been accompanied by a strengthening of it . It does n't make unswerving followers of the current United States foreign policy line out of its recipients . Nor does it make people " grateful . " But it does accomplish the limited purposes which our top policymakers expect from it . It should , therefore , be continued and expanded . The principal fault I have to find with our post-Marshall Plan program is that we have been too willing to undertake prv.ctically full responsibility for economic progress in too many countries , just as in the military field , where we have been charged with acquiring too many allies . Taking full responsibility means making detailed criticisms of governmental economic policy . As compared to Europe , it is both more difficult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our wishes in this respect and much easier to arouse their enmity by our efforts to do so . I believe that we should take this sort of economic responsibility in only a few areas , such as South Korea and South Vietnam  --  countries still recovering from recent wars  --  and that we should step up our aid to them until inflation has been stopped in its tracks . We should also continue technical assistance programs  --  involving no capital investment whatsoever  --  in a great many other countries . The cost of this is very low compared with its long-term benefits . Avoiding Responsibility Other aid involving capital investment , for dams , roads , factories , etc. , should be channeled through the International Bank if on a loan basis ( perhaps with much easier terms ) and the United Nations if on a grant basis . The United States might lose some of the credit by using these channels , but it would gain far more by avoiding the implied responsibility for the entire economic life of the recipient countries . It is perhaps true that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not always measured up to that employed by C. I. A. and its predecessors . But most of the benefit of such limited aid comes from the technicians hired , particularly the American employes of the big engineering companies who actually build the dams and other projects . In order to guarantee that the United States gets the credit which is due it and that recipient countries continue to receive the benefit of the technical experience of American contractors , I suggest that any such switch to aid through U. N. channels be accompanied by , the economically retrograde step of earmarking United States money for ! expenditure in the United States ? as , in fact , most other contributors to U. N. aid funds do , CORNELIUS J. DWYER . New York , Jan. 12 , 1956 . Freedom From Colonialism To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your excellent editorial " Colonialism in 1955 , " published on Dec. 30 , enumerates the countries of Asia and Africa whose peoples were recently freed of colonial rule and who have either regained or will shortly regain their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would be even more desirable if in 1956 the free world were to concentrate its attention upon the countries of Eastern and Central Europe whose peoples have now sunk to the status of colonialism . My native Hungary is one of these . After a thousand years of independence Hungary , a land of ancient culture , has become a Soviet colony . Moscow appoints her Government . Moscow commands her military and police forces and directs her educational and economic system . Moscow supervises her industrial and agricultural production . My little country gave the world great poets and authors , great painters , sculptors and musicians . Illustrious atomic physicists are Hungary 's contribution to science . At the present time 347 professons are affiliated with colleges and universities in the United States and 537 doctors practice medicine in this country who received their training at Hungarian universities . Other Central and East European nations , now languishing under Soviet colonial rule , such as the Baltia countries , Bulgaria , Czechoslovakia , Poland and Rumania , have made the same valuable contributions to world culture . BELA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National Council . New York , Jan. 2 , 1956 . Blame for Auto Accidents Incompetent Drivers , Not Vehicles , Said to Be ? Responsible ro THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES I believe Ralph Ober 's letter on auto accidents published Jan. 3 unjustly places the " major part of the blame on the automobile itself . " Mr. Ober speaks of the " slender sheet of tin " that folds like an accordion on impact . ( Of course it is not tin . - IL is rolled steel . Tin is a softer , more precious and corrosionresisting metal than iron or steel . ) The phenomenon of folding like an accordion is actually a safety factor acting as a " shock absorber " in a crash and serving to soften the blow . The " stout materials used in cars twenty-five years ago " did not necessarily provide greater injury-fromaccident protection , but on the contrary increased the force of the impact , bruising and mutilating the human bodies that remained in the car to a more serious degree . I am a collector and fancier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I feel they were constructed for durability and comfort , not for safety . Today 's passenger cars are fine examples of the persistent efforts of the manufacturers toward safe constructgion and operation of the family automobile . These efforts have resulted in shatterproof glass , dash padding , steering wheel recession , safety belts , and effective brakes . Safety Features It is an o ! ten-overlooked fact that the sudden deceleration and interruption of the directional momentum kills and maims the . victims and not the high speed per se . So today 's designers have properly concentrated on interior safety features . The continued increase in the horsepower of the modern automobile engine has been necessary for other reasons than just increased top speed . High speed is dependent on several additional factors , not horsepower alone . More horsepower is needled to move the larger ( more wind-resisting surface ) and heavier bodies at the same rate of speed as the former lighter cars . Part of the available horsepower is designed to allow for sudden emergency acceleration in traffic . There is also a loss of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of various fluid and automatic transmissions that must be compensated for by higher horsepower to produce " alert " performance . Finally , there are many demands on the motor for power incidental to propulsion ; that needed to run larger generators , fans and water pumps in addition to power brakes , power windows , power steering , pow er seats and other gadgets . We are certainly justified in throwing up our hands in horror at the current number of deaths from motor vehicles . But statistics over the years show that the death rate per 100,000,000 miles of vehicle travel has been greatly reduced . This figure was 15.6 in 1928 and is now down to 6.4 for 1954 , the last year for which statistics are available . So let us be fair and . rot make the vehicle responsible for the tragic deaths . Put the blame where it belongs , squarely on incompetent and emotionally immature drivers . ARTHUR PERROW . New York , Jan. 4 , 1956 . Issue of Iioa TO THE EDITOR OF THE NC1V YORK TIMES : Homer A. Jack in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to me to confuse the issue and the readers of your paper . The fact is that Goa f or atout 500 years has been a Portuguese overseas province , as Hawaii is part of the United States . To quote the words of Minority Speaker Joseph Martin Jr. : ' Fo take the territory of Goa. away from a loyal ally and give it to a country with which it has had no legal tics for 500 years would be unfortunate . It is difficult to believe India to be shortsighted enough to ask it . " The stra4htforward joint declaration of the United States and Portugal , through Secretary Dulles and Foreign Minister Cunha , has rung a much-needed note of optimism in a world troubled by lack of firmness and courageous decisions . JOSE BENSAUDE . Scarsdale , N. Y. , Jan , 2 , 1956 . Ball Park Plans Queried TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : ' I notice that Borough President John Cashmore has asked the Board of Estimate to appropriate $80,000 for fees to cover plans for a new baseball park for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city to build the ball park . Although I am a baseball fan and live in Brooklyn , I think there are greater needs for the benefit of our city folks . How about building escalators in the subways where they are needed ? , MAX MANGEL ? . , Brooklyn , Jan. 12 , 1956 . Policy on Foreign Aid Channeling of Economic Aid Through U. N. Is Advocated                     