@@717183

txt CHICAGO , July 2 ? The American school teacher is reported to be finding it more difficult than ever to control her classroom . Discipline has deteriorated in the nation 's public schools . In many instances it has broken down . Pupils are restless in class , are often disobedient , and show signs of anxiety . This was made known today by a commission of the National Education Association , which has just completed a year-long study of the problems faced by 3,400 typical classroom teachers . To the surprise of the educators making the survey , discipline was among the problems most troublesome to the average teacher . The Commission for the Defense of Democracy Through Education , sponsor of the study , // will make its findings public when the National Education Association opens its ninety-third annual convention here tomorrow . Fifteen thousand teachers , administrators and other school officials , from every state in the union , will meet for the six-day sessions . Adlai E. Stevenson , Democratic Presidential candidate , and Harold E. Stassen , ' special assistant to President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the delegates . In the study of classroom discipline , the commission found that the pupils were more rest- ' less in class than ever before . For whatever the reasons , they stressed that it was now more difficult to maintain order in the classroom . Dr. Richard B. Kerman , sec- , retary of the commission , said ' the teachers listed these teaching problems as causing them ) their greatest headaches : 9Increased pupil restlessness . elGeneral deterioration of discipline . qincreased difficulty of room discipline . Although the teachers did not have any final answers for this breakdown in the classroom , they voiced their opinions on the issue . The teachers blamed the effect of outside agencies on their pupils , such as television land comic books . They also blamed the lack of community , services , saying there were not enough swimming pools , playgrounds and other recreational centers . Pupils Do As They Please ' Some teachers , especially those on the high school level , blamed the " progressive educa tion " methods used in the ele- , mentary schools . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in many grade ' schools , with the result that the ' pupils " just about do as theyll please . " Seeking further reasons , Dr Kerman said the same influences ; that had increased the rate of I juvenile delinquency in thisI country were behind the deterio ration of classroom discipline . Some of the teachers , he added , blamed a breakdown in parental discipline for the lack of respect that so many pupils were showing to their classroom teachers . Overcrowded classes also came in for a share of the blame . With thirty-five or forty pupils to a class , as is the case so often , it is almost impossible for the teacher to meet the individual needs of the youngsters . Dr. Kennan asserted that the teachers felt frustrated when they had large classes and found that they simply could not do the kind of job that they would like to do . " Frankly , we were greatly surprised and somewhat shocked at the results of our survey , " Dr. Kerman said . " We did n't expect to find that classroom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today . " Further Study Proposed But because it is , the commission is going to recommend to its parent body that greater attention be given to this question . The commission is going to pro1pose to the delegates that another study be mace , to seek the ' causes of classroom discipline ( problems and attempt to find solutions . The commission will seek authority to sponsor a series of four to six regional conferences . These meetings , to be held in conjunction with parent and school groups , would be devoted to discussions of the causes of increased disciplinary problems . They would go into the specific nature of the problems , and the ; most promising means of combating this breakdown . Each conference would be addressed by an educator , a psychiatrist and a social worker experienced in dealing with young people . A questionnaire would be sent to 10,000 teachers , aimed at finding the precise nature of the disciplinary problems of concern to teachers , the current methods of dealing with the problems and ways by which teachers could be helped to reduce the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cThe commission also voted to onduct an investigation in Kan , sas City , Mo. , of the conditions that lead to the non-renewal of the contract of Mark Bils , Superintendent of Schools . This action was taken following requests for an investigation by the Kansas City Association " of Community Councils and by the Teachers Cooperative Council . At its meeting today , the board of directors of the National Education Association annouseed that membership had passed the 600,000 mark . Plans were made by the directors for continued expansion of the N. E. A , activities in the school and college fields . The convention schedule calls for meetings of more than twe : , - ty departments , special conferences of committees and many sectional meetings and discussion groups . The convention has as its theme " America 's Main Power : Educated Man Power . "                     