@@718205

txt Speaking before the American Legion convention in Los Angeles on Wednesday , Adlai Stevenson expressed the hope that the military draft would be ended " at the earliest possible moment consistent with national safety . " To this he added : " There is not peace  --  the peace we seek  --  while our sons and brothers are still being drafted for two years of military service , their schooling interrupted , their normal lives postponed . " While Mr. Stevenson 's hope of ending the draft law was carefully guarded by the phrase " at the earliest possible moment consistent with national safety , " it is difficult not to read into these remarks an appeal to the spirit of let-down natural in a people who have made the sacrifice that the people of this country have made in the " cold war " ? that is , in the effort to keep the United States strong in the face of potential Soviet aggression . We do not think that this appeal on Mr. Stevenson 's part will be helpful , either at home , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to maintain a strong defense Will be needed for a long time to come , or abroad , where the effect of Mr. Stevenson 's remarks seems likely to be at least disconcerting . At this moment , for example , the Adenauer Government in Germany  --  a stanch pro-Western ally  --  faces a heavy attack by an opposition party that would both repeal the German conscription act ( so strongly urged upon Germany by all the Western Governments ) and annul or greatly weaken Germany 's Western alliances . The Adenauer Government is already in trouble as a result of rumors that under the so-called " Radford Plan " the size of American ground forces may be scaled down substantially . This new report that a Presidential candidate in the United States is looking forward hopefully to an end of the American draft certainly will not help . In fact , though not so intended , Mr. Stevenson 's remarks at Los Angeles seem all too likely to encourage neutralist sentiment elsewhere in Europe and to play into the hands of those people everywhere who would like to slow up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If the threat of Soviet aggression continues to be as real as Mr. , Stevenson himself has many times said it was , this is not the time to talk a the sacrifices of the American draft or ? to hint hopefully at the possible end of the real bulwark of American military strength  --  the Selective Service Act . When a candidate for high office faces an uphill battle , as it is generally presumed Mr. Stevenson does in this year 's election , there is an inevitable temptation for him to appeal to people weary of the necessary sacrifices they have been called upon to make or to large groups of other people with some special interest . Mr. Stevenson seems to us to have done this , in the present instance , and we have noted with disappointment certain other actions on his part in these first days of the 1956 campaign . We were surprised to find him , at Sioux City , Iowa , on Aug. 29 , assailing President Eisenhower for his veto of that traditional pork-barrel measure , the Rivers and Harbors Bill  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as an act requiring considerable courage in an election year . Again , we were not reI assured by the circumstances of Mr. Stevenson 's promise at Detroit , Ion Sept. 3 , to work for repeal of the Taft-Hartley Act if he should be elected . Mr. Stevenson was speaking at Detroit of organized labor 's desire for higher wages , and in this conInection he said , " That is why it is Iso important to repeal and replace the Taft-Hartley Act with a new law which will strengthen and equalize the essential processes of free collective bargaining . " It must be remembered , we believe , that one purpose of the TaftHartley Act was to correct inequalities in the practice of collective bargaining previously established under the Wagner . Act  --  a - law so deliberately one-sided that , while listing various " unfair practices " on the part of employers , it failed to list a single " unfair practice " on the part of a trade union . Few people have ever contended that the Taft-Hartley Act is perfect . But certainly if the need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free collective bargaining , " the Taft-Hartley Act was aimed in that direction . If the act is now to be repealed and " bargaining power " of organized labor is to be " equalized " as it was under the Wagner Act , , the prospect is not without its possibilities of an unending spiral of wageprice rises and a further progress toward inflation . The campaign is young , and Mr. Stevenson will have many opportunities to say more on these and other subjects . We believe it is a fair statement , however , . that at certain points the early'days of his campaign have been disappointing to a considerable . number of independent voters ..                     