@@718789

txt Chrysler Corp . yesterday filed a $5 million damage suit against Local 212 , A.F.L.-C.I.O . Auto Workers ' union . over what the auto maker called the union 's refusal to handle the inter-plant movement of equipment . Chrysler also asked for $500,000 a day for each day subsequent to the filing of the suit that the union allegedly continues to refuse to move tools , dies and fixtures from Stamping division plants here to the company 's new Twinsburg , Ohio , facility . The - suit was filed in the U. S. District Court here . Chrysler has been plagued with a series of wildcat strikes in recent weeks in its running bktle with the local union over the transfer of equipment . The union has contended the transfer of equipment will lead to the loss of jobs here . Comment . From Bead of Local Informed of Chrysler 's action , Pat Caruso , head of Local 212 , declared : " We 're still not going to move the dies and fixtures . " He added he will have ' no specific comment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chance to look it over . No one at Solidarity House , headquarters of the international union , would " comment on the suit immediately . In the suit filed in court here Chrysler estimated it has suffered $5 million worth of damages since the Local 212 wildcat strikes first began " on or about " last February 15 . Chrysler also said that each day the local 's " unlawful acts continue , the company is sustaining daily $500,000 in loss of profits . " Chrysler accused the local of having its members refuse to prepare , or load for shipment or remove from the Detroit stamping plants the following equipment : Dies , die models , die model duplications , die model females , templates , patterns , engineering metal drafts , checking fixtures , tool and die designs , hammer forms and other tools , machines , fixtures , and equipment . Chrysler called on , U.A.W. President Walter Reuther to order Local 212 's officers to stop their " obstructive and illegal activities . " The company termed the work stoppages a violation of its contract with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in charge of personnel , said in his letter to Mr. Reuther that the wildcat strikes are causing " substantial losses to the company . " Effects of Walkouts Last Saturday Chrysler was forced to cancel overtime work for that day because of a lack of parts caused by the strikes . Plymouth and Dodge output have also been affected for varying periods in the past week . The 23,000-member Local 212 yesterday was voting on whether to approve a strike against the company . The results are to be known this morning . If the local favors a strike , the U.A.W. 's international executive board will be asked to sanction a walkout . Near-normal operations returned to Chrysler yesterday . The only disturbance , according to a company spokesman , ' was at South Ver nor die plant , where 150 first-turn workers were sent home when five crane operators failed to report for work The failure to report was in protest against a layoff of a crane operator on Tuesday for refusing to load a plastic die on a truck . Another 250 were still on the job @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complaints against management are these : It charges management refuses to give assurance that 1,500 engineering and office workers in the Stamping division will receive preferential hiring at the Twinsburg stamping plant . It demands the company return seat cushion manufacture to its Mack Avenue plant . Such work is now handled by a supplier . And Local 212 says it wants the return of tool and die work that it charges the company has farmed out to suppliers . In two separate statements , one to Mr. Reuther and the other to Mr. Caruso . Chrysler management sought to make its position clear . Mr. Conder , in his letter to Mr. Reuther , noted there is a written agreement between the company and union providing job transfer rights for ho " rly employes whose jobs will he affected by the move to Twinsburg . The agreement was signed last March 7 . He said the company at present does not " contemplate " that salaried workers in the stamping plants will he displaced by the opening of the Twinsburg plant . But if there is a prospect of some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ international union . " This would be followed by a meeting for the purpose of negotiating a program for placing the affected salaried workers at the Twinsburg plant , according to Mr. Condor . Question of Sent Cushion Work Walter B. Connolly , the Stamping division 's personnel manager , in a letter to Mr. Caruso , tackled the question of why the seat cushion work has been farmed to suppliers . Mr. Connolly said the local union has been informed that management would like to return this operation to company plants if the work can be " manned efficiently and competitively . . . " Then Mr. Connolly charged : " You ( Mr. Caruso ) havenot mid the-1nm , hers of Local 212 that this job was lost in 1956 because of the stand you ' took when it de . veloped ? You were informed that we were about to lose it . We were losing it because contractors outside the corporation were pre , pared to supply Plymouth at a lower price than we could meet because of the poor per . formance in our cushion department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In January , 1956 , you took the position that if keeping the cushion job depended on better employe performance and taking out unnecessary manpower , you would not conSider this , and the job should go outside . You left its no alternative but to lose the work and the jobs that went with it . " Views on Work Standards The Chrysler official said that recently Mr. Caruso had indicated the company could look forward to " substantial improvement . in eni ploye performance " if the cushion jab were regained . Mr. Connolly said he is ready to show " in writing " the kind of work standards that would be required if management were to bring the work back . As to the union 's complaint concerning sub letting work to subcontractors , Mr. Connolly said that is strictly a management function , involving " make or buy " decisions , He argued that the labor pact permits the management to do whatever it believes necessary to make the company " competitive and successful . ? .. " Ever since the introduction of Chrysler 's 1957 autos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Just last month the 4,000 members of Local 230 ended a five-week strike against Chrysler 's Maywood , Calif. , assembly plant . The issue concerned work standards . In efforts to pal pressure on the company to settle the strike , U.A.W. leadership banned overtime work by Chrysler locals around the country . The ban was lifted when the strike was settled . Chrysler has had a number of other dis ? agreements with U.A.W. locals this year in the Detroit area . None of them , however , led to official walkouts in this area . The disputes were over the production pace , with the union charging that management was trying to extract . more output per man-hou ? than was obtained in the 1957 model year . The present wrangle with Local 212 , though , stems chiefly from the dispute over job transfer rights for certain employes to the Twinsburg plant .                     