@@716300

txt The fast footwork of Senator Joseph . R. McCarthy ( R ) of Wisconsin  --  his ability to dramatize and expand an issue to big proportions on the spur of the moment  --  have been exhibited anew to the nation 's television audience watching the ArmySchine hearings . Senator McCarthy seized upon an Army chart , which ineptly spotted in blacl the calendar days when Pvt . G. David Schine obtained passes while under basic training at Fort Dix , N.J. He called it a " completely dishonest , phony " document . The Wisconsin senator demanded to have the Army produce the person who prepared the chart , tell how much it cost , and advise how many " generals and colonels " and others spent time in its preparation . 116 Passes Spotlighted The chart , portraying in calendar form the months of November , December , and January , 1953 , actually showed that 16 passes had been issued to Private Schine from Nov. 3 to Jan. 16 . A parallel chart was also furnished by the Army showing the " typical authorized absences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passes . Becausa Private Schine 's absences were drawn in black on his chart , whereas the absence of " the average trainees " had only light black bars passing through them on the parallel chart , Senator McCarthy called the presentation one of the " most dishonest , phony jobs of chart making I 've ever seen . " Whether the use of solid blacking on one chart and black bars on the other represented a routine attempt at differentiation or was , as Senator McCarthy charged , an attempt to deceive the television audience could not be ascertained in advance of possible testimony from those who prepared the twin charts . Attention Distracted But the whole episode distracted attention from the situation on which the committee was seeking testimony  --  namely , whether Private Schine actually did receive preferential treatment at Fort Dix , how many passes and phone calls he received , and when his passes were halted . Senator McCarthy made a melodramatic presentation before the television cameras as he stood beside one of the huge charts ? that of the average trainee  --  and proceeded to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the average trainee would have received passes , too . The charts were on exhibit at the committee table as the hearings went into their 20th day May 25 . Small glossy-printcopies were passed out to the press . Besides listing 16 passes issued to Private Schine at Fort Dix , they also contained a calendar record of " telephone messages " from Senator McCarthy 's staff to Fort Dix about Private Schine while the private was there for basic training . Ryan Ends Testimony The charts were offered as Maj. Gen. Cornelius E. Ryan , Fort Dix commandant and Korean war veteran , completed his time in the witness chair . Senator McCarthy was careful to exempt General Ryan from blame for the chart preparation . General Ryan said he understood the charts were prepared at the direction of the Army 's special counsel , Joseph N. Welch . Senator McCarthy allowed that he had been told by a " friend at the Pentagon " that the preparation of the charts and the copies to the press represented an " unnecessary waste of money . " In addition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one chart showed that the private " called his girl friend . " A careful examination of the chart failed to disclose any preference to a phone call made to a " girl friend . " The only phone calls noted were calls made by the McCarthy staff , including its chief counsel , Roy Cohn , or calls from Private Schine concerning passes . Instructions Cited The chart record showed that Private Schine obtained passes for both Christmas and New Year 's week-ends , whereas trainees normally received a pass for only one of these weekends . They also showed numerous evening passes during the early weeks . General Ryan had testified previously that Army Secretary Robert T. Stevens had instructed him to allow Private Schine passes when requested for subcommittee business if the absences did not interfere with his training . He said an investigation by his inspector general failed to disclose any evidence that Private Schine was not doing subcommittee work while absent from the post on passes . Under questioning by Thomas R. Prewitt , assistant subcommittee counsel , General Ryan said he did not regard the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preferential treatment . " First Lt. John B. Blount , General Ryan 's aide-de-camp and a Korean veteran , testified that Mr , Cohn complained several times " in no uncertain terms " about the way Private Schine was treated at Fort Dix . Lieutenant Blount said he had received " in excess of 25 " telephone calls from the McCarthy staff while Private Schine was at Fort Dix , Related stories : First page , second section .                     