@@714821

txt A spokesman for Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower disavowed tonight any suggestion that the Republican nominee wa- considering any deals with Mississippi Dixiecrats for electoral support from that state . " We have made no deals since the beginning of the general 's preconvention campaign and we will not make any between now and election , " said the spokesman , James C. Hagerty , press secretary to the general . His statement was made after he had talked by telephone with General Eisenhower and had informed him of published reports that a Mississippi Dixiecrat delegation , headed by former Lieut . Gov . Sam Lumpkin , had made a conditional offer of support for the Republican candidate on a thirdparty ticket in November . The price of support reportedly was that the general should softpeddle any advocacy of affirmativa civil rights legislation , and that he also should undertake to remove Perry W. Howard , the only Negro Republican National Committeeman , from party control in Mississippi . While the Mississippi group had told reporters about its satisaction with a " conference " with General Eisenhower , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general 's office to shake hands with him at his regular noon ' open house " for persons not having an appointment . An earlier appointment between the general and Walter G. Johnson , business wriager of The Jackson ( Miss . ) Daily News , tad been cancelled by Eisenhower headquarters without explanation . The Mississippi group did meet with Gov , Sherman Adams of New Hampshire , head of the nominee 's personal advisory staff . " No proposal and no deal was ever suggested to the general at any time . " Mr. Hagerty said . Mr. Lumpkin had said that the regular state Democratic party , led by Gov . Hugh L. White , had de- cided to back the Democratic national ticket , and that the Republi- can party of Mississippi consisted of only a handful of members who were feuding with each other : The Mississippi controversy came in a day in which Arthur E. Summerfield , Republican National Chairman , charged that the selection of Wilson W , Wyatt as Democratic campaign manager for Gov . Adlai E. Stevenson of Illinois would mean " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation down the road to complete- socialism of America . " Mr. Summerfield , General Eisenhower and other party leaders were busy during the day trying to iron out a disagreement between the regular party organizations and the Citizens for Eisenhower Com-1 mittee and the role it would play in the election campaign . They planned to ' meet again tomorrow , and expressed confidence an agreement could be announced then . Assails " Ultra-Left-Wingers ? " The appointment of Wilson W. Wyatt by the Democratic nominee for President as his campaign manager clearly demonstrates that the ultra-left-wingers of the country ? not the Democratic party  --  will have complete charge of his Mr. Stevenson 's Campaign , " Mr. Summerfield said . The Republican National Chairman continued : " It is significant that Mr. Wyatt was formerly the ; head of Americans for Democratic Action , an organization dedicated to the promotion of Socialist schemes in America . * * * " Mr. Wyatt 's record speaks for itself . When he was the Housing Expediter he tried to foist on the American people a ' program of socialized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a . Democrat Congress rejected it , thereby forcing his resig-I Now he turns up as the campaign manager for the Democrat Presidential nominee , " There were these other develop ments at Eisenhower headquarters igSenator Everett M. Dirksen of Illinois , who placed Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio in nomination at the Republican convention and led a bitter personal attack upon Thomas E. Dewey of New York , a backer of General Eisenhower , assured the general personally of his full support and-his willingness to stump for the entire Republican ticket this fall , Senator Dirksen was invited here in. his capacity as chairman of the Republican Senate Campaign Committee . IlSenator Arthur V. Watkins of Utah , another Taft supporter who volunteered that lie had been described as an isolationist , said that he and General Eisenhower " are in pretty full agreement on foreign policy . " However , Mr. Hagerty asserted that the general 's view on foreign policy are well known  --  and the general speaks for himself . " On Constitutional Grounds Mr. Hagerty 's assertion was made when General Eisenhower 's comment on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senator brought out that he had voted against the North Atlantic Treaty , the instrumentality under whick General Eisenhower recently served as Supreme Allied Commander in Europe , and that he had opposed President Truman 's intervention in the Korean war . Senator Watkins asserted that it was on constitutional grounds that , he had argued in the Senate against United States intervention in Korea , without prior approvall of Congress . He said he did not ' think it would have made any difference if the Communists had conquered all of Korea while Con ? congress considered a Presidential re ? quest for the right to intervene because the United States still could have expelled the aggressor by a successful landing at Inchon . In. the party strategy conferences , it was clear that the Indio pendent role demanded by the Citizens Committee , headed by Walter Williams of Seattle and Mrs. Oswald B. Lord of New York , was the principal stumbling block to complete harmony in the Republican campaign planning . Both General Eisenhower and Senator Richard M. Nixon of California , the Vice Presidential candidate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ role in appealing for independent and dissident Democratic votes . But the party professionals headed by Mr. Summerfield are lukewarm about giving this group complete autonomy because they remember the unhappy experience of the 1940 campaign when the Willkie clubs , organized to back the candidacy of the late Wendell L , Willkie , clashed frequently with regular Republican organizations .                     