@@719802

txt An Administration drive for major stiffening amendments to the Kennedy-Ives labor reform bill collapsed in the Senate today . The Administration 's defeat on the days major test was so decisive that supporters gave up the fight . They decided not to press for other controve , sial changes sought by Ian-ks P. Mitchell , Secretary of Labor . The Senate then took up the disposing of revisions sought by Senators favoring a tougher bill than the Administration had recommended . Hope for a vote on final passage tonight was abandoned shortly before 10 P. M. when leaders arranged for continuation of debate next week under an agreement designed to bring about a final vote Monday night . Public Reporting Sought As it stands , the bill calls for detailed public reporting , criminal penalties and various other measures designed to curb racketeering and assure democratic processes in the labor movement . It carries out recommendations of the Select Senate Committee on Improper Activities in the Labor or Management Field . The special committee 's chairman , Senator John L. McClellan , Democrat of Arkansas . vigorously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House , where prospects for action this session are said to be doubtful at best . The Senate had expected to pass the hill tonight until lengthy argument developed over a proposal by Senator Charles E. Potter , Republican of Michigan , dealing with the Use of union funds for political purposes . Mr. Potter offered an I amendment to require refunds to union members of dues used for purposes other than collective bargaining . A vote on the proposal was postponed until Monday . Key Amendment The key amendment offered today would have barred services of the National Labor Relations Board to unions failing to meet the bill 's requirements for detailed annual financial accounting to the Secretary of Labor . The proposal was rejected , 53 to 30 . Only two Democrats , Senators Frank J. Lausche of Ohio and Strom Thurmond of South Carolina , crossed the party line on the tally . Ten Republicans deserted the Administration camp and voted with the majority . In view of the one-sided defeat , Senator H. Alexander Smith , who offered tn ? amendment , said he would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ introduced for the Administration . Then , with the acquiescence of the bill 's bipartisan managers , the New Jersey Republican obtained approval without opRosition ' of several relatively minor changes suggested by Secretary Mitchell . These included one to establish a Commissioner of Labor Reports to administer the reporting provisions . Senator John F. Kennedy , Democrat of Massachusetts , and chief sponsor of the bill , said the changes illustrated " how insignificant and picayune " were most of the objections raised against the bill by Secretary Mitchell . The bill , while expanding and broadening existing reporting requirements , provides criminal penalties for violations instead , of depriving unions of N. L. R. B. services as present law does . Senator Kennedy and the cosponsor . Irving M. Ives , Republican of New York , contended that the new enforcement method would be more effective and more equitable . It would punish those responsible for the offenses rather than rank-and-file union members , they argued . Knowland Plan Defeated Senator William F. Knowland , Republican of California , offered several amendments that went beyond - Administration proposals . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accused of wrongdoing . A recall referendum could have been forced by a petition of 20 per cent of a union 's members , and officers removed by majority ballot . The proposal lost , 52 to 31 , with 6 Democrats and 12 Republicans crossing the party lines . A ' provision requiring the removal of officers by majority vote " but only for cause " and without setting up . any procedures to carry it out was adopted , 47 to 35 . This was proposed by Senators Sam J. Ervin Jr. , Democrat of North Carolina , with the support of Senator Kennedy . At today 's session , Mr. Kennedy accepted and the Senate approved a proposal by Senator Prescott Bush , Republican of Connecticut , to prohibit union loans of more than $1,500 to union officers . The bill 's reporting provisions go considerably beyond requirements of present law both in scope and detail . Reports Would Be Public The reports , unlike those now required , would be open to public inspection . Unions would have to make the same data available to all of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income and outgo , the unions would , have to provide such information as loans in excess of $500 to any union officers or employers and loans to any business organization . Union officers would also have to detail ? all financial transactions involving possible conflicts of interest such as income from a business employing members represented by the union . - The bill seeks to expose the activities of union-busting " middlemen " by requiring reports from labor relations consultants on their activities on behalf of employers who retain them . Payments to " middlemen " by union officials would be made a Federal crime . The measure broadens another existing reporting requirement to cover all unions rather than merely those entitled to N. L. R. B. facilities . Copies of union constitutions and by-laws and specific date on internal operations mot . be filed with the Secretary of Labor . The new penalties for violaUnit. of reporting requirements range up- to a year 's imprisonment and fines of $10,000 on each count . Convicted labor officials would be barred from holding union office for five years . The bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ racketeering officials of a parent organization . It sets ? up ( standards for the establishment of trusteeships over locals by international unions and requires reports on the arrangements to the Secretary of Labor . Other provisions designed to insure union democracy include election of officers by international unions every four years and by local unions every three years . Secret ballots in local elections and either secret ballots or a convention of delegates chosen by secret ballot in international unions are specified . The use of union funds to meet campaign expenses would be prohibited . So would intimidation of voters , denials of the right to vote and dishonest counting of ballots . The bill makes it a Federal crime to embezzle funds of any tax-exempt organization , including trade unions . It excludes from union office anyone convicted of specified major crimes until one year after his right to vote has been restored . This varies , according to state law . several amendments to the 1947 Taft-Hartley LaborManagement Relations Act , the bill would permit strikers in an economic dispute to vote in N. L. R. B. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provision would narrow the definition of supervisors barred from union membership under the Taft-Hartley Act . Picketing to " shake down " employers  --  that is , to extract payments for the withdrawal of pickets  --  would be subject to court injunction.                     