@@715142

txt In its final action before adjourning until February the General Assembly of the United Nations did one last good deed by turning a contemptuous thumbs-down on a Soviet attempt to indict the United States on charges of " mass murder " of war prisoners in Korea . Taught by experience , the Assembly recognized the Soviet proposal for what it was  --  a shabby propaganda maneuver executed by shabby characters who have usurped power in once great and respected nations and now seek to deflect attention from their own misdeeds . As a result the Soviet attempt became more than a failure ; it turned into a boomerang . Only the Soviets and their puppets voted for it . Forty-five nations from all continents repudiated it , while ten abstained for special reasons of their own . The immediate purpose of the Soviet maneuver was obviously to counteract the devastating impression on world opinion , including that of Asia , created by the blunt and arbitrary Communist rejection of the Indian peace plan for Korea , which the Assembly adopted by all but the Communist votes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , produced such a display of solidarity among the free nations , and threw the Communists into such patent isolation , that the Soviets felt compelled to strike back with an allegation of American " atrocities " in Korea . The United Nations has given the proper answer to this maneuver , but we can be sure that this is not the end of the matter . On the contrary , this is only part of a long-standing and systematic Soviet hate campaign directed mainly against the United States in an effort to isolate us and to divide the free world . In such a campaign charges of war atrocities leveled against the United States are obviously deemed to be an effective weapon , on the supposition that some of the mud thrown at us will stick or at least create doubt in some people 's minds . That will help to prepare the ground for one final purpose of the campaign , which is to organize deliberate warfare behind our lines , even in the prisoner camps , not only in the Korean war but also in any future conflict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist prisoners are still considered Communist soldiers , subject to Communist orders , and as such ate directed to organize mutinies and riots in direct violation of the Geneva Convention . The purpose of this is to pin down United Nations forces , to terrorize non-Communists and to provide propaganda material for the Soviets . Among the riot victims more than a hundred have been killed by the Communists themselves , and where orders or indoctrination has provided insufficient stimulus for action , dope and the killing of the prisoners ' relatives at home appear to be additional means of throwing prisoners into a suicidal frenzy that makes them defy their guards . The precise circumstances of the riots are still under investigation . But ? there is no doubt that Rrisoners of war are subject to discipline which permits neither riots nor mutiny , and the Geneva Convention itself expressly permits the use of armed force as an extreme measure where necessary . The ? investigation which is now in progress may demonstrate that additional precautions are needed to prevent or to deal with such mass rioting as has taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a deliberate Communist tactic in the cold war , and the General Assembly of the United Nations has shown that it recognizes it as such .                     