@@720581

txt The smashing defeat administered by the Massachusetts Nouse to legislation abolishing capital punishment , except in some instances , was attributed today by leading proponents to voter inaction and failure of clerical leaders to do effective work among legislators . In the aftermath of the 168-50 House vote on July 14 against the abolition bill , proponents were searching for new approaches to the problem for a 1960 abolition campaign . Although a measure calling for a referendum on capital punishment in the 1960 state election rests on the Senate table , many abolitionists are opposed to the referatum approach as are many opponents of abolition . The referendum was proposed by Governor Furcolo but it has found few backers to date . Called Disappointing Until the Massachusetts Chiefs of Police Association officially opposed the abolition bill , even though it would have continued capital punishment for firsttegree murderers of law-enforcement officers and prison guards and for those committed by escaping prisoners , proponents ' hopes had been high for victory or least a relatively close vote . Thus the size of the antiabolition vote was stunning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Massachusetts Society for Abolition of the Death Penalty , who has led the abolition fight for many years . Mrs. Ehrmann today asserted : " Considering the wide public endorsement , last night 's vote was disappointing . However , it was the most favorable vote to date upon an abolition bill . " The majority who voted against the bill voted against the report of the special commission which spent 15 months studying this question , against the rec ommendation of the joint judiciary committee , and a vote of our state officials charged with administration of the criminal law . Voter Inaction Noted " It is hard to believe , therefore , that the vote represented the informed and considered opinions of those representatives . The fault probably lies with the inaction of their constituents who did not make their views known to them . Where the voters contacted their representatives , the legislators responded by voting for the bill . " Representative Sumner Z. Kaplan ( D ) of Brookline , one of the chief House spokesmen for the abolition bill , attributed the House defeat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abolition to do their job completely . Where they did the proper work in contacting legislators , the work was effective . " The Brookline Representative also said the police chiefs communication read to the House by Representative John J. Toomey ( D ) of Cambridge was a big factor in the size of the vote against abolition . Life Sentence Backed Mr. Kaplan asserted that over the past five years abolitionists have sought every means of obtaining favorable vote on abolition . " Next year , " he added , " I plan to make a strong pitch for my bill which would require life imprisonment in first-degree murder except when juries recommend capital punishment . Now capital punishment is mandatory except when juries recommend life imprisonment . " Although Alr . Kaplan had this bill before the Legislature this year . he did not push hard for it because abolitionists were concentrating on the bill just kilted by the House . The police chiefs ' letter against the pending bill , from Hector J. Pelletier , Cohasset chief of police and executive secretary o1 the association , read : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have not requested , or even suggested , that we should have special protection in capital cases . - We have accepted this work with the understanding that this is into chance that we take . " The citizens of this commonwealth come first . - We sincerely hope that the members of the House of Representatives will keep the law on the book as it now stands . "                     