@@718884

txt The Liberal party , which has held power in Canada for twentytwo years , suffered heavy reverses in yesterday 's general elections . It lost its pre-election margin of 168 seats in the House of Commons . Nine of its seventeen Cabinet Ministers were defeated in their House races . Early today the Liberals had elected only ninety-nine members in the House and were lead-I ing in four other contests . The Conservatives had increased their membership from fiftythree seats in the last elections to at least 109 in this one . They were leading in three other races . The Conservatives were . as-1 sured of being the largest bloc Ln the 265-seat House . Therefore heir leader , John Diefenbaker , vas expected to be called upon 3y Governor General Vincent qassey to form a Government ind assume the post of Prime Minister . Under the circumstances the - esignation of the Liberal leader , Prime Minister Louis St. Laurent , on behalf of his Government was regarded as certain . In the event that Mr. Diefenbaker declines or finds it impossible to form a Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Laurent might be requested to make the attempt himself . In any case , a minority Gov2rnment can remain in power only as long as it . is tolerated by the other minorities that contribute to its shaky majority . No such Government can remain in office long . However , in Canada no party would be likely to precipitate an election after October . Winter sets in then and there would be great difficulty for the voters to get to polling places and for candidates to carry their messages to the voters . Parliament will not sit before October , when Queen Elizabeth II is expected to visit Canada to open the new session . Therefore , the chances are that whichever party forms the new Government will be taken on ' sufferance by the Opposition at least until next spring and that the new Government will refrain from any very conti%. ) versial measures . It was not so much a proConservative mood that caused the swing in popular voting in the Maritimes , Ontario and Manitoba . It was an anti-Government reaction by the voters . The Maritimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and their interests ' neglected by the Federal Government . Voters in Ontario , led by Provincial Premier Leslie Frost , felt they had been short-1 changed on Federal-Provincial sharing of direct tax revenues . The farmers of Manitoba , with thousands of bushels of unsold wheat on their farms , disapproved of the Government 's grain-marketing policies . And throughout most of the country except Quebec there was a feeling that after twenty-two years the Liberals had been in power too long and that it was time for a change or at least a stronger Opposition . The chances of a coalition between the Socialists and the Conservatives seemed remote . Social Credit , which is more conservative than the Conservatives in some respects , would find it difficult to join with Mr. Diefenbaker 's party because of the unorthodox monetary policies of the Social Credit movement . Prime Minister St. Laurent and his son , Jean Paul , were reelected in their constituencies in Quebec , and so was Mr. Diefenbaker in Prince Albert , Sask . John W. Pickersgill , Minister of Citizenship and Immigration in the previous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Paul Martin , Minister of Health was re-elected . So were Lionel Chewier , former head of the Canadian St. Lawrence Seaway Authority and one of the two Ministers of Transport , George Marler , Second Minister of Transport , Jean Lesage , Minister of Northerh Affairs and National Resources and James Sinclair , Minister of Fisheries . They were among the lucky ones . For several of their Cabinet colleagues it was rough going . Early last evening the following ministers conceded defeat by Conservatives : Milton Gregg , Minister of Labor ; Robert Winters , Minister of Public Works ; James J. Mc Cann , Minister of Revenue ; Hugues Lapointe , Postmaster General ; Walter Harris , Minister of Finance ; Paul Hellyer , recently appointed Associate Minister of Defense , and Stuart Garson , Minister of Justice . C. D. Howe , Minister of Trade ( and Commerce , and the Minister of Defense , Ralph Campney , also were defeated . Lester B. Pearson , Secretary of State for External Affairs and probably the Canadian most widely known abroad , started the evening running almost even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , he drew steadily ahead until he had a lead of about 5,000 and appeared to be safe . Solon Low , leader of the Social Credit party , and M. F. Coldwell , leader of the Socialists , were re-elected . The percentages of the popular vote showed a strong trend toward the Conservatives under Mr. Diefenbaker , their new leader , for whom the results were a personal triumph . The Liberals maintained their strength in their stronghold in Quebec but were in serious danger of losing their status as a truly national party . Everywhere else , from Newfoundland to Saskatchewan , the percentage of the popular vote appeared to have been reversed from that of four years ago when the Liberals were returned with 170 of the 265 seats in the Eouse of Commons . It was the most uncertain and exciting election night in twenty-two years of Canadian politi:al history . The results were far better than the Conservatives had hoped for and far worse than the Liberals had feared . Nearly 9,000,000 Canadians were eligible to vote . Among them were 400,000 immigrants who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 21 or 22 years have never lived under anything except a Liberal Government , for that is the length of time the Liberals have held power . Only 67 per cent of the qualified voters exercised their franchise in the last national election , held Aug. 10 , 1953 . That was at the height of the vacation season and many families were away from home . The last time an election was held , in June , 74 per cent voted . This was expected to be bettered in this election , not only because of the date but because of the interest that has been whipped up by Mr. Diefenbaker 's crusading campaign .                     