@@716691

txt India has prepared two drafts of a resolution under which the United Nations General Assembly would recommend the resumptiogof negotiations , for a Korean peace settlement . The texts would give general approval to such negotiations provided the two sides agreed . It also would ask the three co-chairmen of last summer 's Geneva conference to consider the resolution and to take such steps as they considered appropriate in pursuance of the objectives . The . texts of the two versions were given today to delegates of the Western powers , The texts expressed the hope that it would be possible to agree on a draft acceptable to both the Western powers and India , Representatives of the United States , Britain , France , Australia , Belgium , Canada and New Zealand conferred tonight . Several representatives will confer tomorrow and Sunday with V. K. Krishna Menon , Indian representative . Indian Defers Comment Mr , Krishna tenon declined to comment on his proposals . He declared that he would not decide what he would propose until after he had determined the views of the sixteen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is understood , however , that he has told other delegates that he did not think the Korean question , on which a deadlock was reached at the Geneva conference last summer , should be left in a vacuum , The Political and Security Committee will take up the Korean question some time next week . Two . resolutions , one by the United States and the other by Britain , have been tentatively drafted . Both are understood to approve the stand taken in Geneva by the United Nations , side , and express the hope that a settlement may be reached eventually , Such a stand was not ex- , petted to provoke a long debate , at a ' time when most delegates , were seeking to end the Assembly session before Christmas , There have been indications , moreover , that the Soviet , UniOn would not insist upon a long debate , despite the fact that the Communists objected strongly when the United Nations broke off the deadlocked Geneva negotiations . First Draft Is Criticized Mr. Krishna Menon 's original draft of his resolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the morning . The first draft strongly implied that the Geneva negotiations should be resumed . The operative paragraph of the first draft declared that " the process of negotiation initiated and pursued at Geneva " should be " arranged and pursued " by representatives of the two sides , Under the second draft , circulated later in the day , this was made a more general expression of the desire that Korean negotiations in some , form should be resumed . The second draft , however , retained the provision requesting the three co-Chairmen of the conference to take appropriate steps in pursuance of these aims . The co-chairmen were Sir Anthony Eden , British Foreign Secretary ; Vyacheslav M. Molotov , Soviet Foreign Minister , and ' Prince Wan Waithayakon , Foreign Minister of Thailand . Prince Wan is the only one of the three who is an Assembly delegate . Even if there is no prolonged debate on Korea , it is now obvious that the Assembly , which decided when it convened that it would end the session Dec. 10 , will not be able to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president , told the Assembly 's Steering Committee earlier today it might be necessary to prolong the session until Dec. 21 , or at least until Dec. 18. - The Steering Committee decided , however , to wait until next week before determining whether to recommend a /longer session . Henry Cabot Lodge Jr . of the United States , and Anthony Nutting , British Minister of State , both insisted that it should be possible to close by Dec. 10 . Mr. Lodge suggested that de- bate be limited , while Mr. Nutting remarked that the Queen Elizabeth , the last ship that would get European delegates home in time for Christmas , sailed Dec. 15 . Jacob A. Malik , who has replaced the late Andrei Y. Vishinsky as head of the Soviet delegation , opposed any fixed time limit for ending the session , His stand recalled the fact that while the Assembly already had decided not to take up the question of seating the Chinese Communists during 1954 , it would be free to do so if the session continued in the New Year . However , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Political and Security Committee , ' said that it would have to be agreed that if the session were . prolonged , no new items should be added to the agenda .                     