@@720271

txt Agriculture Secretary Ben . son conceded he made a " mistake In judgment " in operating this year 's cotton export subsidy program , but denied that he broke the law . The subsidy , the Secretary said In testimony given recently before a House Appro. priations subcommittee , and released yi.svor ? day . should have been fatter at the start of the marketing season last August 1 . But he went on to say he did not believe he " die-obeyed " the law regulating Federal cotton programs-a charge raised during the hear ? itigs by subcommittee Chairman Whitten ( D. , Mr. Benson 's testimony -- and his six-year record as Secretary-stirred Mr. Whitten to a strongly-worded floor speech in which he attacked the farm chief personally , lambasted his record in office and criticized public speeches and other Congressional appearances by the Secretary . Whitten Urge. , Curbs on Benson The Mississippi lawmaker said Congress must repeal . wherever it appears in present law . the authority for the Secretary to exercise discretion over operation of farm programs . He also called for creation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work . " If we do n't stop Secretary BensOn 's policies . " Rep. Whitten declared , " the mess will get as high as Pike 's Peak . . . . Many farmers will be out of business , and the Treasury will be bankrupt . " Mr. Benson fired back at the lawmaker 's speech in a formal statement . " Certainly . I do not agree with the assertions in his statement . " the farm chief said . adding : " If our opponents in the Congress had shown as much vigor over the past few , years in making needed overdue changes in the old legislation as some of them have in attacking the Secretary of Agriculture , we would together be doing a better job for agriculture and our nation . " Mr. Whitten 's speech . which hi said he was making with " genuine regret , " came as he sought to call the House 's attention to the record of the closed-door hearings just made public . At those hearings , the lawmakers blamed Mr. Benson for the sharp slump in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traders " talked Agriculture Department officials out of taking action to correct the export decline-a charge denied by Mr. Benson . Sharp Drop in Season 's Exports The main reason for the export slump . Mr. Whitten argued , was that American cotton is being undersold in overseas markets . Official estimates of the current season 's shipments range from 3 million to 3.5 million bales , sharply below exports of 5.7 million in 1957-58 and 7.6 million in 1956-37 . Legislation passed by Congress tn 1956 requires the Agriculture Department to " reestablish and maintain the fair historical share of the world market for U.S. cotton . " This requires netting the export price for U.S. cotton lower than the domestic price . In the current season . the agency permits exporters to buy Onverniiient.owned cotton for about 61 , cents a pound below domestic market levels . As an alternative , exporters can buy cotton from private channels and receive a subsidy payment of Federally-owned cotton equal in value to 6 ' , cents a pound . The department has pegged this country 's historical share of the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Assistant Secretary in charge of the subsidy program . noted more than 15 million bales of cotton has been exported in the past three seasons , which averages out to the 5-million-bale Ina This argument annoyed Rep. Whitten , who told Mr. Benson to read the law " and tell me where in it you find any excuse for just carry . Ing it out two years and not carrying it out another . " The Secretary replied the department " certainly went beyond what we estimated we would do " in the first two yearn . He added : " This past year we made a mistake in judgment . We set a minimum price which , as we look back now , should have been lnwer at We could have moved a larger quantity into consumption . " At another point , Mr. Benson said , ' " I really do n't believe we disobeyed the law , Mr. Chairman . We miscalculated . Next year I think We will hit the mark and probably overshoot it a little . The day after Mr. Benson 's appearance before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the subaddy.imkind rate for the new season starting next August 1 will be increased to 8 cents a pound . In addition , officials said this rate will be reviewed once a month to see if it should be changed to meet price competition abroad . This season , the 81 , - cent rate has remained fixed . Mr. Benson acknowledged that in the past six years the department has " had a good many pressures from a good many sources . " But he added : " I do n't care whether it Is the world cotton traders , or who they are , they are not going to influence us to follow a policy that we think is not sound and right and in compliance with the law . " Mr. Whitten also questioned the Secretary and his staff op the parity indea revisions announced January 30 . The revisions . he said . promised to lower price supports this year too million below what they otherwise would have been . He centered his fire on OHS V. Wells . head of the department 's Agricultural Marketing Service , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . a civil service employe of the department since 1929. of losing his " objectivity " as a technician . Mr. Whitten said he thinks the index revision " reflects the change in your own approach to this matter after you got up to playing in the big leagues in the policymaking field , and rubbing shoulders with the Secretary . " Mr. Wells said he was appointed to the Commodity Credit Corp . board of directors by President Truman in 1951 , and emphasized the index revisions were required by technical considerations only . " I do n't believe agricultural statistics fall outside the realm of other statistics , " he told the subcommittee . In his floor speech yesterday , Rep. Whitten I said the parity index revision " invites further efforts by the farmer to offset reduced price by increased volume . " He added : " Termites never did a better inside job of destruction . " The Secretary had said during the hearings that the revision was " simply a matter of good statistical practice. - Rep. Whitten said he will ask Congress to prohibit department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with the exception of the Secretary acting as an exofficio Member . He told Mr. Benson he considers it - unsound-  for C.C.C . directors to be " on your political and policymaking team , " At present , all seven C.C.C . directors hold top posts in the department .                     