@@713961

txt Letters to The Times BELA FABIAN , MARTHA NOTHMANN.WM . DAVIDSON.JOHN J. BERGER , E.J. BARTH . pg . 25 Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR Or THE NEW YORK Truss : THE NEW YORK TIMES in its issue of July 6 publishes C. L. Sulzberger 's report from Paris , the gist of which is a letter from Hungary . Similar letters are being received by the thousands by American citizens of Hungarian origin since the month of May . The Hungarian National Council ( 339 East Fifty-second Street , New York City ) and the American Hungarian Federation ( 1624 I Street , Washington , D. C. ) are collecting these letters , which reveal all the sad and horrible phases of eviction and deportation now taking place in Hungary . We learn from these letters that members of the . middle class , newspaper men and other intellectuals , shopkeepers and handicrafts men have and are being evicted from Budapest and other Hungarian cities under the pretext that they are socially dangerous elements . Moreover , we learn that age is no obstacle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Budapest , Eugen Sipocz , aged 102 ; the helpless inhabitants of homes for the blind , the crippled , the aged , as well as incurable patients living in charitable institutions , have not been spared . The bodies of persons who can not stand the strain and die on their way are simply hauled out of the train at intermediate stations . Endre Morvay , former deputy mayor of Budapest , was among those who died on a deportation train . People who as a protest pinned the yellow star on their clothes as a reminder of Nazi times were severely beaten . The deportation trains are now leaving Budapest three times a week from a suburban station . Eviction of Leaders It was from these letters that we learned , further , that Charles Rassay , Rudolf Ruppert and Gabriel Ugron , former leaders of Hungary 's Democratic party , which had always represented the ideals of freedom in the past , were evicted with their families . For the time being they are living in tiny villages in the eastern part of Hungary , along with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , can be considered only as transitory places on the line toward Kolima , Karaganda , Tashkent and Alma-Ata . There is no difference whatever between Auschwitz and Karaganda . The freezing cold of the Arctic regions , the unendurable labor in the primeval , forests , in the gold mines of Kolyma , the coal mines of Karaganda , or in the cotton fields In the tropical heat of Tashkent and Alma-Ata are as murderous as the gas chambers of Auschwitz . It took a long time for the world to learn the names of Auschwitz and Buchenwald . It may be feared that it will be too late when the opinion of the world will learn the meaning of Kolyma , Karaganda , Tashkent and Alma-Ata . Fighters for Democracy It is a tragic fact that the world is still suffering from a lack of horror in the face of horror . The Democratic party leaders of Hungary fought for the same ideals in Hungary which were and are the ideals of President Roosevelt and President Truman , of Vice President Barkley and of Senators Lehman and . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as the thousands of evicted persons , represent a fifth column in the service of the United States attempting to destroy the people 's democracy . I do not know if everyone in the United States is aware of the true meaning of communism . I do not know if everyone is aware in America that communism is a merciless enemy with whom no compromise is possible . I would like to tell those suffering from delusions that it is not only the leaders who are being deported from Hungary . The same is happening to fellow-travelers , the quartermasters of communism . BELA FABIAN , Member of the Executive Committee of the Hungarian National Council . New York , July 8 , 1951 . An editorial on the subject discussed in the above letter appears elsewhere on this page . Gap Seen in Social Security Law To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I have been a reader of THE NEW YORK TIMES ever since I came to the United States . May I call your attention to the following subject , about which I am @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came into effect last January includes the house workers . The law says you have to work twenty-six times within a quarter of a year earning at least $50 at the same place and the work has always to start the first of each quarter .. To give you an example : A baby nurse stays in one house for about four weeks , takes care of the child from morning to night  --  and even during the night  --  but she gets no social security . When one works , let us say , twice a week for two hours , which means fiftytwo hours within a quarter of a year , that person would be entitled to social security . To me it seems obvious that there is a big gap in the law . MARTHA NOTHMANN . Forest Hills , N. Y. , July 6 , 1951 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In THE TIMES of July 3 you publish a letter by Stanley P. Davies , general director of the Community Service Society , who endorses the comments you made in your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " against publicizing the relief rolls . Under Section 136 of the Social Welfare Law recipients of public welfare are cloaked in a special veil of secrecy . The theory behind this legal fiction dates from the early days of home relief , when it was considered humiliating to receive public assistance and some of our sob-sister agencies wanted to protect those on relief from the stigma and taint of being a public charge . We doubt if that feeling is widespread today or if there is any continuing justification for that contention , any more than there is any taint in receiving social security or unemployment insurance benefits , both of which were unknown when home relief was instituted in 1929 . People who are on home relief compare notes as freely as those who work compare wages and salaries ; and those relief clients who feel that they are not getting all that is coming to them are just as incensed as the person who regards his compensation inadequate for the type of work he performs . Many property owners who have seen the practical effect of home relief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ required in the administration of home relief in this city have long complained that the policy of concealing information about persons on relief is conducive to the widespread abuses of what is commonly termed " chiseling . " They are firmly convinced that recipients who are not entitled to relief should not be protected from exposure , and that many of the abuses which have been practiced would not be perpetrated if the relief rolls were made a matter of public record . This was adequately proved by the 1947 expos ? of relief scandals . As a matter of fact , many of those prosecuted for " relief chiseling " were exposed by neighbors or complaints from citizens not connected with any public agency . We think it is high time that public sentiment should be aroused against the continuation of that section of the Social WelfareLaw which keeps relief confidential . The mounting cost of public relief makes it imperative that something be done to insure that only worthy cases receive public assistance , and that those who have no right to it should be eliminated from the rolls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Manager , Greater New York Taxpayers Association . New York , July 3 , 1951 . Goodwill Between East and West To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I wish to commend THE NEW YORK TIMES for its outstanding journalism , and for carrying the vital announcement on June 27 of " The American Friends of the Middle East . " The tensions in Asia and the Middle East are the result of old imperialisms thrust upon young nations in days gone by ; that era has passed , as is plain to be seen . It is my firm conviction that only by understanding and an open mind can the West regain the goodwill of the East . It has not disappeared ; it needs a reawakening , so that an interchange of ideas , culture and art can again be established . With the material advances of the West to be exchanged with the East 's wonderful basic culture , dating back to the roots of civilization itself , the world can not be divided for long . E. J. BARTH . Pittsburgh , Pa. , June @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Slave-Labor Areas Compared to Nazi Methods Publicizing Relief Rolls Curtailing of Abuses Seen in Making Public Names of Relief Recipients President Truman 's Strategy To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : No one can tell what the final outcome of the armistice negotiations in Korea will be . But it seems only just to note that at this writing the mere fact of the ' negotiations seems to signify a complete vindication of the Administration 's foreign policy as opposed to that of General and his supporters . Three months after the General 's dismissal the enemy wants to talk peace , and I think it safe to say that the nation is highly  --  albeit cautiously  --  gratified at the prospect . Pragmatically considered , President Truman 's grand strategy has worked out nicely so far . The Administration , it is evident , wanted to do three things : ( 1 ) to stop the aggression in Korea in defense of United Nations principles ; ( 2 ) to do so without becoming bogged down in an Asiatic quagmire , or plunged into a world-wide conflict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and freedom of action for more vital areas of the global struggle . The Administration 's basic premise was that these objectives could be realized by a geogaphically limited war in which such heavy punishment was wreaked on the enemy that he would throw in the sponge and call for peace . Is it premature to say of this premise ! " Q. E. D. " ? Events in the not-too-distant future will either justify or belie the foregoing analysis . In the meantime , the short , bird's-eye view of the matter is that in the field of foreign policy President Truman 's antagonists have nothing to hope for but the worst . WM . DAVIDSON . New Milford , N. J. , July 5 , 1951.                     