@@715499

txt Leaders of all the major political parties will soon be forced by the timetable set in the election law to choose candidates and sides for New York City 's mayoral election this fall . Petitions enter-1 ing candidates for party nominations in the primary elections may be placed in circulation by June 30 and must be filed no later thane Aug. 11 . Usually the party choices are made in the week immediately before or the week immediately following the first day of circulating petitions . A practical reason for this custom is to make sure that the candidate picked by the leaders gets enough signatures on his petition . The law provides that any voter who signs a petition for , one candidate can not later sign another 's petition for the same nomination . Thus , if the leaders ' delay their choice unduly , independent candidates may have obtained so many signatures that the leaders ' candidate has hard scraping . To enter a party primary for the mayoralty or for either of the other two ' city-wide offices to be - filled this year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is legally necessary to get the signatures of 5,000 enrolled members of the party . To guard against disqualification of some signatures for any of the multiplicity of reasons set forth in the election law ( and criticized by the State Crime Commission ) the 3D ) amacpc-itzs .. rxa Associated Press Edward J. Flynn . practice is to get three or four times the legal minimum . Even then independents sometimes find they do not have enough . In tiv selection of the Democratio " organization " candidate ? the one whom party functionaries Will support against all others in the primary  --  Edward F. Flynn , veteran boss of the Bronx , and Kenneth F.- Sutherland , new leader in Brooklyn , appear destined to play the dominant roles . This is because their individual organizations are more unified than Tammany , the Democratic organization in Manhattan , and because they will be called upon to supply the bulk of the votes needed first to nominate and then to elect the organization choice . " Organization " Candidate If the two can agree , the leaders of the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into line behind their choice . If they can not , a Brooklyn-Tammany or Bronx-Tammany coalition could make the decision . Because of their relatively poor showing in state and national elections , Democratic leaders in Queens and Richmond have'less strength than the others in party councils . Governor Dewey is expected to have a major , if not decisive , voice in the selection of the Republican candidates and in charting the role of the Republican party . He is the party 's state boss and as such controls both state and Federal patronage which are the bone and sustenance of the five-county Re-I publican organizations . Moreover , as Governor he has been responsible for establishing party policies which may be key issues in the , campaign . The Liberal party course will depend primarily on David Dubinsky , and Alex Rose , two veteran lead-1 ers of trade unions . Mr. Dubinsk-y is president of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union and Mr. Rose president of the United Hat , Cap and Millinery Workers Union . Founders and charter members of the Liberal party , they have long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past the Liberal party has usually formed a coalition with one of its older and larger rivals but so far it has given no definite indication that it will follow the same course this year . The decisive role of the independent voters  --  those with only the most tenuous allegiance to established parties ? in the general election is a limiting factor on the freedom of choice of the Democratic leaders and a source of hope for Republicans and Liberals . As demonstrated in recent municipal by-elections it means that a candidate with a strong appeal can win regardless of the numerical strength of the party which backs him . ' Role of the Independents Democratic leaders must take into account likewise the need of picking someone who can win a primary contest . During the past week Controller Lazarus Joseph hinted that he might run independently in the primary if passed over by the leaders . Similar hints have come from Mayor /mpellitteri and County Judge Samuel Liebowitz of Brooklyn . District Attorney Frank S. Hogan of Manhattan is under pressure to adopt a similar course . So is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Liberal ticket in 1951 . Besides these five , others who have been suggested as possible Democratic candidates include Borough President Robert F. Wagner - of Manhattan , District Attorney Miles F. of Brooklyn , Representative Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr . of Manhattan , Supreme Court Justice Henry Ughetta of Brooklyn and Benjamin Browdy of Brooklyn , a textile manufacturer and former president of the Zionist Organization of America . Mr. Roosevelt is reported reluctant to run and Mr. ' is regarded as a possible " dark horse " or ? compromise choice . Problem of Javits Both Republican and Liberal leaders have indicated a willingness to explore the possibilities of a coalition ticket again this year . But they face a number of formidable obstacles . One ie what to do about Mr. Halley . Should the Liberals insist on his inclusion on the ticket for re-election to his present office , Republicans very likely would decide the price of coalition was too high . A second is Representative Jacob J. Javits . A Republican who has been elected to , Congress with Liberal backing , Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Mayor but , according to widely credited reports , is unacceptable to Governor Dewey or Frank Kenna , Republican leader of Queens . The Governor is reputed to regard Mr. Javits as over friendly with New Dealish ideas and , moreover , to resent Mr. Davits ' criticism of the rent and transit laws which the legislature enacted on the Governor 's recommendation . Mr. Kenna 's objection is based on a fear that Mr. Javits would endanger the re-election of Borough President James A. Lundy , the only Republican member of the Board of Estimate . District Attorney Hogan , a political protege- of Governor Dewey , is reputed to be satisfactory to the ' I Governor and Republican leaders as a Republican candidate for Mayor , but Liberal leaders are not too well disposed toward him . In weighing Mr. Hogan , Republican and Liberal leaders must take into account the possibility that he , might get the Democratic nomination . Coalition Candidates Those being urged by the Republicans as coalition candidates include Acting Postmaster Harold Riegelman , Presiding Justice David W. Peck of the Appellate Division , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , chairman of the State Boxing Commission , Walter Roving , chairman of the AntiSales Tax Committee , and Miss Mary Donlon , chairman of the State Workmen 's Compensation Board . There is no rule or custom or law as to which party nominates first . But the practicalities of the situation indicate that the Republicans and Liberals will wait for the Democrats to act . Next will ' come the decision as to whether there will be a Republican-Liberal , coalition or whether the two par-I ties will go it alone . A provision in the election law permitting a ' candidate to withdraw after hiss petitions have been filed will still leave the door open to changes and , realignments up to Aug. 18. ** ew York Times Kenneth . F. Sutherland .                     