@@716510

txt BONN , Germany , Sept. 10 ? Chancellor Konrad Adenauer announced tonight his Government considered membership in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization the most practical and rapid means of solving the problem of West Germany 's rearmament . The Chancellor made the announcement at an election rally in Neumuenster in SchleswigHolstein . The people of the northernmost state in West Germany will go to the polls Sunday to elect a new state Parliament . Dr. Adenauer , insisted , however , on his own timetable for the solution of the West . German problem in the absence of a European defense community . He said West Germany 's admission to the Atlantic alliance could take place immediately after the Federal Republic had gained full sovereignty . This was in accordance with I the doctrine developed by the West German Government after the defeat of the European Defense Community treaty by the French National Assembly . This doctrine is predicated on the contention that the Western Allies must first proceed with the granting of full sovereignty to West Germany . Such a degree of sovereignty carries with it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Adenauer said the British Government had proposed two solutions for the German problem . They were ( 1 ) membership in the Atlantic alliance and ( 2 ) the construction of a new European defense organization to replace the defunct defense community . The Chancellor said he favored // the first solution because the construction of a new European organization was not practical at present . Dr. Adenauer said there were reports that the French Government was considering alternatives to the European Defense Community idea but that these plans were still under consideration in Paris and , therefore , he could not comment on them . Insisting on full sovereignty instead of the limited sovereignty provided under the Bonn Peace contract with the Western Allies , the Chancellor said : " When we demand the abolition of the occupation regime we do this for our honor and for justifiable national feelings . We are , however , determined to , make a restrained and sensible use of this freedom . The German people are , willing voluntarily to exercise the , self-imposed restrictions that are ' necessary in our time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chancellor 's speech stressed the importance of the new demands that the German people be trusted to accept self-imposed restrictions and moderation in rearming themselves , rather than restrictions imposed from the outside by the other powers . This is coming to be regarded by observers as one of the essential points if not the essential point in West Germany 's foreign policy . Adenauer Bars New Curbs Dr. Adenauer said that the West Germans were not willing to accept the restrictions and ' limitations agreed to under the defense community treaty in any ' other form of organization or solution of the problem of rearmament . In other words the Chancellor was saying that the West German price for participating in Western defense had been raised as a consequence of the French rejection of the defense community treaty . Dr. Adenauer resumed his attacks on the Government of Pierre Mendes-France , the French Premier , and the French National Assembly for the defeat of the defense community treaty . He said he doubted the decision of the French Assembly had represented the true opinion of the French people . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an alliance of de Gaullists and Communists and that it was the latter who had tipped the scales against the treaty . Dr. Adenauer described the vote of the French Assembly as " a majority in numbers but not in its inner contents and inner significance . " The Chancellor said the forthcoming trip of Anthony Eden , British Foreign Secretary , to Brussels , Rome , Bonn and Paris would be useful in preparing the forthcoming conference of the North Atlantic powers . He added that diplomatic activity on the German problem vias in full swing . He said the postponement of the nine-power conference suggested by the British was attributable to the uncertainty on whether John Foster Dulles , United States Secretary of State , would attend . He also mentioned ' the need for adequate pre-conference preparations .                     