@@715444

txt The city council unanimously adopted a resolution yesterday stating that it " is the sense " of the council that the work week of the city 's 7,000 policemen be reduced from 48 to an average of 44 hours and that the six hour day of 500 policemen who do traffic duty afoot be restored . However , conflicting interpretations by top city officials left it uncertain when  --  or if  --  the shorter hours will be put into effect . Mayor Kennelly said , " It is my understanding this does n't go into effect until we get some more money to hire additional policemen . " Told by reporters there was no such qualification in the resolution , Kennelly. said , " Well , we 'll have to study it . " Not Binding ; Says Counsel Corporation Counsel Mortimer , laughing , said , " It is only a resolution to the effect that the council has sense . " Then he added , seriously , that " it is not necessarily binding upon the police commissioner . " Police Commissioner O'Connor took a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mortimer had said . " I regard this as a council order , " O'Connor said . " It is their wish . I have no alternative except to comply with their wish . When it becomes effective , I will sit down , with my staff and figure out the best way . of putting it into being . It will mean a curtailment of service . " Might Ask for Delay O'Connor added he ' might ask that the effective date be delayed until June 26 , when all schools will be closed and several hundred policemen will be freed from school crossing duty . The resolution will become effective with the next council meeting May 28 , unless the council amends or rescinds it . It had been the understanding of most aldermen that the finance committee had voted unanimously Tuesday for a direct order to O'Connor to put the shorter hours into effect . The plan provides that policemen , now working six days a week and eight hours a day , would work six days one week and five days the next . The foot traffic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others , but only a six hour day . Need 595 More Policemen Police officials have paid 595 additional policemen would have to be hired to offset the shorter hours , at a cost in salaries alone of more than 2W million dollars annually . Among other council actions were : Authorized sale of 16 million dollars of water certificates to finance tunnel construction in connection with the north side water filtration plant , to be built north of Navy pier . Approved one way street designations for eight near north side streets . Passed a resolution by Ald. Egan 13t113 condemning civil aeronautics administration plans for consolidating Chicago and Kansas City regional CAA offices at Kansas City .                     