@@720800

txt President Eisenhower observed his sixty-ninth birthday today , apparently in good health and spirits . He flew back to Washington this morning from an overnight trip to Abilene , Kan. , held two conferences at his office and wound up the active day with a quiet family birthday dinner at the White House . Attending the dinner with the President and Mrs. Eisenhower were Mar . John S. Eisenhower , their son ; the major 's wife , Barbara ; Col. and Mrs. Gordon Moore and the Moores ' 17-yearold daughter , Mamie . Mrs. Moore is Mrs. Eisenhower 's sister . James C. Hagerty , Presidential press secretary , said he assumed that there was a birthday cake . If so , it was one of at least four that have confronted the President in the last two days . At Abilene , President Eisenhower 's boyhood home , leading citizens sang " Happy Birthday " to him . at a luncheon yesterday as a huge cake was brought in . The President flew to Abilene to break ground for the Eisenhower Presidential Library. , On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trip , he got two more cakes . Two little girls , Suzanne and Debbie Froelich , aged 5 and 7 , ducked under a rope holding back a small crowd and gave him one . The student body of Abilene High School presented the other and sang " Happy Birthday " to the accompaniment of the School band . The President was greeted by the same song , but no cake , as he arrived at the White House shortly afternoon . The Army Chorus , assembled there , also sang " Army Blue " and " The Yellow Rose of Texas . " Economic Parley A busy afternoon at his desk included an economic conference with Robert B. Anderson , Secretary of the Treasury , William McChesney Martin Jr. , chairman of the Federal Reserve Board , and others . The President met separately with James P. Mitchell , Secretary of Labor , on the steel strike . At his public appearances today , President Eisenhower was vigorous , affable , smiling and talking more than usual . He chatted with members of his party and with those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miles from Abilene , for the flight back to Washington by an Air Force jet transport . Except for an occasional sniffle , he showed no signs of the cold that prompted him to take an eight-day rest recently in the California desert . At the Abilene ground-breaking ceremony , he spoke for about twenty-minutes in a cold , stiff breeze with temperatures in the mid-forties . He was bareheaded and wore no topcoat . Mr. Hagerty said there had been no ill effects so far . He said Mrs. Eisenhower was still suffering from a cold and spending much of her time in bed . She decided not to go to Abilene , according to the White House , because of the cold . Another possible factor was Mrs. Eisenhower 's known dislike for air travel , particularly by helicopter . The President flew by helicopter from Washington to Andrews Air Force Base , Md. , and between Shilling Air Force Base and Abilene.                     