@@714822

txt Gov . Adlai E. Stevenson of Illinois took his first direct slap at Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower today for promising to try to elect Republican members of Congress even though he could not endorse entirely their individual stands on foreign or domestic policies . In a formal statement issued from the Executive Mansion this afternoon , Governor Stevenson asked whether it made no difference to General Eisenhower that the Republican Senators up for reelection in November were for or against international cooperation , for or against the United Nations or for or against strengthening the United States and its allies . The Governor 's statement follows : " My distinguished opponent says that he will support ' to the limit ' Republican party winners , whoever they may be , and attach them firmly to his crusade . " " I wonder if he is well advised . What kind of crusade can unite Eisenhower and Senator Joseph R. McCarthy of Wisconsin , Eisenhower and Senator William E Jenner of Indiana ; Eisenhower and Senator James P. Kern of Missouri ; Eisenhower and Senator John W. Bricker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Can the general be serious when he implies that it makes no difference to him and his ' crusade ' , whether the Republicans in Congress are for or against international cooperation , for or against the United Nations , for or against strengthening ourselves and the free world ? " Apparently any Republican primary winner automatically becomes a commissioned officer in this ' crusade , ' no matter how much his views may differ from those of the commander in chief . I wonder if the ' crusade ' is not more for office than for principle . " The statement was issued after General Eisenhower was asked by reporters in Denver yesterday whether he would give active support to every Republican candidate in the November election , regardless of the fact that many of them had differed with General Eisenhower in the past . General Eisenhower 's reply to this was reported in dispatches printed here as follows : " The two-party system requires for its best functioning that , when you have an administration in Washington , the President , the House and the Senate must all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is a healthy thing that we can disagree . " Later in the press conference , General Eisenhower was quoted as adding that " it is unfortunate that we are divided on this important issue of collective security . " This exchange foreshadowed one of the major battles of the Presidential campaign . The Senate is now controlled by the Democrats , fifty to forty-six . If Gov . John Lodge , Republican of Connecticut , appoints a Republican to succeed the late Senator Brien , the division between the two parties in the upper chamber will be forty-nine to forty-seven . The Democrats , however , must contest only twelve Senate seats in November , seven of them from " safe " Democratic areas below the Mason and Dixon line , while the Republicans must contest twenty seats , most of them from states where they expect tough battles . Moreover , many of the Republicans up for re-election to the Senate are generally identified with outright opposition to , or lukewarm support of , the foreign policy programs supported by General Eisenhower in the past . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kem and McCarthy , Senators Harry P. Cain of Washington ; George W. Malone of - Nevada and Arthur V. Watkins of Utah . In other words , if General Eisenhower were to oppose the reelection of so-called isolationist Senators who won their party nominations before he even entered the Presidential race , he would , under present circumstances , be asking for the election of a Democratic Senate . Governor Stevenson has been arguing publicly against the tactics of Senator McCarthy for a long time and it is known that he intends to go on doing so in the campaign . In his address before the Democratic National Committee in Chicago last December , he described his attitude toward Senator McCarthy 's political tactics as fol. lows : " We have all . witnessed the stifling , shocking effect of McCarthyism , the paralysis of initiative , the discouragement and intimidation that follow in its wake and inhibits the bold , imaginative thought and discussion that is the anvil of policy . " Governor Stevenson also vetoed a bill passed by the Illinois Legislature that provided for loyalty oaths for state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among other things : " While I respect the motives and patriotism of the proponents of this bill , I think there is in it more of danger to the liberties we seek to protect than of security for the republic . " It reverses our traditional concept of justice of placing upon the accused the burden of proving himself innocent . It makes felons of persons who may be guilty more of bad judgment than of anything else . It jeopardizes the freedom of sincere and honest citizens in an attempt to catch and punish subversives . * * * " I know that to veto this bill in this period of grave anxiety will be unpopular with many , but I must , in good conscience , protest against any unnecessary suppression of our ancient rights as free men . " * " Governor Stevenson added to his speech-writing staff today the young Harvard history professor , Arthur Schlesinger Jr. , who , like Wilson W. Wyatt of Louisville , the Governor 's new campaign manager , is a prominent member of Americans for Democratic Action . The Stevenson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican class of ' 46 " is interesting in view of the fact that General Eisenhower was known to have been concerned about what he should do about supporting Republican candidates who have helped lead the fight against the nation 's foreign policies of the last few years . governed by one party- Otherwise , that we can organize the Senate there is no party responsibility . and the House . That does n't mean , " I want Republicans elected so however , that I have to endorse                     