@@716371

txt CHURCHILL HOLDS RED CHINA 'S ENTRY IN U. N. INEVITABLE Eden Also Sees Rising Demand for Seating if French Gain - Settlement in Indochina JOHNSON ISSUES WARNING Democrat Supports Knowland but 3 Senators Score Talk of Quitting World Body By W. H. LAWRENCE Special to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , July 2 ? Sir Winston Churchill and Anthony Eden took the position during their recent talks here that the admission of Communist China to the United Nations was inevitable . It was the British view that pressure for admittance would increase if the talks with the French for peace in Indochina were successful . No timetable was indicated . However , leaders of the United States Senate feared the move to displace the Chinese Nationalists by the Red regime might be made this autumn . The British ' stand became known today as the Senate 's official leaders , Democratic as well as Republican , joined in a blunt warning of United States withdrawal from the United Nations should the Communist Government gain membership . Senator Lyndon Johnson of Texas , the Democratic leader , declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations if Communist China becomes a member . " Johnson Backs Knowland The Democratic leader spoke out twenty-four hours after Senator William F. Kr ' lowland of California , the Republican leader , said he would resign his leadership post and l'ea.d " a ' fight ' 16i withdrawal of United States membership from the United Nations if the Chinese Reds gained admission . Their warning was addressed less to the Eisenhower Administration than it was to the United Nations General Assembly , which may consider the Chinese membership issue during its autumn meeting , when Congress will not be in session . The Eisenhower Administration itself is opposed to recognition of the Chinese Communist Government and to giving it a seat in the United Nations . But John Foster Dulles , Secretary of State , has acknowledged fears that this country might not be able to block the United Nations membership proposal if both France and Britain gave it support . The Johnson speech touched off a new Senate debate on foreign policy , in. which no Senator supported the Chinese Red Government for admission to the United Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York , J. William Fulbright , Democrat of Arkansas , and Wayne L. Morse , Independent of Oregon ? warned against // withdrawal from the United Nations or any other program suggestive that the United States would " go it alone . " The talk in the Senate coinIcided with a renewed indication that the United States was becoming impatient with the French over the conduct of the war in Indochina . Pointedly , a State Department spokesman said the United States Government was inquiring in Paris to learn the French " intentions " in the wake of a French military decision to surrender without a struggle a large part of the rich Red River delta in Vietnam . Henry Suydam , State Department spokesman , said the Government had not received advance word of the French decision to withdraw from this area . French sources took issue with that assertion . These informants said that the need for a strategic retreat in Indochina was , made known to United States military officials last month in the five-power military talks between the United States , France , Britain , Australia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued , it was pointed out that the defense perimeter around the Red River delta would have to be shortened unless substantial reinforcements , which the French did not have , were rushed to the area . Legislative Stand Endorsed The Senate was advised that the Eisenhower Administration was willing to allow legislative form to be given to its opposition to nonaggression treaties with the Communists in the Far East . Secretary Dulles told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that the Administration had no objection to a House-approved amendment to the foreign aid bill Ito United States assistance Ito any Southeast Asian countries that took part in any such non , aggression pacts as have been I urged by the British . Senator Johnson urged other , Senators to drop partisan politics in a careful review of the present United States foreign policy and the direction it might take if the Chinese Communists were allowed into the United Nations . " The American people want no appeasement of the Communists , " he said . The nation may have to decide anew " what we will defend , where we will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he added . Senator Morse registered strong objections to the common policy advocated by the two major party leaders  --  Senator Knowland for the Republicans and Senator Johnson for the Democrats . Morse Warns of War Senator Morse said the nation must be on guard against these calls " for going it alone  --  or we soon may find ourselves going it alone in a third world war . " The Oregon Senator , who quit the Republican party in protest against President Eisenhower 's pre-election campaign activities , said he wanted the United States to fight vigorously against the ladmission of Red China . But he was unwilling " to take the position that if a majority of our allies make a mistake that we should walk out of the U. N. " This is an attitude of " if I ca n't have my way , I 'll pick up my marbles and go home , " he said . Senator Fulbright asserted that the Knowland-Johnson statements , if he understood them  --  correctly , indicated " political immaturity . " The Arkansas Senator warned against any effort to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He pointed out how the United States attitude toward Germany and Japan had changed from enmity to friendship in less than ten years . Senator Lehman said that the United States could not afford to withdraw from the United Nations just because it might not get its own way on the issue of membership for Communist China . " Despite all its shortcomings , " the New Yorker asserted , " the United Nations is still one of the great hopes of the world . " But Senators Styles Bridges , New Hampshire Republican and Senate President Pro Tern , and Edward J. Thye , Minnesota Republican , declared their agreement with the basic thesis advanced by Messrs . Knowland and Johnson . So did Senator George A. Smothers , Democrat of Florida . Senator Knowland thanked the Democratic leader , who sits just across the center aisle , and joined in asking that all Senators take part in the debate " as Americans and not as partisans . " The Andochina problem and France 's latest military decisions were discussed not only at the State Department but at the White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ambassador to Indochina , stopped off at the White House to get last-minute instructions from President Eisenhower before returning to his post at Saigon . Mr. Heath had been in Washington for three days en route to the Far East from the Geneva Conference , where he was an observer . He left late today for Indochina . Talking with news . men at the White House , Mr. Heath said that the French were " drawing in their lines " in accordance with stand-by plans made some time ago " They have been too spread out , " the diplomat asserted .                     