@@713866

txt 8 KILLED , 63 HURT , AS FLYER ON P. R. R. RIPS HALTED TRAIN Red Arrow Crashes Into Last Car of Philadelphia Express West of Bryn Mawr MANY TRAPPED IN BERTHS Tracks Cleared After Eight Hours  --  Signals Reported Operating Properly By WILLIAM G. WEART Special to THE Dim YORE TIMES . BRYN MAWR , Pa. , May 18 ? Seven men and a woman were killed and sixty-three persons were injured this morning when the eastbound Red Arrow , Pennsylvania Railroad Detroit-New York flyer , plowed into the rear of another express a quarter-mile west of here . With a crash that shook the neighborhood , the heavy electric locomotive of the ten-car Red Arrow ripped through the last car of the Philadelphia Night Express from Pittsburgh , halted by an automatic signaling device . The car , a Pullman called the Poplar Vale , was demolished . The plow-nosed locomotive leaped from the rails and sheared the Pullman down both sides above floor level and through the top . Engine Lies Across Tracks The crumpled upper sections dropped on both sides , with part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the left with its undercarriage ripped away . The front end of the locomotive fell across the two west tracks of the carrier 's main line , on an overpass fifteen feet above a street and a few hundred yards from fashionable homes in the " Main Line " area twelve miles west of Philadelphia . All the dead , most of whom were still in their berths , were in the Poplar Vale . Many of the more seriously injured were in the car just ahead , another Pullman , the Cascade Chasm . These two Pullmans had been picked up by the Philadelphia night express at Harrisburg , where they were dropped from the eastbound Clevelander . Witnesses estimated that the Red Arrow was moving cautiously at ten to fifteen miles an hour after having halted at a " stop and proceed " indicator at the signal bridge west of Villanova station , about two miles west of the wreck . Railroad men reported that the Philadelphia Night Express was stopped when equipment on one If // 8 KILLED , 63 HURT IN CRASH ON P. R. R. // @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lot ) s set along the tracks and threw an overhead signal into " stop " position . The engineer , already running forty-two minutes late , was halted by the block signal system . E. W. Smith , vice president of the railroad 's Eastern Division , said it had been established that the Red Arrow 's engineman got the signals three or four miles back . J. M. Symes , operating vice president of the railroad , said in an official statement : " Our preliminary investigation shows that apparently the warning signal at the wayside and in the locomotive cab were properly working to warn the Red Arrow 's engine crew of the presence of the Philadelphia Night Express on the track ahead . The flagman of the latter train , it is reported , had gone back to flag any appoaching train in the prescribed manner . " The Red Arrow 's engineer , Mr. Symes said , apparently obeyed the regulations . But , he added , " we are unable to explain how in view of the rules his train could have been moving following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accident such as that at Bryn Mawr . " Dr. Edward Clark , resident physician at Bryn Mawr Hospital , said tonight that a cursory examination indicated that F. B. Yentzler , 62-year-old engineer of the Red Arrow , had virtually " no vision in his right eye . " The physician emphasized , however , that the examination , in which he did not use an opthalmoscope , was " neither a thorough nor a fair test . " Dr. Clark treated Mr. Yentzler , a resident of Harrisburg , Pa. , for a fractured nose , cuts of the face and shock . The engineer 's " left eye reacted perfectly normally to light , " he said , but the " right one did not . " He added that his examination showed " there was opacity , similar to a cataract , in the right eye . " Federal , state , local and railroad authorities opened a four-way investigation while three wrecking icranes cleared the rails of all four tracks of the Pennsylvania 's main east-west lines . The wreck was the worst in the Philadelphia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Congressional Limited crashed at Frankford Junction , killing eighty . It was the second involving the Red Arrow . On Feb. 18 , 1947 , the Detroit-New York flyer left the tracks on a mountain curve near Altoona and plunged into a gully , killing twenty-four and injuring 150 . In a Pennsylvania Railroad wreck on Feb. 6 this year at Woodbridge , N. J. , eighty-four persons were killed and more than 300 passengers were injured . On Nov. 22 last year in a Long Island Rail Road wreck at Richmond Hill , Queens , seventy-nine persons were killed and more than 150 injured . At Rockville Centre on Feb. 7 , 1950 , the Long Island Rail Road had another accident in which thirty-two persons were killed and seventy-nine injured .                     