@@717289

txt The world 's smallest republic has chosen to remain the only Communist state in Western Europe . This thirty-eight-square-mile enclave in the Italian Apennines will have another four years of ' Red rule as a result of yester'day 's election . Almost complete returns early this morning showed that the Communists , and fellow-travelers had gained strength as compared with the 1951 election . The Communists polled 1,614 votes and the Left-Wing Socialists 1,318 , for a leftist total of 2,932 . The Christian Democrats polled 1,945 and the Democratic Socialists 244 for a total of 2,189 . In 1951 the Communists garnered 1,306 votes , the Left-Wing Socialists 991 , the Christian Democrats 1,922 and a RightWing group 248 . In the new Grand and General Council , the Most Serene Republic of San Marino 's sixtyman parliament , the Reds will occupy thirty-four seats . During the last four years they had a majority of one seat . Long after midnight groups of triumphant Reds were parading through San Marino 's narrow streets , celebrating their victory in the first election held in Europe since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ picturesque miniature state , which lives mainly on a tourist business , saw a memorable jam . San Marino was packed with thousands of persons  --  emigrants who had returned to vote and vacationers from the nearby Adriatic seaboard . Although the electoral campaign had been passionate , no serious incidents occurred . The state 's police force of twenty , reinforced by militiamen hot and uncomfortable in their blue uniforms , had to quell several scuffles between political opponents . The shot of the day was fired by a militiaman who inexpertly handled an ancient rifle that the Government had given him for the day . It did no harm . An auto worker who had come all the way from Detroit slugged it out in art argument with some Communists . The turnout was the heaviest of any election in the republic 's history . It was again a , " men only " poll . San Marino 's Communist rulers , despite earlier promises to the contrary and in the face of a violent campaign by 16cal suffragettes , had refused to enfranchise the women . They contended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " which was their way of saying that they were predominantly anti-Communist . Throughout ' the campaign it The New ' York Times 15 , 3955 Scene of the voting ( cross ) was a foregone conclusion that the balance would be swung by San Marino citizens living abroad who would return to cast their ballots . Of about 8,000 men on the voting rolls nearly onehalf live in Italy and in other countries including the United States . Both the Communists and anti-Communists made every effort to induce emigre sympathizers to come home for the election . Close to 200 rushed to San Marino from the United States to vote against the Communists . They are natives of San Marino who emigrated to the United States but have not yet obtained American citizenship . The Communists and fellowtravelers succeeded in bringing home more than 1,000 supporters from abroad . A fleet of seventy buses delivered dockers from Genoa and factory workers from Milan . San Marino miners employed in French and Belgian pits arrived by train at the nearby city of Rimini and were whisked to San Marino by an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign headquarters they were offered bologna sandwiches , beer and electoral indoctrination . They also found their voting papers ready . Other voters who came from , abroad on their own found it unexpectedly difficult to vote . Precinct officials , all appointed by the Government , quibbled and refused to recognize documents of identification issued in Italy , although they were clearly marked " citizen of San Marino . " It proved hard to obtain new documents from the local authorities . The Christian Democrats contended that between 80 and 100 anti- , Communist votes were lost by thicanery . A Christian Democratic spokesman also reiterated charges of electoral fraud . For instance , three presumably left-wing ballots were said to have been cast in three . different polling stations under the name of a dead citizen . Throughout the day the Italian police maintained a close watch around the borders of the tiny state . At a checkpoint on the only road leading into San Marino documents of all persons crossing the border were scrutinize San Marino 's dependence on Italy was also emphasized by an I emergency call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Iran dry early this afternoon .                     