@@720796

txt Federal and city governments will share honors as the central architectural focuses in the proposed new $100,000,000 Boston government center , according to the latest plans disclosed by Mayor Hynes . In an effort to entice federal officials to bring their $30,000 , - 000 office building back into the center , city planners have scrapped cherished plans visualizing a new City Hall as crown jewel in the center . Instead , the federal office building will be given the prime spot , and the new City Hall will go up next to it , both sharing a rectangular frontal plaza , separating them from the Court House on Pemberton Square . Objections Countered Mayor Hynes , in disclosing the proposed new plan yesterday , said it is being sent to Washington for the inspection and hoped-for approval of federal officials . The plan is a compromise to bring the federal office building back into the government center . It meets the objections of Boston real estate men to putting up the federal structure on prime commercial property between Washington . School , and Court Streets . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ G. Floete , administrator of the federal General Services Administration , to having the federal building located on the westerly outer perimeter of the government center . And , while it is disappointing to city planners who had hoped to keep City Hall as the central point in the center. , it at least will permit the municipal building to share that honor . As shown on the tentative plan by Mayor Hynes , a broad mall would issue from the frontal plaza and run between the city and federal buildings . The federal structure would stand on the downtown Boston side , eliminating Hanover Street , while City Hall would move over toward Sudbury Street and Bowdoin Square . Originally the federal office building was to have been placed near Sudbury Street , but federal officials objected . After Mayor Hynes had agreed to the Washington Street site , the protests of Boston realtors brought about the present compromise plan . City Action Reported Mayor Hynes indicated that the present plan will eliminate much of the legal blockades that had threatened both the federal building and the government center . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward getting two-thirds federal aid toward the cost of acquiring and clearing land for the center , Mayor Hynes reported . He said that David Walker , commissioner of the Urban Renewal Administration , has assured him that the area is eligible for such government financing . Clearing ' and acquisition have been estimated at between $15,000,000 and $18,000,000 , and the Mayor said the new development could mean savings of from $5,000,000 to $10,000,000 to Boston . Possibilities of such federal aid were investigated and given publicity two weeks ago by the Boston Municipal Research Bureau , after study of the new federal Housing Act of 1959 . The Boston Redevelopment Authority is presently working on the application and preliminary plans to apply for this aid , Mayor Hynes said . In its study of the 1959 federal housing regulations , the Municipal Research Bureau ' determined that liberalizing clauses in the nonresidential development sections of the act would make possible federal aid for the government center .                     