@@713594

txt In response to the appeal of Charles E. Wilson and , we believe , to the demands of their own conscience , many of the striking railroadmen have now returned to their jobs . In the great rail yards of the East trains are beginning to roll and freight to move . But the strike is still choking off America 's industrial lifeblood in the Middle West ? in such critical nerve centers as Chicago and St. Louis  --  and the damage to the nation 's economy as well as to its military effort increases with every passing hour . Just what that damage already amounts to it is impossible to say with accuracy . But some concrete idea . can be obtained from scattered reports which vividly illustrate the dependence Of this complex industrial community of ours upon the uninterrupted flow of goods that requires , in turn , the smooth functioning of a transportation network of which the most essential part is the railroad system . In his speech Monday night Mr. Wilson aptly noted that the strike could " very soon hurt the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together . " That was not mere rhetoric , nor was it exaggeration when he added that even " a full-scale campaign of sabotage " by the Communists within this country would not be so effective as the present railroad strike . The walkout is causing a " creeping paralysis " in our steel industries , Mr. Wilson observed . " One by one the blast furnaces and rolling mills are having to shut down . " Latest reports indicate a drop for the week of about 100,000 tons of steel production . Three mills have been closed at the Gary works of tile United States Steel Corporation alone  --  and this because of an irresponsible strike of a few thousand railroadmen while the nation is engaged in a desperate effort to ward off a major war by building up its own defenses . If the strike continues , some coal mines are expected to close today . From Detroit comes the news that the automobile industry has already laid off more than 100,000 workers because of lack of materials . The food industry is of course hard hit  --  and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before long . In Buffalo , for example , five of the six largest flour mills had to suspend operation . In California the lack of empty railroad cars was forcing vegetable-packing sheds to close , with resultant.unemployment for some 10,000 persons . In New York the price of some fresh fruits and vegetables has shot up at least partly , because of the sudden drop in produce shipments , about half of which normally come by rail . The strike ? so cynically described as " sickness " by the strikers  --  has obviously had a most direct and harmful effect on military supply . Mr. Wilson mentioned that " tanks that were on their way to Korea are already being badly delayed " and so are " ammunition and guns and clotMng and many 3ther kinds of military equipment that ire . needed as fast as they can get : here . " At the . moment he was speakmg " large shipments of rations for our : roops in Korea are sitting on loading platforms in Chicago . " One Army ; pokesman said a few days ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but also its production ' unless vital fuel tank cars can be noved to our arsenals . " But even were there no military considerations whatsoever , the strike would ie unfair to the public . This is not to lay that the strikers have no justified ; rievances . Nor is it to say that the lispute should not have been settled ong ago . But it is to say that a shutown of the nation 's railroads is in- tolerable at any time ? in peace or ii war . There is a recognized machiner : for settling such disputes without re course to the strike . The iailroa ( worker ( no less than railroad manage ment ) has responsibilities as well rt rights ; and when he fails to reipgnizq those responsibilities he does grievous harm to himself , to the cause of labor and to his country .                     