@@720648

txt The Little . Rock school board warned students today that troublemakers would be " dealt with firmly , fairly and effectively " when the city 's four public high schools reopen Wednesday . It also asked residents to cooperate to prevent any repetition of the rioting that marked the beginning of desegregation at Central High School in 1957 . Segregationists : meanwhile , called for a boycott of merchants here and scheduled a demonstration at the state Capitol Wednesday to protest the continuation of desegregation . Law enforcement officials said that they had received a report that this faction had a four-i stage plan designed to disrupt the opening . Three Negroes have been granted admission to Central High by the board . Three others are enrolled at Hall High , which previously was all-white . ' Little Rock 's two other high schools are Technical , all-white , and Horace Mann , all-Negro . Mrs. L. C. Bates , state president of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , said only one Negro would attend Central " unless present plans change . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of two girls admitted is attending summer school in Chicago and will not finish until Aug. 21 . The other has enough credits for graduation , according to Mrs. Bates , but may go to the school for examinations . At a meeting with teachers , the six board members told them that they would receive full support in solving any disciplinary problems that arose . In a statement issued later to newsmen , the board said : " After a year of turmoil and a year of closed public high schools , world attention will once again be focused on our city . The school board is confident that the , people of Little Rock will accept this challenge to resume the peacefuul operation of its ' high schools . There is no reason to anticipate anything else . " The four high schools will be fully staffed and the faculties are looking forward to meeting their pupils , many of whom have been scattered to the four corners of the country and beyond . " The school board feels sure that Little Rock 's youngsters will assume the responsibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infractions will be dealt with firmly , fairly and effectively . " The proposed boycott of merchants , which had thinly veiled overtones of anti-Semitism , was announced by Amis Guthridge , legal counsel for the Capital Citizens Council . The council is a segregationist group . Mr. Guthridge charged that Little Rock was " being run politically by Main Street merchants and Negroes . " He then declared : " We are calling on all white Christian Americans in the State of Arkansas to decline to buy from Main Street merchants in Little Rock . " He urged buyers to avoid concerns that employed Negroes . A check of crowded Main 1Street showed no perceptible decrease in business . Officials of the Chamber of Commerce declined to comment on the announcement . The demonstration at the state Capitol was called by Mrs. ' Margaret Jackson , head of the Mothers League of Central High . School , another , segregationist group . Law enforcement officials , who asked not to be identified , said they had been informed that the demonstration at the Capitol was the first step in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them , the plan called for demonstrators to leave the Capitol and proceed to the school , where an effort would be made to penetrate police lines . The segregationists then reportedly would stage mock fist fights and shoot fireworks on the school grounds . This woud be followed , according to the report , by a deI mand from a group of mothers that they be allowed to go inside the school to determine if their children were safe . If education officials refused to permit this , a lawyer would then seek an injunction directing them to do so . Asked to comment on the report , Mrs. Jackson denied that she had heard about it . Approximately thirty-five students staged a pro-segregation rally this morning at Raney High , a private , segregated institution . It was announced last week that Raney High would not reopen this year because of a lack of funds . Most of the boys and girls carried small Confederate flags and some had banners and signs . " No lily-livered cowards allowed , " one sign said . " Have Cowards Will Integrate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ head of the recently established Arkancas chatter of the Ku Klux Klan ' disclosed today that he had resigned . " They other klansmen wanted action , " ex-plained A. C. Hightower , a Little Rock barber .                     