@@719939

txt GENEVA , Sept. 6 ? Scientists of the world put their heads together here this week and came up with the collective judgment that the age of plentitude from atomic energy was still a hope , not an imminent reality . This sobering outlook on the advent of the atomic age is one of the most important conclusions to emerge from the Second International Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy . About 5,000 scientists ' from sixty-seven nations have gathered here to discuss the progress being made in unlocking the vast energy of the atomic nucleus for the benefit of mankind . They have found that progress is being made , but that many problems remain to be solved before atomic energy can be put to practical , economic use throughout the world . Three years ago ? at the first Atoms-for-Peace Conference ? there was a contrasting air of optimism about the imminence of the atomic age . For the first time the secrets of atomic energy were made public and the air was filled with rosy predictions about how man at last had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ source of energy . The last three years have demonstrated to the scientists that there still are many technological and engineering hurdles to be overcome before atomic energy can become widely profitable , particularly for the generation of electricity . Second Thoughts This theme of sober second thoughts was sounded by Prof. Francis Perrin of France , president of the conference , in. his opening speech to the scientists and official delegates . To underdeveloped nations whose hopes have been raised by the prospect of atomic energy , Professor Perrin warned that nuclear power was not a " royal road to prosperity . " Before these nations can reach the promising future of atomic power , they will have to go through " a preliminary stage of inc:ustrialization in the old way " as well as raise their technical standards , he said . Large-scale generatior of electricity from atomic power will come first in those industrialized nations , such as in West Europe or Japan , that suffer from a lack of conventional fuels , Professor Perrin predicted . The prospects of nuclear ' energy are more remote in nabons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States and the Soviet Union , he indicated . The slow pace at which atomic power has been developed was best indicated when the scientists of the major nuclear nations sat down to survey how much electricity from nuclear reactors was being generated for civilian consumption . Throughout the world only 200,000 kilowatts of electricity are being generated now by civilian atomic power plants ? or about the equivalent of one large central power station supplying electricity to a city of 200,000 . The leader in this ' atomic power race is Britain , which has three atomic reactors generating a total of 114,000 kilowatts . The United States has more reactors in operation  --  eightbut they generate only 81,000 kilowatts , most of which comes from the recently completed plant at Shippingport , Pa . Soviet Plans Far in the rear is the Soviet Union , which has announced ambitious plans for 2,500,000 kilowatts of atomic electricity by 1960 but thus far has only a small 5,000-kilowatt plant which went into operation in 1950 . The universal problem being faced by all these nations is how to reduce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ competitive with electricity generated from conventional fuels , such as coal and oil . Signifiantly , none of the nations at the conference said they could produce competitive nuclear power now . All are engaged in intensive experimentation trying to determine the best type of atomic power plant and to reduce the cost of constructing and operating an atomic reactor . It Is inevitable that the costs of nuclear power will Come down as the scientists and engineers are able to develop successively improved versions of reactors . And as the costs come down , so will the construction of atomic power stations accelerate , primarily at first in the industrialized nations . Scientists predicted atomic power probably would become competitive in the mid-Nineteen Sixties in Europe and Britain and by 1970 in high-cost areas of the United States and the Soviet Union . How soon atomic power can become competitive in underdeveloped countries depends largely on the ability of scientists and engineers to reduce the cost of the more expensive small-scale atomic power plants . It is generally agreed such nations have little need for the large plants that offer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A common estimate was that it would take another decade at least before nuclear energy became economical in the smaller , underdeveloped nations . Offsetting this bearish outlook for the immediate prospects of atomic electricity were the dividends already being received from another aspect of atomic energy  --  the use of radioactive elements known as radioisotopes . From the papers presented by small as well as large nations , it is apparent that radio-isotopes have become the first universal benefit derived from nuclear energy . Their use in industry , agriculture , and medical research has now spread throughout the world and their potential uses are seemingly limited only by the imagination of the scientists . In industry alone the radio-isotope was estimated to be saving hundreds of millions annually ? in rubles or in dollars . Other Purposes And for the future , , the scientists foresaw a day when nuclear energy could be used for other purposes than generating electricity , such as carving out new harbors or freeing vast new oil reserves with nuclear and thermonuclear explosives , powering tankers , icebreakers and merchant ships heating whole cities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And for the more distant future , the scientists held out guarded hope that the oceans of the world could become a new source of fuel by harnessing the thermonuclear reaction , thus providing a virtually unlimited source of energy . The scientists made it clear they still were a long way from achieving thermonuclear power ? at least two decades by the most optimistic estimate . But at this conference they took a significant step toward this goal by stripping away the secrecy from thermonuclear or fusion research  --  just as three years ago the secrecy was lifted from atomic power through fission . The present state of thermonuclear development was best described with this analogy by one American scientist : " We are all very much like babies just beginning to walk . We get very excited with the first step , and on the next step we may fall flat on our faces . " Significantly , neither side was able to claim conclusively that it actually had produced a controlled thermonuclear reaction in the laboratory  --  a step that would correspond to that made sixteen years ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first public international discussion of thermonuclear power demonstrated that in secrecy both sides have been pursuing remarkably similar paths of research . Magnetic Bottles Both sides are attempting to produce a thermonuclear reaction by heating and compressing a gas of deuterium  --  a heavy form of hydrogen found abundantly in the seas ? in various forms of magnetic bottles . Both sides have succeeded in attaining temperatures of several millions of degrees centigrade . But neither side apparently has heated the gas to sufficient energy so that the deuterium nuclei collide and fuse in the thermonuclear reaction , Furthermore , each side is encountering similar difficulties in keeping the gas stable under the intense magnetic compression and heating so that it does not wander to the walls of the magnetic bottles and cool . With the secrecy lifted , the international exchange of new ideas and results in thermonuclear research was obviously just beginning . This conference will undoubtedly be followed periodically by further EastWest meetings of scientists , This internationalization of scientific research to tame the hydrogen bomb for peaceful purposes undoubtedly will go down as the major achievement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unison that such inter national cooperation shoule hasten the day when nuclear power could solve man 's age old energy problems .                     