@@718168

txt It is no great secret that a man named D is going to get the nomination at the Republican convention at the Cow Palace sometime this week . But hush , the television men are trying to pump suspense into the four-day story , so do n't breathe a word about what 's ahead . In fact the Republicans are suffering the penalty of their own success . It 's a good show , but it threatens to be no more dramatic than a food fair . At Chicago , Democrats kept telling one another , " We 've got a chance ! " The GOP watchword here is , " Let 's not be overconfident . " This is imposing a terrible strain . Some delegates are doing the thing methodically  --  putting aside five minutes every day to worry . In a kind of reverse Coueism they look in the mirror and mutter , " Every day in every way things are getting worse and worse ! " But it does n't work . Republicans are supremely confident they have another four years in power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convention has the heady excitement of a glass of milk . Television cameras are supposed to start in at 8 every morning and keep on bangbang-banging out breathless excitement all day . This was what they had to work with at the opening session : Something scheduled as " entertainment " lasted from 11 a.m. to about noon : then the official photograph of the convention after the customary patriotic and sacerdotal rituals . Following this came pulse-quickening welcomes from city and state officials , climaxed by the announcement of " the Representative Oliver P. Bolton 's slogan contest winners " by Mrs. Herbert Brownell , Jr. , and finished off by the recitation of the prize winner of the national essay contest , " Why I Am a Republican . " Demonstrations to Erupt " Well , what do you want ? " growl party henchmen to grousing newsmen . " Did n't you get excitement enough in 1952 in the Taft-Eisenhower battle ? " The trouble with newsmen is , they 're never satisfied . They even got bored at the Madison Square Garden brawl of the Democrats back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chairman at one point pounded so hard for order that he broke the head off his gavel and it flew down and knocked out a man named Herman Schoernstein . Nobody expects any Herman Schoernsteins in here in 1956 . Not for a minute would I suggest , of course , that this is going to be a cut-and-dried affair . According to the veracious Associated Press , " about 1,000 people , " mostly Young Republicans , began rehearsing for carefully timed demonstrations some days ago . The demonstrators are stationed at 37 predetermined sections of the great amphitheater . The story continues " Six times during the convention , huge demonstrations ' will erupt spontaneously at a given signal , ' Jim Benedict and Stan Lothridge , local Young Republicans , explain . " Stassen Sparks Affair The convention marks the second time in history that the Republicans have convened later than the Democrats , and it is the latest date in history for a major political convention to meet . Further , the convention has been cut down to four days instead of the Democrats ' five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems to be experiencing an embarrassment of time , with only one session a day scheduled for the last three days . A lifesaver for reporters is the anti-Nixon campaign by indefatigable Harold E. Stassen . Every time Mr. Stassen plunks his romantic guitar under the balcony of Massachusetts Gov . Christian A. Herter , that worthy dumps water on his head . But whenever did the course of true love run smooth ? Distraught newsmen are more intent on keeping this affair alive than any Grand . Passion in history , and Mr. Stassen can have free television time practically any minute he asks for it . Indeed , there are hints that the Republican National Committee now is catching the idea that drama would help . Rumors float about that Leonard W. Hall , chairman of the committee has urged Maryland Gov . Theodore R. to permit himself to be nominated  --  along with others ? in a " token fight " for second place , with the understanding that he would withdraw at the right minute . The idea conveyed by this maneuver is that the convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long as it 's Mr. Nixon in the end . Enthusiasm Runs Riot Nobody can doubt the atmosphere of genuine enthusiasm in this exhilarating city . Bunting is all over the place , and miniature elephants and real elephants and bands and badges . Fresh from the heat of Chi-                     