@@717899

txt Letters to The Times fices . J.E . HOLLOWAY , tlement . PETER H. BONNELL.HOWARD WATSON AMBRUSTER.envelo ... pg . 23 Letters to The Times Bantu Aid Report Protested South African Government Declared to Approve Proposed Plan To THE EDITOR OF Tint NEW YORE : TIMES : I regret to have to protest against the interpretation of a South African Government statement given by your Johannesburg correspondent , Leonard Ingalls , in a dispatch published on April 25 under the heading " South Africans Bar Big Negro Aid . " The statement in question was a White Paper presented to Parliament on the recently published report of the Tomlinson Commission on the socio-economic development of the Bantu ( Native African ) areas in the Union , and the practical application of the policy of separate development with a view to giving the Bantu unfettered advancement in their own areas , a growing say in the administration of their own affairs and encouragement of their own culture and growing Bantu civilization . The White Paper states unequivocally that the Government accepts the findings of the commission as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made in respect of certain recommendations and states that further decisions will be taken , and former decisions amended , as practical progress is made from stage to stage . Ten-Year Development Plan Your correspondent states that the Government has rejected the commission 's recommendations for a ten-year plan for the expenditure of $290,000,000 for the industrial and social development of Bantu areas . On the contrary , the White Paper specifically states : " It . is in the country 's interest also financially to provide considerable amounts for the development of the Bantu areas in the right manner . " On the financial side the commission blueprinted a ten-year plan . But it is an elementary fact that Parliament votes funds annually for expenditure by the Administration and does not commit itself to expenditure from revenue beyond a single fiscal year . The White Paper states that the necessary appropriation of funds will be sought annually from Parliament in accordance with growing needs , the plans submitted and the country 's capacity in each phase to meet such obligations . It may very well be that in the next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Bantu development . Your correspondent 's interpretation of Government policy on Bantu land-ownership is confused and misleading . Recommendations in this respect can not ' be said to have been rejected . Tribal ownership of land in the Bantu Reserves is historical and traditional , and the Bantu do not want it any other way . The Bantu Reserves remain inviolate . Land Ownership Under legislation passed in 1936 provision was made for the purchase of land additional to the Reserves for Bantu occupation . In these " released areas " approved Bantu buyers can make individual purchases of land . While upholding the traditional policy of tribal ownership in the Reserves , the Government accepted other recommendations in regard to the sale of land to the Bantu in order to make room for the emergence of a class of Bantu entrepreneurs . Your correspondent says the Government rejects a recommendation that industries be set up by whites in " Negro areas . " The Tomlinson report recommended this only as a last resort and the White Paper states that the Government " accepts the policy that Bantu enterprise , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its own industries * * inside the Bantu areas and that private European industrialists should not be permitted into these areas . ' ' The whole purpose of apartheid is to give the Bantu unfettered scope for development in their own ' areas . Your correspondent also mentions as having been rejected the introduction of modern mining methods in Bantu areas . The White Paper states that the Government is sympathetic to the idea of mining development in Bantu areas , but ( since there is already a. highly organized Government Department of Mines ) " considers the time is not yet ripe for the creation of a separate division of Bantu mining . " In the circumstances it seems to me unfair to suggest , as Mr. Ingalls has done , that the Government has accepted the commission 's support for its policy , but is not willing to make the necessary financial sacrifices . E. HOLLOWA11 , Ambassador . Washington , O. C. , May 1 , 1956 . Recognizing American Claims To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It is with considerable satisfaction that one reads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the part of Rumania to pay for losses incurred by American property or asset owners either through nationalization or other expropriatory measures . The settlement of such claims has been long overdue . The delay in taking care of these obligations has no doubt contributed to a considerable extent to the low ebb in the trade relations between the two countries . Should Rumania seriously desire more active trade relations with this country , a preliminary step would seem to he a satisfactory settlement of United States claims . It may perhaps be appropriate to express the hope that Czechoslovakia , to mention another Iron Curtain country in a similar situation , will soon follow the lead given by Rumania and , in turn , agree to the payment of United States claims . Negotiations have been in process in Prague for some time , but to date without reaching a satisfactory set-. tlement . PETER H. BONNF.LL . Cambridge , Mass. , May 2 , 1956 . For Freedom of Expression ?  - -  - Fear of Informers Said to Endanger Our Way of Life To THE EDITOR OF Tile NEW YORK TIMES @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degradation of peoples within the Soviet orbit by fears to speak freely because they , who " are , everywhere and everything , " might be informed of some casual unorthodox remark which at some level of the police state would bring on swift punishment . Our own re-creation of the dictum of constructive treason is based upon a different they . We do not live under a police-state dictatorship . The American they might better be defined as the community , or national , progenitors of the status quo . Admittedly the activities of the domestic they are not restricted to the individuals who tell tales about Government employes in the operations of the so-called loyalty-security system . Even more evil is that variety of faceless informer among private citizens who decides that a business associate , or a neighbor , is given to expressing radical ideas or discussing matters which they may not approve . So he passes the word around , quietly . Accordingly all over the United States at this time in casual meetings of business men , and in social gatherings of neighbors or friends , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being branded , sotto voce , as a radical  --  or a " Red . " The unwritten boycott of this type is more deadly than the blacklist which is publicized by the Government or by some nonofficial group . The difference between the in -- juries to private citizens caused by the Soviet they and those inspired by America 's new secret mentors is mainly one of degree . In either casn the fears of the informer feed on the injuries done to the victim . A distinction must be made in that the Soviet Constitution contains . no guarantees of individual liberties , ' while in America we were at least " born free " out of a historical background of the Magna Charta , and under a Bill of Rights now more honored in futile words than in actual deeds . There is tragic irony in our permitting these cowardly secret informers to terrify so many of their fellow citizens , thus aping the worst evils of the Soviet system , in a hysteria brought . on by misguided efforts to prevent the infiltration of that same system into our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete freedom of thought and expression . HOWARD WATSON AM ' MUSTER . Westfield , N. J. , May 5 , 1956 . Sending Letters Overseas To THE EDITOR OE THE NEW YORK TIMES : As President Eisenhower has said of Letters from America Week , " everyone who writes to a friend or relative abroad can help to strengthen the bonds of international understanding and unity . " During Letters from America Week it might interest those who have no friends or relatives in other countries to know of our voluntary organization , Letters Abroad . Many people from different parts of the free world have written to Letters . Abroad and are waiting for Amer --  ? can correspondents . Students over 15 years of age , . young business men and women , or just plain people , are invited to apply for an overseas name . Address Letters Abroad , 45 East Sixty-fifth Street , New York 21 , N. Y. , and enclose a self-addressed , ? stamped envelope . MILDRED MARSH , Chairman , Letters Abroad Committee . New York , May 1 , 1936. nationality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ YORK TIRES : In your editorial " Tibet and Nepal " published on May 9 you mentioned : " * * and increased political activity on the part of an Indian organizer of a ' popular ' party who disclaims Communist connections but who has lived for three years in Peiping . " The reference presumably is to Dr. K. I. Singh . Please permit me to state that Singh is not an Indian national . In fact , yourn own correspondent , A. M. Rosenthal , in a dispatch from Katmandu , Nepal , published in The Times of April 30 , referring to Dr .. Singh , stated . " He Comes from West Nepal , where his ancestors once were petty rulers . " ASOKA K. DUTT . New York , May 9 , 1956.                     