@@719682

txt Dag Hammarskjold , the dapper Swedish economist and diplomat who has just begun his , second five-year term as Secretary-General of the United Nations , has become " Mr. UN " to millions of people  --  a symbol of the world 's struggle for peace in the atomic age . Five years ago there were few here who thought he would play such a role . His own concept of his job was much more modest . He appeared to conceive of the post of Secretary-General primarily in terms of administration , and of himself as a civil servant in the League of Nations tradition . Shunned ' Ivory Tower ' But events conspired to thrust greatness upon him , and he has proved to be a brilliant peacemaker and diplomat as well as administrator . Mr. Hammarskjold arrived at the UN in 1953 at a time when morale in the Secretariat was at a very low ebb . The tides of McCarthyism were lapping heavily at the UN 's doorstep , and many disgruntled UN employees thought former Secretary-General Trygve Lie had not resisted the onslaught @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ established , a sense of personal contact with the 4,000-odd employees in the UN 's 38-story glass skyscraper . He stood in line for lunch in the cafeteria ; he went around to every office , from plush-carpeted executive suites to the basement engine rooms , and shook hands with every employee . He discontinued the practice of setting aside a private express elevator from the ground floor to his penthouse office . Next he established a reputation as a money-saver , cutting down budgets , pruning personnel , and reorganizing for efficiency . This did not always make him popular with affected employees , but few if any were fired if they were consieered competent ; most were found jobs in some other department . The savings ? amounting to $1,000,000 each year for three years in a total budget of roughly $50,000,000 ? mightily pleased the delegations of member countries , whose home governments welcomed the resulting cut in annual dues . Peking-U.S . Deal Tried Having thus established a firm basis of respect and a reputation for efficiency , he was ready to branch out into what many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politics , in which a qualified secretary-general can be the world 's , most effective mediator . Mr. Hammarskjold 's first assignment was to seek a detente between Communist China and the United States in 1954 at a time when the possibility of war seemed to hang heavy . His specific task was to attempt to negotiate the release of 11 American airmen imprisoned in Chinese jails . Secretary-General Hammarskjold decided to fly to Peking . He came back with an indication from Chinese Communist Premier Chou En-lai that the men could go free if their families would come to visit them . The Chinese dictator then could appear magnanimous in setting the men free , rather than appear to bow to outside pressure . The United States , however , frowned upon the proposed deal because it would give Mr. Chou a propaganda triumph and because it might tend to undermine the prevailing State Department " policy of boycott . " The deal fell through , and the men were not released until much later . Mr. Hammarskjold justly received a large share of the credit when it happened . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a few sealected newsmen , Mr. Hammarskjold could have put great pressure on Washington to accept Mr. Chou 's deal and thus make his first peace mission a dramatic success . Public opinion in the United States might have demanded acceptance on humanitarian grounds . But he remained strictly silent , thus winning great gratitude from the Eisenhower administration and establishing a reputation for discretion . Assignments Multiply Thereafter the world 's chief civil servant received one assignment after another , beginning with the Arab-Israel problem and extending through a UN police force , a cease-fire in the Middle Eastern war of 1956 , an aspect of the Hungarian crisis , the Turkish-Syrian border dispute , and most recently the French-Tunisian dispute , at least in its earliest stages . He was given so much peacemaking to do , in fact , that his role at times ceased to be that of intermediary and became that of policy-maker . To this kind of assignment he vigorously objected . " You are the policy-maker , " he told the UN General Assembly in effect when he was reappointed . " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carries it out . Please give me clear instructions . " But it was too easy simply to say to Mr. Hammarskjold , " Please take on this assignment . We want the peace kept , and we trust you to work out the details . Muddle through if you have to . " Patience Vital His critics say his formula for success consists of one part obfuscation , one part delay , and one part brilliance . His reply in all likelihood would be that obfuscation sometimes is the essence of wise diplomacy , and delay the better part of valor , Many things become possible . when tempers have cooled which would not have been possible if attempted too early . Patience , he told a luncheon given him by the UN Correspondents Association April 9 , is perhaps the most important virtue a peacemaker can have . It is natural to want quick , decisive results , he said , but in world affairs a slow , steady evolution toward justice and order is often the best that is attainable . It has been good enough to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peacemaking . The City of New York , which does not always go out of its way to express enthusiasm for the UN , planned a special anniversary celebration for him April 10 , and named the day " Dag Hammarskjold Day . " Elsewhere there were many other tributes as he began his second term . There were few , if any , at UN headquarters who begrudged him this well-deserved recognition .                     